




MailOnline
January 28, 2025 Tuesday 5:37 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 673 words
Byline: Jon Michael Raasch, Political Reporter In Doral, Florida
Body


House Foreign Affairs Chairman Brian Mast reveals Joe Biden's foreign priorities
CLICK HERE: Sign up for DailyMail.com's daily U.S. politics newsletter
                     Joe Biden's use of U.S. taxpayer money to fund transgender operas in Colombia and transgender comic books in Peru will be totally undone by Trump, a top Republican told DailyMail.com. 
House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Brian Mast (R-Fla.) has a laundry list of Biden-era State Department programs that are on the chopping block now that Trump is in the White House.
After a bombshell report came out this week unveiling how Biden's State Department doled out $15 million worth of taxpayer funds to buy contraceptives like condoms for the Taliban, DailyMail.com asked Mast what other eye-popping programs exist. 
'So, $47,000 for a transgender opera in Colombia. That was a real one,' he revealed. 
'Let's see, there was a transgender comic book, we're trying to get our hands on the actual comic book, in Peru,' he continued. 'And I heard it's reasonably risqué.' 
The Peruvian trans comic book program received $32,000 under former Secretary of State Antony Blinken, according to federal documents.
Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt also announced on Tuesday that Biden's administration almost sent $50 million worth of condoms to Gaza, which she called 'a preposterous waste of taxpayer money!'
'There was about to be $50 million taxpayer dollars that went out the door to fund condoms in Gaza!' Leavitt shockingly claimed.
Mast called the projects 'crazy' and vowed similar programs will soon be shuttered. 
'These are drops in the bucket of the American budget, but they're still ridiculous and stupid,' The Republican said of the programs that he is working with Secretary of State Marco Rubio and Trump to dismantle. 
The $32,000 State Department award for the comic book was meant 'to cover expenses to produce a tailored-made comic, featuring an LGBTQ+ hero to address social and mental health issues,' according to the grant's summary. 
The other $47,000 award for Colombia, half of which came from non-federal funding, was made 'to raise awareness and increase the transgender representation through the opera,' according to the grant. 
In 2023, the State Department, through its Citizen Diplomacy Action Fund, also approved funds for ballroom dancing classes that aimed 'to uplift transgender and gender diverse youth leaders in Lima, Peru,' according to its website. 
'No more condoms or contraception to the Taliban, no more teaching them how to weave carpets,' Mast said of the GOP agenda. 
'No more funding drag shows to Ecuador at $20,000 a clip or atheism to Nepal at half a million dollars for a grant.' 
'These are all things that com to an end under Secretary Rubio, President Trump and myself as Foreign Affairs Chair and the Republican led country,' the chairman added. 
The $15 million for contraceptives destined for the Taliban was a part of a larger $100 million aid package bound for Afghanistan, the Washington Free Beacon first reported.
The United States Department of International Aid (USAID) used the millions to 'procure contraceptives,' like 'oral contraceptives and condoms,' according to records of the transaction. 
The Taliban outlawed contraceptives in Afghanistan after taking over the country following the 2021 U.S. military withdrawal from the country. 
Other costly diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) initiatives of the State Department have also been scrapped. 
Secretary of State Marco Rubio sent out an internal memo to his staff after being sworn in last week warning against programs that don't spend money on the department's core mission. 
'Every dollar we spend, every program we fund, and every policy we pursue must be justified with the answer to three simple questions,' his memo stated, adding only initiatives that 'make America safer, stronger, and more prosperous' are appropriate.
'Certain priorities will be replaced, certain issues deemphasized, and some practices we will cease altogether,' his statement continued. 

Load-Date: January 28, 2025


End of Document
