




Daily Nebraskan: University of Nebraska-Lincoln
February 12, 2025 Wednesday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 878 words
Byline: Ariana Garber
Body


Since April 2022, American passport holders could choose to identify themselves as male, female or with an X. However, within the first week of President Donald Trump's presidency, Secretary of State Marco Rubio banned the third gender non-conforming option in compliance with Trump's executive order to only recognize two sexes.
These changes come with the Nebraska Legislature's LB89. This bill will define gender terminology.
The bill defines female, girl, male and boy as follows:
Female: A person whose biological reproductive system is organized around the production of ova, including a woman (adult female) and a girl (adolescent female).
Male: A person whose biological reproductive system is organized around the production of sperm, including a man (adult male) and a boy (adolescent male).  
Since the start of 2025, ACLU tracked 339 proposed anti-LGBTQ bills, with 267 of those bills advancing.
During periods of increased anti-transgender legislation, rates of suicide attempts amongst transgender and non-binary people increased 72%, according to a study conducted by the Trevor Project from 2018 to 2022.
"There's a real suicide danger that comes up," Arden Eli Hill, a lecturer at UNL, said. "I don't think the people that want to take away rights are viewing that as the negative."
The State Department is no longer creating new passports with the gender marker X or allowing the switch of M to F or vice versa. 
The usage of the 'X' on one's passport can be a "way of indicating and not indicating" one's gender, according to Ava Winter, a lecturer in the Women and Gender Studies Department. 
This option elimination is a removal of many identities, including those who are intersex, non-binary, Two-Spirit, genderqueer and transgender, according to Hill.
"The net starts out wide, and then it tightens and tightens," Hill said. "(People were) so riled up about bathrooms and sports, women's sports and women's bathrooms, and then all of a sudden they get thrown this huge attempt to erase trans people off the map."
Winter said there is no reason for sex to be present on passports in the first place, citing Heath Fogg Davis's research on gender and sex on documentation.
"It's probably going to slow down and complicate anybody trying to get or renew any passport in the United States," Winter said "That is going to be an issue for students or anyone else who's trying to get a passport and go study abroad, or go on vacation, or go on a business trip. I don't know who that serves."
Hill said the education around chromosomes became increasingly politicized in recent years and discussions of sex and gender used to feel more open.
"I found out about intersex conditions in my eighth grade biology class in Catholic school," Hill said. "This was southern Louisiana, Catholic school in the 90s, and the curriculum talked very clearly about chromosomes."
As a result of these changes over the last decades, Hill said he will prioritize emphasizing the importance of identity and acceptance in his classrooms.
"I'm trying to connect with people," Hill said. "I'm trying to bring issues into the classroom, bring perspectives into the classroom."
Providing resources is the primary concern for many professors who work with queer students affected by the elimination, according to Hill.
"I get very angry about the futures for my students and students who are going to be my students eventually," Hill said.
Hill said he recommended more resources than just the Counseling and Psychological Services as a way to help students in their mental health journey. He said groups like UNL's slam poetry club can provide a place of community for queer individuals on campus.
Besides registered student organizations, Winter said she sees the Women and Gender Studies and English departments as safe places for students.
"Those classes are a very respectful, thoughtful group that is invested in being, not just in being a safe space, but in thinking actively about how to create more ethical and just communities where everyone is treated with respect and seen and valued and receives compassion and empathy," Winter said. "We're often the only professors who know a student's name, and I think that's important just for the sake of making education a human experience."
Winter said she noticed the slow reduction of many resources for queer and transgender students following the university's elimination of the Office of Diversity and Inclusion.
"The sort of DEI programs have been gutted by the university," Winter said. "That (DEI programs) was necessary to make effective change. That seems to be something that is well documented, supported by evidence, supported by the university's own sort of past documentation of their thinking and their strategic orientation. So for me personally, it's hard to take seriously the idea that all of that is going away and everything will be just fine, and we don't need to worry about it, and everything will just work out."
As time progresses, Hill said it's important to take note of changes made at the federal level affecting sex and gender.
"You start with the easy stuff, and then you just can spread that hateful venom even wider," Hill said. 
Current passports that have the 'X' gender marking remain valid.


Load-Date: February 13, 2025


End of Document
