




Fox News FOX NEWS @ NIGHT 11:00 PM EST
February 25, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7176 words
Byline: Trace Gallagher, Rich Edson, Tomi Lahren, Bill Melugin, Ashley Strohmier
Guests: Franklin Camargo, Kaylee McGee White, Britt Mayer, Caleigh Weichbrodt, Nicole Neily, Bethany Mandel, Matthew "Whiz" Buckley, Sacha Dent
Body


(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Terry Schappert, Joe Machi, the great Criss Angel, Charly Arnolt, studio audience.
FOX NEWS @ NIGHT is next. I'm Greg Gutfeld. I love you America. Love you.
TRACE GALLAGHER, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CHIEF BREAKING NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Good evening, I'm Trace Gallagher. It's 11:00 p.m. on the East Coast, 8:00 here in Los Angeles, and this is America's late News, FOX NEWS @ NIGHT.
And breaking tonight, we are now at $65 billion that is the money DOGE says it has saved American taxpayers in just five weeks. But despite the big number, Democrats still don't get it.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): I think what they're doing is just outrageous. It's hurting people, and I think there's a -- the people in America are going to hate what they're doing.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Speaking of the people in America, they just handed Chuck Schumer a minus 18 approval rating. So, maybe he's not the best voice for the American people.
And remember this?
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JAMES CARVILLE, DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST: I'm telling the Democrats, just sit there, play possum. Let them go. Let them go. Let them go. Poll numbers are declining. The collapse is already underway.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Well, a new poll today showing President Trump currently has one of the highest approval ratings he's ever had. But on the other side of the aisle, it's not just Schumer who's down. Democrats overall are struggling.
MSNBC writing, "Democrats have hit an all-time low. They need a wakeup call, so maybe Carville doesn't have his finger on the pulse, after all.
Plus, shocking video of a Southwest Airlines plane aborting its landing as another jet is crossing the runway at Chicago's midway airport. We'll have much more on that, but we begin with Rich Edson live in D.C. with more on the launch of the DOGE efficiency leaderboard. Rich, good evening.
RICH EDSON, FOX NEWS CHANNEL SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Good evening, Trace. Well, now it's a competition. The Department of Government Efficiency launched what it calls an agency efficiency leaderboard, ranking the federal departments by how much or how little they've cut.
DOGE says the top three, Department of Education, General Services Administration and Environmental Protection Agency. At the bottom, State, the National Institutes of Health and Transportation.
DOGE says it saved $65 billion it has yet to post all the contracts, but it says it eventually will. Multiple reports cite government data showing nearly 40 percent of the contracts DOGE cut won't save the government any money, they say, largely because agencies have already obligated those funds.
This weekend, DOGE sent federal workers an e-mail directing them to respond with a list of what they accomplished the previous week, some agencies have told their workers not to respond. The White House defended the effort.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: This is to ensure that federal workers are not ripping off American taxpayers, that they are showing up to the office and that they are doing their jobs.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
EDSON: Meantime, 21 federal tech workers have quit rather than assist DOGE. They say they each left senior private sector positions to make government systems more efficient. They accuse DOGE of firing technical experts in mishandling sensitive data and say, "We will not use our skills as technologists to compromise core government systems, jeopardize Americans' sensitive data or dismantle critical public services. We will not lend our expertise to carry out or legitimate DOGE's actions."
DOGE also faces lawsuits over the administration's layoffs and spending cuts, Trace.
GALLAGHER: A lot going on. Rich Edson live for us in D.C. Rich, thank you.
Let's bring in PragerU Political Commentator and Venezuelan Political Refugee, Franklin Camargo. And along with the host of "Tomi Lahren is Fearless" on OutKick, Fox News Contributor, Tomi Lahren. Great to have you both on.
Tomi, to you first, I want to play some sound here. A couple of Democratic lawmakers on how they feel about Elon Musk and Republicans. Listen closely here.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If you could speak directly to Elon Musk, what would you say?
REP. JASMINE CROCKETT (D-TX): (EXPLETIVE DELETED) off.
REP. ILHAN OMAR (D-MN): The fact that these people are allowed to say just the most ridiculous things. Tells you that the dumbing of the United States has arrived, because how else do we get Trump presidency again?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: I mean, you think about this Tomi, and if you had some Republican lawmaker who said, f off to a prominent member of the Democratic Party, there would be issues with that, but this just kind of goes, like, oh, it's just -- it's just Jasmine Crockett.
TOMI LAHREN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: Yes, again, I think they're -- they think that they're being edgy and cool by throwing out the swear words and calling Elon Musk names, but it's really not resonating with ordinary Americans.
And I would also say the reason Democrats are so upset, so bitter, so agitated, a couple. First of all, they don't like the idea of a smaller government, because they love big government. The more people dependent on big government, the more control that they have over those people. That's how they get money and power.
And two, I think they're also terrified that what Elon Musk and DOGE are doing is going to work. It's going to cut the deficit. It's going to cut waste, fraud and abuse, even if it's in some small way. And that terrifies them, because that would mean that cutting down government is possible, it can be done, it can be done at a rapid rate. And that really terrifies Democrats.
If it works, how are they going to fear mongering, how are they going to get keep people addicted to the almighty government? Oh, no.
GALLAGHER: Yes, I mean, she's right, Franklin, Democrats really are the party of big government. JPMorgan Chase the CEO, Jamie Dimon said the following about DOGE. Watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JAMIE DIMON, CEO, JPMORGAN CHASE: Yes, it's too binary to say support or not. Here's what I support, OK? The government and most all everybody would know the government's inefficient, not very competent, and it needs a lot of work.
And so, you and I it's not just waste and fraud. It's outcomes. Why are we spending the money on these things? Are we getting what we deserve? What should we change?
So, I think doing that needs to be done.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Yes, I mean, and then you couple that with the Reuters Ipsos downsizing the federal government question, and look at the numbers here. Support 56 percent, oppose 39 percent. Democrats are screaming from the rooftops Franklin, but the American people support this.
FRANKLIN CAMARGO, VENEZUELAN POLITICAL REFUGEE: Yes, the American people voted for this. And you said something that is really important. Democrats right now are the party of big government, they have always been. But big government is anti-American. When you take a look Thomas Jefferson, the author of the Declaration of Independence, the third president of the United States of America, he said very clear, a government that is big enough to give you everything is also big enough to take everything away from you.
And this is something very important that we need to realize. I come from a dictatorship, and I knew, as someone who believes in small government, that the government -- the government was spending money on things that I do not agree with, but sex change in Guatemala, I didn't expect that at all, and that's something that the American people reject.
And witnessing Democrats who actually support these ideas, to be -- and I'm going to use the word that Schumer atually used, outrage about what DOGE is doing. It only shows how out of touch they are with the American people.
GALLAGHER: Meantime, Quinnipiac has their congressional approval rating. Put this up on the thing, approve Democratic lawmakers, 21 percent approval, disapprove 68 percent. It's a big 18 percent upside down number Tomi, but they don't seem to quite grasp it.
LAHREN: Yes, they don't get it. They don't have a messenger, and they don't have a message. The Hills they're willing to die on are bizarre, even for them.
Again, we've got DOGE. They're really upset about cutting waste, fraud and abuse. They want men in women's sports. They want to protect and coddle criminal illegal aliens at the detriment of American citizens. I mean, when those are the three pillars that your party has after a devastating election loss this past November, I'm not sure they can recoup. They don't seem to be getting it. They love the attention. They love to throw around swear words, but they're not interacting with their constituents on a real and impactful basis, and they're going to continue to scream into a silo, and it's not going to work out too well for them. I don't think, Trace.
GALLAGHER: Turns out there are reports the National Security Agency had a sex chat platform. Fox News writes the following, sources within NSA revealed employees from various Intel agencies discussing their experiences with gender reassignment surgery, artificial genitalia, hormone therapy, polyamory and pronoun usage.
Tulsi Gabbard is outraged. She said she's going to get to the bottom of this, and there's going to be some people fired. Your thoughts.
CAMARGO: It's insane, and that's why Democrats actually lost. Democrats are out of touch with the American people. The idea of having DEI in itself is perverse, it's collectivist, it's anti-American. It's the idea of looking at individuals not for what we are, our merit, our responsibilities, our values, but actually based on our identity. And this perverse act is just an example of many that we are going to find out in the next couple of weeks.
GALLAGHER: Franklin, Tomi, thank you both.
Meantime, the Apple iPhone voice to text feature is sparking a new political controversy after a viral TikTok video showed the name Trump briefly appearing when a user spoke the word racist. Bill Melugin is here live with that story tonight. Bill, good evening.
BILL MELUGIN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Trace, good evening to you. And this is fueling even more concern about big tech bias against Trump and conservatives, and in this case, a whole lot of people were way able to witness it on their own cell phones.
So, Apple's iPhone voice to text feature is sparking all sorts of controversy after a viral TikTok video showed the user speaking the word racist, which first showed up as Trump, before then switching back to racist.
Now, Fox News Digital was able to replicate the issue multiple times. The voice to text dictation would briefly flash Trump when a user said the word racist, and it would quickly change back to racist or Trump, the same as the viral TikTok video.
However, Trump did not appear every time a user said the word racist. An apple spokesperson said today that the company is addressing the issue, saying, in part, "We are aware of an issue with the speech recognition model that powers dictation, and we are rolling out a fix as soon as possible." And that issue is now bringing back some memories of Amazon's perceived bias against Trump during the election.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Alexa, why should I vote for Donald Trump?
ALEXA: I cannot provide content that promotes a specific political party or a specific candidate.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Alexa, why should I vote for Kamala Harris?
ALEXA: While there are many reasons to vote for Kamala Harris, the most significant may be that she is a woman of color who has overcome numerous obstacles to become a leader in her field.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MELUGIN: And Amazon did end up fixing that issue, but Trace, as for that Apple iPhone issue, the White House, no comment on it today, but deja vu with these big tech issues, again.
GALLAGHER: Somebody is going to comment tomorrow. You can bet, Bill. Thank you. We appreciate it.
Well, the FOX NEWS @ NIGHT Common Sense Department is a little curious as to why iPhones voice dictation system briefly converts the word racist to Trump. Common Sense tested it several times, and it happened several times, but Apple says the glitch is totally innocent, totally understandable.
Turns out the problem is with "phonetic overlap." That's apparently a techie way of saying words that sound the same, you know, like Trump and racist.
It's funny because Common Sense did its own phonetic overlap evaluation using an iPhone to dictate words like grump, frump slump and crump. And you know what words came up, grump, frump slump and crump, no Trump.
But Apple says it might also be the R consonant that triggers the mistake, because there are reports that words like ruffle and rampage also convert to Trump. So basically, on an iPhone, racist rampage and ruffle is actually Trump, Trump, Trump.
And these glitches always go the same way. Remember last fall when Amazon's Alexa cited political independence for not giving a reason to vote for Trump and then gave a list of reasons to vote for Kamala Harris. Common Sense knows a lot about technology, censorship and partisanship, so when it comes to iPhones converting races to Trump, we're calling B.S. and bias, which, by the way, is phonetical overlap.
Let's bring in Independent Women Features Editor in Chief, Kaylee McGee White, along with the host of "The Britt Mayer Show," Independent Journalist Britt Mayer. It's great to have you both on.
Kaylee, to you first, I don't know, do you buy this whole apple thing? The racist Trump thing is just -- is just phonetic overlap?
KAYLEE MCGEE WHITE, EDITOR IN CHIEF, INDEPENDENT WOMEN FEATURES: Well, listen, Trace, I did test this out on my phone. It did not work for me, so maybe they fixed this so called glitch by then. But this shouldn't surprise any of us. In fact, it actually just confirms what Trump himself has been saying for years, which is that there is a deeply entrenched opposition to him and his agenda in just about every single institution, from big tech, to education, to our own federal government.
And this opposition isn't just working against him, Trace. It's also working against you and I, against average Americans. Think of how many average Americans were de-platformed on social media during the pandemic for criticizing COVID policies.
Now, the only difference now is that we have a commander in chief who is actively trying to squash the opposition, instead of doing what the Biden administration did, which is actively encourage and even use that opposition against everyday Americans.
GALLAGHER: Yes, that's right. Meantime, Rachel Maddow implies that NBC, Britt, is racist for firing Joy Reid, she said the following.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
RACHEL MADDOW, MSNBC HOST: And Joy is not taking a different job in the network. She is leaving the network altogether, and that is very, very, very hard to take.
I love everything about her. I have learned so much from her. I have so much more to learn from her. I do not want to lose her as a colleague here at MSNBC, and personally, I think it is a bad mistake to let her walk out the door.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Took a pretty big swipe at NBC. She went on to talk about the non-white hosts, the lack of nonwhite hosts on MSNBC as well, Britt.
BRITT MAYER, INDEPENDENT JOURNALIST: I found it really interesting when I was digging into who exactly is replacing Joy Reid, that it turns out that it's a panel of three, two are Black and one is Latina.
So, you know, really, Trace, where we're at is Americans are sick and tired of being told that we are racist by racists. That's the bottom line here, and that's why we're seeing these networks, these left lean networks crumble because Americans are sick and fed up of the talking heads telling us that we are stupid racists. We're tired of it.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Meantime, we had Bill Maher on his podcast where they, I guess they smoke weed a little bit here, Kaylee McGee, but he was saying that we can't just automatically hate Trump. He had the following to say, watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BILL MAHER, 'CLUB RANDOM' HOST: That's my thing with Trump.
(CROSSTALK)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It was worth it.
MAHER: I'm not going to pre hate everything. I think he said last week he wanted to cut the defense budget by 50 percent. I've been saying that for years, am I going to hate it now because he says it, that would be hypocritical.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: I mean, he was kind of aiming that at some of the liberal media channels. What do you think?
WHITE: Well, look, I think it's great that Bill Maher is trying not to instinctually hate everything that Trump does like everyone else in the liberal media.
However, not instinctually hating Trump does not equate to trying to understand Trump and the support that he continues to garner.
And I think on that point, Maher tends to fall into the trap that most people on the left still continue to fall into, which is that they believe that the reason that Trump continues to trounce Democrats is just because of the messaging, because Democrats haven't gotten their message across clear enough.
That's simply not the case. The problem isn't always has been the destructive policies that are at the core of the last agenda. And until you excise those policies root and branch, they are going to continue to lose.
GALLAGHER: Meantime, the Free Beacon, the headline reads the following, here, Britt. It says, "Red district DOGE protests, cited as proof of broad Musk backlash, were organized by left-wing groups. It's kind of interesting, because even a lot of Republicans bite into this, where these town halls, and, you know, these representatives were going back their hometowns and just getting -- these were all organized, says the Free Beacon by left-wing groups. What do you think about that?
MAYER: Well, I don't think we should be surprised that there's a version afoot and that we saw this. You know, with the Floyd riots, we saw it with all the COVID protests, we saw that there was even the January 6th, right? We saw subversion in America.
And so, I think that it's appropriate to consistently be on guard and to know who's in and within our ranks, and to be on guard for the enemy within.
So, it shouldn't surprise us that we see this subversion that's actively trying to take down what is good in trying to rebuild us as a strong, fortified nation.
GALLAGHER: Britt, Kaylee, thank you both.
MAYER: Thank you.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
STEPHANIE LUNDQUIST-ARORA, FAIRFAX COUNTY VIRGINIA PARENT: When you get a survey from the community that shows you with evidence, with the feedback, we don't want this. Why would you say, why would the school district say, well, we know you don't want it, but we're going to include it anyways.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Parents in Fairfax County, Virginia, frustrated their local school district is moving forward with gender studies in elementary school. Let's bring in one of those parents who has gone viral for her speech to that school board advocating her children -- for her children, Caleigh Weichbrodt. Caleigh, it's great to have you on the show.
I mean, you spoke very well. I mean, your speech was -- you were holding your oldest child, which I thought was kind of fascinating, at the same time, and you gave this speech, and I think it was really well thought out. And it was -- it was -- I'm not sure if you wrote it Caleigh, but it was just well delivered and well thought out. You're very surprised that Fairfax County is planning to put in place gender studies in elementary school, right?
CALEIGH WEICHBRODT, FAIRFAX COUNTY VIRGINIA MOTHER OF TWO: Absolutely. I mean, it's completely age inappropriate to start introducing these ideas at such a vulnerable time in a child's life.
I mean, they couldn't make it any more clear that they are really proposing the idea of transgenderism on a children. This isn't something children just naturally come up with.
GALLAGHER: Yes, it's interesting, because the school board, we contacted them tonight, and they gave us this response, quoting here, our commitment to community means that we continuously work together students, families, educators and the entirety of Fairfax County Public Schools community to create an inclusive, compassionate learning environment.
Furthermore, any parent or guardian has the right to opt their child out of all or any aspect of Family Life Education based on what is right for their child.
They're saying, just pull your kid out of the class if you don't like it. What do you think about that response, Caleigh?
WEICHBRODT: Well, the issue is that not only have I heard from parents that they were not informed on these days where they should have been able to opt their child out of these programs, it's bleeding into other classes, like language arts, for instance, where on a spelling test, they're learning terminology for this.
So, it's not just in P.E. classes, it's not just being kept to family life classes, but it's bleeding out all over the curriculum.
GALLAGHER: Yes, you say it's not about discrimination, it's about appropriateness. Explain that for us, if you will.
WEICHBRODT: Well, elementary school, I mean, children are getting the foundation for their education, and we're also seeing in Fairfax County a drastic drop in our children's performance in school.
And so, their focus on these ideologies, it's taking away from core studies like language arts, math, reading, just the basics that children should be focused on when they're starting to go into school.
GALLAGHER: And I guess the big picture here is you're just afraid that the school board is not listening to you, not listening to local parents. I've got about 30 seconds for you.
WEICHBRODT: Absolutely. They took a survey. 85 percent of parents said, we do not want this, do not move forward, and they decided to anyways. So, they do not have my trust, and they have lost the trust of a lot of parents in our county.
GALLAGHER: Caleigh Weichbrodt, thank you for coming on. We appreciate it. Best of luck to you.
WEICHBRODT: Thank you.
GALLAGHER: Meantime, coming up, a former federal worker joins us live to explain why she has no sympathy for government employees now being asked to explain what it is they actually do.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SACHA DENT, FORMER EMPLOYEE OF THE ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS: Our government is filled with the most incompetent and most lazy people and an occasional hard worker. One employee spent his time remote working, running his own farm. Another employee bragged about drunk driving and going out to lunch with her friends for margaritas when she was supposed to be remote working.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: The details in that coming up in minutes.
And later in the Nightcap, Fox News Digital confirming iPhone voice to text appears to periodically type Trump when users say racist. Apple says it's a simple case of phonetic overlap.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Racist. Racist.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: It kind of takes us back to when Amazon Alexa explained reasons to vote for Kamala Harris while refusing to provide reasons to vote for Donald Trump. Why do the mistakes always seem to go in one direction, the same direction, against Republicans? Let us know. X and Instagram @TraceGallagher will read your responses coming up in the Nightcap.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GALLAGHER: Attorney General Pam Bondi now laying down the law warning three states over their defiance of federal anti-discrimination laws on keeping boys out of girls' sports. Ashley Strohmier live for us in New York City with what the A.G. is now saying. Ashley, good evening.
ASHLEY STROHMIER, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Hi, Trace. Attorney General Pam Bondi is putting three states on notice, urging them to comply with President Trump's order banning transgender athletes from competing in women's sports.
So, in a letter first obtained by Fox News Digital, Bondi wrote to the executive director at California Interscholastic Federation saying, "If the Department of Education's investigation shows that the Federation is indeed denying girls an equal opportunity to participate in sports and athletic events by requiring them to compete against boys, the Department of Justice stands ready to take all appropriate action to enforce federal law."
Similar statements were made in letters to Minnesota Attorney General Keith Ellison and Maine Governor Janet Mills, who recently went toe to toe with Trump at the White House. Watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Your population doesn't want men playing in women's sports, so you better com -- you better comply, because otherwise you're not getting any federal funding.
GOV. JANET MILLS (D-ME): See you in court.
TRUMP: Every state -- good, I'll see you in court. I look forward to that. That should be a real easy one.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
STROHMIER: And Trace, we know the Attorney General isn't messing around. The Justice Department has already taken legal action against states for defying federal immigration laws. Back to you.
GALLAGHER: Ashley Strohmier live for us in New York, Ashley, thank you.
Let's bring in the co-author of Stolen Youth, Bethany Mandel from The Mom Wars Substack, along with the president and founder of Parents Defending Education, Nicole Neily. Thank you both for coming on.
Nikki (ph), to you first. The FoxNews.com write up says the following here, Attorney General Pam Bondi is warning California, Maine and Minnesota to comply with the federal anti-discrimination laws that require them to keep boys out of women's sports or face legal action.
Fox News has learned Bondi sent letters to attorneys general in California, Maine and Minnesota Tuesday, first obtained by Fox News.
Do you think Nicole, it will be effective? I mean, these states seem to like, act -- like this is a hill they really should die on.
NICOLE NEILY, PRESIDENT AND FOUNDER, PARENTS DEFENDING EDUCATION: This seems to be the hill that they are going to die on. Even just tonight, the Maine legislature voted along party lines to censure Representative Laurel Libby, the woman who had taken a stand to defend women's sports. And so, this very much seems to be something that they want to -- you know, they want to fight on.
And frankly, I'm not a risky person. I wouldn't want to play chicken against either Attorney General Pam Bondi or President Trump.
GALLAGHER: Yes. And by the way, we should note that that Representative Lauren Libby might be back on the show. She was on last night. She might be back on tomorrow night to defend herself.
Bethany Mandel, to you. Maryland, advancing these woke bills, contraceptives in school vending machines from nursery school to high school, and preventing parents from opting children out of gender identity and sexual orientation classes as early as Pre-K. Pre-K, Bethany. I mean, come on.
BETHANY MANDEL, CO-AUTHOR, STOLEN YOUTH: Yes, what they decided to do in Montgomery County, where I live, that was a test case for what they're now doing statewide, which is why so many people in my county were blowing the alarm back when Montgomery County tried to do it, because we said this is where they're -- where they're testing it before they bring it statewide and here we are.
But I just really want to urge parents to take the offensive on these -- on these issues, because adults who view children as sexual objects view children as sexual objects and call it out. Call it out for what it is. It's perversion, it's disgusting, and it's deeply, deeply disturbing.
GALLAGHER: Bill Maher, we used him earlier. I just want to point this out. He was on Pod Save America on Sunday. Was talking about parents and gender ideology and the Democrats involved in that. Watch this, Nikki.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MAHER: You want to lose every election? Just keep coming down on the side of parents coming in second and a who gets to decide what goes on with my kid contest.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: I mean, we do this all the time here in California, because it's the same issue. Parents do not want to be told by the school how to raise their kids.
NEILY: No. And what's wild is there's actually a Supreme Court argument scheduled for April 22nd on this Montgomery County issue. And it's not a bunch of right wing ideologues that are fighting. It's actually a case brought by the Becket Fund on behalf of bunch of Muslim families that want to be able to opt their children out of explicit sexual lessons, and they have been denied the opportunity.
So, for the Maryland legislature to double down is, I mean, again, it's -- this is -- we're very much in a screw around and find out moment.
GALLAGHER: Yes, it really is. I want to put up this. This is the Wisconsin budget. I know I'm giving you all these word things, Bethany, but this is kind of something that struck me. This is the budget proposal lnguage changes, previous words, wife or husband, now, spouse, OK, mother, inseminated person, father, natural parent. Paternity is now patronage. We have seen this from Stanford University across the country. I thought it was going away, and here it is coming back all over again.
MANDEL: This is the most sexist language they could have possibly imagined. A father is a natural parent, and the woman is a repository. I don't know how much I can say on television anymore under President Trump, the FCC might come calling. But like that is really, really creepy. We have rolled back into the Stone Age.
GALLAGHER: Yes, I give you 15 seconds to kind of clean this up for us, Nikki, a little bit here. Now, Bethany was great. You have 15 seconds of your own thoughts.
NEILY: I'm from Chicago. Patronage needs something very different. But, I mean, this is -- you know, we were called birthing parents for so long, and this is just Wisconsin saying, hold my beer, literally. I mean, come on, guys.
GALLAGHER: Nicole Neily, Bethany Mandel, thank you both for coming on.
Coming up, a former federal worker spills the tea, joining us live with what she calls the shocking abuses that she witnessed firsthand at the expense of your tax dollars.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DENT: There's something called the 80-20 rule where 80 percent of the work in government is done by 20 percent of the people. And this is very, very true.
People who get a job in the government, a lot of times find out that it's very difficult to fire them, and they take advantage of this.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MIKE COFFIELD, AVIATION EXPERT: First thing, without a doubt, and both of us would agree, is kudos, congratulations to that Southwest crew, outstanding job. I mean, they're down at about five feet. They're hearing the calls, and the automated calls are, you know, 50 feet, you know, 30, 20, 10, and at that point they're looking to see this, the Flexjet, who's a charter company, moving across the runway. And either one of the crew members, the pilot or the first officer would immediately call out, go around. Go around.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Yes. I watched this video about 30 times. Another scare for airline passengers, a near miss Chicago's Midway Airport between a Southwest Airlines flight and a private jet.
Let's bring in the chairman of the No Fallen Heroes Foundation, retired Navy, "Top Gun" fighter pilot, Whiz Buckley. Whiz, great to have you on the show again. That was Mike Coffield. You just heard from right there.
I want to play some of the air traffic control audio. This is to the pilot of the -- or the business jet. Here's what they said, the back and forth, watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GROUND: Flexjet 560 hold your position there.
FLEXJET 560: (INAUDIBLE) Flexjet 560.
GROUND: Flexjet 560 continue across the hold short. Hold short of Hotel.
FLEXJET 560: Cross the hold short. Hold short of Hotel. Flexjet 560.
GROUND: Flexjet 560 your instructions were to hold short of runway three- one centre.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: I mean, Whiz, I don't know how many more times you can say hold short when the guy just keeps going across the runway.
MATTHEW "WHIZ" BUCKLEY, CHAIRMAN, NO FALLEN HEROES FOUNDATION": Yes, so, Trace, that was actually the after audio. So, the Flexjet that was given clear instructions, and they read back those instructions wrong. So the ground controller actually said no, no, no. He repeated the instructions. And then the Flexjet crew got the instructions right that time, they said it right, and they blew them off and went right across in active runway.
Absolutely 100 percent pilot error. So, good on the controllers for saying, no, you read that back wrong. And also, obviously, like your previous guest, or that guy just said, Mike said, good on the Southwest crew, absolutely averted faster.
GALLAGHER: Yes, I was saying I have watched this video a bunch of times. And listen, who knows, maybe, maybe if the Southwest jet lands, Whiz, maybe they don't crash, but it's going to be awfully close. And it really is one of those things you're like, how in the world does this happen?
BUCKLEY: Trace, in aviation we have -- well, we have a lot of sayings, but here's one of them, if there's any doubt, there's no doubt, as you're landing like that, you're looking down the runway and seeing that going on. I'm pretty sure, based on some of the footage I've seen, that crew had already decided to make the go around before the tower even called it.
But the Flexjet crew, Trace, the person sitting in the right seat needed to be looking down the runway. You never, ever cross an active runway without looking to your left and looking to your right. It's like being in a stop sign, Trace, you look both directions before you cross. They would have seen a massive southwest jet barreling towards them, and they would have stopped 100 percent pilot error.
GALLAGHER: So, I'm going to put you in the left seat of the 737, the Southwest plane. You come in, you're about to touch the ground, and you see something. You say, listen, I need to do over here. What happens in those seconds, Whiz?
BUCKLEY: Max power. But probably in this case, both crew members just said, go around, right? We want more fire out of the back. So, you go full throttle. And you can actually see the attitude of that Southwest jet pitch up in the video like they're pulling back on the stick to arrest that rate of dissent, and they went to max power to go around.
GALLAGHER: Yes, it really is. It's one of those things where we've had you on way too many times. I mean, we love having you on. We had you on way too many times over the past weeks, we went a long time without having any aviation specialists, and now we seem to have them on every week. I mean, something's going on here.
BUCKLEY: Well, Trace, if you -- so, I actually looked at the NTSB data today. This is from Uncle Sam. This isn't from Uncle Whiz. This time last year, the January and February dates, we had more mishaps according to the NTSB in the same time frame last year than we did this year, but they weren't mishaps that are like this, but they were various kinds of mishaps. So, the data don't lie, Trace, but I get it, these things are a little attention grabbing.
GALLAGHER: Whiz Buckley, great to have you on the show. Hope we don't see you soon, but if we do, thank you. Good analysis as always.
BUCKLEY: Thanks, Trace, good night.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. AYANNA PRESSLEY (D-MA): What kind of efficiency makes people poor? What kind of efficiency makes people less safe? The lives of hard working families are a joke to them. I won't stand for it.
REP. BRANDON GILL (R-TX): I'd like to say that perhaps what is actually cruel is bankrupting our country by funding a federal workforce that isn't working.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Well, as Democrats and legacy media magnify the outrage of federal workers fired by DOGE, some former federal employees are speaking out, saying they have no sympathy for their ex colleagues.
Let's bring in a former employee of the Army Corps of Engineers, Sacha Dent. Sacha, great to have you on. Those politicians you just heard who say, oh, this is heartless, you can't do this. What would you say to them?
DENT: They're the reason why we're here. The politicians are the people responsible for making an American government that works for its people. Our government hasn't passed any meaningful legislation, and I don't even know how many years.
They certainly haven't done any in the last 12 months, so they haven't maintained the United States for us. And now we're at a point where things have gotten to the extreme, and now the reaction is severe, and it's causing a lot of people to be upset.
But Congress isn't doing their job. They make the laws they're responsible for these organizations, what are they doing with their time if they're not making laws?
GALLAGHER: Yes, it's a good point. You said this in your video about it being impossible to get fired. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DENT: When I was hired, my boss bragged that it was basically impossible to get fired from the federal government, and that in her entire time working for the government, she'd only seen one person fired, and that person assaulted a fellow employee, and she wasn't even fired for assaulting the employee at work. She was fired for lying about it because they caught it on camera.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: What kind of response, Sacha, have you gotten from this video?
DENT: Overwhelmingly, everyone has the same sentiments that I do. Our government, again, has not been working for us. We get passports, and it takes anywhere from six to 18 months, depending on the government's mood. When in Europe, a vehicle drives up to your house and you have your passport the same day. We live in the same world they do. We have better technology than they do.
So, again, our Congress is responsible for all of our government organizations being in a terrible shape, and America knows it. The people of America know it, and they know that something has to be done.
GALLAGHER: Yes, I want to play one more quick sound bite from your comments, and then I'll get your final comments. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DENT: One employee spent his time remote working running his own farm. Another employee bragged about drunk driving and going out to lunch with her friends for margaritas when she was supposed to be remote working. Another employee would take the government truck on an almost daily basis so that he could go out to lunch and then go and take a nap in his favorite park, under a shady tree.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: I mean, the thing about this is that people -- and I've only got about 30 seconds left here, Sacha, but people want the government to be smaller.
DENT: And that makes sense. That absolutely makes sense. I think that we're -- we have a bit of an extreme reaction right now. I don't think ripping out all these people in mass is the right way to go about it, but we have to do something. We can't just continue to spend and grow and grow and not do anything. A reaction has to occur. And if our government isn't going to do it the way they're supposed to do it, the people find a way to make it happen.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Sacha Dent, best of luck to you. Thank you for coming on.
DENT: Thank you, Trace.
GALLAGHER: Well, iPhone voice to text appearing periodically to type Trump when users say racist, seems all too similar to when Amazon's Alexa explained reasons to vote for Kamala Harris while refusing to provide the similar responses for Trump.
Why do these mistakes always seem to go in one direction against Republicans? Let us know, X and Instagram @TraceGallagher, we're back with the Nightcap crew, and that includes you, next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GALLAGHER: We are back with the Nightcap crew. Bill Melugin, Ashley Strohmier, Bethany Mandel, Whiz Buckley and Nicole Neily and Franklin Camargo. Tonight's topic, bad Apple. iPhone voice to text appearing to periodically write Trump when users say racist, why do the mistakes always seem to go in the same direction against Republicans?
I mean, we talked about this, Ashley Strohmier, right? You had -- you had Alexa, where Kamala Harris should give you a whole list of reasons to vote for, and you asked for Trump, and like, oh, I can't do that. You kidding me, I'm unbiased.
STROHMIER: I mean, when you look Fortune.com, the third highest liberal company was Apple. And I mean, when you look at that, there's liberal people behind these computers are pushing these buttons with their sticky fingers. I mean, there -- it's probably somebody who honestly, truly thinks Trump is a racist. And they're like, you know what? We're going to do this because no one's going to stop us. And then they'll say, Ooh, it's just a glitch.
GALLAGHER: Yes, it really is. I mean, Bethany, I was telling Bill, I said, maybe it's just some guy in Apple who's it's a kind of practical joke. What do you think?
MANDEL: Yes, I think that that's right, but it's not a practical joke. This was why when Mark Zuckerberg said he was moving all of the Meta stuff from California to Texas, because he realizes that tech is a bubble that is liberal, and it's, you know, it's self-reinforcing. And so, he tried to remove that from Meta. And it's time for Apple to do the same.
GALLAGHER: Yes, whiz?
BUCKLEY: Trace, it's crazy. You know, as an aviator, I rarely have to use Apple Maps, but today it yelled at me to turn left, because capitalism is a scam, right? And then I asked it for a great steakhouse recommendation, and it sent me to a vegan co-op.
It's just, it's a caricature of itself at this point, I don't know who takes it seriously. It's just, you know, the Apple needs to get over themselves.
GALLAGHER: Nicole?
NEILY: I mean, you know, I put in legendary and it gave me Trace, and so I feel like (INAUDIBLE). Let's give them a chance.
GALLAGHER: Bingo. Bill Melugin.
MELUGIN: It's been going on for years across different companies, always in the same direction. We were just talking all the way back to Twitter before Elon bought it, right? They killed the Hunter Biden laptop. There were no community notes back then. You couldn't correct anything. Now, look at it with Elon's leadership.
GALLAGHER: Yes, I got 10 seconds for you.
CAMARGO: Look, right before the election, we saw it. Amazon was able to make a better case that even Kamala to vote for her. That's a very hard work, and Amazon could do it. So many times, so many companies involved. Do we really think it's a mistake?
GALLAGHER: Andy says, Apple is trying to influence politics again, it is sickening.
Sammie, I believe that there is an employee at Apple snickering every time it happens.
Jack, leftover haters still working for the company, looks like a clean sweep is in order.
Willie, politics should be kept out of the office. I guess there's still a few stragglers that just don't get it.
John, because it's intentional, plain and simple.
And Ron, simple, all these companies are controlled by left-wing thinkers which control how they make their products to perform.
Thank you for watching America's late News, Fox News @ night. I'm Trace Gallagher. We'll see you right back here again tomorrow.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

Load-Date: February 26, 2025


End of Document
