




The Daily Caller
January 29, 2025 Wednesday 04:03 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: DAILY-CALLER-NEWS-FOUNDATION; education
Length: 672 words
Byline: Jaryn Crouson, Contributor, 
Body



Student test scores remain below pre-pandemic performance, even years later, as many schools continue to focus on promoting far-left ideology over core education.
The Nation's Report Card  its 2024 data Wednesday which revealed declining reading scores for fourth and eighth grade students and stagnant math scores for students in both grades. One-third of eighth graders, the largest percentage ever recorded, failed to reach the National Assessment of Educational Progress's (NAEP) reading benchmark.
“When we fail our children, we fail our nation's future,” Republican Michigan Rep. Tim Walberg, chairman of the Education and Workforce Committee, said in a statement shared with the Daily Caller News Foundation. “Today's NAEP scores continue the concerning trend of declining performance nationwide. This is clearly a reflection of the education bureaucracy continuing to focus on woke policies rather than helping students learn and grow.”
The latest reading scores follow a downward trend that has been ongoing since 2019, with a five-point decline overall, the data shows. Math scores for fourth-grade students increased slightly by just two points since 2022.
 The nation's report card (NAEP) is out and bad news for NY.
 Our electeds always tout how much they “invest” in education, NY families have gotten a pitiful ROI.
 Btw, NY Ed head Betty Rosa got a $155K salary bump, now makes $489K.  
 - Yiatin Chu (@ycinnewyork) 
Roughly 40% of fourth grade students are below NAEP's reading proficiency, the largest percentage since 2002, the report found. Also revealed by the report was a growing gap between the lowest and highest performing students, with a staggering near 100-point separation between the two groups.
Republicans have largely  blue states for extending school closures during the COVID-19 pandemic. The Biden administration also drew ire for  teachers' unions by allowing them to sway national health guidance on school reopenings,  to Republicans on the House Select Subcommittee on the Coronavirus Crisis.
Since resuming in-person learning, schools around the country have largely shifted their focus from core subjects to embedding diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI),  and . 
“This year's NAEP scores clearly show that the American education system is in crisis,” Nicki Neily, president of Parents Defending Education (PDE), said in a statement shared with the DCNF. “Over the past several years, schools around the country have turned into little more than taxpayer-funded babysitting centers focused primarily on social-emotional wellbeing, identity politics, and self-esteem, rather than teaching children core curriculum in ordered classrooms.”
Former President Joe Biden's Department of Education had become overrun with , with documents outlining practices to implement, required staff trainings and diversity-focused teams, all of which were swiftly  by President Donald Trump within days of taking office.
Education advocates are now  to pass a universal school choice initiative to help families remove their children from failing schools.
“I'm thankful we have an administration that is looking to reverse course, and I look forward to helping reform our education system to better serve our youth,” Walberg continued.
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Graphic

 
HOUSTON, TEXAS - AUGUST 29: A student studies in the Rice University Library on August 29, 2022 in Houston, Texas. U.S. President Joe Biden has announced a three-part plan that will forgive hundreds of billions of dollars in federal student loan debt. Since announced, the plan has sparked controversy as critics have begun questioning its fairness, and addressing concerns over its impact on inflation. (Photo by Brandon Bell/Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
