




MailOnline
January 31, 2025 Friday 2:33 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 1671 words
Byline: Mark Duell
Body


An LBC radio presenter has branded a journalist a 'numbskull' for backing Donald Trump's claim that diversity hires were to blame for the Washington plane crash.
Iain Dale hit out at American author Kurt Schlichter for supporting the US President's suggestion after the deadly crash on Wednesday - before kicking him off the show.
Mr Trump had said in a news conference about the horror incident yesterday that diversity efforts at the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) had led to slipping standards - even though he acknowledged the cause of the crash was unknown.
After an American Airlines plane with 64 people on board collided in the sky with an Army helicopter, the President blamed air traffic controllers, the helicopter pilots and Democratic policies at federal agencies, without giving evidence for his claims.
Mr Trump claimed to reporters at the White House that the FAA was 'actively recruiting workers who suffer severe intellectual disabilities, psychiatric problems and other mental and physical conditions under a diversity and inclusion hiring initiative'.
Then on LBC last night, presenter Dale spoke to Schlichter, a senior columnist at TownHall.com and author of the book 'We'll Be Back: The Fall and Rise of America'.
He began by asking Schlichter about Mr Trump's comments, saying: 'On the face of it, some extraordinary remarks from President Trump. What do you take from this?'
Schlichter replied: 'I love it, I am unreservedly happy that we finally have somebody out there calling it as he sees it. The idea that diversity isn't behind this?
'You know, I can jump in my car which I had to hose down to get the ash off of, drive a few miles up north to northern Los Angeles which mostly burned down through the gross incompetence of the diversity hires that run my beautiful state of California. We're going to dig into this - I am, you know, as somebody conducted...'
Dale then interjected, pointing out that 'a lot of those firefighters that you've just paid tribute to will be from diverse backgrounds.'
But Schlichter was unmoved, replying: 'Yeah, their leaders are from diverse backgrounds and they were grossly incompetent.
'When you choose people because you're checking blocks whether colour or sex or for God's sake severe psychological disability, you're going to get losers. Diversity, DEI, all that garbage which we voted unequivocally to get rid of and throw in the dustbin is a disaster.
'It is an excuse to throw out merit and hire, you know it's essentially patronage and we're done with it. We're not going to do it anymore. He's absolutely right to say so.'
Dale then asked him what evidence existed that either the pilot of the helicopter or the plane or anyone in the control tower came from a diverse background.
When Schlichter admitted 'there's none at the moment', Dale replied: 'Well exactly, so why, how can you sit there and blithely support these disgraceful remarks?'
But Schlichter said: 'First of all they're not disgraceful, we're finally getting somebody out there who breaks the silence of the establishment and tells the truth. Our institutions are broken, every institution.'
Dale then said: 'It's all down to minorities, is it? It's all down to minorities? Is that really what we're going to have for the next four years - blame every failure in America on minorities from diverse backgrounds and people with disabilities?'
Schlichter responded: 'Well, look, I like competent people of diverse backgrounds...'
But Dale said: 'Well, you're doing a very good impression of not liking them.'
Schlichter then carried on, adding: 'If you send me over, oh I don't know another Margaret Thatcher, I'll be thrilled. 
'But the fact is the Democrat administrations in places like California and over the last four years have hired people not because they're the best, but because their grandfather came from the right continent and we're done doing that, we're finished.
'You can't guilt us you can't shame us we're going to tell the truth, we've got to be the best.'
Dale said that even if Schlichter did believe 'that absolute tosh', did he think it was appropriate for Mr Trump to 'indulge in this unevidenced speculation, when surely what he should be doing is encouraging the flight investigators to get to the truth?'
But Schlichter said: 'Well first of all the need that the flight investigators need to be encouraged to go get the truth... Look, I've investigated many things in the military, many things as a lawyer, I didn't need the permission of somebody to go find the truth, and I certainly got and dragged information out of people reluctant to share it.
'As for the timing, well I'd like to see the memo about when the timing's right. All I know is every time some psychotic leftist murderer goes on a shooting spree, within 40 seconds I get told I need to disarm myself, because me being able to defend myself from criminals and tyrants, along with tens of millions of other Americans, is the cause of yet another crime.
'So I'm going to need to know what the rule is. In the meantime I'm going to go with this one - tell the truth...'
But a furious Dale spoke to a producer on air and asked them to end the call, saying: 'Alright, alright, Chris, can you get this numbskull off our programme please. I never want to speak to him again.
'He is the kind of person that makes America look ridiculous on the world stage.'
The mid-air collision between an Army helicopter and the plane killed all 67 people aboard the two aircraft.
Officials said today that they had so far pulled more than 40 bodies from the water.
                     Iain Dale v Kurt Schlichter: Full transcript of LBC radio interview                   
 Here is the full transcript for Iain Dale's interview with Kurt Schlichter on LBC radio:
Iain Dale: 'Let's get some comment on this from Kurt Schlichter who is a senior columnist at TownHall.com the author of the book 'We'll Be Back: The Fall and Rise of of America' as well as the thriller novel The Attack. I want to read that. Kurt, thank you very much for joining. On the face of it some extraordinary remarks from President Trump, what do you take from this?
Kurt Schlichter: ' love it, I am unreservedly happy that we finally have somebody out there calling it as he sees it. The idea that diversity isn't behind this? You know, I can jump in my car which I had to hose down to get the ash off of, drive a few miles up north to northern Los Angeles which mostly burned down through the gross incompetence of the diversity hires that run my beautiful state of California. We're going to dig into this - I am, you know, as somebody conducted...'
Dale: 'Sorry, sorry a lot of those firefighters that you've just paid tribute to will be from diverse backgrounds.'
Schlichter: 'Yeah, their leaders are from diverse backgrounds and they were grossly incompetent. When you choose people because you're checking blocks whether colour or sex or for God's sake severe psychological disability, you're going to get losers. Diversity, DEI, all that garbage which we voted unequivocally to get rid of and throw in the dustbin is a disaster. It is an excuse to throw out merit and hire, you know it's essentially patronage and we're done with it. We're not going to do it anymore. He's absolutely right to say so.'
Dale: 'What evidence is there that either the pilot of the helicopter, the pilot of the plane or any of the people in the control tower at Reagan Airport came from a diverse background?'
Schlichter: 'Well there's none at the moment - but we know...'
Dale: 'Well exactly, so why, how can you sit there and blithely support these disgraceful remarks.
Schlichter: 'First of all they're not disgraceful, we're finally getting somebody out there who breaks the silence of the establishment and tells the truth. Our institutions are broken, every institution
Dale: 'It's all down to minorities, is it? It's all down to minorities? Is that really what we're going to have for the next four years - blame every failure in America on minorities from diverse backgrounds and people with disabilities?'
Schlichter: 'Well, look I like competent people of diverse backgrounds...'
Dale: 'Well, you're doing a very good impression of not liking them.'
Schlichter: 'If you send me over, oh I don't know another Margaret Thatcher, I'll be thrilled. But the fact is the Democrat administrations in places like California and over the last four years have hired people not because they're the best, but because their grandfather came from the right continent and we're done doing that, we're finished. You can't guilt us you can't shame us we're going to tell the truth, we've got to be the best.'
Dale: 'Even if you believe that absolute tosh, even if you believe that, do you think it's appropriate for the President of the United States, within 24 hours, when you have 67 families grieving - is it really appropriate to indulge in this unevidenced speculation, when surely what he should be doing is encouraging the flight investigators to get to the truth?'
Schlichter: 'Well first of all the need that the flight investigators need to be encouraged to go get the truth... Look, I've investigated many things in the military, many things as a lawyer, I didn't need the permission of somebody to go find the truth, and I certainly got and dragged information out of people reluctant to share it. As for the timing, well I'd like to see the memo about when the timing's right. All I know is every time some psychotic leftist murderer goes on a shooting spree, within 40 seconds I get told I need to disarm myself, because me being able to defend myself from criminals and tyrants, along with tens of millions of other Americans, is the cause of yet another crime. So I'm going to need to know what the rule is. In the meantime I'm going to go with this one - tell the truth.'
Dale: 'Alright, alright, Chris, can you get this numbskull off our programme please. I never want to speak to him again. He is the kind of person that makes America look ridiculous on the world stage.'

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
