




The Daily Caller
January 21, 2025 Tuesday 08:05 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: DAILY-CALLER-NEWS-FOUNDATION; media
Length: 559 words
Byline: Nicole Silverio, Media Reporter, 
Body



“The View” co-hosts visibly struggled on Tuesday to comprehend President Donald Trump's return to the Oval Office.
At the start of the segment, the co-hosts could barely bring themselves to say that  had been sworn in as the 47th president the day before, with co-host Ana Navarro declaring that it was Martin Luther King Jr. Day. Navarro and co-host Sunny Hostin admitted to not watching the inauguration ceremony or the president's speech.
Joy Behar said she watched the entire speech, sarcastically claiming that part of her enjoyed what she implied was a painful experience.
“What better way to unify the country than ripping families apart and  anyone who doesn't fall in line? So, I watched the whole thing because I have a certain masochistic streak in me,” Behar said. 
“I watched it, just the speech part. A lot of the revelry, it was hard because this is not someone I voted for, so I didn't feel like sitting around and watching it,” co-host Sara Haines said. “But the speech itself, I remember when it was done, my first reaction was, you know, 'what is this country he speak of?' Because I immediately couldn't reconcile the way I see the country and the people and how it is right now and where he saw it. He didn't say carnage, but he said carnage pretty much in everything else ... I just kind of felt this dark feeling and then he had this kind of martyr-like, 'you guys are downtrodden and almost irreparable' ... It had this God-like complex without any Jesus qualities.”
WATCH: 
Haines and Behar said Trump was “merciless” to former President Joe Biden's administration by not saying a positive word about them.
Hostin said she “decided to protect [her] peace” by celebrating Martin Luther King Jr. Day and not watching the inauguration, and referred to the president as a “DEI hire.”
“You're talking about a man who didn't become the President of the United States because of merit. He had no political experience, he had no business experience. He was given everything he has. He is a legacy hire, he is a DEI hire, a 'didn't earn it' hire,” Hostin said.
Navarro said she will say a prayer for America as Trump once again retakes power.
“I was in Guatemala. I was there for a funeral which reminded me how frail life is and not to waste time on doing things that bring you no joy and make you infuriated, like watching his swearing-in,” Navarro said. “So I didn't watch a single second of it. I did read the speech and I read a lot about it and I saw pictures. And as I was reading the speech as I was coming back, first of all, I'm gonna pray for America. I'm also going to say, you know, he calls himself a peacemaker. He wants to invade , people!”
Co-host Alyssa Farah Griffin also said they must all accept that Trump has been “normalized” and is part of American history.
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Graphic

 
"The View" co-hosts can't comprehend Trump's return [Screenshot/The View]

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
