




The Independent (United Kingdom)
January 22, 2025 Wednesday 10:42 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Independent Print Ltd  All Rights Reserved


Section: US NEWS
Length: 437 words
Byline: Katie Hawkinson
Body


Secretary of State  has issued an order stating U.S. facilities can onlyoutside their buildings, according to a new report.
Rubio issued the order Tuesday night, according to . The order states "only" the U.S. can be flown at U.S. facilities domestic and abroad, the outlet reports. The only exceptions are the Prisoner of War/Missing in Action emblem and the Wrongful Detainees Flag.
Rubio, formerly a  , similarly introduced a  to last year to "place restrictions on the official display of flags, seals, or emblems other than the United States flag."
The former senator was confirmed 99-0 by the Senate Monday, making him the first member of President Donald Trump's cabinet to take office. Rubio's hearing centered around his plans for U.S.-China relations.
"The 21st century will be defined by what happens between the United States and China," Rubio said.

"They have elements that the Soviet Union never possessed," Rubio added. "They are a technological adversary and competitor, an industrial competitor, an economic competitor, a geopolitical competitor, a scientific competitor now - in every realm. It is an extraordinary challenge."
Rubio's new policy comes after a 2021 order from former president Joe Biden authorizing State Department buildings to fly other flags, including the  and the .  
During Biden's administration, several embassies took advantage of his policy. For instance, the  flew a Pride flag to celebrate Pride month in 2021 and the  flew a Black Lives Matter flag to celebrate Black history month in 2022.
The White House also draped Pride flags across the South Lawn to celebrate Pride month in 2023.
Biden's policy and the White House's use of Pride flags incensed Republicans at the time 
"This is a disgrace," Republican Senator Roger Marshall of Kansas posted on . "Not only is it in breach of US Flag Code, but it's a glaring example of this White House's incompetence and insistence on putting their social agenda ahead of patriotism."
Meanwhile, Trump  ending DEI programs across the federal government and denying the existence of transgender, nonbinary and intersex people.
These orders are expected to face significant legal pushback. Another order, which attempts to end birthright citizenship,.
The Independent has contacted the State Department for comment. 

Load-Date: January 23, 2025


End of Document
