




The Daily Caller
January 29, 2025 Wednesday 08:08 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: DAILY-CALLER-NEWS-FOUNDATION; media
Length: 552 words
Byline: Nicole Silverio, Media Reporter, 
Body



“The View” co-host Whoopi Goldberg stared straight into the camera Wednesday to lecture White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt on how she supposedly got her job because of “wokeness.”
During her first press briefing Tuesday, Leavitt explained that the president's Office of Management and Budget memorandum to temporary  federal grants, which has since been  by a federal judge and was later , aimed to prevent agencies from funding “wokeness,” diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) programs or other initiatives the administration opposes. The day following the briefing, Goldberg raged over Leavitt's statement that there will be no “wokeness” permitted in the federal bureaucracy or agencies, saying that the ideology granted women the opportunity to join the workforce.
“I would like this young lady, this is her first job, I would like her to do a little homework,” Goldberg said. “Because she said something yesterday that really pissed me off. And that was [when] she said 'there will be no wokeness here.' Let me explain something to you, because without that wokeness, you may not have that job because women were not invited to that table. Women were not invited to many tables in this nation. The reason we fought and busted our behinds to make sure that you didn't have to worry about this. And now, to hear you talk about it and to hear anybody talk about the wokeness, the wokeness was put in place for a reason.” 
WATCH: 
Goldberg claimed “wokeness” liberated women and racial minorities to ensure the U.S. went from being a “man's world” to a “person's world.”
“So please, please stop using that phrase like you know what you're talking about because you don't understand what you're saying,” Goldberg continued. “You're saying about yourself, 'hey, that's a terrible thing to be.' It's not a terrible thing to be, that's why we fought. That's what we were fighting for so you could stand in that podium, so that [former White House press secretary] Karine Jean-Pierre could stand at that podium. So women of all kinds of colors and ilks, wherever they came from, whatever their belief system was, they had the opportunity to bust down that door.”
Without evidence, co-host Joy Behar suggested that President Donald Trump only gave Leavitt the job because of her physical appearance.
Leavitt is the youngest serving White House press secretary at the age of 27 and held her first  Tuesday without reading from a binder. During the first briefing, Leavitt  that seats in the briefing room normally reserved to staff will be given to outlets and independent journalists who do not hold an official place in the briefing room and  that the mysterious drones spotted in New Jersey were authorized to fly as “research.”
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Graphic

 
"The View" co-host Whoopi Goldberg [Screenshot/The View]

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
