




The Daily Caller
February 7, 2025 Friday 02:25 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: DAILY-CALLER-NEWS-FOUNDATION; media
Length: 612 words
Byline: Nicole Silverio, Media Reporter, 
Body



CNN anchor Abby Phillip credited President Donald Trump's administration Thursday with presenting “good optics” to prove to American voters that they have upheld their campaign promises.
The panelists agreed that the Trump administration has succeeded at using visuals to appeal to the American people, particularly on the handling of the U.S.-Mexico border. Phillip argued that the images of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents arresting illegal immigrants with criminal records conveys the message that “promises [were] made, promises kept.”
“Here's the thing. Whether you support Trump or you don't, the imagery projects promises made, promises kept on immigration,” Phillip said. “Even the liberals understand and believe that Trump is carrying out that promise, and part of it is the way he is doing it, using military airplanes, doing it on camera, taking Dr. Phil along with him.”
WATCH:
Phillip told former Harris campaign senior adviser Adrienne Elrod that former President Joe Biden would have benefitted from the same use of these optics throughout his term. Elrod, agreeing with Phillip, argued that Democrats should emulate the January 6 Select Committee's use of visuals in order to “capture the attention” of independent and swing voters. 
Former Republican National Committee spokesperson Madison Geslotto said it would have been highly difficult to have good optics for Biden, and argued that it is working for Trump because he is upholding his campaign promises.
“I think the reason the optics are working so well for President Trump is just because of what Abby said, he made all of these promises, whether you like them or not. This is what he promised to voters on the campaign trail throughout this cycle, he's doing exactly what he said he'd do and not only is he doing it, he's doing it at a speed that I don't think a lot of Republicans expected,” Geslotto said.
During his campaign, Trump promised to carry out the largest mass deportation operation of illegal immigrants in U.S. history, reduce the size of the federal government,  diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) in the federal government and end birthright citizenship for children born to illegal immigrants.
Since Trump took office, ICE agents have carried out mass arrests throughout the U.S. and in sanctuary states, particularly those with heinous criminal records. Agents  over 7,400 illegal immigrants as of Saturday, though that number continues to climb.
The president  executive orders on his first day in office to declare a national emergency at the southern border, revoke the birthright citizenship status for children born to illegal immigrants, end the Biden-era catch and release policy and reinstate the Remain in Mexico policy.
Footage and  have shown ICE agents and border czar Tom Homan conducting raids in several areas of the U.S., which has led to hundreds of arrests in a single day. One video  ICE agents arresting a gang member from Haiti with 17 prior convictions in Boston, Massachusetts, along with several other illegal migrants who had been convicted of serious crimes.
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Graphic

 
CNN's Abby Phillip [Screenshot/CNN]

Load-Date: February 26, 2025


End of Document
