




USA Today
February 5, 2025 Wednesday
1 Edition


Copyright 2025 USA Today All Rights Reserved
Section: SPORTS; Pg. C2
Length: 893 words
Byline: By, Chris Bumbaca, USA TODAY
Body


NEW ORLEANS - NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell said at his annual Super Bowl week news conference Monday that those who believe the Kansas City Chiefs receive preferential treatment from the officials are simply wrong.
"A lot of those theories happen in social media and they have a new life. ... I understand it, I think it reflects a lot of the fans' passion," Goodell said. "I think it's also a reminder of how important officiating is."
Goodell said he believes the individuals who call NFL games have the highest possible standards when it comes to integrity.
"That's a ridiculous theory, for anyone who might take it seriously," Goodell said. "But at the end of the day, it's something we have to continue to work on: How do we make our officiating better at all times?"
The online hoopla reminded Goodell of last year's narrative that the commissioner and others scripted the season from the league's Park Avenue offices in Manhattan.
"These officials are outstanding people - both men and women - and they go through a lot to become officials," Goodell said. "It's a tough job, a really hard job. ... I've never seen a more dedicated group of people than NFL officials to getting it right, to doing the best job they possibly can, and I'm incredibly proud of them."
Moderated by Curt Menefee, the Fox Sports host who offered a few table-setting talking points for Goodell, the session lasted about 45 minutes.
Expanding to 18 games
The league and NFL Players Association have yet to hold formal talks about expanding the regular season, although union director Lloyd Howell and Goodell have discussed the possibility. There is no deadline for when a decision would have to be made, as the current collective bargaining agreement (CBA) between the league and union is in effect through the 2030 season.
"We know our fans love football, they want more football," Goodell said. "But we have to be incredibly smart and sensitive in the balance and how we deal with that."
Rooney Rule/DEI
The implementation of diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) policies have become a hot-button issue in the first two weeks of Donald Trump's presidency and essentially since his election in November.
Goodell stood by the gains the league has made in its hiring practices during his time as commissioner.
"We felt it was the right thing for the (NFL)," Goodell said of its commitment to DEI. "I think we've proven ourselves that it does make the NFL better."
But in the face of a White House that has declared war on those initiatives, Goodell is still confident "because our owners participate in everything we do."
"Our policies have been designed to be well within the design, well within the practice. There are no quotas in our system," Goodell said. "This is about opening that funnel and bringing in the best talent to the NFL."
The league office has spoken with the NFL's Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Committee multiple times over the last six months, he said, and assured that the NFL's policies are current with both the previous and current presidential administrations.
To Goodell and the league office, it is not a trend.
"Our efforts are fundamental in trying to attract the best possible talent both on and off the field," he said.
However, teams such as the New England Patriots and the Dallas Cowboys were ridiculed for their head coaching searches not appearing to seriously adhere to the Rooney Rule, which requires teams to interview at least two external minority candidates.
"I think all of the steps that have been made are followed up, evaluated and feel comfortable that they're being done the right way," Goodell said of the Rooney Rule.
On the subject of coaches declining head coaching interviews out of fear they are not serious candidates, Goodell said that is not unusual. He nonetheless encourages coaches to go through the process and gain experience in that area.
Flagging for flopping?
Chiefs quarterback Patrick Mahomes drew the ire of opposing fans for questionable penalties he drew against the Houston Texans in the divisional round of the playoffs last month.
Goodell was asked whether the league would install a penalty specifically for flopping, and the commissioner noted it depends on one's definition of the act. He did, however, point out that the league drew a line on players faking injuries to stop hurry-up offenses.
The competition committee has discussed flopping in the past and "they could probably talk about (flopping) in the future, it wouldn't surprise me."
Justin Tucker
Goodell said he was surprised by the Baltimore Banner's reporting over the past week that detailed alleged sexual harassment and misconduct around Baltimore Ravens kicker Justin Tucker, who vehemently denied any wrongdoing. Goodell said the league will adhere to its protocols in letting any potential criminal or civil processes play out.
International Super Bowl
On potentially increasing the number of international games from eight to 16, Goodell tempered expectations by saying the league may fall short of reaching eight in 2025.
Media rights are critical to that expansion, and the league is open for business in that respect to both existing and prospective broadcast and streaming partners.
An international Super Bowl would occur only if the league expanded internationally. "I do think someday we're going to have an international franchise," Goodell said.

Graphic

 
Goodell

Load-Date: February 5, 2025


End of Document
