




The Daily Caller
February 3, 2025 Monday 09:59 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: DAILY-CALLER-NEWS-FOUNDATION; media
Length: 594 words
Byline: Jason Cohen, Contributor, 
Body



Democratic strategist Robin Biro warned Monday that a new poll showing that numerous Americans feel his party does not prioritize economic issues is a worrisome indicator.
 frequently identified abortion, LGBT policy and climate change as the  main focuses, while their own top concerns were the economy, health care and immigration,  to the , which was conducted by The New York Times and Ipsos in early January. When Newsmax host  raised the poll on “American Agenda,”  expressed concern that Democrats are failing to learn from their November election losses. 
WATCH:
“Oh, this is - this spells trouble for my party. I said this in the weeks and months leading up to the election, because [former Vice President] Kamala Harris wasn't focusing on the economy. And as [Democratic strategist] James Carville famously said back in the 90's, 'It's the economy, stupid.' And it always has been the economy, stupid,” Biro said. “So I'm worried that we're not learning our lesson. John Powell famously said, 'The only real mistake is the one from which nothing is learned.' And I wish my party would take that to heart.”
The poll also found that Americans view the Republican Party as mainly prioritizing immigration, the economy and taxes. Similarly, CNN senior data reporter Harry Enten also  recently how Americans have flipped to trusting Republicans over Democrats on immigration since President Donald Trump's first term.
Moreover, the Democratic Party's  rating also sunk to 31% among registered voters,  to Quinnipiac polling released Wednesday. Democratic Washington Rep. Adam Smith also  Tuesday that his party has a poor reputation on key issues.
The Democratic National Committee elected Ken Martin as their new chair on Saturday,  to the NYT. He has served as the Minnesota Democratic chairman and campaigned in part on expanding the Democratic Party's attractiveness to working class voters.
“I don't rub elbows with billionaires or Hollywood elites, I rub elbows with working people in union halls, on picket lines, at civil rights marches and at protests,” Martin asserted at a recent candidate forum, according to the NYT. “I'm running for chair because that's what the next DNC will look like when I'm the next chairman. That's who we're fighting for.”
Trump made gains with  and  as every state in the nation moved to the right during the November 2024 election,  to the NYT.
“My party needs to reestablish our credibility on a number of issues. It's not going to be enough, even if it is strategic and tactical and smart to criticize what Donald Trump does. I mean, we have to do that and we have to do it intelligently,” Smith said. “It's just not going to be enough because we don't have the credibility that we need on issues like immigration, like DEI, dealing with racism and discrimination. Like the economy. I think we need to spend more time reestablishing our own credibility, not just bashing, on what Trump does.”
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Graphic

 
Dem Strategist Warns New Poll On Americans' Views Of His Party's Priorities 'Spells Trouble'

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
