




MailOnline
January 20, 2025 Monday 10:24 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 725 words
Byline: Stephen M. Lepore For Dailymail.Com
Body


                     Ilhan Omar took a potshot Monday at Democrats who made hysterical claims about Donald Trump as a threat to Democracy while still attending his inauguration.
Democrats in attendance included Bill and Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama and John Fetterman, as well as several other members of the opposition party. 
Omar was responding to backlash against entertainers who performed as part of the inauguration and suggested politicians should be held to higher standards. 
'People are more upset at performers/artists attending Trump's inaugural events but not upset at all the politicians who told them he was a 'threat to democracy' going to these events are not serious,' she wrote on social media. 
'Performers at least know they are there to perform and get paid, but these politicians who ran their mouth for 4 yrs and are now willing to be there and clap for him, that's who they should be mad at,' Omar added.
The left-wing Minnesota representative then said that those politicians have been dishonest. 
'They lied to you and your criticism/anger should be rightfully directed at them. Also, no one should ask people who are performers/artists to be loyal to a party because that's what dictatorships do. In a free country like ours, people should be able to support any party they want without having their livelihood compromised,' she said.
Omar has often been subject to Trump's criticism, with the president once having made a habit of publicly taunting her at rallies.
Trump was sworn in as the 47th president of the United States inside the Capitol Rotunda on Monday morning surrounded by a crowd of tech titans and media moguls.
Former President Bill Clinton and his wife, Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, appeared to chuckle as Donald Trump delivered his inauguration address.
During his inaugural address, the president vowed to sign approximately 200 executive orders in a massive crackdown on Day One of his second term.
One of his more interesting proposals is to rename or restore previous titles to landmarks and bodies of water bordering the U.S., including the new 'Gulf of America.' 
'Today, I will sign a series of historic executive orders,' Trump said. 'With these actions, we will begin the complete restoration of America and the revolution of common sense - it's all about common sense.
'America will reclaim its rightful place as the greatest, most powerful, most respected nation on earth, inspiring the awe and admiration of the entire world.
'A short time from now, we are going to be changing the name of the Gulf of Mexico to the Gulf of America.'
His remarks prompted laughter from his one-time political rival, Hillary Clinton, and a grin from her former president husband.
Meanwhile, Barack Obama continued his bromance with George W. Bush at the inaugural.
As the two former presidents prepared to walk into the Capitol Rotunda for the swearing-in ceremony an aide can be heard asking W.: 'Are you going to behave?' 
Obama, walking up behind George and Laura Bush, volunteered an answer. 
'Nope,' the Democrat said. 
The playful exchange happened after Bush gave Obama's tummy a playful tap when he arrived at President Jimmy Carter's funeral earlier this month. 
Bush ignored the Trumps to greet Obama.
He later was seen shaking Donald Trump's hand. 
Obama won the White House in 2008 after running against the two-term Bush's policies, including his decision to invade Iraq.
Trump pulled no punches as he delivered his plan to America - to restore it to a 'golden age' and do away with the DEI red tape that tangled the previous administration up in knots. 
Trump has already taken drastic action in his first few hours in office - he has renamed the Gulf of Mexico the Gulf of America, made Mount Denali in Alaska Mount McKinley again, and he has scrapped a border app that over 1million migrants used to gain entry to the US. 
His bold inauguration was unlike any other, with tech billionaires Elon Musk, Jeff Bezos and Mark Zuckerberg getting pride of place with him on stage. 
Trump's return to the Oval Office caps off the most astounding political comeback in modern history following his landslide victory over Kamala Harris in the presidential election last November. 
Late Monday afternoon, the newly inaugurated president arrived to a hero's welcome at the Capital One Arena for his Presidential Parade. 

Load-Date: January 21, 2025


End of Document
