




The Daily Caller
February 21, 2025 Friday 06:32 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: DAILY-CALLER-NEWS-FOUNDATION; media; media
Length: 615 words
Byline: Harold Hutchison, Reporter, 
Body



White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt asked NBC reporter Peter Alexander if he was “defending” fraudulent payments from Social Security during a Friday gaggle with reporters.
President Donald Trump  Leland Dudek, the head of the Social Security Administration's anti-fraud office, as acting head of the agency after Michelle King resigned following a clash with Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) employees. Alexander pressed Leavitt over her comments regarding reports of  in Social Security. 
“It's a clever question. First of all, I think all Americans would agree that funding mastectomies in Mozambique is not something that the American people should be funding - or DEI [Diversity, Equity and Inclusion] programs - I think it's fraudulent that the American government has been ripping off taxpayers in this way,” Leavitt told Alexander. “And we also do know there has been extensive fraud, particularly if you look at Social Security. In fact, according to an IG [Inspector General] report from the Social Security Administration, there was $71 billion worth of fraud in one single fiscal year that we know about. And so, that is a lot of fraud, Peter, that the government has admitted to. So this administration is committed to finding even more of that fraud, waste and abuse.”
WATCH:
“To be clear, that $71 billion was from 2015 to 2022, so it wasn't in just one year -” Alexander asserted, with Leavitt responding, “$71 billion.”
The Social Security Administration's inspector general  in August of 2024 that the agency made at least $71 billion in improper payments between fiscal years 2015 and 2022. After returning to office, Trump immediately  DOGE in a Jan. 20 executive order to fulfill his campaign promise to eliminate federal waste. According to the DOGE , at least $55 billion in savings have been identified since it was formed on Jan. 20.
After a back and forth, during which Alexander argued that the improper payments from the Social Security Administration were over the course of several years, Leavitt responded by asking if the reporter was “defending” the government's misuse of the funds.
“So are you defending $71 billion in fraud, Peter? That's a lot of money. Far too much. And that's why this administration - why is the media so against cutting waste, fraud and abuse from the government? I don't get it,” Leavitt said, with Alexander responding, “I just want to ask a question.” 
“We won't be deterred - we will not be deterred from people like you and the press who are clearly adamantly opposed to cutting waste, fraud and abuse, but we know that American taxpayers at home, who have been struggling with an inflationary crisis, don't want their tax dollars going towards crazy DEI programs in countries overseas,” Leavitt continued. “They also don't like the fact that there has been $71 billion worth of fraud in Social Security and improper payments going out the door. That's a problem that needs to be fixed, and President Trump is going to fix it. That's your fifth question.”
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Graphic

 
Karoline Leavitt

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
