




The Duke Chronicle: Duke University
February 16, 2025 Sunday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION; Pg. 1
Length: 867 words
Byline: Aria Dwoskin
Body


"The revolution 'bout to be televised. You picked the right time but the wrong guy."
Kendrick Lamar's words during the Super Bowl halftime show echoed through televisions in households across the country last weekend. On one of the nation's largest-viewed stages, Lamar's performance was rich with political symbolism, calling out the racism and division in America.
Lamar's performance was framed by narration from Samuel L. Jackson dressed as Uncle Sam, the personification and embodiment of America. Uncle Sam introduces the halftime show as "the great American game," but following Lamar's first performance, he interrupts:
"No no no no no! Too loud, too reckless, too ghetto"
As Lamar continues his performance, Uncle Sam is only satisfied when slower, less rap-centric songs are played, as he explains:
"That's what America wants. Nice and calm."
Finally, Lamar responds with more than just music, stating,
"It's a cultural divide. Imma get it on the flow. Forty acres and a mule, this is bigger than the music."
This dialogue between a Black rapper and Uncle Sam is used as a mechanism to expose America's labeling of Black people as "reckless," "loud" and "ghetto," simultaneously forcing them to assimilate and be "calm." Moreover, Lamar's allusion to "forty acres and a mule" calls back to America's unfulfilled promise to formerly enslaved people after the Civil War. This performance paints a picture of the discrimination, cultural assimilation, erasure, and mistreatment of African Americans throughout U.S. history and into the present.
While this exploration of the halftime show only begins to uncover its political implications, the essence of this "revolution" speaks volumes about what is to come in America.
This show was more than just a dialogue on the ill state of our country, though. To fully understand this performance, we must acknowledge that President Donald J. Trump was in the audience. Trump has historically perpetuated racial prejudice, and recently issued an executive order which dismantled diversity, equity and inclusion in the federal government. To add to this, the NFL replaced their end zone sign "End Racism" with one that says "Choose Love" for the 2025 Super Bowl, seemingly a response to the discriminatory attitudes fueled by Trump. This undoubtedly contributed to Lamar's outspokenness on Sunday, which is why he called it "the right time."
Trump's dismissal of DEI only scratches the surface of the intense and plentiful executive orders issued since the start of his second term. Trump has always been a hardliner on a myriad of controversial issues. Upon inauguration, he declared that the government would only recognize two sexes; he signed an executive order banning transgender women from women's sports. His administration has removed thousands of government web pages with resources on abortion access, HIV resources and LGBTQ+ health. Regarding climate change, Trump withdrew from the Paris Agreement and blocked programs which helped minority communities reach environmental justice.
These policies are not just bold - they are transformative and divisive, sending a ripple of lasting impacts across the country. However, another consequence of Trump's leadership, often overlooked, is the surge in activism it ignites, increasing political engagement and general outspokenness. It is not just Trump's policies that will shape the nation, but the voices - both empowering and harmful - that he fuels.
His assertion that there are only two genders, and his barring of transgender athletes from their respective sports leagues, for example, will likely foster an environment that fuels hate toward transgender people. This mirrors a pattern seen during Trump's first term, in which his presidency was directly correlated with an increase in hate crimes - ranging from racism to other forms of discrimination.
But in response, it also encourages the agency of activists, uniting them to resist oppression. It is very likely that, amidst his transphobic declaration, powerful transgender voices will come together and advocate for increased rights.
Further, take Trump's initiatives attacking DEI: On one hand, this policy gives a platform for racism to take root and thrive. On the other hand, we see performances like Lamar's halftime show, in which oppressive laws force powerful narratives to emerge.
These trends will be interesting to examine in Duke's generally passive political environment. Duke is often seen as a political vacuum, yet days after Trump took office, our campus saw a protest.
This article is not meant to simply look at reactions to Trump in office. Rather, it is to acknowledge the voices that will be harnessed and the ways that they will shape our lives. When movements take form, both for the greater good and the bad, the climate of our environments shifts greatly. At Duke and across the country, it will be interesting to see the ways these affect our lives. Kendrick Lamar warned about "the revolution," and it seems it is just beginning.
Aria Dwoskin is a Trinity first-year. Her pieces typically run on alternate Sundays.
Get The Chronicle straight to your inbox
Signup for our weekly newsletter. Cancel at any time.
Email Address

Load-Date: February 16, 2025


End of Document
