




The Daily Caller
February 7, 2025 Friday 12:46 AM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: DAILY-CALLER-NEWS-FOUNDATION; politics
Length: 1629 words
Byline: Thomas English, Contributor, 
Body



Behind the veil of humanitarian aid, the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) doled out billions in taxpayer dollars to engage in left-wing social engineering abroad - from rampant LGBT advocacy to diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) programs and tech censorship.
President John F. Kennedy established USAID in 1961 to, in , “provide generously of our skills, and our capital and our food to assist the peoples of the less-developed nations to reach their goals in freedom.” The agency, though, has reinterpreted Kennedy's mission statement to mean that  suffers from a lack of drag shows, that  are too light on transgender representation, that the  is insufficiently welcoming to the homosexual community - while also offering social media platforms a host of creative tactics to suppress those who disagree with USAID's social agenda.
“It's probably one out of every three grants is totally insane left-wing nonsense ... USAID has always been somewhat left, but when the Biden administration started, you can clearly see a huge uptick in spending,” Parker Thayer, who researches federal spending at Capital Research Center, told the Daily Caller News Foundation. “The amount of lunatic, fringe grants goes up dramatically. For example, if you go to USAspending[.gov] and search for the keyword 'transgender,' the graph is basically a vertical line when you hit 2021. It's kind of remarkable.”
He also emphasized his discovery of a $13 million  for an Arabic-language translation of “Sesame Street,” calling it “something else, man.”
 Have you ever been watching Elmo's World and thought “this is great, but I wish he was speaking Arabic!”
 Fear not, the Biden Administration has you covered!
 Behold, a $13 MILLION grant to Sesame Workshop for “Ahlan SimSim” the Arabic version of Sesame Street. 
 - Parker Thayer (@ParkerThayer) 
Other programs include a $2 million  for funding sex-change procedures in Guatemala, $500,000 for , $70,000 for a , a , a similar ,  $46,000 in HIV care for , $1.5 million more for  to “learn through play,” $20,000 Bulgarians to enjoy a vaguely-defined “LGBT-related event” - programs for which former USAID Administrator Samantha Power  “a big pot of money” wasn't enough.
These and other programs were the vehicle through which Power went about “working LGBT rights into the DNA of our foreign policy,” a priority she  to Harvard students in 2015 during her tenure as U.S. Ambassador to the United States.

“One of the most common complaints you will get if you go to embassies around the world - from State Department officials and ambassadors and the like - is that USAID is not only not cooperative; they undermine the work that we're doing in that country,” Secretary of State Marco Rubio, who assumed control over USAID on Monday, said. He condemned the agency's more questionable programs as not only a waste of taxpayer dollars, but a diplomatic liability.
“They are supporting programs that upset the host government for whom we're trying to work with on a broader scale,” he said.
Beyond pro-LGBT funding, former President Joe Biden's USAID offered social media platforms a “,” a 100-page document providing guidance for countering “disinformation” through increased fact-checking and censorship - policies it said would make platforms more “democratically accountable.”
The document credits some of its content suppression tactics to the Global Engagement Center (GEC), a now-defunct agency that operated under the State Department. To “counter disinformation,” GEC recommended ginning up “moral outrage” against content that “violates [the] sacred value” of what it considers “the truth.” 
Biden seemed to heed GEC's guidance on moral outrage during the height of the pandemic in 2021,  Facebook of “killing people” by insufficiently censoring anti-vaccine content on the platform. Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg  during his Jan. 10 appearance on “The Joe Rogan Experience” an instance when the Biden administration pressured him to censor a satirical meme about vaccine side effects. Biden later walked back his accusation against Facebook in an  with CNN.
The USAID-funded primer also recommended “advertiser outreach,” a strategy that would financially throttle agency-disfavored informational outlets by informing advertisers of potential damage to brand reputation.
“[Advertisers] inadvertently are funding and amplifying platforms that disinform. Thus, cutting this financial support found in the ad-tech space would obstruct disinformation actors from spreading messaging online,” the Disinformation Primer reads. “Efforts have been made to inform advertisers of their risks, such as the threat to brand safety by being placed next to objectionable content.”
The document further characterized the legacy media's recent decline “leading to a loss of information integrity,” which thereby justifies USAID's efforts to combat those “casting doubt on media.”
“It leads to a loss of information integrity. Online news platforms have disrupted the traditional media landscape. Government officials and journalists are not the sole information gatekeepers anymore ... Because traditional information systems are failing, some opinion leaders are casting doubt on media, which, in turn, impacts USAID programming and funding choices,” the document continued.
USAID also faced intense congressional scrutiny in 2023 after allegations emerged that its PREDICT program and subsequent grants to EcoHealth Alliance potentially funneled U.S. taxpayer funds into gain-of-function coronavirus research at the Wuhan Institute of Virology - which raised questions about USAID's possible role in contributing to the origins of the COVID-19 pandemic.
 USAID's Samantha Power is giving misleading testimony about PREDICT, the virus hunting project USAID funded in conjunction with the Wuhan Institute of Virology.
 This work didn't end in 2019. It laid the groundwork for the Global Virome Project led by Peter Daszak & Shi Zhengli. 
 - Emily Kopp (@emilyakopp) 
Republican Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul complained that USAID refused to hand over documents pertaining to the allegations and the agency's funding habits.
“The response I got from your agency was: 'USAID will not be providing any documents at this time.' They're just unwilling to give documents on scientific grant proposals - we're paying for it, they're asking for $745 million more in money. We get no response,” Rand said. “We're not asking for classified information. We're not asking for anything unusual. 20 million people died around the world ... and you won't give us the basic information about what grants you're funding - should we be funding the Academy of Military Medical Research in China?”
Secretary of State Marco Rubio echoed Rand's transparency concerns after announcing he was the USAID's new acting director Monday, calling the agency “completely uncooperative.”
 . in El Salvador: “I'm the acting director of USAID. I've delegated that authority to someone...” 
 - CSPAN (@cspan) 
“They're one of the most suspicious federal agencies that exists,” Thayer told the DCNF, suggesting the agency's reputation for being opaque is justified. “It's kind of a character trait for USAID to be less than transparent.”
Thayer explained that, in his research, USAID is selective in its transparency. The grants he called “complete nonsense,” such as the “Sesame Street” translation, “are very specific about what they're doing. And the ones that are vaguely humanitarian-sounding are usually written like someone put a sociology textbook through a word randomizer then just took whatever it spat out and put it on the page. They are so full of jargon words that they're basically incomprehensible, even to people who understand what the jargon words are supposed to mean.”
“I got $1.1 million for a study of youth rural migration in Morocco,” he added. “I literally - I cannot help you in understanding what that could possibly mean. I have no idea what that means.”
Elon Musk, the leader of the Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE), claimed that he and President Donald Trump agreed to shutter the agency entirely during an  early Monday morning. Rubio emphasized in a Tuesday  with Fox News that he does not intend to “get rid of foreign aid,” but is considering whether USAID ought to be housed under State Department or remain an autonomous agency.
“This is not about getting rid of foreign aid,” Rubio said. “There are things we do through USAID that we should continue to do, that make sense. And we'll have to decide: Is that better through the State Department, or is that better through a reformed USAID? That's the process we're working through ... but they're completely uncooperative. We had no choice but to take dramatic steps to bring this thing under control.”
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Graphic

 
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken talks with guests as he hosts a Pride reception at the State Department in Washington, DC, on June 29, 2023. (Photo by OLIVIER DOULIERY / AFP)

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
