




Michigan Daily: University of Michigan-Ann Arbor
February 14, 2025 Friday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS-; Pg. 1
Length: 1085 words
Byline: Abigail VanderMolen
Body


Elizabeth Evans, Research Center for Group Dynamics researcher and lecturer at the University of Michigan School of Social Work, was working on an application for a grant that would allow her to implement Promoting Community Conversations About Research to End Suicide, a suicide-prevention and community-building program for Alaskan Indigenous communities in the state of Michigan. In an interview with The Michigan Daily, Evans said the website went down before she could submit the application. 
"I was working on the application one day, and the next day, the website was down, and that was it," Evans said. "Within that week, they just said they canceled ... They were not accepting any more applications."
The grant Evans was planning to apply for was a National Institutes of Health Diversity Supplement, intended to supplement existing NIH grants that support researchers from underrepresented backgrounds. Although the funding would not have been guaranteed, Evans told The Daily her application would have gone through a limited review process and likely faced higher odds of receiving funding because it is connected to an existing grant. Instead, Evans said she has been scrambling to find alternative sources of funding. 
"I feel optimistic that this is something that is fundable," Evans said. "It's just a matter of (whether) I feel everyone else is also going to be doing that same thing. They're going to be pivoting and it's just a matter of whether or not you meet the focus areas of the foundation."
Since President Donald Trump took office Jan. 20, 2025, he has signed a number of executive orders targeting diversity, equity and inclusion programs in federal departments and among federal contractors. The pause in NIH Diversity Supplements complies with executive orders against DEI in federal agencies.
Evans isn't the only U-M researcher to report feeling the impacts of federal actions under the Trump administration. In an email to The Daily, Darrell Hudson, chair of the Health Behavior and Health Equity department at the School of Public Health, described feelings of uncertainty in his department and said many faculty feared cuts to their projects or positions.
"There is tremendous uncertainty, with highly experienced staff at risk of losing their jobs and faculty seeing their life's work directly disrupted," Hudson wrote. "NIH meetings have been postponed, canceled, or significantly altered, despite the immense effort required to prepare for them. Faculty focusing on LGBTQIA health are particularly concerned, with some already experiencing proposal removals from NIH study sections."
Hudson also explained how the effects of the anti-DEI orders are especially troubling for researchers from marginalized and underrepresented communities.
"For many in marginalized communities, these policies feel like an attack on their very identity," Hudson wrote. "Flattening people and populations into language that the administration deems acceptable erases lived experiences and invalidates the struggles they continue to face. Regardless of where we stand on politics, we can all agree that every person deserves dignity and recognition. As a health equity researcher, it is deeply frustrating to see efforts to address real, systemic inequities under attack."
The University's Office of the Vice President for Research has begun posting updates on changes to federal research funding in response to new executive orders. The University's Office of Public Affairs also has a webpage with updates on federal policy affecting the University, which says the institution will carefully monitor changes to research funding. 
In an interview with The Daily, a social science researcher at the University who asked to remain anonymous for fear of her lab losing its NIH funding, described confusion caused by the short turnaround between federal actions being announced and going into effect. In this article, the researcher will be referred to as Kristine.
"There's no opportunity for consultation, for questions, for discussion," Kristine said. "It's just these sort of edicts that are coming down from afar. So that is creating, I would say, a lot of uncertainty and anxiety about, well, 'What's going to happen tomorrow, or in two weeks?'"
An announcement of cuts to NIH funding made Friday, Feb. 7, would have gone into effect the following Monday had a federal judge not temporarily paused the cuts Feb. 10.
Kristine told The Daily her lab had not received any communication saying any of their grants would be terminated, but she knew of people who had been told their grant funding would be taken away because they were doing equity-related research. Her own lab has seen delays in funding. As of Feb. 11, Kristine said the lab had not received grant money that was supposed to come through at the beginning of the month.
"The next installment we were supposed to have received on Feb. 1, we haven't got that yet," Kristine said. "We don't know if we're going to get it. We are assuming that we are, but we don't know."
Kristine also said her lab has become more cautious about drawing attention, especially because many aspects of her lab's work relate to equity. According to Kristine, the lab has made changes to their online presence to avoid attracting attention.
Hudson wrote the Trump administration's executive orders could affect the future by discouraging researchers from pursuing careers in certain fields.
"The administration's decisions could discourage future researchers from pursuing careers in health equity, fearing that their work may be under constant threat," Hudson wrote. "As a result, we risk losing a generation of scholars and practitioners whose contributions could be critical to advancing health equity."
In an interview with The Daily, Nursing senior Fiorella Adan, senior executive president of Nursing Student Government, said the Trump administration's executive orders have left her concerned about her own plans post-graduation. Adan, who is Hispanic, plans to pursue health equity-related research.
"I worry that it will be harder to get money to do what I want to do, which is help my community," Adan said. "I really want to do more Hispanic community-based research and look at rates of how much we're predisposed to chronic disease, because not just physical factors, but also psychological factors of being a Latina or Hispanic in the U.S. Those things will be now named as DEI."
Daily Staff Reporter Abigail VanderMolen can be reached at  

Load-Date: February 14, 2025


End of Document
