




The Daily Cardinal: University of Wisconsin - Madison
February 6, 2025 Thursday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 574 words
Byline: Wesley Hoy Elizabeth Geier
Body


Around 400 people gathered outside the state Capitol and marched down State Street Wednesday as part of anational day of protestagainst President Donald Trump's administration and the sweepingseries of executive ordershe's signed since taking office last month.
Protesters gathered around the Forward statue for the demonstration as a part of the50501 Movement- 50 states, 50 protests, one day - planned in every state. The movement, primarily advertised throughReddit, called on Wisconsinites to reject Project 2025 and executive orders signed by Trump.
Demonstrators flew LGBTQ+, American and Mexican flags. Colorful protest signs called for change, the deportation of Trump, an end to fascism and the removal of Musk from the White House, among other things.
Miranda Taylor, an organizer with We the People of Wisconsin, got involved in the protest when she met other activists at a smaller protest in the state Capital last week and decided to organize a protest with the movement for Wednesday, she told The Daily Cardinal.
"I am so incredibly proud of Wisconsin people here showing up on a Wednesday in this cold. It shows that we are really done with what the hell is happening in our government," Taylor said.
Since Trump was inaugurated on Jan. 20, he has signed orders tofreeze federal grants and loans,rollback diversity, equity and inclusion governmental programsandprevent minors from accessing gender-affirming care.
In apress releaseTuesday, the Political Revolution and the 50501 Movement included a list of demands, including the removal of Trump from office, an investigation into the role of Musk and other appointees by the administration, for all executive actions to be rescinded, a ban on "Nazi propaganda or salutes" and for DEI frameworks to be reinstated.
Before marching down State Street, multiple activists spoke on the steps of the Capitol building about how Trump's actions affect Wisconsinites and the need for action.
"We do not need chaos. We need action," said activist Ashley Larson.
Lilith Kievskaya, aJohn Brown Gun Clubmember, was also in attendance. She came to the protest for community defense but also as a "political statement, as our country descends further into fascism," she told the Cardinal.
"I want to present an image where the reactionary militias are not the only ones that are armed. We're armed and willing to defend ourselves," Kievskaya said.
Anna Kleiber
Lilith Kievskaya, a John Brown Gun Club member, provides security for protest against President Donald Trump and Project 2025 outside of the Wisconsin State Capitol on Feb. 5, 2025.
Enjoy what you're reading? Get content from The Daily Cardinal delivered to your inbox
Email
University of Wisconsin-Madison freshman Anna Landry and junior Myah Northouse told the Cardinal it was important to show up and make their voices heard as women of color.
"We're not afraid to speak out. This is our life. This is our responsibility," Landry said.
Many protesters targeted Elon Musk, a tech billionaire that Trumpput in chargeof the new Department of Government Efficiency, which, despite the name, is part of the White House and not a Cabinet agency.
"I would love to get rid of Elon Musk and deport him. I think he's clearly a Nazi. He clearly has no official role in our government, and he's been given the keys to everything," said Jackie Alfirevic, a protest attendee. "This has to be stopped. It's the most un-American thing to happen in my lifetime."

Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
