




Central Florida Future: University of Central Florida
January 27, 2025 Monday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 729 words
Byline: Natalie Neysa Alund
Body


USA TODAY
Show Caption Hide Caption American Airpower Museum celebrates legacy of Tuskegee Airmen, 555th Parachute BattalionThe museum featured presentations and screenings of a movie based on the Tuskegee Airmen.News 12 Following swift backlash from legislators, retired military personnel, and others, the U.S. Air Force confirmed to USA TODAY Monday it will resume teaching its recruits about the first Black airmen in the nation's military. The move comes on the heels of the Air Force confirming Saturday that course instruction about the Tuskegee Airmen ? the more than 15,000 Black pilots, mechanics and cooks in the segregated Army of World War II ? had been pulled from basic training curriculum. In addition, military officials confirmed the Air Force had pulled training about the Women Airforce Service Pilots (WASPs) ? a paramilitary aviation organization of female pilots employed to fly during World War II. President Donald Trump, sworn into office on Jan. 20, prohibited DEI throughout the U.S. government as well as the nation's military. The training, reinstated as of Monday, was pulled on Jan. 23, Air Force Air Education and Training Command commander Lt. Gen. Brian S. Robinson confirmed to USA TODAY. "The block in which these lessons were taught included DEI material, which was directed to be removed," Robinson released in a statement Monday morning. "We believe this adjustment to curriculum to be fully aligned with the direction given in the DEI executive order. No Airmen or Guardians will miss this block of instruction due to the revision, however one group of trainees had the training delayed."  Live updates: Donald Trump to huddle with Republicans in Florida; Cabinet push continues 'Malicious compliance' In a post on X Sunday, Alabama Senator Katie Boyd Britt called the decision to pause teaching the videos "malicious compliance." Amen! We're all over it Senator. This will not stand.  - Pete Hegseth (@PeteHegseth) January 26, 2025 "President Trump celebrated and honored the Tuskegee Airmen during his first term, promoting legendary aviator Charles McGee to Brigadier General and pinning his stars in the Oval Office," Britt wrote. "In his second term, the Trump Administration will continue to deeply respect and elevate the Tuskegee Airmen's legacy. Their history and their lessons will continue to be taught ? because their legacy is one of excellence, of success, and of unquestionable merit." Newly appointed Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth, sworn in on Friday, quickly responded to Britt's message saying, "The move would not stand." Tuskegee Airmen Inc. president praises curriculum reinstatement On Monday, Tuskegee Airmen, Inc. National President Leon G. Butler Jr. praised Air Force leadership for responding quickly to the non-profit organization's "concerns." A day earlier, on Saturday, the organization released a statement expressing disappointment and strong opposition to removing the airmen's story from the Air Force's training courses, calling the soldiers "an essential part of American history and carried significant weight" in the war. "Based on the latest statements and news reports from the Air Force and the Department of Defense, we look forward to the training courses being restored to their original state so that Airmen and Guardians can continue to learn about the important legacy of the Tuskegee airmen and the Women Airforce Service Pilots," Butler told USA TODAY. Tuskegee Airmen, WASP training to resume Monday The revised training, which focuses on the "documented historic legacy and decorated valor with which these units and Airmen fought for our Nation in World War II and beyond will continue (Monday), Robinson said. "The Air Force has not removed these Airmen's incredible heritage from any training," Robinson said. "Their personal examples of service, sacrifice and combat effectiveness are illustrative of the core values, character and warrior ethos necessary to be an Airman and Guardian." Who were the Women Airforce Service Pilots? According to the Air Force Historical Support Division, WASPs flew at 126 bases across the nation, where they also towed targets for gunnery training and worked as instructors for the Eastern Flying Training Command. Among them, 38 died in the line of duty, 11 in training and 27 during missions, according to the division.

Load-Date: January 27, 2025


End of Document
