




The Daily Caller
February 4, 2025 Tuesday 04:26 AM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: DAILY-CALLER-NEWS-FOUNDATION; media
Length: 815 words
Byline: Hailey Gomez, General Assignment Reporter, 
Body



British journalist Piers Morgan ripped into former Democratic presidential candidate and Democratic National Committee (DNC) chair contender Marianne Williamson on his show Monday for saying racism and misogyny “played a role” in former Vice President Kamala Harris losing in November.
Since President Donald Trump's win in both the Electoral College and the popular vote, Democrats have struggled to pinpoint a key reason they believe Harris lost the race. On “Piers Morgan Uncensored,” Morgan played a clip from the  on Friday, where candidates, including Williamson, were asked if they believed racism and misogyny played a role in Harris losing to Trump.
“Now Marianne, you put your hand up there,” Morgan said. “Kamala Harris, let me just put my four pennies worth as a Brit. I'm not American, so it's your country, your election, your candidate, obviously on the Democrat side, but Kamala Harris lost because she was useless. It's as simple as that. I couldn't think of any redeeming qualities she had as a presidential candidate, least of all to beat Donald Trump.”
“Had nothing to do with her gender, her skin color or anything. It was entirely down to her basic incompetence,” Morgan added. “So why would you and every single other person on that stage all raise your hands like you're part of some weird moony sect to say the one thing guaranteed to turn off an electorate who've literally just voted against wokeism, DEI and all these other things? Because they think it's a load of nonsense. Why would you then, all of you, raise your hand and say the only reason Kamala Harris lost was sexism and racism and misogyny? Because nobody with a brain actually thinks that.”
Following their forum, the DNC's board members gathered on Saturday to vote for their new chair,  Minnesota Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party Chairman Ken Martin. In an  with The New York Times, Martin said the party's reason for losing wasn't the policies themselves, but “a messaging problem and a brand problem.” 
WATCH:
In a pushback against Morgan, Williamson said that she did not believe racism and misogyny were the only factors in Harris' loss, highlighting how the question was phrased around a “role.”
While Williamson said she believed Harris' “lack of authenticity” contributed to the downfall of her campaign, Morgan interjected, questioning how racism could be a factor. In response, the former presidential candidate acknowledged that the U.S. has had a black president.
“By the way, the reason you've not had a woman president is you've had two dreadful candidates. Hillary Clinton was dreadful and incredibly unlikable, in my opinion,” Morgan said. “Kamala Harris was worse, actually. She stood for nothing. Absolutely nothing.”
” Trump, everybody knows what he stands for. He's the best political messenger or messenger that America's had in modern times. That's why he wins, because the Democrats haven't got a candidate who can put up ideas that resonate with the American people. Kamala Harris did not lose because she's a woman or black,” Morgan said. “I absolutely guarantee.”
Post-election exit polls  political pundits, showing that Trump had gained significant ground among various key Democratic voting blocs. The  the president not only gained 2.5 million more votes than in 2020 but also eroded Democrats' hold on certain segments of the electorate, with Harris earning 7 million fewer votes than Biden in the 2020 race.
Morgan went on to mention Trump's gains, despite Democrats attempting to  him as a  and a threat to democracy. Harris notably fell short in three of the seven key swing states and in 80% of counties nationwide, failing to match Trump's gains, even though she met or exceeded Biden's vote total in some counties.
“He [Donald Trump] had everybody gravitating to it. That had nothing to do with skin color either. But it wasn't because he was white. It's because he was actually resonating with the public about the economy, about immigration, and about wokeism,” Morgan said. “That's why he won. So when I see the Democrats trying to move forward, and you're a leading light of this party. When I see you all dutifully put your hand up, trying to excuse this monumental defeat with racism, misogyny, I'm like, 'Oh, come on, Marianne!' You're definitely better than that.”
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Graphic

 
Marianne Williamson on "Piers Morgan Uncensored" discusses Harris loss[Screenshot/YouTube/"Piers Morgan Uncensored"]

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
