




Daily Collegian: Pennsylvania State University
January 29, 2025 Wednesday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 858 words
Byline: Claire Huss
Body


President Donald Trump returned to office Jan. 20 with a 30-minute inaugural speech that promised "the golden age of America" and "the complete restoration of America and the revolution of common sense."
Soon after, Trump began signing executive orders, including withdrawing from the Paris Agreement aimed at fighting climate change, recognizing male and female as the only two sexes, ending birthright citizenship, stalling the TikTok ban, renaming Mount Denali and the Gulf of Mexico and more.
Historically a swing state, Pennsylvania played a pivotal role in the election. Penn State became a hotspot for political activity, hosting several left- and right-leaning politicians and figures who visited campus to speak and encourage students to vote - including Trump himself.
Former President Donald Trump speaks to the crowd at the MAGA rally at the Bryce Jordan Center on Saturday, Oct. 26, 2024 in University Park, Pa.
Alexandra Antoniono
Dr. Ariana Steele, an assistant professor of applied linguistics and women's, gender and sexuality studies, said Trump's inaugural address stopped "beating around the bush."
"They're saying the quiet part out loud," Steele said. "With issues like DEI, gender, the climate (and) immigration, it's not just talk - it's action."
Steele said she believes the executive order "defending women from gender ideology extremism and restoring biological truth to the federal government," may not be rooted in scientific fact.
"It's pretty inaccurate. They're saying that gender is not a thing, sex is what matters, and what we need to do is ensure that biological men are never in women's spaces for women's safety," Steele said. "This can be anywhere from bathrooms, sports or any other space for women."
In daily life on campus, Steele advised being mindful of far-right ideologies being promoted, pointing to student participation at Turning Point USA's events at the university.
A Penn State student wears four stickers after voting during Election Day on Tuesday, Nov. 5, 2024 in Alumni Hall at the HUB-Robeson Center in University Park, Pa.
Samantha Oropeza
"We're seeing how the discourses and rhetoric that got Trump into office are continuing now," Steele said. "I don't know how much these executive orders are changing the way people go about their lives right now, but they will continue to sow these harmful, oppressive ideologies. I foresee things changing."
Colleen Ranney, the president of Lion Pride Caucus, said she sees the diversity of opinion on campus as a positive.
"I think it can be one of our greatest strengths when it comes to having hard conversations," Ranney, a third-year studying marketing, said. "We grow as people when we encounter different identities."
However, she also said the shift in political party dominance in the U.S. often leads to disagreements and prejudiced behavior.
"For example, when Trump was elected into office, there was a lot of hostility towards women, especially the 'your body, my choice' movement," Ranney said. "So, I am worried about queer people at our school being targeted and treated in a similar way."
As a nonpartisan organization, Lion Pride Caucus aims to provide LGBTQ+ students with a space free of being targeted or stereotyped, according to Ranney.
"Most of our meetings are community-building, discussions, et cetera, in order to create a space where fighting for your rights doesn't have to be your main priority. There's a place where you can just be," Ranney said.
She said LGBTQ+ students should not feel hopeless, despite the negativity in the political climate.
"If you are a queer person at Penn State, please know that you are well taken care of," Ranney said. "There are a lot of resources, and a lot of people on your side."
Protesters march down College Avenue at the 1 Year of Genocide Protest hosted by Penn State Students Justice for Palestine on Monday, Oct. 7, 2024 in State College, Pa.
Sienna Pinney
Just days before Trump's inauguration, Israel and Hamas agreed to a ceasefire and release of hostages. However, Students for Justice in Palestine member Ayah Rub said neither Trump nor Biden's relationship with Israel is encouraging.
"Whether it's Biden's sugar-coated endorsing of genocide or Trump's blunt endorsement of settler colonialism, the result is the same," Rub, a doctoral student studying architectural engineering, said. "Both administrations have consistently backed Israel, colonialism and cold suppression of Palestinians."
Rub said she is worried by the attitudes Trump supporters espouse.
"Trumpism emboldens racism, bigotry, colonialism (and) police brutality," Rub said. "To fight back, we must get organized here in the United States."
In the face of anticipated oppression, SJP has planned events for members and allies to attend that will be announced on its Instagram account, Rub said.
"We must continue to stand up for Palestinian liberation," Rub said. "We must continue advocating, educating, organizing and building alliances."
Rub said that there are still ways to be politically involved and voice opinions as Americans.
"We the people must fight against it," Rub said. "Activism matters, and it works."
MORE NEWS CONTENT

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
