




Arkansas Traveler: University of Arkansas
February 19, 2025 Wednesday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION; Pg. 1
Length: 715 words
Byline: Julia Nall
Body


"Because we cannot escape the past, and we ignore it at our own peril."--"Wicked"
Diversity, equity and inclusion: These three principles have been under attack by the Trump administration. Originating from the Civil Rights movement, DEI is meant to assist those who are underrepresented and is needed because there are some who believe that those who look different are dangerous.
The novel "Wicked" by Gregory Maguire is a darker and more complicated piece of literature than its famous Broadway musical adaptation. The musical, which has been well-known and loved ever since its Broadway debut in 2003, may be more lighthearted and fun to watch, but its themes of censorship and equality can still be heard and felt through Stephen Schwarz's lyrics, the librettist of "Wicked.".
In 2011, President Barack Obama signed executive order 13583 stating that, "We are at our best when we draw on the talents of all parts of our society, and our greatest accomplishments are achieved when diverse perspectives are brought to bear to overcome our greatest challenges."
Donald Trump was sworn in as president on Jan. 20,and his administration took issue with executive orders like 13583, which required DEI to be a part of the hiring process. In the context of "Wicked," Nessarose may be strong and intelligent but is in a wheelchair, so no job for her. 
The Trump administration blamed DEI efforts for the plane crash in Washington, saying the Federal Aviation Association hired people with "severe intellectual" disabilities because they valued "diversity, equity and inclusion" over safety and merit. Yet Trump had already fired several people from the FAA before the incident and continued to do so after the crash. Recall that Dr. Dillamond, played by Peter Dinklage, was fired because he is a goat and animals are no longer permitted to teach or speak. As he says, "If you make it discouraging enough, you can keep anyone silent."
Cinema differs from written text and stage in that it allows for a closer visual experience. Every facial expression, body movement and tonal inflection by the performer can be seen and connected with each other, almost as if each audience member is there with the character in the story. Politics are a part of everything, and since the public cannot "be in the room where it happens," it must be accessed elsewhere. 
The film adaptation of "Wicked," directed by John M. Chu, is a brilliantly directed, edited and performed piece of work that seamlessly weaves together a complex story about politics, the magic of Broadway musicals and the personal experience possible in film.
This version stars Broadway legend Cynthia Erivo, a Black woman, as Elphaba and the multi-talented, world-renowned pop star Ariana Grande as Glinda. Erivo chose to include long nails as a representation of Black culture and wore her hair in micro braids. Erivo's acting choices as Elphaba were beautifully human and filled with nuance. She is sarcastic, intelligent, passionate and loving, with a dry sense of humor.
The wizard, played by Jeff Goldblum, is a man who thrives on the theatrical, yet when the curtain falls away, he is just a man who enjoys performing and creating a spectacle: a salesman. His reputation was built on a lie, and anyone who dares to disrupt this reality will be silenced. As the wizard states, "Where I come from, the best way to bring folks together is to give them a real good enemy." DEI has no place in the land of Oz. 
Wicked is the story of a woman who is villainized because she is a different color from everyone else. Watch "Wicked" again, keeping DEI in your thoughts. Pay attention to the choices made by each actor. Do not just listen to the songs - feel them. Watch how each scene is edited and directed as if the scene were happening in front of you in real life. Watch for those subtle moments only possible through film. 
Finally, get completely lost in the broom scene: the reflection in the window of the little girl the witch once was reaching out to reassure and pick up the woman she has become. It is only through standing up for what is right and permitting others to have an equal voice that we break the cycle of repetition. We cannot escape the past, so together we will move forward with kindness and courage as we face each day head-on.

Load-Date: February 19, 2025


End of Document
