




MailOnline
February 5, 2025 Wednesday 1:34 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:2
Length: 1422 words
Byline: Germania Rodriguez Poleo, Chief U.S. Reporter
Body


A conservative group has published a list of government workers who are earning huge sums for 'abusing Diversity, Equity and Inclusion' roles.
The American Accountability Foundation works to 'expose the left's efforts to obstruct, subvert and sabotage the America First conservative agenda'.
They launched a website - 'DEI watchlist' - where they shared the profiles and tax-funded pay of 10 federal staffers who they say exploit their DEI jobs.
It includes donating to Democratic candidates and causes and working in DEI and other health equity operations.
One of the federal workers named on the site told NBC News they feel the site has put a 'target' on their backs, and that they fear for their safety.
Here, DailyMail.com analyzes their jobs, donations and staggering pay packets using public databases.
                     Euna M. August - Deputy Associate Director for Science, Office of Health Equity for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention - $151,583                   
August is a Deputy Associate Director for Science, Office of Health Equity for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
In her role, she is helping to 'create a multi-year road map that intentionally connects health equity, social and structural determinants of health, diversity, equity, inclusion, accessibility, and belonging, and related considerations to guide CDC's science, programs, practices, and policies and incorporate intersectionality, anti-racism, anti-oppression, and global perspectives.'
Before her time at the CDC, she spent six years at the Institute for Women and Ethnic Studies in New Orleans, which offers gender-affirming care training for staff so they could better understand the 'needs of cis and transgender black women living with HIV.'
Moreover, the center offered a reproductive health care program that 'centers the unique needs and experiences of LGBTQIA+ youth' and promotes a curriculum for Louisiana school s that 'features a Human Rights-infused, Gender-Transformative, Trauma-informed approach to sex education.'
                     Chastity Walker - Deputy Country Director at the CDC - $161,510                   
Walker is a Deputy Country Director at the CDC and has spent her career since 2002 working in 'health equity' roles.
She has previously claimed on social media that 'racism is a public health crisis.'
Walker also shared a post slamming Trump's Secretary of Defense pick Pete Hegseth that read: 'So, we're replacing a former four-star general as defense secretary with... the weekend co-host of Fox and Friends?' 
                     John Balbus - Director of the Office of Climate Change and Health Equity at the Department of Health and Human Services- $194,510                   
Balbus is the Director of the Office of Climate Change and Health Equity at the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS).
Before that he was the Chief Health Scientist at the left-leaning Environmental Defense Fund, where he worked from 2002 until 2009.
Balbus has put climate action and health equity at the forefront of his career, which he explained in Egypt at the United Nation's climate summit.
He said: 'Being in HHS, we can connect up climate action with a broader move for Health Equity which has arisen out of the Covid pandemic.
'We learned a lot of hard lessons in Covid, and one of them is [the] underlying health disparities in communities that have experienced racial discrimination and ... they fared much worse during the Covid pandemic.'
                     Shuntrice Holloman - strategist as the Office of Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion at the National Institutes of Health - No salary listed                   
Holloman serves as a social strategist as the Office of Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion at the National Institutes of Health.
According to her LinkedIn, she 'serves as a liaison between [the Office of Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion] and several institutes, while also helping to support diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility activities across NIH.'
Hollman also organizes the Federally Employed Women and Blacks in Government Speed Mentoring Event and plans staff retreats for ED that focus 'on cultivating a culture of high morale and excellence among EDI employees.'
The DEI Watchlist site noted Holloman removed any mention of DEI from her LinkedIn after president Trump banned DEI initiatives in the federal government.
The conservative watchgroup shared that Holloman supports trans-affirming care and included a social media post where she was rooting for a trans woman's work at NIH on Trans Visibility Day. 
                     Brian King - director at the Center for Tobacco Products at the Food and Drug Administration - $275,000                   
The director at the Center for Tobacco Products at the Food and Drug Administration authored a book titled 'Bringing Health Equity to the Forefront of Tobacco Product Regulation.'
King has taken issue with terms such as 'grandfathered tobacco product' and demanded it is switched to 'pre-existing tobacco product.'
He wrote: 'The term 'grandfathered' - when used to describe someone or something exempt from anew law or regulation - has its roots in 19th century racist voting laws.'
During a talk to celebrate Black History Month, King also said he was happy that the CTP has hiring metrics that prioritize inclusion.
'We have been doing work not only to ensure that health equity is incorporated into our workforce, to ensure that our team and our leadership reflect the population of the country,' he said.
                     Jyotsna Blackwell - Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, Accessibility, and Belonging (DEIAB) Officer at the CDC - $128,275                   
Blackwell is a Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, Accessibility, and Belonging (DEIAB) Officer at the CDC, though her position has been scrubbed from the CDC's website following Trump's banning of DEI in the federal government.
 She has also worked in equity efforts throughout her career, including serving for the Division of Population Health, where she 'represented DPH in the center's Tribal Coordination Workgroup and was a liaison to the Healthy Tribes Unit and the American Indian/Alaska Native/Native Hawaiian Coalition.'
                     Phaedra Bibbs Moore - deputy HR director at the CDC - No salary listed                   
Moore is the deputy HR director at the CDC. 
Like many DEI employees at the federal government, she also scrubbed any mention of DEI from her CDC profile after Trump took office.
But her former role description read: 'Moore plays a key role in promoting policies and procedures that adhere to the rules, regulations, laws and Executive Orders governing equal employment opportunity, diversity management, civil rights and human resources.'
                     Monique Robinson - Principal Strategist for the Sexual and Gender Minority Employment Portfolio at the CDC - No salary listed                   
Robinson is the Principal Strategist for the Sexual and Gender Minority Employment Portfolio at the CDC.
The DEI Watchlist site cites that she once celebrated the first gender-inclusive bathroom on a NIH campus, posing for a picture to honor the moment.
                     Sanya Springfield - Acting Deputy Director at the NIH. - $244,910                   
Springfield is the Acting Deputy Director at the NIH.
She is tasked with 'broadening and strengthening cancer health equity and inclusion efforts.'
Before that Springfield served as Director of the Center to Reduce Cancer Health Disparities and chief of the Diversity Training Branch.
Springfield is also the co-chair of the NIH Working Groupoverseeing the Faculty Institutional Recruitment for Sustainable Transformation(FIRST) Program, which aims to 'enhance and maintain cultures of inclusive excellence in the biomedical research community.'
                     Kyle Wilson Jr - DEIA Program Manager/ Change Leader and Organizational Strategist at the Office of Management and Budget - $136,780                   
Wilson is the DEIA Program Manager/ Change Leader and Organizational Strategist at the Office of Management and Budget.
He has dedicated his career to diversity and equity initiatives.
Wilson started his career in the federal government as a Social Security Administration-Benefit Authorizer in 2009.
Bu 2016 he had been promoted to 'Social Security Administration-Diversity and Inclusion Practitioner.'
He went on to lead DEI initiatives Navy Installations Command and the Department of Labor. Wilson also removed mentions of DEI from his LinkedIn. 

Load-Date: February 5, 2025


End of Document
