




The Daily Telegraph (London)
January 22, 2025 Wednesday
Edition 2, National Edition


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Pg. 4,5
Length: 1439 words
Byline: Susie Coen; Cameron Henderson ; Tony Diver
Body


the first woman to lead a branch of the US Armed Forces. has been sacked by Donald Trump for excessively focusing on diversity policies while neglecting border security.
Admiral Linda Fagan, who Joe Biden appointed to lead the US Coast Guard in 2022, was relieved of her duties by Benjamine Huffman, acting secretary of homeland security.
The newly-inaugurated president said yesterday that his administration was in the process of "identifying and removing" more than 1,000 of his predecessors' appointees.
The first of his new Cabinet ministers, Marco Rubio, was confirmed yesterday as Secretary of State, as the appointment of new staf fbegan, In a message to coastguard staff, Mr Huffman said Adml Fagan had "served a long and illustrious career, and I thank her for her service to our nation", but did not disclose a reason for the decision.
Mr Trump previously said he wanted to get rid of "woke" military leaders. He has called for the end of federal diversity policies, and yesterday issued guidance for border officials to refer to migrants as "illegal aliens".
A source told Fox News that Adml Fagan, 61, was let go after officials raised concerns with her failure to address border security threats and her focus on diversity, equality and inclusion (DEI) initiatives.
In her role Adml Fagan frequently made statements about the importance of diversity. "The reason it's critical is because diverse work teams outperform homogenous teams", she, previously told Military Families Magazine.
"They're just stronger, more resilient, have better perspective and deeper strength of thought", she added.
In an official statement on the agency's diversity and inclusion policy, Adml Fagan wrote: "Diversity is crucial to Coast Guard mission excellence".
She added that coastguard leaders "must work to build their diversity and inclusion acumen" and develop their "emotional intelligence and ability to understand and appreciate the different experiences, perspectives, and ideas of every person with whom they work."
In a statement marking pride month last year, the former coast guard commandant said the service was celebrating the theme "living out truth".
The source also told Fox News that there had been an "erosion of trust" over the handling of Operation Fouled Anchor, an internal investigation into sexual assault cases at the Coast Guard Academy.
A report into sexual assault cases was completed in January 2020, during Mr Trump's first administration, but it was withheld from Congress and the public by the service's commandant at the time, Admiral Karl Schultz. Mr Biden praised Adml Fagan when he appointed her to the role in 2022.
"The trailblazing career of Admiral Fagan shows young people entering the services, we mean what we say: There are no doors - no doors - closed to women," Mr Biden said at the time.
Mr Trump's rapid sacking of staff came as his pardon of imprisoned Jan 6 rioters came into effect. They included Enrique Tarrio of the Proud Boys and Stewart Rhodes of the Oath Keepers - both far-Right groups.
Yesterday Mr Trump announced the dismissal of four officials who he said were "not aligned with our vision to Make America Great Again".
"Let this serve as Official Notice of Dismissal for these 4 individuals, with many more, coming soon", he wrote on his social media platform Truth Social.
"You're fired!" Mr Trump added, referencing his catch phrase from the reality TV show The Apprentice.
Among those named by the Republican leader was Jose Andres, a celebrity chef who was appointed to the president's Council on Sports, Fitness and Nutrition in 2022.
Mr Andres, 55, who runs World Central
Kitchen, a humanitarian NGO, is friends with the Duke and Duchess of Sussex.
last week. he defended the couple after they were accused of being "disaster tourists" for visiting an evacuation centre for those affected by the Los Angeles wildfires.
Others dismissed by Mr Trump's administration include retired US general Mark Milley from the National Infrastructure Advisory Council, Brian Hook from the Wilson Center for Scholars, and Keisha Lance Bottoms from the President's Export Council.
Mr Milley was among a string of Mr
Biden's appointees who were given a preemptive pardon hours before he left office. Mr Milley served as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff during Mr Trump's first term. He has described Mr Trump as being a "fascist to the core".
Meanwhile John Bolton, Mr Trump's former national security adviser, said he is at risk of attack by Iran after the president removed his secret service protection within hours of taking office.
He told The Telegraph he was given just 12 hours' notice. Asked whether he was now at greater risk of attack by Iranian agents, he replied: "I think that's the almost inescapable  time to waste Key executive orders signed by the president in first 24 hours
Diversity initiatives dismantled Mr Trump rescinded two diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) orders that Mr Biden signed, one advancing racial equity for underserved communities and another combating discrimination based on gender identity or sexual orientation. He repealed other orders that help black, Hispanic, Native American and Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders.
Only two genders will be recognised Mr Trump's order instructs the secretaries of State and Homeland Security to ensure documents such as passports and visas reflect two sexes: male and female.
TikTok ban paused for 90 days Mr Trump said he hopeful the Chinese-owned social media app can be brought under partial US ownership to address concerns about foreign interference.
US Capitol rioters pardoned About 1,500 rioters who stormed the US Capitol, left, on Jan 6, 2021 were pardoned. "We hope they come out tonight, frankly," Mr Trump said. "We're expecting it." It also cuts short the sentences of 14 members of the far-right Proud Boys and Oath Keepers organisations, including some who were convicted of seditious conspiracy.
Gulf of Mexico renamed Mr Trump ordered the renaming of the Gulf of
Mexico and Alaska's Mount Denali to honour "American greatness". The Gulf of Mexico will be renamed the Gulf of America and Mount
Denali will return to being called Mount McKinley. The executive order will reverse former president Barack Obama's decision to change the name of North America's tallest peak to Mount Denali in 2015.
Restrictions on fossil fuel extraction reversed In his quest to "drill, baby, drill" from day one, Mr Trump signed orders aimed at promoting oil and gas development in Alaska, reversing Mr Biden's efforts to protect vast Arctic lands and waters from drilling.
He has also pledged to increase fracking, and to scale back policies to encourage green energy production.
Death penalty for police murders
Mr Trump will restore the death penalty for any illegal immigrants who commit capital crimes and those who murder police officers.
US-Mexico border security beefed up Mr Trump declared illegal migration at the US-Mexico border a "national emergency". He signed executive orders to increase security at the southern border that began taking effect hours after he was inaugurated, making good on his promise to crack down on immigration. Mr Trump has said he will use the US military to enforce immigration removals.
Shown the door Senior officials first of 'more than 1,000' to be sacked by US president
Jose Andres, a Spanish chef and friend of the Duke and Duchess of Sussex, was removed from his role on the presidential council on sports, fitness and nutrition. However Andres, who runs the World Central Kitchen food aid programme, said that he submitted his resignation last week.
Also removed was diplomat Brian Hook, the former Iran envoy from the Wilson Center for Scholars. Hook was appointed by Trump - not Biden - during his first term to the board of the think tank. Hook was a hawk who backed the highest pressure sanctions regime Trump instituted against Iran.
Mark Milley was removed from the national infrastructure advisory council. Milley, a former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff whom Trump has suggested should be executed for back-channel talks with China, said he was grateful for a preemptive pardon by Joe Biden on Monday.
Keisha Lance Bottoms, whom Mr Biden appointed to the president's export council, was also given the sack yesterday. The former Atlanta mayor also said she had already resigned, posting online: "A day late and a dollar short... You can't fire someone who has already resigned."
'The trailblazing career of Adml Fagan shows there are no doors - no doors - closed to women' "Let this serve as Official Notice of Dismissal for these individuals, with more coming'

Graphic

 
Adml Linda Fagan, left, was the first woman to lead a branch of the US Armed Forces. Below, Eric and Lara Trump with their children Carolina and Luke, sitting behind the president and first lady at Washington National CathedralGETTY SOMODEVILLA/ CHIP

Load-Date: January 22, 2025


End of Document
