




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 24, 2025 Monday 8:13 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 980 words
Byline: Avery Lotz
Body


February 24th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
  
Why it matters: Bongino's appointment as deputy FBI director is unorthodox on several levels. His lack of experience, coupled with his - and Director   
Driving the news: In 2022, Bongino was banned from YouTube after being suspended for violating the platform's COVID-19 misinformation policy.
He's also spread   
The FBI and White House did not immediately respond to Axios' requests for comment.
Here are 10 things Bongino has said in the last year.
1. Trump "should ignore" court decisions
Bongino said in a    
The firebrand commentator argued the judge had "effectively usurped the power of the executive" branch and was "not acting constitutionally at all."
2. People need to "sacrifice for a little bit" for Trump's policies
Bongino, on the Feb. 18   
"We're all going to take it on the chin a little bit," he said. "Rich guys, poor guys, middle-class guys, someone's going to lose their tax cut."
3. USAID was "used to infiltrate governments"
Amid the DOGE-driven    
USAID is "about deep state pockets of money used to infiltrate governments, NGOs, and other places for an anti-American censorship agenda," he said on Feb. 4, characterizing the agency as "probably the single greatest slush fund for the deep state you've ever seen."
4. Trump could investigate "special tyrant" Jack Smith
On a Jan. 23   
Bongino described Smith, who  
5. Don't trust the FBI or DOJ
After the Justice Department announced in September that the Kremlin had backed a   
He said in January that the FBI is now "an exclusively political organization" - a dynamic he said will change under Patel's leadership.
6. FBI has been hiding "a massive fake assassination plot"
In a Jan. 7  
Bongino said no one has focused on the "untold story" of Jan. 6 more than him.
He argued the "January 6 bomber," a reference to the suspect who placed  
Bongino contended that  
7. DEI is a "cancerous curse"
In an episode posted after a tragic  
Trump and several of his allies   
"DEI is a cancerous curse," Bongino said, adding he was "glad" Trump brought it up during his press conference about the crash.
8. The left wants to "destroy our boys"
Applauding Vice President JD Vance's appeal to young men during   
He continued, "They want everybody weak and compliant, and the best way to do it is to destroy our boys."
9. Zelensky could have prevented "a lot of drama" by defending Trump during impeachment
As tensions between the U.S. and Ukraine peak, Bongino  
He claimed Zelensky could "have saved the United States a lot of drama" by "defending Donald Trump vigorously and loudly" during his  
He added that Trump is "suspicious" of Zelensky because of what Bongino said Zelensky did to "sweep under the rug the Joe Biden madness."
Flashback: Trump's  
Zelensky  
10. After Trump's conviction: "Laugh now motherf-----s, you'll be crying soon"
Bongino, in a profanity-laced Truth Social   
"Laugh now motherf-----s, you'll be crying soon," he wrote. "Bank on it."
Go deeper:  


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 24, 2025


End of Document
