




Business Insider
February 6, 2025 Thursday 03:25 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Insider Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 2131 words
Byline: jnewsham@insider.com (Jack Newsham,Juliana Kaplan)
Highlight: One federal worker compared the whirlwind to a SpaceX rocket explosion. "I feel like that's where we're heading," she said.
Body


The Silicon Valley mindset has swept through Washington, DC.
Over the past 17 days, Donald Trump and Elon Musk have quickly applied the industry's "move fast and break things" maxim as they seek to remake the federal workforce.
The pace stands out, even for a president whose promises of swift action were central to his campaign.
"Forget the 100 days," said Sen. Joni Ernst, , while speaking with Musk during a live broadcast on X. "It's going to happen a lot faster than that."
One federal worker told Business Insider that the flurry of action might be the entire point.
"It seems clear to me that they're just trying to wage a campaign to shock and demoralize federal workers," the worker said.
"It was obvious that things were going to be bad for federal workers with Trump and Elon," another longtime federal employee said. "What initially alarmed me is how fast everything is moving and changing."
If the Trump administration has worked swiftly, the courts have not. At least 33 legal challenges have been  Trump's 18 actions; judges have stopped three of those actions from taking effect.
All of this has left workers to navigate a shape-shifting patchwork of executive orders, agency directives, and advice from officials. And it comes amid a looming February 6 deadline to take a "deferred resignation" offer.
"The experience as a federal employee is every day, or every two days, you receive some new, extreme demand but no guidance or clarity on how it is supposed to be achieved," an employee at the US Agency for International Development said.
Here's how the first 17 days of Trump and Musk's clash with the federal workforce played out.
January 20: Day one
On the day of his first inauguration, Trump signed  executive order. This year, on the day of his second, .
One executive order brought DOGE, Musk's government disruption squad, inside the White House. It repurposed the US Digital Service, an Obama-era mandate to bring private-sector know-how to federal websites and technology contracts.
The initial order seemed to suggest DOGE would lead a "software modernization initiative." It soon became clear the Musk-led outfit would exert its influence over a raft of federal agencies. A primary focus was shrinking the nation's workforce; other executive orders, including a return-to-office  for remote federal workers, followed suit.
Within minutes of Trump's swearing in, lawsuits against DOGE began trickling in. Hours later, its first member departed: Vivek Ramaswamy, the co-leader who helped write an op-ed article in The Wall Street Journal outlining DOGE's vision,  he was stepping aside.
January 21: 'A hostile takeover'
On Trump's first full day in office, the Office of Personnel Management asked agencies to put together , including probationary employees, which typically includes those in their first one or two years on the job. (A spokesperson for OPM referred BI to past statements and declined to comment.)
"I'm still crossing my fingers that I'll slip under the radar," one such employee told Business Insider.
DOGE representatives conducted interviews with USDS employees about their work and asked which colleagues could be fired, according to two people who were involved in these conversations. One told BI it felt like "a hostile takeover."
Publicly, DOGE was busy posting on X about the high cost of .
Two more executive orders crossed Trump's desk, including one that undid decades of executive orders on affirmative action and equal employment opportunity.
January 22: Job offers clawed back
Following news of a federal hiring freeze,  to some candidates were revoked.
The Office of Personnel Management also ordered agencies to ; the White House press secretary, Karoline Leavitt,  that she could "gladly confirm!" the news.
One longtime federal worker said their DEI team was "shut down within days."
DOGE also began eyeing other places to cut costs, including .
January 23: DOGE loses another high-profile official
William McGinley confirmed his  and told  that he was considering roles in the private sector.
"I support President Trump, Vice President Vance, and the great teams in the White House and across the administration 100%," McGinley told the Journal.
January 24: 'Rapid unscheduled disassembly'
 released the results of a poll conducted roughly a week before Trump's inauguration that found support for DOGE was low, though most respondents said corruption, inefficiency, and red tape were major problems within the federal government.
At 1:46 p.m. ET, DOGE  $420 million worth of current and pending contracts had been canceled, along with two leases. ("Unoccupied buildings" were said to be part of the "initial focus.") Based on some , that number put DOGE way behind schedule.
That day, a federal worker told BI that the breakup of a SpaceX rocket the week before -  - was a metaphor for the government.
"I feel like that's where we're heading," she said.
January 26: DOGE puts up its 'Help Wanted' sign
After a relatively uneventful day, DOGE was . Its X account posted that it was looking for "world-class talent to work long hours identifying/eliminating waste, fraud, and abuse" and . The application asked candidates to provide two to three bullet points "showcasing exceptional ability."
DOGE also , posting that 16 Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Accessibility contracts - $145 million in total - had been canceled. BI has not been able to verify any of the claims about the value of canceled contracts.
Meanwhile, the State Department said it was pausing all US foreign assistance funded via USAID amid a review.
"President Trump stated clearly that the United States is no longer going to blindly dole out money with no return for the American people," a press release . "Reviewing and realigning foreign assistance on behalf of hardworking taxpayers is not just the right thing to do, it is a moral imperative."
January 27: The freeze
DOGE  the General Services Administration had terminated three leases of mostly empty office space for savings of $1.6 million. DOGE also  that GSA had repealed three internal DEIA policies and eliminated public-facing websites and language centered on DEIA.
In response to the news that USAID officials had been placed on leave, Musk posted .
Around 5 p.m. ET, the Office of Management and Budget sent a memo to executive branch agencies announcing a .
The federal funding pause  federal workers.
Federal agencies and nonprofits were left scrambling to figure out what came next. Aaron Fritschner, the deputy chief of staff for Rep. Don Beyer, a Virginia Democrat, said it was "total chaos" and "really, really awful."
"Our phones were ringing off the hook, we had grant-funded businesses and organizations telling us they were preparing large-scale layoffs if the freeze continued for more than a few days," Fritschner said.
January 28: The Fork
A federal judge blocked the federal funding pause shortly before the 5 p.m. ET, roughly 24 hours after it the memo was first sent out.
Thirty minutes later, federal workers received an email from " - an offer to resign by February 6 and receive pay and benefits through September. The subject line, "," echoed a similar message sent to employees at X, then Twitter, in 2022.
Workers said they were shocked and , though some seemed intrigued by it.
"I voted for Donald Trump twice, and on January 20 I had hope that he would fulfill his promises," one federal employee told BI on January 28. "However, when I received this email at 5:35 p.m. EST, that hope disappeared."
"You could feel the energy shift in that moment," said one federal worker who was at a scientific conference when they received the email. "People filed into the hallways, immediately on the phone, sending emails, discussing their confusion."
DOGE continued to use X as its press room,  about doubling federally pumped water in Southern California.
January 29: A memo is rolled back
OMB's memo outlining the freeze on federal grants and loans was . The White House, though, argued that only the memo was rescinded, not the freeze itself.
"The President's EO's on federal funding remain in full force and effect, and will be rigorously implemented," Leavitt .
US District Judge John McConnell  to grant a temporary restraining order in relation to the freeze in a lawsuit brought by a slew of Democratic attorneys general.
In response to widespread confusion over the deferred-resignation offer, DOGE  an FAQ, which said workers wouldn't be expected to clock in during their resignation period. (The FAQ was later updated with strong encouragement to .)
DOGE also touted new savings:  $45 million for DEI scholarships in Burma. In total, it said,  had been canceled.
January 31: The freeze thaws
McConnell, the district judge, officially granted a  that paused the funding freeze for the states involved in litigation.
"Congress has not given the Executive limitless power to broadly and indefinitely pause all funds that it has expressly directed to specific recipients and purposes and therefore the Executive's actions violate the separation of powers," McConnell wrote.
DOGE, meanwhile,  a spreadsheet outlining canceled contracts and their subsequent savings, totaling almost $1.3 billion.
February 2: 'A ball of worms'
At noon ET, Musk  was a "viper's nest of radical-left marxists who hate America." At midnight, .
"What we have here is not an apple with a worm in it; what we have here is a ball of worms," .
"It's got to go. It's beyond repair," he added.
Lease terminations increased to 22 over six days, , saving $44.6 million. DOGE didn't forget about pennies, but an unidentified DOGE spokesperson .
February 3: Mr. Musk goes to Washington
A White House official confirmed that , DOGE  20 consulting contracts worth $26 million had been canceled, USAID employees were  after Musk said the agency should be shut down, and Secretary of State Marco Rubio said he was the agency's acting administrator.
February 4: Early results of the payout offer arrive
The White House said more than 20,000 federal workers had opted to accept buyouts. An OPM spokesperson told BI that the "number of  is rapidly growing" and that the office was "expecting the largest spike to come 24-48 hours before the deadline."
A worker at OPM said that they were told cuts were possible and that career executives had been asked to prepare briefs on their work and the statute basis for it.
By that evening, USAID's website was updated with a note: Nearly all direct-hire personnel of the agency, which has about 10,000 employees, would be placed on administrative leave on February 7.
After reports that DOGE was poking around Treasury Department data, agency official Jonathan Blum  Congress that it was "read-only access." Sen. Elizabeth Warren  the response "raises more questions than answers." A union lawsuit alleged that  violated federal law by sharing Treasury data with DOGE.
February 5: Crunch time
As the deadline to accept the deferred-resignation offer bore down, federal workers expressed confusion over the terms - and weighed whether it was worth it to make the life-altering call.
"This was sent out indiscriminately to everyone with no concern for the effect it could have, and depending on who and how many take this 'offer' it could have national security implications," one of the longtime federal workers said.
"They are like time-share salesmen trying to meet a quota and failing!" another federal worker said.
Democrats in Congress continued to sound the alarm.
Sen. Ron Wyden said DOGE's access to data at the Treasury Department showed "they are seizing the tools they need for a coup."
Alice Tecotzky, Ayelet Sheffey, and Noah Sheidlower contributed reporting.
Have a tip? Know more? Reach Jack Newsham via email () or via Signal (+1-314-971-1627). Do not use a work device.
Read the original article on


Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
