




USA Today Online
February 14, 2025 8:56 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Section: RUSSIA NEWS
Length: 462 words
Byline: Joedy McCreary, USA TODAY
Body


The claim: 2025 report identifies Trump as 'greatest threat to world peace'
A Feb. 7 Facebook post (, ) shows a Fox News graphic with survey results that list President Donald Trump as the world leader posing the greatest threat to global peace.
“In just under two weeks, President Trump has emerged as the frontrunner in this poll,” text in the image reads.
The Facebook post was shared more than 200 times in a week. The image also circulated widely , , , and .
More from the Fact-Check Team: |  | 
Our rating: False
The report is from 2019, not 2025. 
Fox News graphic is from 2019, not Trump’s second term
The Fox News graphic displays the results of a YouGov survey of Germans who were asked which of five world leaders – Russia’s Vladimir Putin, China’s Xi Jinping, North Korea’s Kim Jong Un, Iran’s Ayatollah Ali Khamenei or Trump – represents the greatest threat to world peace. Trump, chosen by 41% of respondents, ranked first.
Fact check: 
But while the Facebook post was shared approximately two weeks after Trump's inauguration, the image in it is not new. It dates to 2019 and has nothing to do with the beginning of Trump’s second presidential term.
The graphic was  on the Fox News show “Fox & Friends First” on , a day after  about the poll commissioned by . It surveyed  of that year.
USA TODAY previously debunked false claims that Trump  “developing a hybrid of the fork and spoon,”  on “DEI nonsense” and had an  after he pardoned those who took part in the Jan. 6 Capitol riots.
USA TODAY reached out to several social media users who shared the image but did not immediately receive any responses.
 also debunked the claim.
Our fact-check sources
Fox & Friends First, Dec. 27, 2019, 
Deutsche Welle, Dec. 26, 2019, 
Axios, Dec. 26, 2019, 
Thank you for supporting our journalism. You can .
USA TODAY is a  of the International Fact-Checking Network, which requires a demonstrated commitment to nonpartisanship, fairness and transparency. Our fact-check work is supported in part by a .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: February 14, 2025


End of Document
