




USA Today Online
February 3, 2025 5:19 AM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Section: ENTERTAINMENT: LATEST & US NEWS
Length: 1187 words
Byline: Marco della Cava, USA TODAY
Body


After several  for nearly a week, there were moments when it seemed as if going on with the  show might not be the most appropriate move.
But by  with onstage , the annual celebration of music's biggest artists managed to deftly walk that sensitivity line Sunday while adding several memorable moments to .
After some scandalous buzz from the red carpet (where Ye showed up with his  to ), the show itself stuck to its bread and butter of celebrating music with outstanding performances from the likes of , and. 
Let's revisit some of the top moments from the night, including  finally taking home the gold for album of the year and .
Beyoncé wins album of the year and best country album
Beyoncé took the night's highly coveted prize, album of the year, for her country effort "Cowboy Carter," which drew on her roots as a bona fide Houston native. "I just feel very full and very honored," Beyoncé said. "It's been many, many years, and I just want to thank the Grammys, every songwriter, every collaborator, every producer, all of the hard work."
Just three other Black women have won the album of the year award in Grammy history: Natalie Cole (1992), Whitney Houston (1994) and Lauryn Hill (1999).
We're extremely online so you don't have to be:  for USA TODAY's Everyone's Talking newsletter for all the internet buzz.

The long-awaited recognition from the Grammy Awards comes after she was snubbed by the Country Music Association, which last year declined to nominate her album for any awards. 
Earlier in the evening, a visibly stunned Beyoncé walked up the stage to accept the Grammy for best country album, which she received from the one and only Taylor Swift.
"Genre is a word to keep us in our place as artists, (so) I want to encourage people to do what they're passionate about, and stay persistent, and, wow ... I'm still in shock," Beyoncé said as her husband, Jay-Z, and their eldest child, Blue Ivy, looked on proudly. 
Grammys honor fire-stricken Los Angeles with Randy Newman's 'I Love L.A.' 

Grammy organizers promised the awards show would "carry a renewed sense of purpose" following the multiple fires Angelenos experienced in January. They vowed to shine a light on not just the victims, heroes and first responders − but on the resilient nature of the nation's entertainment capital.
What better way to showcase that in song than by having an all-star band led by local musicians Dawes (led by brothers Taylor and Griffin Goldsmith), who are helping locals despite losing their own homes, sing 
The backing band included other stars in the industry, including Sheryl Crow, Brittany Howard, St. Vincent, Brad Paisley and John Legend on the keys. 
Shakira, Lady Gaga and Chappell Roan speak up for trans community, immigrants 
Sunday night's Grammys proved that music and art are political.

After accepting their Grammy wins, Shakira, Chappell Roan, Lady Gaga and Bruno Mars spoke out for the trans community, immigrants and up-and-coming artists in the industry.
During her speech after winning for best Latin pop album, Shakira reached out to her "immigrant brothers and sisters." The Colombian singer continued, "You're loved and worth it, and I'll fight with you." Later in the telecast, Gaga accepted her award with Mars for best pop duo performance saying simply, "Trans people are not invisible, they deserve to be lifted up. Music is love."
But Roan's performance was the ultimate, dazzling salute to the LGBTQ+ community.
'DEI is not a threat': 

The newly minted Grammy winner, for best new artist, rocked the Crypto.com Arena with her ode to queer sexuality, "Pink Pony Club." The number featured a posse of rodeo clowns and, of course, a giant pink pony as Roan celebrated her appreciation for Los Angeles as a place where the Missouri native felt she could be herself.
The song was a deliberate statement by Roan in the face of recent moves by the Trump administration to restrict LGBTQ+ rights. Only a few hours after being sworn in as president, he signed an order to declare that there are "only two sexes."
 earlier in the night, Roan said: "It's brutal right now, but trans people have always existed, and they will forever exist, and they will never no matter what happens take trans joy away, and that has to be protected more than anything." 
The Weeknd ends Grammys boycott with dramatic return to the stage
The four-time Grammy winner  the awards show for its lack of diversity and vowed never to attend music's biggest night again.
On Sunday, though, fresh off the heels of his new album and tour announcement, . Before the "Hurry Up Tomorrow" singer hit the stage in a surprise turn of events, Recording Academy CEO , gave a speech reminding viewers of the musician's boycott and the ensuing Grammy backlash early in his tenure. 

"I remember waking up to the headlines that The Weeknd called out the Academy for a lack of transparency in our awards," Mason said. "But you know what, criticism is OK. I heard him. I felt his conviction."
He also reeled off several ways in which the Recording Academy has expanded its membership to include more women and people of color. "There's still work to be done, but I firmly believe we're on the right path," Mason concluded before introducing The Weeknd, who performed "Cry For Me" and "Timeless."
More: 
Kendrick Lamar vs. Drake beef bound to reach new heights after Lamar's Grammy wins

Has a winner been declared in the  Lamar's viral diss track pointed at the Canadian rapper won the Grammy award Sunday for record of the year and song of the year.
"Not Like Us," at the center of a heated scuffle between Drake, bested Taylor Swift, The Beatles and Beyoncé. While the Grammys telecast aired some of the more pointed lyrics from the song, Lamar played clean and didn't mention the feud or Drake during his acceptance speeches.
"First and foremost, praise to the most high we woke up this morning," Lamar said, before dedicating his wins to his hometown Compton, California, and to "the people and the families out in the Palisades and Altadena … This is a true testament that we can change and restore this city. Keep rocking."
Lamar will perform his Grammy-winning song at the Super Bowl LIX halftime show on Feb. 9.
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: February 3, 2025


End of Document
