




CNN Wire
January 29, 2025 Wednesday 11:42 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Cable News Network All Rights Reserved
Length: 1019 words
Byline: By Alexandra Banner, CNN
Dateline: (CNN) 
Body


             (CNN) - Asian communities around the world are ringing in the  and the beginning of the Year of the Snake. During the 15-day festival, millions will take part in cherished traditions and luck-enhancing activities.
Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and On with Your Day.
1. Federal funding
President Donald Trump's plan to freeze all federal aid has run into its first challenge, with a US district judge temporarily blocking the order. The White House budget office ordered the  to target Democratic initiatives that address immigration, foreign aid, climate, DEI and gender identity, according to a memo obtained by CNN. The order could have potentially impacted hundreds of billions of dollars in government spending and halted public programs that affect millions of Americans. It also marked the latest move by the Trump administration to , even that which has already been allocated by Congress.
2. Google Maps
Google is complying with President Trump's executive action that renamed the Gulf of Mexico to the Gulf of America. Soon, the name change . Google will also change the name of Denali, the nation's highest peak, back to Mount McKinley. Former President Barack Obama renamed the Alaska landmark to Denali in 2015 as a nod to the region's native population. Both alterations stem from an executive action that Trump signed last week, saying the changes "honor American greatness." On Tuesday, Mexican President Claudia Sheinbaum largely  and suggested that her country would not abide by it.
3. Immigration raids
The Trump administration is aiming for "at least" 75 arrests daily at each of the 25 ICE field offices nationwide, "but hopefully many more," White House Deputy Chief of Staff Stephen Miller told CNN's Jake Tapper on Tuesday. CNN previously reported that ICE field offices across the country have been directed to make 75 arrests a day as part of Trump's pledge to enact the  in the country's history. ICE reported making nearly 1,000 arrests on Tuesday, following nearly 1,200 arrests on Monday. In the interview, Miller also did not rule out Trump  at the US southern border. The law allows the president to deploy the military to suppress insurrections and domestic acts of violence.
4. New Jersey drones
White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt said  that sparked panic in New Jersey last month were drones authorized to fly by the Federal Aviation Administration and "not the enemy." Drone sightings were reported in at least six states - New Jersey, New York, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Virginia and Ohio - while arrests have been made in connection with drone operations near restricted areas in Massachusetts and California. In response to the , the FAA put in place dozens of drone bans over critical infrastructure, which have since expired. The new explanation from the White House is in line with what Biden administration officials said at the time - that the drone sightings were not nefarious.
5. India crowd crush
A massive religious festival in India has turned deadly after a crowd crush killed at least 14 people. The incident occurred early today as tens of millions of devotees went to bathe in a river on one of the most sacred days of the Maha Kumbh Mela Hindu festival. Local officials said a  as throngs of people were walking toward the riverbanks to take their holy dip in the Indian city of Prayagraj. At least 20 others are being treated for minor injuries, a hospital source said. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi shared his condolences in a statement, calling the incident "extremely sad."
BREAKFAST BROWSE
The nation's report card is inAmerica's children are falling further behind in reading in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and have made little improvement in math, according to the latest results of an exam known as the .
'Stranded' astronauts?Elon Musk on Tuesday said SpaceX will bring home two Starliner astronauts who have been on the International Space Station longer than expected. However, .
Why you should clean exercise equipmentThe number of harmful bacteria on gym equipment may be whey beyond your expectations ... Read why you should frequently , especially yoga mats.
The Middle East's first super-luxury train will gleam goldDream of the Desert is a train set to whisk people across Saudi Arabia - in style, according to the .
This designer is making waves with her 'four-dimensional' fashionShe's the sister of Nigerian soccer legend Sunday Oliseh, but with her fashion label Tesslo, Tessy Oliseh-Amaize is  in the US fashion scene.
TODAY'S NUMBER
1,000 yenThat's how much it will cost violators who are caught smoking in Osaka, Japan, after local officials this week announced a. The 1,000 yen fine (about $6) is intended to "beautify" the city ahead of hosting the World Expo later this year.
TODAY'S QUOTE
"The supply has been improving, but still not enough to meet with demand."
- Ryan Delany, the chief analyst at Coffee Trading Academy, a research company that focuses on the global coffee market. This week,  after the Trump administration threatened a 25% tariff on Colombia - the third largest coffee-producing country in the world.
TODAY'S WEATHER

AND FINALLY ...
Podcast: One doctor's decision to stop showeringDr. James Hamblin stopped taking regular showers. And no, he didn't stink. The doctor and journalist joins Dr. Sanjay Gupta to explain why he set out to challenge this social norm and the science behind doing less to stay clean. .         
             By Alexandra Banner, CNN         
TM & © 2025 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
