




USA Today Online
February 11, 2025 10:11 AM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Section: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT NEWS
Length: 1771 words
Byline: Joey Garrison and Erin Mansfield, USA TODAY
Body


WASHINGTON −  has mounted an onslaught on the federal government three weeks into  second term, taking over federal infrastructure and  in a battle to produce the small government Republicans have long demanded.
It's an arrangement like no other in U.S. history: Trump has empowered Musk, the richest man in the world, to take down the federal bureaucracy  alongside a group of 20-something lieutenants who make up his Department of Government Efficiency, or DOGE.
The billionaire tech entrepreneur has installed loyalists into agencies and reveled in the chaos he has created, using the social media company he owns, X, to update the nation on his latest targets as the DOGE team moves systematically from one department to another.
More: 
His efforts have  that could ultimately decide whether Trump has the executive authority to dismantle the federal government in the way Musk envisions.
Meanwhile, Musk has turned into Democrats' top villain. Lawmakers from the minority party have been attacking him as much as they are Trump as they frantically try to stop the president's agenda.
Here are five ways Musk has started to dismantle the federal government.
Buyout plan for federal employees
Trump, guided by Musk and DOGE, has  in a push to drastically cut the federal workforce.
The Trump administration offered all federal workers eight months of pay through September in exchange for their immediate terminations.  Those who stay in their jobs have been told they must return to in-person work, embrace new "performance standards" and be "reliable, loyal and trustworthy" in their work, among other new "reforms" across the government.
The initial offer came in an email titled "Fork in the Road," the same subject line Musk used in 2022 when he gave employees of Twitter a similar ultimatum after purchasing the social media company and later changing its name to X.
What the Trump administration means for you:  for USA TODAY's On Politics newsletter.
More: 
But federal employees' unions have challenged the legality of the program in court. A federal judge in Massachusetts extended a pause on the buyouts Monday until a ruling is made on the legality of the program. It was unclear when the judge would rule.
Democrats have warned federal workers that Trump can't be trusted to deliver on the eight months of pay, noting that the federal government isn't funded beyond March 14.
More: 
The Trump administration has signaled layoffs or furloughs could be in store for federal workers who don't accept the deal. The Office of Personnel Management, which Trump's team has taken over, has asked department heads to provide lists of their lowest-performing employees.
 the offer as of late last week, according to NBC News. That represents about 2.6% of the workforce, below a goal of 5% to 10% the White House has targeted.

Accessing U.S. treasury data
Under a Day One executive order, Trump turned an obscure federal agency, the United States Digital Service, into DOGE and instructed department heads to give the new agency "full and prompt access to all unclassified agency records, software systems, and IT systems."
The Treasury Department gave Musk’s team access to the federal system that pays the nation’s bills, a move that has prompted widespread concern about his access to personal information and the potential to deny payment to people and entities who expect them. 
A lawsuit from three labor groups says DOGE was unable to get access to the system until Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent was sworn in, placed a civil servant who had opposed the access on leave, and provided access to Musk and his team. 
More: 
Bessent  in a public letter Feb. 4 that the review of payment systems is being overseen by Tom Krause, a tech executive and Musk ally who was affiliated with DOGE. Bessent wrote that Krause is now a Treasury Department employee.
Bessent wrote that Krause has “read-only” access to the payment system and compared the level of access to what outside auditors receive. Bessent said that only career treasury officials were involved in his review and that it was being done “in accordance with all standard security, safety, and privacy standards.” 
 Musk and his team from accessing the payment system as part of a separate lawsuit brought by 19 Democratic states that said one purpose of the access was “to block federal funds from reaching beneficiaries who do not align with the president’s political agenda.”
More: 

USAID shuttered
In the first department to be targeted, Musk shuttered the U.S. Agency for International Development, the federal agency that oversees foreign aid. But a federal judge halted elements of the shutdown last Friday, putting the effort in jeopardy.
 were placed on administrative leave last week after the Trump administration announced the closure of USAID's Washington headquarters. Trump has named  the agency's acting director as USAID merges with the State Department.
More: 
Musk and Trump have called USAID "corrupt," singling out foreign aid expenditures they've characterized as wasteful and advancing a leftist agenda. Democrats have argued Trump lacks the authority to eliminate a department that Congress made an independent federal agency in 1998.
The takedown of USAID ‒ which has ceased U.S. humanitarian aid in other nations ‒ could become a template for the Trump administration to try to take down other agencies and departments.
, U.S. District Judge Carl Nichols in Washington issued a "very limited" temporary order pausing the imminent administrative leave of 2,200 agency employees and the relocation of certain humanitarian workers stationed outside the United States.

'RIP' to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
Mirroring efforts to shut down USAID, Musk and the Trump administration are now taking aim at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ‒ an agency long criticized by Republicans. 
Over the weekend, Trump's Office of Management and Budget director, Russ Vought, ordered staff at the agency to 
Vought, the consumer watchdog bureau's acting director, also ordered employees not to start  investigations, to stop existing investigations, to not approve or issue proposed rules or guidance and not issue any public communications.
More: 
The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was created during the Obama administration after the Great Recession of the late 2000s to make sure consumers were , lenders and other financial institutions.
Rohit Chophra, former bureau director in the Biden administration, was fired by Trump this month after a tenure in which many in the financial industry accused him of regulatory overreach. Under his watch, the bureau capped overdraft fees charged by banks, worked to stop businesses from hiding "junk fees" from consumers and led the removal of medical debt from credit reports.
More: 
"CFPB RIP," Musk wrote in an X post last Friday around the same time the agency's website went dark.
"CFPB has $711M?" Musk wrote in another post Monday, . "That money should be returned to taxpayers."

DEI wipeout and signs of more takeovers
Musk is leading changes at breakneck speed while showing no appetite for slowing down. He regularly defends his projects actions on X and fires back at opponents.
After a federal judge blocked Musk’s team from accessing the Treasury Department’s payment systems, he called the judge “corrupt” and said he should be impeached. When five former leaders of the Treasury Department wrote an op-ed saying the Musk team’s access to the payment system was a threat to democracy, Musk : “Too bad. Deal with it.”
Musk and his team have taken the lead carrying out Trump's executive order  efforts throughout the government.
 wrote that by Jan. 29, about $1 billion in contracts related to diversity, equity, inclusion and accessibility had been terminated, including at the Department of Education, the Pentagon, and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, or NOAA.
DOGE's movements in some departments have raised concerns from Democrats about Musk's intentions. 
That includes DOGE aides recently visiting the headquarters of NOAA, an agency best known for weather forecasting that also has regulatory and scientific research functions, according to Sen. Chris Van Hollen, a Democrat from Maryland.
This rankled Democratic members of Congress from Maryland, home of the headquarters of the agency that runs the National Weather Service and the National Hurricane Center and does scientific research on climate change.
They  to leaders at the Department of Commerce, which houses NOAA, criticizing “unvetted and unknown DOGE bureaucrats” and calling on the leaders to reaffirm their “unwavering support” for the agency.
More: 
In his first term, Trump  reducing the agency’s budget, and  he revoked 78 climate- and environment-related actions put in place under .  
Trump has previewed other departments DOGE plans to blitz through next. In an interview Sunday on Fox News, Trump said he would turn the spotlight “very soon” on the Education Department and the Pentagon.
"We're going to find hundreds of billions of dollars of fraud and abuse," Trump said.
Reach Joey Garrison on X @joeygarrison and Erin Mansfield at @_erinmansfield. 
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: February 11, 2025


End of Document
