




Fox News THE FIVE 5:00 PM EST
January 30, 2025 Thursday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6866 words
Byline: Dana Perino, Jeanine Pirro, Jessica Tarlov, Jesse Watters, Greg Gutfeld, John Roberts
Body


CALLEY MEANS, CO-FOUNDER, TRUEMED: He is here to assert trust for the American people.
WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: I'll be watching as I know you will be to see if these senators hear your words. Calley Means, thank you so much.
All right, that's going to do it for us today. Thanks for getting with us where we get to the heart of the matter, from the heart of America. Up next, THE FIVE.
DANA PERINO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Hello, everyone. I'm Dana Perino, along with Judge Jeanine Pirro, Jessica Tarlov, Jesse Watters and Greg Gutfeld. It's 5:00 in New York City, and this is THE FIVE.
We are getting brand new details on an American tragedy. Staffing was reportedly not normal at the air traffic control tower at Ronald Reagan National Airport during a time of the horrific bad air collision in which 67 people are feared dead.
We want to go to John Roberts. He is near the crash site in Washington. Hi, John.
JOHN ROBERTS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Dana, good afternoon to you. And there are new reports that there wasn't a typical complement of air traffic controllers in the tower behind me at Reagan National Airport last night, when that faithful collision happened between the American Airlines regional jet and that Black Hawk helicopter just outside of the landing zone of runway 33.
You know, as we look down the river, we were remarking that they were about 15 seconds from being home and this happened. And you wonder, how could it possibly happen?
You know, there has been a chronic shortage of air traffic controllers in this nation. Anybody who has been told, well, our flight is delayed because of air traffic control problems knows that all too well.
The government has had some success in hiring more controllers. It hired another 1,800 or so in the last year, they were 3,000 short out of as of last May. They've got some 3400 in the pipeline now, I think. But don't forget, it takes between two and four years to fully train up an air traffic controller.
So, the big question is, how did that Black Hawk helicopter and that CRJ700 regional jet end up at exactly the same spot in airspace at the same time.
As you look down this river, you think, wow, there's an awful lot of sky out there. And how could it possibly happen. As that regional jet was turning left turn just over a Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling headed for runway 33 and that Black Hawk helicopter was coming down the Washington channel, which is about a half a mile away from where I am toward the wharf in Fort McNair, and they just happen to find themselves in the same spot at the same time.
You can see when you take a look at video that was recorded by a camera on the Kennedy Center, that if you blow it up a little bit, you see the bright lights of the CRJ as it's coming in for a landing. At the landing lights on, and then you see the small lights and the flashing beacon of that helicopter slowly coming toward each other.
But we also understand that there wasn't a detailed description given of the regional jet to the pilot of that helicopter. The helicopter was asked to acknowledge that there was a regional jet in front of it. Apparently the pilot did acknowledge that, but there were specific azimuths given to as to, you know, do you see the regional jet at your 12 or your 1:00 or your 3:00?
So, it's possible, according to some experts that we talked to you through the course of the day, Dana, that a departing jet coming off of runway one was the jet that the pilot from the helicopter might have seen and acknowledged, whereas it was the one in front of it, the CRJ landing on Runway 33 that was the one that it was actually supposed to be looking for.
The NTSB has launched an investigation. It will look into this over the weeks and months ahead. And we know -- we know Dana, and you know from your experience of government that the NTSB typically gets to the bottom of everything, so we actually await with their final verdict is on all of this, Dana.
PERINO: John, thanks. Thanks for all of your work today and last night as well.
And just an hour ago, President Trump signing an executive memo directing the FAA to assess damage from DEI policies and ensure competence in hiring. He also addressed the nation on those concerns earlier today.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Our hearts are shattered alongside yours, and our prayers are with you now. You must have only the highest standards for those who work in our aviation system.
I changed the Obama standards from very mediocre at best to extraordinary. I put safety first Obama, Biden and the Democrats put policy first.
You did have as you had vision, the helicopter had vision of the plane, because you had vision of it. All this is a tragedy that should not have happened.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: How you can come to the conclusion right now that diversity had something to do with this crash?
TRUMP: Because I have common sense, OK? And unfortunately, a lot of people don't. We want brilliant people doing this.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Should people be hesitant to fly right now?
TRUMP: No, not at all. I've not hesitate to fly. This is something that it's been many years that something like this has happened, and the collision is just something that we don't expect ever to happen again,
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PERINO: And here's the president again later in the day.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Are you saying race or gender played a role in this tragedy?
TRUMP: It may have, I don't know, incompetence might have played a role. We'll let you know that. But we want the most competent people. We don't care what race they are. We want the most competent people, especially in those positions, and you're talking about extremely complex things, and if they don't have a great brain, a great power of the brain, they're not going to be very good at what they do, and bad things will happen.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERINO: Greg, a lot of heartbreak today, as we assess basically the full weight of all of this comes to the fore.
GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Yes, it's a terrible story, and we talk about it because it is, like, the first big casualty in 15 years. So, that's really what makes it news, because it's so rare. We lose this many people in two days of fentanyl overdoses. It took us years to get to pay attention to that.
I know nothing about this area, but when Trump talks about aviation, he's not some talking head like me who bones up on Wikipedia. He knows jets, he knows copters. Half his life is spent in the air. And sadly, in 1989, three of his top executives died in a copter crash. He understands this.
So, this isn't like when he talks about this stuff. It isn't like Joe Biden riff -- you know, riffing on, you know, corn pop, or his life on Amtrak, Trump actually lives this stuff. So, it's more than just an opinion. It's somebody who -- opinion backed by experience.
But the question then, is, it's the words versus deeds test. You know, do you react with like, how dare he say this stuff? Can you believe Trump said this? It's like, so what? He earned it. You know, his brash commentary is part of the package, and part of that package, that package is transparency. He says what he thinks.
I give him the latitude because, you know, it's what we voted for. He's earned the right to say these things. And if you don't like his words, just follow his deeds, because those are music to my ears.
PERINO: Judge Jeanine.
PIRRO: First of all, the enormity of this is so painful for you know, you had these figure skating champions and young people who wanted to be champions and trainers, and you know, within seconds of landing, you know, they're immersed in freezing cold water at night. I mean, the trauma that will be visited and the post-traumatic stress on the families who have to go through this, my heart goes out to them.
The second thing I want to say is this that it was amazing the president came out, Sean Duffy transportation, Pete Hegseth at DOD. I mean, this is an indication of what kind of four years we're going to have. They're going to be on the mark and out there talking to the American people.
The third thing I want to say is that these choppers do military exercises over that -- over the river all the time. They've been doing it for 40 or 50 years. I spoke to someone very knowledgeable about this, and he said that the training with this Black Hawk, they came from Fort Belvoir. The Fort Belvoir is used to be called Intelligence Support Activity, the ISA training center. They're that sophisticated there.
We know that the chopper pilots were experienced, a thousand hours and 500 hours is a good number of hours, but it appears that the chopper went into the plane. And whether or not it's because there were too few people in the flight controllers in the tower, and whether it had to do with one should have been talking to the plane, one should have been talking to the chopper, and they didn't have that. I don't know. I'm not in a position to take any -- you know, to make any criticism.
But what I do know right now is that it's going to take a long time to get the number of people we need into the FAA and into these towers, but it's got to be done soon. It's got to be done quickly, and it's got to be done based upon confidence.
PERINO: Well, and it's possible, Jesse, that technology could help on this front as well.
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: And staffing. And I agree, it's just the sickest feeling all day long, having to cover the story. I can't imagine what the families are going through right now. Just horrible.
And knowing Pete and knowing Sean, you just saw how angry they were about this, because what a tragedy. And I want full accountability. I want an investigation, and I want it immediately.
So, you're right. These were two experienced Black Hawk pilots. Doesn't make any sense. The New York Times is reporting that there was severe staffing shortages at the control tower. They supposed to have 30, they only have 19. This has been going on for quite some time.
So, one of the air traffic control guys was doing the job of two people, and when you do that, he's communicating with the chopper and the plane pilot, and what happens is you get radio frequencies that the helicopter pilots are not hearing the same thing as the plane pilots.
The staffing shortages Donald Trump is arguing are a result of DEI policies. You go back to the Obama Biden administration, and they rejected a thousand well qualified applicants for air traffic control because they weren't diverse enough.
Joe Biden had a DEI quota, and this isn't about Black people, a lot of people here DEI, you think Black, no, he is trying to set quotas for people who are deaf to get jobs, people who are dwarves to get jobs, people with transgender issues to get jobs.
It's not about race. It's every sort of underprivileged person that has issues, and they want to be able to put these in positions at the FAA, they were unable to meet their own DEI quotas, and that's what is leading to staffing shortages, among many other things.
So, is it the main factor? We don't know. Right now, there's a staffing issue, and it's weird that there's a staffing issue at the FAA, because there's no staffing issue anywhere else in the federal government. Everywhere else in the federal government, there's plenty of bureaucrats. There's too many bureaucrats, but at the FAA, they can't find enough people? That's mismanagement, and that's obvious, and that's been going on for a long time.
It wasn't about money. Biden and Trump spent the exact same money on the FAA. This could also have been a medical issue. This could have been a mechanical issue. We're not going to know until we have this investigation, and I just hope we get it really soon.
PERINO: Last word to you, Jessica.
JESSICA TARLOV, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: I echo everyone's sentiments about how heart-wrenching this is for the families of those who passed away. It's going to be a very long road. There is a story about a figure skater who was part of this group, who tried to get on the plane, but his dog was too big, so he had to make the 14-hour drive, which saved his life. And I'm sure his survivor's guilt, knowing how close that community is is going to be a lifetime of pain and anguish.
PIRRO: Terrible.
TARLOV: And that's just heartbreaking. The staffing issue obviously a massive problem if you have one person doing two people's jobs in the dark, with the way those runways are with the lights of a city, which I know is a complicating factor as well, even if they did have night vision goggles, which we have heard that they did have them on board the Black Hawk.
In terms of what the president has said. And I fully appreciate, as Greg has said many times now, it doesn't matter if you like how he says it or what he says. This is what people voted for. And I agree with you to a large degree. People said, I have problem with DEI, for instance, I don't care about it being graphed. I want to see the action.
But I would say that there is a moment to be talking about those things, and there is a moment to just be a consoler in chief. And I thought that CNN's aviation expert Pete Muntean put it well. He said, what he said is not only unprofessional, unpresidential, inconsiderate of the status of the investigation, but frankly, unhinged.
This DEI policy was putting --
GUTFELD: Do you agree with that? Do you agree that was unhinged what he did?
TARLOV: I think, coming out, and the first part, when he was reading off the prompter, was correct. Whoever wrote it, if it was Stephen Miller or someone else, that sounded like somebody who was actually thinking of the families of the people who just passed away.
And then, he had a campaign rally in the middle of what should have been a somber occasion. And these DEI policies were put in place in 2013, he had every opportunity through his first administration to revoke them, because they thought they were terrible, but he didn't.
And when you talk about staffing issues, sure, the control room is a problem, but you know what else is a problem? That there's no head of the FAA because Michael Whitaker resigned for months. Elon Musk has been trying to push him out since September, when he said you should pay a $600,000 fine for space acts that they're failing to follow the license requirements constantly on him, on him, on him. He knows he's going to get fired. He resigns.
We have no head of the Coast Guard, and they have, in the first week in office, gutted this key Aviation Safety Advisory Committee.
GUTFELD: Coast Guard?
TARLOV: I'm talking about all the people that take care of us, that make sure that you are safe. They are trying to gut that to install people who is --
PIRRO: Do you think that Biden taking care of us? Biden couldn't even show up in Palestine for years.
TARLOV: That's my favorite game that you play.
PIRRO: No, you're playing it.
TARLOV: Really? I'm talking about the president. You won, and now I'm talking about the president and the people he put into office. He showed up with one message, it's DEI's fault, then Hegseth says DEI, then Duffy says DEI, and then J.D. Vance, maybe playing a little bit of cleanup says, well, if it wasn't DEI in terms of the pilots are, it's very stressful to work with people when we have these kinds of DEI policies.
DEI is not a scapegoat for everything. It is, I get it, for some voters, it's what they want to hear about. But --
GUTFELD: Could I? You know, in a way, DEI is the mirror to the Democrat's argument with racism or climate change. It can be used to explain everything. You know, except unlike racism and climate change, which the left found under every rock, every issue, DEI is indeed under every rock, because the Democrats put it there.
In fact, you boasted about it. So it's nobody's fault if they are suspicious that it might do damage. Because we were told how great it was, and then we learned that it was discriminatory, and it's not our fault to wonder, is this playing a role in a lot of the problems that we were seeing in, whether it was airplane parts or anything or the entertainment industry, we saw problems, and we're going like, well, this seems to be everywhere. We were told that.
So, I think the suspicion is fair. It may not be right. This could have been human error. This could have been a malfunction, but the suspicion is always going to be there because it was placed there by your clan, your evil clan.
PERINO: OK, we'll wrap this segment up. Coming up, the Trump confirmation hearings continue Kash Patel and Tulsi Gabbard battle Democrats as they shake up the deep state.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: After another blockbuster day of Trump confirmation hearings, Director of National Intelligence nominee Tulsi Gabbard and FBI Director soon to be, nominee Kash Patel, outlining how he'll fix the broken Bureau and restore trust.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KASH PATEL, FBI DIRECTOR NOMINEE: The priority of the FBI, if I'm confirmed, will be to ensure that our communities are protected and safeguarded, and our children have parks to play in and not needles to walk over.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You said FBI agents were responsible for the violence on January 6th, and I quote you here, beyond a reasonable doubt, is that what you said?
PATEL: That's completely incorrect, and I appreciate the opportunity to address.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'll give you an opportunity in writing, but this is my time now.
PATEL: Have at it.
REP. ADAM SCHIFF (D-CA): Tell them you're proud of what you did, Mr. Patel. They're right there. They're guarding you today. Tell them how proud you are.
PATEL: That's an abject line, you know it. I've never, never, ever accepted violence against law enforcement. I've worked with these men and women as you know.
SCHIFF: Oh no, you didn't accept it, you glorified it.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I think maybe you've made the right people mad.
PATEL: If you're not ticking off some people, you're not doing your job right.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: All right, Judge Jeanine, Kash Patel had a very good hearing today. You expect him to be confirmed?
PIRRO: I absolutely expect him to be confirmed. And I think it's a badge of honor to have Adam Schiff who's been held in contempt of Congress and who said he had absolute proof of Russian collusion to be your enemy, but we need a radical to implement change in the FBI.
I said this yesterday about RFK, and I believe it about Kash Patel. I think there needs to be a declassification office. I think it's a smart idea.
I also think that this man has already proven through the Nunes memo and all the hogwash that the Democrats tried to sell to us about, you know, the Russia -- the Russian collusion with Donald Trump is a Putin pup and the Russian asset. And the Hillary-funded dossier that she used her campaign money to create a lie that they then Jim Comey and his criminal gang took to a FISA court so that they could spy on a citizen and on the incoming president of the United States. These people are disgusting. And they need the guy who knows how to investigate them, and this guy is the perfect guy.
I want to see one more thing -- say one more thing. I wasn't aware of the fact that the Biden administration told doctors, and this has to do with the RFK hearings, that they would not receive federal funding if they didn't give gender-affirming care.
I mean, how dare you tell a doctor what he should and should not do. He should be left to his own Hippocratic oath. And, you know, we've got to end our reliance on medicine from China. If America can't figure out how to make our own medicines, we're in big trouble. That's why I love Kennedy, and I love Kash.
WATTERS: Kash getting the support of I believe the National Sheriffs Association, like 3,100 sheriffs across the nation.
PERINO: I think one of the things that was so unique about him, one, his immigrant story. There's a lot many people have immigrant stories, but for in this particular position, it was different. And when he introduced his family, who had traveled from India to see him, and he said his sister traveled across oceans, I'm not exactly sure where she lives, but I thought that was moving.
And also, he's got a unique background, as he did, serve as a criminal defense attorney for a while, and that is -- that is different for this position. And I thought that if you were somebody that was skeptical of the FBI or maybe even skeptical of Kash Patel, he acquitted himself very well today.
WATTERS: Very well, Greg, he was more articulate than you.
GUTFELD: Can you say that?
WATTERS: I can.
GUTFELD: All right.
WATTERS: I'll say that with confidence.
GUTFELD: I am so over the yes or no question thing. Have you noticed how many times they do this? Bernie did it all yesterday with RFK, you know about the onesies, yes or no, do you support the onesies, yes or no.
And then, you know, Bennet did it with, I think it was Tulsi over Snowden, it is he a traitor? Yes or no, and then shifted into Patel over fitness to serve, and it's like, it's such a grandstanding hack move, especially from Schiff, as you know, who was the corrupt congressman who targeted Kash to begin with.
But it's designed to be a trap. You know, it goes back to that prison, the two ideas they try to shoehorn you win, to this framework where there's only two choices and you have to play along. But you can, oh, you don't have to play along. You can just say, do you have a smarter question? Do you have a smarter question?
I love a smart question, because how would -- I mean yes or no? It's like, it's so stupid. It's so stupid.
I love that. I love these hearings, because a, I couldn't get anything exciting out of it today, which meant it was good. But also, this is like Hollywood always makes these movies where the hero ends up facing the adversary on their own turf, the adversary that tormented them.
This is like reality, you're seeing, like, you know, what's his face, Adam Schiff and Kash together. Can Kash own him? And it's like the ultimate hero thing, where the guy that gets tormented by the FBI is going to be taking over the FBI.
This is not a normal transfer of power. This is an actual transfer of power, and this is why, you know, you may not like or love some of the things these people do, but you got to take the whole package, because it scares the hell out of them.
WATTERS: Jessica, do you reject the Democrats weaponization of government, yes or no -- yes or no?
TARLOV: I actually, I have -- I'm going to lead with something positive about Kash Patel.
WATTERS: OK.
TARLOV: I thought that it was really -- and it was, I believe, presented as a yes or no question about whether he thought that Donald Trump should have pardoned the January Sixers who attacked law enforcement. And he said no.
And as far as I know, he's the first nominee that we've seen in any of these hearings to go against the president in something that's obviously very important to him. And I thought that that reflected well on him, and the connection that he must have to law enforcement, and that he really feels like he's a part of that group.
So, but now I got bad stuff to say.
WATTERS: OK, we got to go to break. Coming up.
TARLOV: He's kidding. No, the problem for a lot of these nominees is that they come from a world of going on podcasts and T.V., etcetera, and they have said a lot of things, they have published books. You know, they have been in conversation and in rooms with people of very important positions, and they said a lot of wild stuff.
And Kash, I thought, you know, tried to maneuver around right, he said, oh, you're mischaracterizing this or that. Like, we all read his book, we know he has an enemies list. And his pivot to, well, I'm going to be busy going after criminals, so I won't have time to go after Bill Barr or people in the media. It's different than when he wrote in his book.
But you know, when he says, I don't know who Stew Peters is, who's a white supremacist, he went on his podcast eight times. I think you know one time. Maybe you know you blacked out that day. You go on eight times. You probably know who that person is. He says these, I'm not a QAnon guy. That's not true based on his past. Maybe he is reformed, and he has seen the light. I don't know what the light is after Q.
But that was problematic. I don't think that Tulsi Gabbard acquitted herself very well. I understand it's her principle to not say that Edward Snowden is a traitor, but conservative Republicans want to hear that as much as the Democrats do.
You know, she didn't do a good job backing off of her, you know, the visit to see Assad, and coming back and saying, you know, I don't know if you actually did it, so I would expect that there are the votes that she wouldn't get through Kash would get through an RFK had another tough day, and Maggie Hassan was incredible talking about her son who has cerebral palsy, and the damage that he does by continuing to say things like vaccines cause autism.
WATTERS: You still never answered yes or no. Do you reject the Democrat weaponization of government?
TARLOV: If it had happened, I would have rejected it, but it didn't.
WATTERS: Wrong answer.
TARLOV: What were the odds that I was going to give you the right answer?
GUTFELD: You can't answer anything, yes or no.
WATTERS: Yes or no -- yes or no? She couldn't do it.
Coming up, illegals pack your bags because you're headed to Gitmo.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GUTFELD: Remain in Gitmo. Now, that has a nice ring to it. Joe Biden emptied it but President Trump always the real estate mogul, saw an opportunity to fill it back up with 30,000 criminal migrants.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Is there a possibility that will increase or is 30,000 the maximum?
TRUMP: It could increase, yes.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What would be the maximum?
TRUMP: It depends but countries that won't take back their criminals that they sent into us -- you know, they sent them to us. They put them into the caravans and they came in. As sure as you're standing that they were sent by those countries and then they're going to be met very harshly with sanctions etcetera.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: When are you hoping to have Guantanamo Bay, this new facility, up and running?
TRUMP: It will be up pretty quickly.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: How much you think it's going to cost?
TRUMP: Not very much. It's -- a lot of the structure is already there as you know.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: Always thinking about cost-cutting. You know, Jessica, how can Liberals like you complain? If you think this is bad, why don't you offer to house the migrants yourself?
TARLOV: You know how hard it is to get an apartment big enough for a growing family. I just don't have the space. So, an offshore immigrant prison that has never held more than 800 people is going to house 30,000. It seems unlikely but maybe.
Also Tom Homan and Trump saying it's going to be the housing for the criminals. About 50 percent of the 7,300 that they have gotten rid of are actually criminals and we're even detaining Americans. Did you see this story in Milwaukee? A mom, a grandmother, and a toddler were speaking Spanish -- God forbid -- get taken in. They had to show IDs and birth certificates to get out. They're Puerto Ricans.
GUTFELD: People make mistakes, but we're totally behind what's happening even when a mistake is made. We're not like Democrats that go oh, well, the mistake is the policy itself.
TARLOV: No. Come on. You know that -- if you're only getting at best half out of the group that you said that you were sending back -- the Colombians, the Washington Post had a story on this.
GUTFELD: What do you mean? That's more than -- they're getting -- you made one exception -- this family.
TARLOV: No. I just said that about 50 percent from NBC's reporting of the 7300 that they have gotten out are actually criminals.
GUTFELD: Oh, but the rest are illegal, so what's the problem?
TARLOV: Then just say that. Just say we're getting everybody out who's here undocumented.
PIRRO: But wait a minute. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. You can have a deportation order and but --
TARLOV: But that's not what the --
PIRRO: Let me finish. You can have a deportation order that doesn't necessarily mean that you are convicted of something. It could mean that you've been here six times and we keep telling you not to come back, so don't freaking come back, all right? So, don't act like we're sending out not the worst of the worst.
And by the way, this place has the ability to hold 30,000 people. We've had Gitmo since I think the early 1800s, OK. And it was meant to be a military facility. Migrants have been there before. It's been a facility for migrants for decades. So, let's not act like this is so out of the ordinary.
And by the way, I don't know why Donald -- why the president needs it because he said they're going to take them back and they're going to like it. And I thought that that meant -- seriously he was going to air drop them or something.
TARLOV: Catapult them.
PIRRO: But you know what? Look, I am tired of the softies on the left saying oh you're going to get this one, you're going to get that one. No. We're getting dirtbags out of the country --
TARLOV: And toddlers.
PIRRO: -- who are hurting Americans and are hurting whether -- toddlers, you want to talk about toddlers? How about the child victims, women who were victims of murder, their families who have to live with the nightmares? The worst criminal aliens -- and you know what? This is going to make illegals think twice about coming to this country. They're going to say hell, I want to go to Guantanamo. Normally I'd expect to go to New York, get arrested, they let you out. We beat the hell out of the cops. Then they give me a free hotel. Now, they're going to say this guy's nuts. He's going to put us in Guantanamo and no one's going to change his mind. Go, Mr. President.
GUTFELD: You know, you could argue that if you're an illegal in Chicago or Oakland or San Francisco or New York, you know, Gitmo is a step up.
PERINO: It doesn't sounds so bad, does it?
GUTFELD: No. You got a beach.
PERINO: In that clip that we play where the -- we can't see the reporter but they're asking the President about it. And they're like, but there would be a tent and like it would be -- oh -- it's like, what do you think we were doing in New York City?
GUTFELD: You moron.
PERINO: We were -- we were having all of these tents where all of this bad behavior was happening and including human trafficking. Right here because -- and we were paying for it. I love this idea. I think it's very smart. Democrats made Gitmo like public enemy number one in terms of American Real Estate because of an interrogation of a mass terrorist. And then they were like we have to close it, we have to close it. Why? You have to close it because there was an interrogation of a terrorist that you didn't like?
And I know -- please don't ask me. I know I know all the arguments that you're going to make. Believe me. I used to answer questions about them. I love this because of all the things that Jeanine said, we've had it, it's ours. And also, I think it is smart for us to have a strategic position in the region that has more people there, more Americans on the island.
GUTFELD: What say you, Jesse?
WATTERS: You know, Jessica, why we're getting some people mixed up that are, you know, just border crossers? They're not actually --
TARLOV: These are Americans also.
WATTERS: -- people that have been criminals, convicted. It's because of sanctuary cities. If they had just kept these guys in jail, you could have agents go directly to jail and pick up the criminal from jail.
GUTFELD: There you go. Yes.
WATTERS: But what's happening is you guys have released these convicts into the communities, so then they've had to spend time making a plan, getting a team to go out. And as they go out and get these bad ombres, they're picking up regular border crossers as well. So, once again, it's your fault.
GUTFELD: Yes. How about that? Yes or no.
TARLOV: No.
WATTERS: Yes or no.
GUTFELD: Yes or no. That should be a new show on Fox.
WATTERS: You should ask a better question.
TARLOV: Ask a better question always.
GUTFELD: Always. Coming up, The View smears the Press Secretary.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
PIRRO: Oh, thanks. Democrats in the media are now unloading all their nasty attacks on rising Trump White House star and new Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt. Watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOY BEHAR, CO-HOST, THE VIEW: She's probably been put in there because according to Donald Trump she's a 10. You know that's what it is.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Well, I want --
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PIRRO: OK. They tell me no time for questions but isn't it rich that The View is saying she got the job based on looks when DEI is all about based on looks, Jessica?
TARLOV: No, it's not. So, first of all -- and I have -- had my objections to the job that Karine Jean-Pierre did, but she worked in politics for 21 years, five presidential campaigns, and worked in two administrations. Karoline Leavitt in her first week, everyone was heaping praise on her, she didn't know things like if Medicaid would be affected, she didn't know that the freeze was unfrozen. I said it right today, Jesse. And she didn't know that these condoms and Gaza story was bogus including the bombs and the medical corps has denied the State Department claim on that if you want to check about the condoms.
That seems like somebody who maybe is in a little bit over her head. We'll see how it goes. I want to give her the benefit of the doubt. But --
GUTFELD: That's some benefit.
PIRRO: But you know what? Dana, you're a Press Secretary. Does she looked like she's in over her head?
PERINO: No.
PIRRO: Thank you.
PERINO: She's -- she'll be great. She's young but she's wise beyond her years. And she has access to the President which is something someone didn't have, and that would be the person in the last four years until towards the end when they would let her have access. She -- and also, Karine Jean-Pierre would say that Joe Biden was running circles behind the scenes at the White House. Absolutely wasn't true.
And if you want to trace directly how all of the Democrats lost, you can go right back to the biggest lie was that one and they perpetuated it from there. It reminds me of when Mark Cuban said that the President doesn't surround himself by anybody smart, and Joy Behar and those guys, of course, this was going to happen. This is why conservative women just have to move on, do their thing, and not worry about the criticism from folks like at The View.
PIRRO: OK. Right, Jesse, Conservative women shouldn't care.
WATTERS: I don't speak for women. I tried that. That did not go well. But blondes are -- blonde women overrepresented behind the White House Podium, and it's time to bring back the brunets. That's what people are saying, not me.
PERINO: Who said that?
WATTERS: The -- if someone had told me that I only got this job because I was a 10, I would have said thank you.
GUTFELD: Exactly.
WATTERS: And to Jessica's point, the condom bomb are real. The Israeli media has been all over the story. And I am more in touch with the Israeli media than you. Go figure.
TARLOV: They're my people.
WATTERS: Go figure. Kaboom. That was a condom blowing up in your face.
PIRRO: All right, Gutfeld? Gutfeld, go.
GUTFELD: Well, is she really a 10?
TARLOV: Don't do it.
GUTFELD: We'll be right back. No. Joy --
PERINO: They told us Jesse was a seven.
GUTFELD: Joy Behar calls her a 10. I mean, how dare she objectify a woman with a sexist rating system. But it's such a typical thing from a 1.5.
PIRRO: Well said. Democrats face the ugly truth. Find out more next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
TARLOV: Welcome back. Here's a brutal truth about my fellow Democrats. I'm so glad I got this block. We're extremely unpopular, the most unpopular we've ever been in polling that dates back to 2008. According to Quinnipiac University, 57 percent of registered voters have an unfavorable opinion.
Judge, why are Democrats so bad?
PIRRO: You know, I don't understand. I think they should stick to their -- to their beliefs and make sure that they stay with Kamala. I think that if they want to be true to themselves, you just stay right on that path. Believe me, I hope you do. It'll be good for America. We'll win again.
TARLOV: Greg, you're into themes lately and you've said that you have interest in helping us resurrect the party.
GUTFELD: I think I went at length yesterday. I'll refer people to go back to yesterday's show and review my comments. As for now, I have to go. No, you know you've heard of the brain drain, when the United States extracts the most talented minds from other countries, which is one reason why America excels. But then all these other countries, they suck. Oh, look what happened to them. They lost all their people.
This is what happens to other countries. This is what happens to the Democratic Party. The smartest member of your party have bolted. The deepest independent thinkers needed freer pastures. And so, you're -- what the Democratic Party is experiencing right now is an actual brain drain. You have these zombies like Kamala, Mayor Pete wandering around. If you watch zombie movies, you know what I mean.
So, there is no path right now. I think the question, if I were to help, is like who's your visionary? Is there somebody who can lead you out of this wilderness who you could -- who is fearless enough that you would want to share the risk and not worry about being canceled? Maybe it's Stephen Smith, you know. It ain't Mayor Pete.
TARLOV: Dana?
PERINO: I think the three things Democrats should do is focus on workers being cut out of their jobs because of artificial intelligence, take on the education establishment because 33 percent of kids in this country can read, and then go all in on nuclear power. But I actually really love what -- reading about how Mayor Pete. He moves to Michigan and he wants to run for Senate after Jerry Peters. I'm sorry, Gary Peters, retired. Enjoy touting your work for electric vehicles in Detroit. It's just going to get crushed.
TARLOV: Jesse, how will you help?
WATTERS: I won't. You have three options. You go the way of the wigs. You are out of power for 12 years and you finally come back. Or Trump and Republicans screw things up royally and you're back in four years.
TARLOV: I think that's two options.
WATTERS: That's three. Pay attention.
TARLOV: What's that? "ONE MORE THING" is up next.
WATTERS: I gave you -- you only got to where your party dies. It never --
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
PERINO: It's time now for --
PIRRO: It's time now for "ONE MORE THING." You said that you go first.
PERINO: I said you're first. It's time now for "ONE MORE THING." And now you go.
PIRRO: OK. All right, do want to read this? Do you want to read this?
PERINO: No. You go.
PIRRO: OK. All right, today is --
WATTERS: It's ridiculous.
PIRRO: OK. Today, is National Croissant Day. To celebrate, our friends at Somedays Bakery in Astoria, Queens sent us some goodies to indulge in. We have croissants -- almond croissants, chocolate croissants --
GUTFELD: Chocolate croissants.
PIRRO: Tahini chocolate, peanut frangipani, cheddar pretzels, and Swedish regatta, and prosciutto --
TARLOV: How big this one is.
PIRRO: And a prosciutto. Dig in, everybody.
GUTFELD: Wow.
PERINO: All right, Greg.
PIRRO: Sorry, Dana.
PERINO: That's all right. Greg, you're next.
GUTFELD: All right, tonight, we have the show you might have missed. It's brand new. Jamie Lissow, Dr. Drew, Kat Timpf, Tyrus. Let's do this. Greg's how many nuts?
TARLOV: Oh, I love this one.
GUTFELD: You know the rules. All right, let's roll the -- wait, you have to guess.
PERINO: Yes.
GUTFELD: Here we go. What -- OK. How many -- how many -- how many nuts, Judge?
PIRRO: Eight.
GUTFELD: Eight?
TARLOV: Six.
GUTFELD: Six?
WATTERS: Nine.
GUTFELD: Nine?
PERINO: Four.
GUTFELD: Four? Let's do it, squirrel. There should be music for this.
PERINO: Four, five --
GUTFELD: Because right now I just hear Jesse eating.
PERINO: Seven, eight.
TARLOV: Wow.
PERINO: Nine.
GUTFELD: Wow. He could put a lot in his mouth.
PERINO: 10.
WATTERS: Oh. I never win.
GUTFELD: Yes. Look at that. Squirrels are amazing.
PERINO: Wow.
GUTFELD: Yes. And the answer is 12.
PERINO: Wow.
PIRRO: Oh, my God.
GUTFELD: You -- I think, Judge win this squirrel trophy.
PERINO: Oh, I want that mug.
PIRRO: Thank you. I'm so excited.
GUTFELD: You better be.
PERINO: I'll go quickly. Country star Eric Church is doing his part to help out those in North Carolina. He did his song, Carolina, is featured in a tourism campaign. The people of Asheville and the Appalachians, they were a part of this whole ad and it's really fabulous. I encourage you to check it out. Jessica?
TARLOV: Mine is a little bit longer. Do you want to plug your show?
WATTERS: No, go ahead.
TARLOV: OK.
GUTFELD: Oh, that's nice, Jesse.
PIRRO: He's eating.
GUTFELD: You have to thank Jesse for that.
TARLOV: Now, I don't have time.
GUTFELD: Exactly.
TARLOV: This is just the worst. This mother who has a visually impaired son braille on her manicure so that he could read it. And it said love you, Shay, which is his name.
PERINO: Cute. I love that.
PIRRO: That is very sweet.
PERINO: It's worth it. All right --
PIRRO: It was.
PERINO: That's it for us, everyone. Have a great night! Hey, Bret!

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
