




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 2, 2025 Sunday 10:00 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 769 words
Byline: Lauren Floyd
Body


February 2nd, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
For many   
The big picture: After overwhelmingly backing Democrats, many Black women are now stepping away from politics to focus on themselves and their communities.
State of play: "Our well-being, the well-being of our children and our communities, cannot be based on the whimsical nature of white folks or a particular political party," LaTosha Brown, co-founder of Black Voters Matter, told Axios on Friday.
She said just as Black people realized during the Reconstruction era that they would have to take hold of their futures, building their own cities, churches, homesteads and banks, Black people have to do the same today.
"I can't afford just to respond. I've got to reimagine," Brown said. "I can't afford just to fight. I've got to build."
 
"No matter who is in the White House, Black women will continue to champion the progress that Vice President Harris has led whether in our own neighborhoods, communities, or in Washington, D.C.," said Holli Holliday, a WWBW partner and president of Sisters Lead Sisters Vote.
Image: Created with the generative AI tool ChatGPT by Nikki Frenney
As Nikki Frenney, a political influencer, put it, "Rest is resistance."
She campaigned for Harris and created the viral AI  
Now, she's launching a 92% movement focused on wellness, economic empowerment, and cultural connections for Black people.
"I believe we have to prepare ourselves for chaos that could be coming down the pipe, simply based on the previous four years that we had in the Trump administration," Frenney said before Trump's inauguration.
Then-Trump-Vance transition spokeswoman Karoline Leavitt (now the White House press secretary) told Axios Trump "will unify the country through success."
Catch up quick: Since then, Trump  
In response, corporations such as  
What they're saying: Republicans control all three branches of the federal government, and "Now the guard rails are off," Frenney said.
Graphic entitled "Sometimes I Told You So Just Ain't Enough" Photo: Navi' Robins
Robins said "maybe they know what they're doing, whatever it may be, but in my mind, it's like at this point, we need to stop being martyred."
He said it's time for America to see itself for what it is, with Black people having long been scapegoats for the country.
"We're not the reason why any of this is happening," he said.
Zoom in: Brooke Floyd, director of programs for the Jackson, Mississippi-based nonprofit People's Advocacy Institute, told Axios the idea of turning inward to build your own community is one that has always been at the heart of her organization.
People want to see Medicaid expansions, more comprehensive healthcare coverage, criminal justice reform and clean water, especially in Jackson following a  
They have real concerns about public education funding reaching Black children.
"We fight the issues and not the people," Floyd said.
Zoom out: Cicley Gay, a Black Lives Matter Global Network Foundation board member and philanthropic strategist with more than 20 years of experience, told Axios before the inauguration a lot of people are "reactive to what they believe a Trump administration will look like."
"And as an organization, we're not going to obsess over him," she said.
Gay canvassed for Harris and has been tasked with helping rebrand the Black Lives Matter nonprofit mired in financial controversy and division.
"We are going to look far beyond this presidency," she said.
She detailed her vision for "a future fully divested from policing and prisons and punishment paradigms, a future for BLM in particular that invests in justice, joy and culture."
More from Axios:




Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 2, 2025


End of Document
