




telegraph.co.uk
January 31, 2025 Friday 10:20 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:2
Length: 1285 words
Byline: By James Ball
Highlight: The billionaire has clashed with the Federal Aviation Authority on several occasions – and he’s set on taking the skies away from them
Body


Presidential responses to national disasters and tragedies tend to follow a familiar pattern. The commander-in-chief pays his respects to the dead, pledges to investigate the cause and seek justice, and offers thoughts and prayers to those affected. This is a practice that has usually transcended political divisions, with politicians of all stripes more or less following the convention.
Not Donald Trump. Within hours of the collision of a US Army Blackhawk helicopter with a passenger airline over Washington DC –  , and with no one thought to have survived the impact – the president had posted on his preferred social media site, Truth Social, that “this is a bad situation that looks like it should have been prevented. NOT GOOD!!!”.
It seemed that the Federal Aviation Authority (FAA), the agency that oversees US  , was in his sights. The trouble was finding a figurehead to blame. The agency’s top job had been left vacant 10 days previously after the FAA administrator, Michael Whitaker, stood down on the day of Trump’s inauguration, and the job had not been filled by the time of the collision. (Chris Rocheleau has since been appointed as acting head.)
The following morning, while bodies were still being recovered from the Potomac River, the President speculated that so-called  , an acronym for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, may have contributed to the incident.
“People with severe intellectual and psychiatric disabilities” could be hired by the FAA, he said, despite the fact that an air traffic controller needs to be a “genius”– and that was before any official investigation into what happened has even begun. Trump has since shifted focus slightly and said the helicopter was flying too high “by a lot”, and far above a “200ft limit” set by air traffic control, but he has still ordered an immediate assessment of the FAA to ensure “the federal government is maintaining the highest personnel in policy aviation safety standards”.
It is, by and large, the first time that Trump has shown a studied interest in the FAA or its operation.
The same cannot be said of his “first buddy” and Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE)  , who has been a fierce public critic of the agency for some time.
The FAA is the agency that governs SpaceX, Musk’s space launch and flight company, and the two entities have often clashed on hostile terms. The FAA, on one hand, seem to keenly guard their role as   of the skies. Musk, however, is on a mission to advance the pioneering spirit of humanity.
The two approaches don’t mix. The FAA has previously complained about environmental damage and safety issues by SpaceX – it alleges Musk’s company launched an uncrewed satellite without their approval, failed to conduct routine safety polls of flight controllers, used rocket fuel from unauthorised suppliers and caused damage to the launch pad and sensitive environments nearby. Consequently, it has imposed penalties of more than $633,009 (£508,000) on SpaceX with the FAA’s chief counsel Marc Nichols saying: “Safety drives everything we do at the FAA… Failure of a company to comply with the safety requirements will result in consequences.”
Musk and SpaceX have accused the agency of maliciously targeting it over petty and minor violations. “The fundamental problem is that humanity will be forever confined to Earth unless there is radical reform at the FAA!” tweeted Musk in September 2024.
That month, allies of Musk in Congress grilled Michael Whitaker, then FAA’s administrator, over his agency’s scrutiny of SpaceX and its launches, suggesting they were the result of political bias or targeting – even as SpaceX received billions in federal funds during Joe Biden’s presidency for its role in getting   and other equipment into orbit.
After the Congress showdown, Musk posted a tweet under a picture of Whitaker that said: “He needs to resign”. So when Musk was given broad oversight of regulatory agencies under Trump, it was clear Whitaker’s role would be untenable. He stood down on January 20, several years before his term was due to end.
But Musk and Trump are right that US air traffic control has its issues: Congress voted just months ago to increase the number of planes allowed to take off and land at DC’s Reagan airport – overriding objections from federal lawmakers that the city’s airspace was already too “congested” and posed a safety risk to passengers.
DC airspace is particularly difficult to manage due to security restrictions around the president and Congress, and the existence of numerous military bases in the area which the planes that are constantly taking off and landing have to share the airspace with a large number of helicopters.
Military aircraft frequently conduct training flights in and around the congested and heavily restricted airspace around the U.S. capital for familiarisation and continuity of government planning.
Military helicopters and passenger aeroplanes are common sights along the Potomac River in the Washington region, where the collision happened. The area is home to numerous military bases and three major airports.
There has been a recruitment crisis among air traffic controllers, too, leading to complaints of understaffing and controllers having to work overly long shifts, potentially at the risk of passenger safety.
Some, though by no means all, of these issues stem from a bizarre and misguided attempt, starting in 2014, to improve diversity among air traffic controllers which saw the addition of a personality quiz to other formal tests. Candidates were asked, among other things, how many hours they had studied music and dance at college, and were rewarded for saying they’d had poor grades in science at high school (in an effort to ensure not all successful candidates were scientists). The test, discontinued in 2018, remains the subject of ongoing litigation by rejected applicants.
But the early actions of Trump and Musk appear to have exacerbated ongoing difficulties for the FAA. The agency was not exempted from an   on January 20 this year which froze all hiring across the federal government for 90 days – and required agencies to rescind job offers from candidates who had received them but not yet started their role.
The Office for Management and Budget (OMB), reportedly at Musk’s direction, sent an email to all federal employees with the subject line “ ” – offering to pay their salary until September if they resigned within the next eight days, with no strings attached. Multiple independent experts have said the offer is unlawful, as it would breach laws setting limits on severance pay for federal employees.
Air traffic controllers were among those who received that email, suddenly presenting them with the apparent offer of more than seven months of pay for no work. “I will tell you that everyone at the Indianapolis Air Route Traffic Control Center was talking about that email Wednesday,” one air traffic controller said in a letter to The Washington Post.
The day after the crash, controllers across the US arrived at work with tragedy hanging over them, and a political blame game that is surely only just beginning. That evening, they received something else, too: a further email to all federal employees, apparently confirming the OMB’s redundancy offer.
It’s not clear yet exactly what’s in store for America’s airways following such a tragic incident; the families need to mourn and the facts need to be unearthed. But it would seem the FAA is lined up for a clean sweep. And Elon Musk – who has aspirations to   and beyond – is wielding the broom.

Load-Date: February 1, 2025


End of Document
