




USA Today Online
January 30, 2025 10:06 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Section: RUSSIA NEWS & US NEWS
Length: 948 words
Byline: Rebecca Morin, USA TODAY
Body


A horrific aircraft collision killed more than 60 people near the nation's capital. President Donald Trump’s contentious secretary picks faced questions from lawmakers. And big names in music are holding a benefit concert for L.A. after devastating fires.
Hello friends. here. It’s a heavy news day. But let’s get through this Thursday, together. 
But first: It's like finding treasure. ️ Thrifting has  (a trend I've been doing for quite some time...)
Deadly air tragedy in DC
An American Airlines passenger plane and an Army helicopter collided near Ronald Reagan National Airport near Washington, D.C., late Wednesday evening – the first U.S. passenger plane crash since 2009. The collision, which left no survivors, triggered a massive recovery effort to search for bodies in the freezing Potomac River.
What we know: American Airlines flight 5342, coming from Wichita, Kansas, to Washington D.C., collided with an Army Black Hawk helicopter just before 9 p.m. local time on Wednesday. The plane, as well as the helicopter, fell into the icy Potomac.
Helicopter on training flight: The Army helicopter was on an “annual proficiency training flight” when it crashed, Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth said Thursday morning. Hegseth called the crew “fairly experienced.”
No survivors: There were 60 passengers and four crew members aboard the American Airlines plane. There were three soldiers on the helicopter. As of Thursday morning, 28 bodies had been pulled from the river, said John Donnelly, the chief of Washington’s fire department.  
Trump blames Army chopper in fatal collision for flying 
Photos: Emergency crews respond to deadly 
‘Horrendous’: Watch eyewitness share the 
DC plane crash has striking 
In aftermath of DC plane crash, Trump 

Figure skaters, family and union members
“Highly-talented kid.” “Role-model parents.” Union members. While information about the 64 people on American Airlines flight 5342 is still being released, multiple figure skaters, their families, friends, and coaches were confirmed to have been onboard, according to a statement from the International Skating Union.
Boston skaters: Doug Zeghibe, the CEO and executive director of the Skating Club of Boston, said six members of the club were aboard the plane: Skater Spencer Lane, his mother Christine Lane, skater Jinna Han, her mother Jin Han, and coaches Evgenia Shishkova and Vadim Naumov. Zeghibe praised Spencer as a “highly-talented kid” and Jinna as “a wonderful kid” and great athlete. He praised both of their mothers as “role-model parents.” 
Russian figure skaters: Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov also confirmed that Shishkova and Naumov, Russian figure skaters who won the world championships in pairs in 1994, as well as other Russian nationals were also onboard the plane.
DC-area union members: The United Association said that four members of UA Steamfitters Local 602, which represents workers in heating, air conditioning, refrigeration, and piping in the Washington, D.C., area, were among those who died. They did not immediately identify the deceased members.  .
Meet the figure skaters from US and Russia among 
Figure skaters 'horrified, heartbroken' 
Crash resurfaces memories of 1961 tragedy 

Real Quick
How a cave explorer's accident .
Watch: German Shepherd saved in 
Review: 'You're Cordially Invited' to RSVP no to Will Ferrell, 
Will Smith announces first album since 2005, 
Tesla unveils timeline for driverless cars, 
Support the Short List and 
High-stakes confirmation hearings
Three of President Donald Trump’s most polarizing secretary picks faced tough questions during high-stakes confirmation hearings on Thursday. Robert F. Kennedy Jr., the nominee to lead the Department of Health and Human Services, Tulsi Gabbard, the pick for director of national intelligence, and Kash Patel, the nominee to lead the FBI, faced contentious hearings as senators continue to weigh their confirmation. 
Day 2 for RFK Jr.: Kennedy faced his second day of questioning, where he was asked an array of questions from vaccines to whether Wi-Fi causes cancer. He repeated false claims that vaccines are to blame for rising autism diagnoses.  
RFK Jr.'s misinformation on antidepressants matters. 

A-listers hold LA fire benefit concert
From pop stars to rock legends to even grunge bands, some of music’s biggest names are raising money to rebuild the Los Angeles area after it was devastated by fires. The FireAid benefit concerts, which will be held Thursday evening at the Intuit Dome and the Kia Forum, will include performances from artists like Billie Eilish, Earth, Wind & Fire, Green Day and Stevie Nicks. The benefit will also be streamed live across many platforms.  
LiveAid to One Love: See photos of 
A break from the news
Mesmerizing drone video follows 
Milk's favorite cookie: Subway unveils 
Rebecca Morin is a senior national news reporter at USA TODAY. Got thoughts or feedback? Reach out to her at .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: January 30, 2025


End of Document
