




Targeted News Service
January 31, 2025 Friday 9:17 PM  EST


Copyright 2025 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved


Length: 508 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: MADISON, Wisconsin 
Body


[Category: Religion] -- The Freedom From Religion Foundation posted the following news release:
* * *
A Christian against Christian nationalism on 'Freethought Matters'
Watch the preview here.
The Freedom From Religion Foundation's television show this week will feature a Christian who offers sound advice on ending Christian nationalism.
Amanda Tyler is the executive director of the Baptist Joint Committee for Religious Liberty and leader of the group Christians Against Christian Nationalism. She helped oversee a blockbuster collaborative report issued by the Baptist Joint Committee and the Freedom from Religion Foundation on Christian nationalism at the Jan. 6 Capitol insurrection. Tyler has written a new book titled "How to End Christian Nationalism." U.S. Rep. Jamie Raskin calls it a gift to America in dangerous times.
"We define Christian nationalism as a political ideology and cultural framework that tries to merge American and Christian identities," Tyler lays it out on the show for "Freethought Matters" co-hosts Dan Barker and Annie Laurie Gaylor. "Put another way, Christian nationalism suggests that to be a real American, one has to be a Christian, and not just any kind of Christian, but a Christian who holds certain fundamentalist religious beliefs that are often in line with certain conservative political priorities."
"Freethought Matters" airs the weekend in:
* Chicago, WPWR-CW (Ch. 50), Sundays at 9 a.m.
* Los Angeles, KCOP-MY (Ch. 13), Sundays at 8:30 a.m.
* Madison, Wis., WISC-TV (Ch. 3), Sundays at 11 p.m.
* New York City, WPIX-IND (Ch. 11), Sundays at 10 a.m.
* San Francisco, KTVU/KICU-IND (on broadcast Ch. 36 and Cable 6), Sundays at 10 a.m.
* Washington, D.C., WDCW-CW (Ch. 50 or Ch. 23 or Ch. 3), Sundays at 8 a.m.
If you don't live in any of the marquee towns where the show broadcasts on Sunday, you can already catch the interview on FFRF's YouTube channel. New shows go up every Thursday.
Upcoming shows include guest Gareth Gore, author of an expose on Opus Dei, a retrospective on the late Cecile Richards and an episode on the Trump administration's forays into Christian nationalism. You can catch interviews from earlier this season and from previous seasons here, including with Gloria Steinem, Ron Reagan, author John Irving, actor John "Q" de Lancie and award-winning columnist Katha Pollitt.
Please tune in to "Freethought Matters"... because freethought matters. And spread the word to freethinking friends, family or colleagues about a TV show, finally, that is dedicated to providing programming for freethinkers -- your antidote to religion on Sunday morning!
P.S. Please tune in or record according to the times given above regardless of what is listed in your TV guide (it may be listed simply as "paid programming" or even be misidentified). To set up an automatic weekly recording, try taping manually by time or channel.
Print
***
Original text here: 
Copyright Targeted News Services
MSTRUCK-9028199 MSTRUCK

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
