



Business Insider
February 28, 2025 Friday 10:19 AM EST


Copyright 2025 Insider Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 700 words
Byline: mjankowicz@businessinsider.com (Mia Jankowicz,Joshua Nelken-Zitser)
Highlight: Alaysia Black Hackett, who oversaw Biden's DEI push, told BI that Trump's crackdown wasn't a surprise and that the work "doesn't stop."
Body


One of Biden's top DEI chiefs said she wants to dispel "myths" amid Trump's rollback of the practice.
Alaysia Black Hackett told Business Insider that corporations should hold firm to DEI practices.
She said that companies are now reaching out to her for advice.
A former DEI chief who served in the Biden administration wants to "dispel a lot ofthe myths" swirling around diversity initiatives.
These include the idea that DEI hires aren't recruited on merit, or that diversity initiatives are only aimed at benefiting Black People, said Alaysia Black Hackett, who served as the Department of Labor's chief diversity and equity officer before resigning last month.
"It is not: 'You have to make sure you have a woman in a leadership position," Black Hackett said in an interview with Business Insider. "It is looking at the data to say: 'What groups of people are we missing and how can this be a detriment to the service?'"
The sentiment toward DEI has been shifting in recent months. , the percentage of people who see DEI as a positive fell from 56% to 52% between February 2023 and October 2024. At the same time, those who saw it as a bad thing grew from 16% to 21%.
But Black Hackett says the field is misunderstood, in part thanks to a tough media environment, and the Biden administration not being good at touting its own achievements. She said she believes people don't want to understand what diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility really stand for.
"People want to hate it because it seemed to benefit one race of people more than it fits another," she said.
What does DEI do?
During her two and a half years in the Biden administration, Black Hackett said federal hiring initiatives were merit-based and designed to "ensure that our internal federal workforce mirrored the communities that we serve."
If federal bodies lacked diversity of thought, "we're going to miss something," she said.
Black Hackett described much of her work as being aimed at making sure that federal funding filtered through to people who are either under-resourced, or are in historically underrepresented groups.
Much of her work focused on determining how federal funding could effectively reach marginalized communities. This included identifying rural communities that needed better internet access - a fixture in Biden's infrastructure law in 2021.
"When you look at data about rural communities, you will see that it's not typically inundated with people of color," she said, adding that "most Americans fit under at least one of the categories under DEIA."
Impact on corporate DEI
President Donald Trump signed an executive order last month ending DEI programs in the federal government. The Trump administration has said DEI "divided Americans by race, wasted taxpayer dollars, and resulted in shameful discrimination."
Trump has directed federal agencies to compile lists of private companies' DEI efforts, and many, including , have decided to roll back or end their DEI programs. Others, like  and  have not altered course on their diversity policies.
Black Hackett said that companies are reaching out to her for advice.
"I have small business owners who are asking me: 'Alaysia, what do I do? What direction is this going to impact me?'" she said.
She said that companies feeling cowed should "bunker down, stand up for what's right, and look at your data" to see the benefits.
"Productivity goes up," she said. "Statistics show that. People are more productive if they feel like they're welcome in their environment, their thoughts, their opinions."
A  said that DEI can add value to businesses through increased employee productivity, stronger collaboration with colleagues, and improved well-being.
The recent DEI rollback could make people become "afraid to even show up as their authentic selves," Black Hackett said.
Even so, she feels positive about the future of DEI initiatives.
"What I will say, and I will say it quite candidly, is DEIA is resilient," she said. "The work doesn't stop."
The White House didn't reply to a request for comment.
Read the original article on

Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Web Publication

Subject: DIVERSITY & INCLUSION (90%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY & INCLUSION (90%); DIVERSITY & INCLUSION REGULATION & POLICY (89%); GOVERNMENT & PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (79%); GOVERNMENT BODIES & OFFICES (79%); BIPOC PEOPLE (78%); RACE & ETHNICITY (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); LABOR FORCE (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (65%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (52%); Politics (%); dei (%); workplace-diversity (%); biden-administration (%); federal-workers (%); donald-trump (%); news-uk (%)

Industry: INTERNET & WWW (60%)

Person: JOE BIDEN (89%); DONALD TRUMP (79%)

Geographic: UNITED STATES (79%)

Load-Date: February 28, 2025


End of Document
