




MailOnline
January 28, 2025 Tuesday 8:13 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 798 words
Byline: Nick Allen For Dailymail.com
Body


No one could remember the James S. Brady briefing room so packed, as new White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt stepped into the lions' den on Tuesday. 
Journalists were squeezed in like sardines, with no elbow room to write. 'This is epic,' said one. 'I think I might faint.'
After a long slumber during the Biden years, many of the reporters today suddenly appeared ready to pounce.
For Leavitt, at age 27 the youngest White House press secretary in history, the stakes of her first briefing could not have been higher.
Ramping up the pressure, the most important member of her live nationwide audience - the president himself - was watching closely on TV.
In the past, some of those who have attempted this political mission impossible - speaking for Donald Trump in Washington - have stumbled badly.
Trump's first press secretary Sean Spicer was mercilessly ridiculed on Saturday Night Live. Former White House communications director Anthony Scaramucci lasted just 10 days in the job.
However, on this evidence, Leavitt will last many 'Scaramuccis'.
Indeed, in her first appearance, it appears a new MAGA star has been born.
Under a sustained assault from the media, Leavitt was polished, professional, confident and gaffe-free, presumably to the chagrin of some of her left-wing inquisitors.
She calmly dispatched dozens of questions and demonstrated that she had the facts at her fingertips.
Only once did she resort to her predecessor Karine Jeane-Pierre's notorious catchphrase - 'I can't get ahead of the president' - to avoid answering an inquiry.
President Trump, always with an eye for how events appear on television, must have realized he chose wisely.
At 1.05pm Leavitt walked into the briefing room from behind a sliding blue door.
'Good afternoon everyone, how are you?' she said sunnily. 'Good to be with all of you.'
She started by displaying on two screens a rogues' gallery of rapists, murderers and pedophiles who have been arrested and deported in Trump's first days.
Leavitt went on to hit every big MAGA note, declaring 'sanity has been restored,' and that 'Trump is everywhere again.'
Then, she hit the 'legacy media' where it hurt, announcing that a row of briefing room seats nearest her own lectern, usually occupied by White House staff, would be occupied by 'new media' outlets.
Social media influencers and content creators will be able to attend her briefings, she said.
So will over 400 journalists who had their passes removed by the Biden administration.
A murmur went round the already packed room as the briefing room regulars wondered where the newcomers will stand.
Leavitt went on to turn the tables on the media, saying that she would be holding them to account.
'I commit to telling the truth from this podium every single day,' she said. 'I hope that you will hold yourselves to the same standard.'
She said lies had been told during the previous administration 'to your faces in this very room.'
At 1.14 pm, she took her first question, which came from the political website Axios and it focused on the Chinese AI startup company DeepSeek, which shocked Wall Street on Monday by releasing a new product that triggering a $1 trillion sell-off of US tech stocks.
She batted concerns away with ease, declaring that there was nothing to worry about because President Trump would achieve 'AI dominance' for America.
Many of the subsequent questions were on Trump's announcement that he is pausing federal grants to assess whether the money is going to DEI programs.
'I have been asked this question four times now...,' said Leavitt. But, unlike some of her predecessors, she did not lose her cool. She was still smiling.
As a TV reporter suggested sneaking into the US was a 'civil crime,' she quickly corrected him. 'It's a federal crime,' she said.
Another implied that half of the illegal immigrants arrested so far under Trump's administration are not criminals, she corrected again.
'All of them' were criminals because they 'broke our laws,' she said, again with a smile.
When CNN asked about firings at the Justice Department, Leavitt responded by quoting an obscure legal precedent that allows Trump to 'fire anyone he wants.'
And when it came to the price of eggs, she blamed former President Joe Biden for the 'mass killing of 100 million chickens.'
In another shot at the ex-president she added; 'Joe Biden was in office, or upstairs sleeping, I'm not sure.'
No one is slacking in the White House now, particularly not the new press secretary, Leavitt claimed, warning that she will work at 'breakneck speed.'
'I hope you are all ready to work very hard,' she told the journalists.
By the time she had finished some of those in the room were eating out of her hand.
'You look great,' one question began. 'Thank you,' said Leavitt.
President Trump has found his new TV star.

Load-Date: January 28, 2025


End of Document
