




Forbes.com
February 25, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 Forbes LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 855 words
Byline: Maria Gracia Santillana Linares, Forbes Staff
Highlight: Plus, DOGE Staffers Quit As Federal Cuts Worry Wall Street, IRS Layoffs Amid Tax Season and Trump Reinstates Federal Workers in this week s Careers Newsletter.
Body


This is a published version of Forbes  Careers Newsletter. Click  to subscribe and get it in your inbox every Tuesday. 
<figure>
<figcaption>
Tiger Woods speaks alongside U.S. President Donald Trump during a reception honoring Black History Month in the East Room of the White House on February 20, 2025 in Washington, DC. (Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images)
Getty Images
</figcaption></figure>
It s the last week of Black History Month, and celebrations have been markedly muted this year.
The month-long commemoration was first recognized in 1976 when President Gerald Ford established Black History Month to celebrate African American history and achievements in the United States. It s been observed every February since. But this year, Black History Month comes in the midst of a larger national pushback against diversity, equity and inclusion programs.
Businesses have been rolling back DEI initiatives for the last year due to pressure from conservative investors. And the pace of such rollbacks has increased since President Donald Trump took office.
A number of government agencies said theywill no longer celebrate identity-based observanceslike Black History Month, Pride Month and Martin Luther King Jr. Day, and apps like Google Calendar have said they willno longer mark those observancesacross calendars.
President Trump himself has signed a number of executive orders cutting back on DEI programming and funding, and has shifted employment policy at the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission to focus on anti-American bias instead of race or gender discrimination.
That s not to say the federal government has gone completely silent on Black History Month. Trumpacknowledgedthe celebratory month in January, andhosted a receptionhonoring the occasion last week at the White House, despite his own executive orders rolling back DEI  parts of which afederal judge has blocked. And a number of businesses, like Apple and Costco, have doubled down on their commitment to protecting DEI programs.
As Black History Month comes to an end and the U.S. continues its debate over DEI policies, support for Black history, businesses and employeesshould be year-round, writes contributor Julie Kratz.
Happy reading, and hope you have a lovely week!
WORK SMARTER
Practical insights and advice from Forbesstaff and contributors to help you succeed in your job, accelerate your career and lead smarter
Should youquit your job without having another lined up? Here are thepros and cons.
It s not too late tochange careers in your 30s.Here s whyit s a great time to do so.
Try thesefive ChatGPT promptstobecome more persuasive at work. 
Banish the bullet points, acknowledge team members and moreleadership tipstoexcel at online presentations. 
TOUCH BASE
News from the world of work
Thousands of IRS workers were fired last week as we enter the heart of tax season, Kelly Phillips Erbreports. This comes after the agency recalled workers who had taken the government s deferred resignation program offer earlier in the year, stating that certain  critical filing season positions  were exempt.
While employees are increasingly less confident about their employer s business outlook, CEO confidence is on the rise. According to a new report by The Conference Board, CEO confidencehas surged to a three-year high, thanks to a stronger economic climate. The survey does, however, point to growing concerns about how mass deportations could impact the labor force.
Elon Musk isn t the only billionaire to have come into the United States through an immigrant visa.Here arethebillionaires who benefited from H1-B visasto launch their careers (and wealth) in the U.S. Tech companies, led by Amazon, were awarded the most H1-B visas last year.
DOGE continues to cut jobs across the federal government.Employees at the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, FEMA, TSA and even theDepartment of Defensewere recently laid off.
The massive government layoffs are starting to worry Wall Street analysts.One prominent economist called the DOGE-led cuts a  growing  risk to the American economy and markets, Derek Saulreports.
But they re also worrying the very people carrying them out.Twenty-one staffers resigned from DOGE on Tuesday,saying they wouldn t usetheir technical expertise to  dismantle critical public services, according to the AP.
And despite all these cuts, the Trump Administration has continued to rehire federal staff in  critical  positionsshortly after removing them from those same positions. This week,workers at the FDAwere asked to come back after trade groups pushed back against cuts. Folks at the National Park Services and those working with bird flu at the Department of Agriculture were also reinstated.
NUMBER TO NOTE
100,000
According to estimates by aluminum producer Alcoa, that s how many jobs could be cut if President Trump implements a 25% tariff on aluminum imports. 
VIDEO
Milken Institute Director On Breaking Into Finance
QUIZ
According to a recent survey by global HR company Deel, which generation of workers saw the fastest salary growth in 2024?
A. Gen Z
B. Millennials
C. Gen X
D. Baby Boomers
Check if you got itright here. 

Load-Date: February 26, 2025


End of Document
