




Newsweek.com
February 10, 2025 Monday 5:22 AM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 977 words
Byline: David Faris
Highlight: Last week, the Resistance started the process of getting the band back together with its "50501" protests—50 protests, 50 states, one day.
Body


Last week, the Resistance started the process of getting the band back together with its —50 protests, 50 states, one day. An impressive feat of organizing, were important less because they have any chance of quickly realizing their goals but more because they are a statement of intent and determination from the left. If Trump's extra-judicial dismantling of the federal government is to be stopped in the two long years before the midterm elections, though, organizers are going to have to get more creative, and much more aggressive.
They certainly won't have any shortage of reasons to mobilize. Over the past two weeks, President  has tossed his already limited political capital into a truly unprecedented bonfire of illegality, cruelty, and ham-fisted overreach, affixing his dopey signature to dozens of executive orders that are either sadistic, unconstitutional or frequently both. Every day seems to bring multiple fresh outrages, such as Attorney General   the truly deranged and unconstitutional idea of prosecuting private companies for internal DEI practices.
But the unbearable miasma of fear, paranoia and shock that we are all breathing in right now is in large part the result of capriciously threatening millions of law-abiding, career civil servants, non-profit workers and contractors with unemployment and then making the whole situation orders of magnitude worse by tasking the world's richest man, , with dismantling the federal government. Musk has deputized a baby-faced group of what Defector's David Roth "weird fash nerds" who are improperly forcing their way into every critical office of the federal government, "twiddling knobs and flipping switches and going 'what does this one do?'"
Protests are a necessary component of resisting this depraved lawlessness, but they won't be enough. Participating in a large-scale street protest is loud, exhilarating, and remains one of the few ways to force decision-makers to reckon with the fallout of their choices. But over the course of the 21st century, they have often been ignored by people in power, who proceed to do whatever the protesters were demanding that they not do in the first place.
The protests against the Iraq War, for example, which drew tens of millions of people around the world into the streets over several months in early 2003, ultimately did nothing to stop the ensuing fiasco. President  and U.K. Prime Minister Tony Blair saw them, listened to them and then proceeded to ignore the most comprehensive global expression of public dissent  so that they could commit the worst foreign policy blunder in any of our lifetimes.
The outcome of today's protests is unlikely to be different unless they are paired with the operation of "off" switches. Organized labor wins fights when unions shut down services that people need—schools, hospitals, public transit, restaurants and hotels. Americans, unfortunately, do not really have a shared national strike culture. They are going to need to build one, and quickly, because the Trump administration is assaulting so many institutions across so many domains that mobilizing workers in any one of them isn't likely to be sufficient to get the Trump administration to back off.
Mass pushback does not necessarily need to involve the open-ended occupation of public space, something very few Americans can afford to do for any significant period anyway. One relatively passive tool that would not just express mass dissent but exact a toll for the unconstitutional seizure of power happening in the White House right now is the withdrawal of compliance—with debt, taxes and other inputs that keep the federal government working and the tanks out of the streets.
The country's banking system depends on the timely payment of mortgages, auto loans, and student loans, and even a brief interruption of the flow of cash—long enough to rattle the markets, but not long enough to allow banks to repossess your house or car—would cause a political crisis. Neither banks nor the federal government have anything remotely approaching the institutional capacity to crack down on a scaled-up debt strike.
And while most people get refunds after they file their taxes, there's no reason that we couldn't spend 2025 reducing our income tax withholdings and then refusing to file our taxes next year unless certain demands are met. Happily, the people who would normally act as enforcers against a tax strike are now in the crosshairs of Trump's purge machine and would likely refuse to do his dirty work.
To be clear, these are just two out of many ideas, and we're not there yet—too few people have experienced the direct consequences of Trump's actions to build the kind of mass mobilization and coordination needed to pull any of this off. For now, Democrats in  need to do everything that they can to slow the Trump administration's plans to a crawl, including the kind of  that  Democrats pulled Wednesday into Thursday to fight against the nomination of Russell Vought to run the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). Those who feel like they don't have it in them to resist like this should resign as quickly as possible and make way for those who can. And in the meantime, the rest of us need to be plotting our next move—not just protests, but concrete plans for radical direct action.
David Faris is an associate professor of political science at Roosevelt University and the author of It's Time to Fight Dirty: How  Can Build a Lasting Majority in American Politics. His writing has appeared in The Week, The Washington Post, The New Republic, Washington Monthly and more. You can find him on Twitter @davidmfaris.
The views expressed in this article are the writer's own.


Graphic

 
DOGE or Doge?
LEONARDO MUNOZ/AFP via Getty Images
A person holds a sign with an image of Elon Musk during a protest against President Donald Trump and his policies in New York on Feb. 5.

Load-Date: February 10, 2025


End of Document
