




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 30, 2025 Thursday 9:48 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 462 words
Byline: Alex Fitzpatrick
Body


January 30th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
For some of us in aviation,  
The big picture: Aviation safety experts   
Driving the news: 67 people are feared dead after an American Airlines flight operated by PSA Airlines and a U.S Army helicopter collided late Wednesday near Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport, also called DCA.
64 were aboard the jet, three on the helicopter.
There are no signs of survivors as of Thursday afternoon - but let's leave room for miracles.
Air traffic control audio suggests the helicopter, which was on a training mission, was instructed to see and avoid the jet, which was approaching to land at DCA.
That didn't happen, for reasons only a thorough and professional investigation may reveal. (Controller staffing was "not normal for the time of day and volume of traffic" during the incident, the New York Times  
Those investigations can be lengthy. The  
Even still, political finger-pointing began almost immediately.
President Trump  
Former Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg  
This hobbyist pilot's perspective: President Biden's FAA took safety concerns seriously, but even an agency tasked with overseeing near-supersonic air travel can only move at the speed of government.
At the same time, DEI doesn't bring down airliners. Mistakes do, and anyone can make those -even well-trained pilots and controllers, of any race, gender or creed.
And aviation disasters rarely come down to a single mistake by a single person. Instead, they're often attributable to multiple factors that meet at a point in space and time with terrible consequences.
The bottom line: U.S. air travel is  
Any lessons from this tragedy will take time to surface. But they will be a gift to the rest of us, however involuntary,from 67 souls who took off for routine flights that were anything but.


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
