




The Associated Press
February 9, 2025 Sunday 9:00 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: SPORTS NEWS; DOMESTIC NEWS; POLITICAL NEWS; STATE AND REGIONAL
Length: 820 words
Byline: DARLENE SUPERVILLE, Associated Press
Dateline: WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. 
Body


WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. — As a student,  played high school football. As a business baron, he  in an upstart rival to the NFL and then sued the established league. As president, he  who took a knee during the national anthem as part of a social justice movement.
On Sunday, he was adding to that complicated history with the sport when he becomes the 
After flying from Florida to New Orleans, the Republican president was expected to meet participants in the honorary coin toss, including relatives of victims of a  in the city's historic French Quarter, as well as members of the police department and emergency personnel.
Trump’s appearance at the Caesars Superdome to see the two-time defending champion Kansas City Chiefs take on the Philadelphia Eagles follows the NFL’s decision to  that have been stenciled on the end zones since 2021.
Trump recently ordered the cancelation of programs that encourage  across the federal government and some critics see the league's decision as a response to the Republican president's action. But NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell said the league's  are not in conflict with the Trump administration’s efforts to end the federal government's DEI programs.
Trump, who attended the Super Bowl in 1992, thinks the Chiefs will win, with Kansas City quarterback Patrick Mahomes the difference-maker.
“I guess you have to say that when a quarterback wins as much as he’s won, I have to go with Kansas City,” Trump said in an interview with Fox News Channel's Brett Baier that aired on the pregame show. Trump said Mahomes “really knows how to win. He’s a great, great quarterback.”
The president played football as a student at the New York Military Academy. As a New York businessman in the early 1980s, he  of the United States Football League. Trump had sued to force a merger of the USFL and the NFL. The USFL eventually folded.
Friction existed between Trump and the NFL during his first term as president.
 during the national anthem to protest social or racial injustice. That movement began in 2016 with then-49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick taking a knee during “The Star-Spangled Banner” during an exhibition game in Denver.
Trump, through social media and other public comments, insisted that players stand for the national anthem and he called on team owners to fire any player who took a knee.
“Wouldn’t you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, you’d say, ’Get that son of a bitch off the field right now. Out! He’s fired,” Trump said to loud applause at a rally in Hunstville, Alabama, in 2017.
Trump is expected to watch the game from a box in the company of House Speaker Mike Johnson, R-La., among others. Trump won Missouri and Pennsylvania — the states represented in the game — on his way to a second term in November.
His interest in sports extends beyond football. Trump is an avid golfer who owns multiple golf courses and has hosted tournaments. He sponsored boxing matches at his former casinos in Atlantic City, New Jersey, and  at Madison Square Garden weeks after winning a second term.
Trump played golf with Tiger Woods on Sunday morning in Florida, where the president spent the weekend, the White House said.
Some NFL team owners have donated to his campaigns and Trump maintains friendships with Herschel Walker and Doug Flutie, who played for the Generals.  as the Republican candidate for a U.S. Senate seat from Georgia in 2022, and has tapped him to become .
Trump signed an order last week that is intended to  by targeting federal funding for schools that fail to comply.
In a statement before the game, Trump said the coaches, players and staff for the Chiefs and Eagles “represent the hopes and dreams of our Nation’s young athletes as we restore safety and fairness in sports and equal opportunities among their teams.”
Alvin Tillery, a politics professor and diversity expert at Northwestern University, said in an interview that the NFL's decision to remove “End Racism” slogans was “shameful” given that the league “makes tens of billions of dollars largely on the bodies of Black men.”
He said the NFL should explain who it was aiming to please. The NFL said it was stenciling “Choose Love” in one of the end zones for the Super Bowl to encourage the country after a series of tragedies so far this year, including a New Year's Day truck attack in the host city of New Orleans that killed 14 people and injured dozens more.
Tillery wasn't convinced. “I think they removed it because Trump's coming," he said.

Load-Date: February 9, 2025


End of Document
