




The Catalyst: Colorado College
February 6, 2025 Thursday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 2235 words
Body


FEB 6, 2025 | NEWS | By Olivia Link Donald Trump was inaugurated as the nation's 47th president on Jan. 20. Once he took office, his administration began a series of sweeping policy changes and released almost 50 executive orders in their first 10 days. Here is a look at each order and its implications for the American people:
Initial Rescissions of Harmful Executive Orders and Actions(Jan. 20, 2025)
Donald Trump's first act as president was to reverse policies from the previous administration which he considers "inflationary, illegal, and radical." These policies include diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives, COVID-19 provisions, action on the climate crisis, strengthening Medicaid, and the end of for-profit prisons. This officially prohibits federal agencies from enforcing such policies and initiates a review to identify additional ones to repeal.Many critics fear this order rolls back crucial protections on minority rights and climate solutions.
Ending the Weaponization of the Federal Government(Jan. 20, 2025)
Trump's next executive order addressed what he referred to as the previous administration's "systematic campaign against its perceived political opponents." It claims that former president Joe Biden used federal agencies like the Department of Justice and Intelligence Community to inappropriately target "Americans who were simply exercising constitutionally protected rights."
Trump then raises the accusation that these punishments are applied unevenly: "while the Department of Justice has ruthlessly prosecuted more than 1,500 individuals associated with January 6, [it has] simultaneously dropped nearly all cases against BLM rioters." From now on, the attorney general is charged with reviewing the actions of other federal agencies to identify and prevent alleged abuse.
Restoring Names That Honor American Greatness(Jan. 20, 2025)
This order seems to come partially as a response to recent international movements calling for the renaming of landmarks that bear the names of colonizers or other controversial historical figures. Trump has reversed the 2015 order renaming Mt. McKinley to Mt. Denali. The original order found that Denali better reflected the history and Indigenous tradition of Alaska rather than McKinley, named after former president William McKinley who never visited the landmark.Trump expressed his desire to "promote the extraordinary heritage of our Nation" after saying that McKinley "was tragically assassinated in an attack on our Nation's values and our success." The order also officially renames the Gulf of Mexico to the Gulf of America.
Enforcing the Hyde Amendment(Jan. 24, 2025)
Trump, believing that the Biden administration did not enforce the law enough, is placing a heavier emphasis on the Hyde Amendment, which states that taxes cannot be used to finance abortion access. The order revokes two previous orders that supported the use of federal funding for abortions. Trump purported the order as a protection of taxpayers' rights, however, it seems to ignore the fact that the majority of Americans support abortion in all or most cases.
Defending Women from Gender Ideology Extremism and Restoring Biological Truth to the Federal Government(Jan. 20, 2025)
Executive Order 14166 addresses the rise of so-called gender ideology and the detrimental impacts it supposedly has on cisgendered women. Trump expressed concern over "men who self-identify as women and gain access to intimate single-sex spaces and activities designed for women" and claims he will "defend women's rights."
"It is the policy of the United States to recognize two sexes, male and female," the order stated. Under this order, federal agencies must comply with these strict definitions and cannot consider gender identity when administering federal services ranging from sports to shelters to prisons. Last week, though, a Massachusetts judge contested the order, blocking a transgender female inmate from being transferred to a men's prison and stripped of her access to hormonal treatment. Trump has also alluded to being transgender as a mental illness in another executive order banning transgender people from military service.
Additional Measures To Combat Anti-Semitism(Jan. 29, 2025)
This order falls in line with Congress' adoption of the IHRA definition of antisemitism, which equates criticism of the Israeli state with antisemitism. Rather than expand protection from antisemitism, it expands protection from anti-zionism. Trump refers to student protests in solidarity with Palestine as "an unrelenting barrage of discrimination" against Jewish students. This order mandates a full report from each federal agency on reports of discrimination "related to or arising from post-Oct. 7, 2023, campus antisemitism." Trump calls on the Department of Education to further investigate Title VI complaints. The issue of Palestinian activism at CC raises concerns for many students surrounding freedom of speech and conduct cases. The order stated that "institutions may monitor for and report activities by alien students and staff" and "ensuring that such reports about aliens lead to investigations and, if warranted, actions to remove such aliens." Although he does not define the term "alien," this final statement may be cause for concern for international students engaged in protest on campus.
Restoring the Death Penalty and Protecting Public Safety(Jan. 20, 2025)
According to Trump's order, "Capital punishment is an essential tool for deterring and punishing those who would commit the most heinous crimes," and it "continues to enjoy broad popular support," though this support remains at a five-decade low. This order overturns Biden's moratorium on federal executions and seeks to "counteract the politicians and judges who subvert the law by obstructing and preventing the execution of capital sentences." The order authorizes the Attorney General to "seek the death penalty regardless of other factors for every federal capital crime involving the murder of a law-enforcement officer; or a capital crime committed by an alien illegally present in this country." Essentially, in cases where the death penalty would be considered too harsh a punishment, it can still be pursued when the victim is a police officer or where the perpetrator is an undocumented immigrant. Finally, it encourages the attorney general to attempt to overrule Supreme Court precedents that place restrictions on the death penalty.
Withdrawing the United States From the World Health Organization(Jan. 20, 2025)
Executive Order 14155 withdrew America from the World Health Organization, which the country was a founding member of in 1948. Much of the motivation for this move seems to come from Trump's push against China, whom he blames for the COVID pandemic and who he believes is not paying enough in dues to the organization. He also overturned a mandate requiring all federal employees be vaccinated against COVID-19 and assigned responsibility over "public health" and "biosecurity" to The Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs. The United States government will no longer provide funds or personnel to WHO.
Reevaluating and Realigning United States Foreign Aid(Jan. 20, 2025)
President Trump has officially paused all foreign aid (with the exceptions of Egypt and Israel), as he claims the practice is "not aligned with American interests and in many cases antithetical to American values" and "serve[s] to destabilize world peace." The Office of Management and Budget is to ensure that no funds are disbursed for the next 90 days while they review existing programs to see if they are in line with the President's goals. Life-saving medications for HIV and malaria are among the essential assistance that many underdeveloped countries will no longer be receiving. Trump has also temporarily frozen the United States Refugee Admissions Program, meaning that no refugees or asylees will be permitted into the country.
Establishing and Implementing the President's "Department of Government Efficiency"(Jan. 20, 2025)
Trump's creation of a Department of Government Efficiency is now more than just a meme with this order. DOGE absorbs the existing United States Digital Service, modernizing federal technology systems and overseeing all federal agencies to "maximize government efficiency." While it is set to expire in July of 2026, DOGE will be granted full access to agency records and IT systems to carry out its work. Some critics are concerned about data privacy, especially given tech billionaire Elon Musk leads the initiative.
Ending Radical Indoctrination in K-12 Schooling(Jan. 29, 2025)
Trump has banned discussions of identity and power from classrooms. He describes learning about white privilege and unconscious bias as "actually promot[ing] racial discrimination and undermin[ing] national unity." The order mandates the enforcement of definitions discussed in Executive Order 14166 and prohibits any curriculum suggesting "the United States is fundamentally racist, sexist, or otherwise discriminatory." Trump puts forward "Patriotic education" grounded in "a unifying, inspiring, and ennobling characterization of America's founding and foundational principles," among other things, that will apply to all state-run K-12 schools.
It additionally includes provisions that allow for legal action against teachers and administrators who "unlawfully facilitate the social transition of a minor student," with social transition being defined as "the process of adopting a 'gender identity' different from one's sex." This means that faculty could face legal repercussions for using a student's preferred name and pronouns.
On DEI:Ending Illegal Discrimination And Restoring Merit-Based Opportunity,Ending Radical and Wasteful Government DEI Programs and Preferencing, andReforming The Federal Hiring Process And Restoring Merit To Government Service
These orders are part of a series aimed at the elimination of Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Accessibility programs in federal agencies. The Trump administration views such programs as a waste of resources and a form of so-called reverse discrimination. The goal is to "terminate, to the maximum extent allowed by law, all DEI, DEIA, and 'environmental justice' offices and positions; all 'equity action plans,' 'equity' actions, initiatives, or programs, 'equity-related' grants or contracts; and all DEI or DEIA performance requirements for employees, contractors, or grantees." They also overturn previous executive orders fostering inclusivity in federal agencies, including the military. It is important to note, however, that this order only applies to federal agencies, and despite the president's recommendation that private entities follow suit, many have come out in support of continuing DEI programs.
On Immigration:Protecting the Meaning and Value of American Citizenship,Securing Our Borders,Clarifying the Military's Role in Protecting the Territorial Integrity of the United States,Protecting the United States From Foreign Terrorists and Other National Security and Public Safety Threats, andProtecting the American People Against Invasion
Trump signed an order on his first day in office ending birthright citizenship for children born to undocumented parents or mothers temporarily in the country, such as those with visas. A federal judge blocked this measure, declaring it to be a blatantly unconstitutional violation of the 14th Amendment. In another historic move, Trump authorized military service members to act as border enforcement officers, challenging the Posse Comitatus Act of 1878 which limits deployment of federal troops in domestic roles. For immigrants who are approved for visas, Trump has ordered a more strict screening process, one allowing applicants to be vetted "to the maximum degree possible." Additionally, Trump called for the construction of more detention facilities for people arrested on suspicion of being undocumented (including expansion of the infamous Guantanamo Bay) and the revival of VOICE, a group dedicated to helping "victims of crimes committed by removable aliens."
On the Environment:Unleashing American Energy,Declaring a National Energy Emergency,Putting America First in International Environmental Agreements, and Unleashing Alaska's Extraordinary Resource Potential
As in his previous term, Trump withdrew the United States from the Paris Climate Accord, marking a turn away from global collaboration on the climate crisis. He then declared a national energy emergency, a move which allows greater executive power over energy projects. Americans, he states, need "a reliable, diversified, and affordable supply of energy," something he aims to achieve by increasing and expediting permits for drilling on federal land and without the help of solar or wind power. Another order encourages "energy exploration and production on Federal lands and waters" while protecting "true consumer choice" through the removal of economic incentives for electric vehicles.
This extends to "the American people's freedom to choose from a variety of goods and appliances, including but not limited to lightbulbs, dishwashers, washing machines, gas stoves, water heaters," and more. Alaska is an area of particular interest because of its natural gas reserves, prompting the Trump administration to overturn Biden's restrictions on drilling and mining.

Load-Date: February 7, 2025


End of Document
