




States News Service
February 22, 2025 Saturday


Copyright 2025 States News Service
Length: 712 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


The following information was released by the American Association of University Professors (AAUP):
Last night, in a case in which the AAUP was a plaintiff, the US District Court for the District of Maryland granted a preliminary nationwide injunction on key parts of a pair of executive orders issued by President Trump. The orders broadly and in vague terms seek to end diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility mandates, policies, programs, preferences, and activities among federal government grantees and contractors, including virtually all colleges and universities.
In its decision, the court explicitly cited the evidence provided by courageous AAUP members when it found that there were "concrete actual injuries suffered by Plaintiffs and their members" as a result of the unlawful actions of the administration and that AAUP members and their institutions would "be forced to either restrict their legal activities and expression that are arguably related to DEI, or forgo federal funding altogether."
The decision was in response to a suit filed by Democracy Forward on behalf of four organizations representing different affected groups: the AAUP (representing faculty members), the National Association of Diversity Officers in Higher Education (representing their diversity officer members), the City of Baltimore (representing a public sector grantee), and Restaurant Opportunities Centers United (representing a private sector grantee). We sought this temporary restraining order to prevent the Trump administration from using federal grants and contracts as leverage to force colleges and universities to end all diversity, equity, and inclusion programs, whether federally funded or not, and from terminating any "equity-related" federal grants or contracts.
As our brief explained, the orders are unconstitutional, usurping congressional power and violating First and Fifth Amendment rights. Absent preliminary relief, significant and irreparable harm would have been caused to our members, their students, and communities. Most importantly, the government could have used the threat of terminating billions of dollars of grants and contracts, as well as the threat of investigations and enforcement actions, to force faculty and universities to cease virtually all of their legally permissible work relating to diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility.
The AAUP's membership includes many potentially affected faculty: those whose work focuses on Black studies; Latino studies; Asian studies; gender or sexual orientation identities; diversity, equity, and inclusion specifically; environmental justice; and other subject matter targeted by the president's anti-DEIA executive orders. We also represent a significant number of members who focus on medical and other scientific research related to whether and how race and ethnicity affect health outcomes. Beyond AAUP members, students and communities would be harmed by the termination of the higher education grants: work on female reproductive health would be curtailed; assistance to help students with disabilities and from underrepresented populations graduate and find careers would be undermined; and efforts to strengthen research capacity at historically Black colleges and universities would be set back.
The judge noted that our lawsuit is likely to succeed on the claim that enforcement actions against companies and universities would violate constitutionally protected free speech and wrote: "That is textbook viewpoint-based discrimination . . . . The government's threat of enforcement is not just targeted towards enforcement of federal law. Rather, the provision expressly targets, and threatens, the expression of views supportive of equity, diversity and inclusion."
More information:
The orders in question are titled "Ending Radical and Wasteful Government DEI Programs and Preferencing," and "Ending Illegal Discrimination and Restoring Merit-Based Opportunity."
AAUP Joins Lawsuit to Block Trump's Unlawful and Unconstitutional DEI Orders
Fact sheet on Executive Order on Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Accessibility (AAUP Center for the Defense of Academic Freedom)
Fact sheet on Executive Order Weaponizing Civil Rights Law (AAUP Center for the Defense of Academic Freedom)

Load-Date: February 23, 2025


End of Document
