




Fox News THE WILL CAIN SHOW 4:00 PM EST
February 26, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; International
Length: 6764 words
Byline: Will Cain, Lara Trump
Guests: Ben Van Roo, Megan Brock, Tiana Lowe Doescher, Mike Lee
Body


WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Live from the heartland this is "The Will Cain Show."
And we start today, as we do most days, watching and waiting for the president to possibly sign more executive orders from the Oval Office.
I want to start today's show by pulling back the curtain, if we might, explaining how this process works. We often see the president during the 4:00 p.m. hour.
The president when he signs executive orders from the Oval Office is not carried live. You will not see that, not on social media, not on any other cable channel. What we're told is that is due to security reasons of anything done from the Oval Office.
When the president conducts live press conferences from, say, Mar-a-Lago, that comes to you directly. As you will often notice, when we carry the executive orders, there's a little bug in the top of your television screen that says "Moments ago."
Now, the way this works is we often don't know when the president will be signing executive orders. We have a schedule. He was scheduled to sign executive orders today at 3:00 p.m. Eastern time. It rarely goes off on schedule.
And then we never know how long these executive order signings and press conferences and Q&As will go. Some days, they're 20 minutes. Some days, they're 40 minutes. But as soon as they're over, they're turned over to us to air to you.
So, every day, it is a bit of a juggling act to find out when President Trump will start and when it will end. But I can make you this promise. When it does, we will be first to bring it to you, the people of America.
But while we monitor that potential executive order signing from the Oval Office, there was a live event today. And it was the first Cabinet meeting of the Trump administration.
Sitting at the table today, the team under Donald Trump, Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth, Secretary of State Marco Rubio, head of HHS Robert F. Kennedy Jr., and more. They sat today, and they started this first Cabinet meeting with a prayer.
From there, the president brought in Elon Musk. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We put together a great Cabinet and we have had tremendous success. We have been given a lot of credit for having a very successful first month. We're doing very well with Russia, Ukraine.
Get the prices down. The inflation is stopping slowly. Illegal border crossings have plummeted by numbers that nobody's actually ever seen before. One of the most important initiatives is DOGE. And we have cut billions and billions and billions of dollars. We're looking to get it maybe to a trillion dollars. If we can do that, we're going to start getting to be at a point where we can think in terms of balancing budgets.
So, I'd like to have Elon Musk please say a few words.
Thank you, Elon.
ELON MUSK, DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT EFFICIENCY: The overall goal here with the DOGE team is to help address the enormous deficit. We simply cannot sustain a country at $2 trillion deficits. The interest rates -- just the interest on the national debt now exceeds the Defense Department spending.
We spend a lot on the Defense Department, but we're spending like over a trillion dollars on interest. If this continues, the country will go -- become de facto bankrupt.
TRUMP: This country has gotten bloated and fat and disgusting and incompetently run.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: To help us understand and digest this historic Cabinet meeting, the first of the Trump administration, I'd love to now bring in Senator from Utah Mike Lee.
Senator, it's great to see you.
The last we heard from you, Senator -- and you and I haven't spoken in a little while. The last we heard from, you were ready to put a posse together of good old boys ready to take on the Mexican drug cartels. Are we still headed for that, private citizens taking on the drug cartels at the border?
SEN. MIKE LEE (R-UT): Privateers is what they're called. Letters of marque and reprisal are authorized under Article I, Section 8, Clause 10 of the Constitution.
The same clause that gives Congress the power to declare war also gives Congress the power to issue these letters of marque. The letters of marque authorize privateers, or pirates, essentially, authorized to carry out acts of piracy, if you will, outside the United States, bringing the spoils back to the United States to share in the proceeds.
This is one way that the United States could take on the cartels without actually deploying U.S. military personnel. Incentivize those who are willing to incur the risk to go down there and deprive them of their assets to return to the United States and receive a reward, commensurate with what they're able to seize.
CAIN: Is this -- before we move back to the Cabinet meeting today and help us together understand everything we saw live on television in that first ever Cabinet meeting, is this something that you think is -- you are certainly an independent thinker and someone who understands American history and the United States Constitution.
Is this also something that we can realistically expect Congress or the president of the United States to endorse?
LEE: Look, it hasn't happened in a couple of centuries, so I'm not going to kid you here into thinking that this is a certainty to pass.
What I'm saying is that it should be considered. And I would love it if Congress were to pass this. I don't think it's something that we ought to take off the table. There are, as you know, immense risks involved with deploying U.S. military personnel.
You can minimize some of that with letters of marque. George Washington himself was a privateer, an investor in privateers. It's where he made a lot of his money. This was fairly common at the time of the American Revolution, and we ought to consider it, and perhaps pass one, with reference to international drug cartels.
CAIN: Well, I think it's a conversation we have been having here on an ongoing basis, taking the fight to the Mexican drug cartels.
All right, Senator, let's return to this Cabinet meeting together. Our own Lawrence Jones of "FOX & Friends" was in that Cabinet meeting, and he got to ask a few questions. Together, let's watch and see what we think about what the answers were, again, today at first Cabinet meeting for Donald Trump.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
LAWRENCE JONES, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: I know you like competition. And I know it's early. So which department are you most impressed with?
TRUMP: It's very early. Right now, I think I'm impressed with everybody so far, everybody.
If I wasn't in the first month with -- and some of them just got here. They just got approved two days ago, right? But I think I'm very impressed with everybody. So far, I'm very happy with all of the choices.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Senator, the president said that Lawrence Jones was a competitive guy, a controversial guy for asking him to kind of pit Cabinet members or Cabinets within the executive branch against one another.
But you're sitting in the Senate. Who is doing a good job of inviting in DOGE, of finding waste and fraud? Who's resisting DOGE?
LEE: Well, look, that really goes beyond my scope of knowledge at this moment. I don't have any insight into which Cabinet members are working better with DOGE than others.
I will say at the outset here, Will, this is the most exciting Cabinet, to me, the most impressive Cabinet that has ever served under any president in my lifetime. And I don't say that lightly. I'm very impressed with President Trump's team.
And I'm thrilled that he brought Elon Musk into that meeting, equally thrilled that Elon Musk gave him -- gave the Cabinet that charge. He's absolutely right. We're now spending over a trillion dollars a year in interest on our debt, far more than we spend on national defense. And that's only growing as interest rates continue to go up.
So every one of them need to be put on notice that it needs to be their job to figure out ways to cut out a significant amount of spending. If we don't do that, the risks are immense. They're almost too immense to describe capably in this conversation. So I'm glad they convened today. I'm glad President Trump had Elon Musk deliver that message.
CAIN: Senator, piggyback on my compliment that you're an independent thinker. By the way, it's not a gratuitous compliment if it's accurate. But piggyback on this idea that you're an independent thinker, I'm curious what you think about this idea that the president has talked about of offering a gold visa priced at $5 million for people that want to migrate to the United States as a tool to pay down that massive debt we have racked up, $36 trillion.
Here is President Trump.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: These companies can go and buy a gold card, and they can use it as a matter of recruitment. At the same time, the companies -- using that money to pay down debt. We're going to pay down a lot of debt with that.
But we have to be able to get people in the country, and we want people that are productive people. And I will tell you, the people that can pay $5 million, they're going to create jobs. They're going to spend a lot of money on jobs. They're going to have to pay taxes on that too. So they're going to be hiring people. They're going to be bringing people in and companies in.
And I don't know. Maybe it will sell like crazy. I happen to think it's going to sell like crazy. It's a bargain.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: What do you think of the gold card, Senator?
LEE: It's an interesting thought. It's novel, like so many things that President Trump has proposed.
One of the questions that I would have would be, what procedure would you have in place to vet those individuals? How much money would this actually bring in? What would we need to do to offset, to mitigate against the risk of foreign governments subsidizing people buying those cards so as to get in here and gain access to our country who wouldn't otherwise have it?
I'm sure, as President Trump is thinking this through and I'm sure if this moves forward, Congress will be invited into those discussions.
CAIN: But it does seem to -- Senator, as we button this up together, it does seem to show that there is an interest in immigration as long as we continue to be a magnet for the best and brightest in the world, as opposed to the Biden administration's policies to invite everyone into the world, regardless of what they contribute to the United States.
LEE: Yes. Yes, it's a fair point.
And this is something that I'd like and appreciate about President Trump. I think President Trump acknowledges that we're sort of living beneath our ability as a country to capitalize on the fact that this is a uniquely desirable place to live, a uniquely desirable place to do business, and a uniquely desirable country with which to trade.
And so he's always exploring ways in which we can capitalize on that, in which he can turn that into a benefit for the American people. And for that, I'm grateful to him.
CAIN: It seems like a novel time in governance in America.
So will you let us please know here first if that novelty includes letters of marque for privateers taking on the Mexican drug cartels?
LEE: Absolutely.
Look, even though it's been a couple of centuries since we have done this, this stuff works. There are all kinds of reasons why we wouldn't want to deploy U.S. troops into Mexico to go after cartels. This is completely different than that. Doesn't require up-front capital. It doesn't require the risk of U.S. military blood or treasure.
This instead incentivizes others who may already be in a position to know where those assets are to seize those assets, tangible and digital, bring them back to the United States for a share of the proceeds.
CAIN: OK, Senator Mike Lee, thank you so much for being with us here today.
LEE: Thank you, Will.
CAIN: All right.
Jeff Bezos, remarkable story, he's going to rework the editorial pages of The Washington Post. No more one-sided opinion. He said, we're not even here to get opinion from all sides of the spectrum. You know what kind of opinion we want? Those that focus on -- quote -- "personal liberties" and - - quote -- "free markets" -- next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: Something is changing in America. As many people have said, the nation is healing.
The latest illustration? Jeff Bezos, owner of The Washington Post, announcing a -- quote -- "significant shift." The Amazon executive chair telling staff this morning that changes are coming to the paper's opinion section. He said -- quote -- "We're going to be writing every day in support and defense of two pillars, personal liberties and free markets."
Bezos also saying The Post will be seeking a new opinion editor, adding: "I offered David Shipley, whom I greatly admire, the opportunity to lead this new chapter. I suggested to him that if the answer wasn't hell yes, then it had to be no. After careful consideration, David stepped away."
And joining me now to discuss, Washington Examiner correspondent Tiana Lowe Doescher.
Tiana, thanks for being with us here.
This is a significant shift. Bezos went on to say, we're not looking for opinions from all sides of the spectrum. He said, that's what we now have for the Internet. He said, we want people who are ready to defend those two propositions.
TIANA LOWE DOESCHER, THE WASHINGTON EXAMINER: Yes, Will, the vibe shift is here.
And, look, if this were a quarter-century ago, personal liberties and free markets did not used to be monopolized by the right. But now that is what the left has done, right, because they totally relinquished any notion of adherence to capitalism as a good thing or free speech or personal liberties as a good thing.
Bezos is a moneyman. He also sees what the future holds. He sees that it's bad business to continue trying to do what The New York Times has -- essentially has total domain over. Just remember, will, WaPo is on track for $100 million net losses every single year.
So right now, if the same thing isn't working, if the same leftist dogma and groupthink isn't working, why not try something new?
CAIN: Such a great point. Personal liberties and free markets were not the domain of one political party. They were values held by America.
And it shows how far not just The Washington Post, but so many institutions inside the mainstream media strayed from the values of America. So here's the question, Tiana.
In my eyes, I see it as one of two options. Do you think guys like Bezos are insincerely following the vibe shift? As you point out now, they see the way that it has moved and they're ready to put their sails against that wind? Or did they always believe this and they looked at their paper with embarrassment and weakness because they didn't do anything about it as it shifted to this anti-American insanity for the past decade-plus?
LOWE DOESCHER: Honestly, I believe it's a bit of a yes-and thing, where you have Bezos, even Musk to an extent, used to be Zuckerberg, all folks that engaged in that Obama era idealism of technology is good, it will help us conquer things like the totalitarian governments and climate change.
And what was the tech billionaire class rewarded with for these inventions that created millions of jobs, having absolutely progressed the cause of human advancement in science? They were rewarded with eat the rich, every billionaire is a policy failure, and also just a complete lack of growth on the business end of things, right?
The New York Times is the only company that has benefited from this hegemonic sprint to Stalinism. Instead, the New -- instead, you have The Washington Post, literally its audience decimated from 22 million daily users to 2.5 million daily users over the course of Biden's presidency.
And so I think Trump and this new era have given someone like Bezos permission to channel an energy that -- let's be real. He's a capitalist. He knows that this stuff hasn't been winning. He thought he could be empathetic, and he thought he could guide the culture, and he could learn from the left, and the left didn't want to teach anyone. They wanted to control thoughts.
CAIN: I think there are those today that look at this skeptically, Bezos wants contracts with the federal government, so therefore they're going to shift in this direction.
I think, Tiana -- I will leave it here. The Washington Post, The New York Times, they have always been in league with leftist ideology, always. But what shows is, over the last 10 years, exactly how insane that leftist ideology became, that it not only became embarrassing, but as you point out, just horrific for business. You're catering to an audience that big.
Tiana, thank you for being with us here today.
LOWE DOESCHER: Thank you, Will.
CAIN: All right, now for an update to a story we brought you yesterday.
Director of National Intelligence Tulsi Gabbard has ordered an investigation into her agency after some employees reportedly took part in sex chats, really graphic sex chats, under the banner of DEI. Here's what she had to say.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TULSI GABBARD, U.S. DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE: There are over 100 people from across the intelligence community that contributed to and participated in this what is really just an egregious violation of trust, what to speak of, like, basic rules and standards around professionalism.
I put out a directive today that they all will be terminated and their security clearances will be revoked. They were brazen in using an NSA platform intended for professional use to conduct this kind of really, really horrific behavior. And they were brazen in doing this because, when was the last time anyone was really held accountable?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: And these mentally unhealthy people on display on company-wide channels had top secret clearances.
All right, the right is pushing common sense, the left pushing back. Are we on the verge of a cultural revolution? Is the nation healing? Still work to do when it comes to transgender athletes.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: The nation is healing. That's what I said just a few moments ago.
Is it that we are now stepping away from the obvious insanity of DEI and trans issues? Are we witnessing a cultural revolution? The answer to many seems obvious. Yes. It's so obvious, it's even clear to Bill Maher.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I believe that answer is to not have the government decide from above. It's just to leave it up to people and parents and the kids and the doctors, right?
You want the government to ban gender-affirming care for kids?
BILL MAHER, HOST, "REAL TIME WITH BILL MAHER": You want you want to lose every election, just keep coming down on the side of parents coming in second in a who gets to decide what goes on with my kid contest.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'm not. I'm not.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: It's obvious to Bill Maher, but not to the Obama bro sitting Indian style on a couch as a grown man.
But he's somewhat emblematic of where some still sit even in government on the far left. In Philadelphia, there is a promise in that state to continue to defend trans issues in that city, in the city of Philadelphia. They're looking to continue to allow trans athletes to play girl sports and defy Donald Trump.
Meanwhile, in Maine, the Statehouse has censured a state Republican lawmaker, someone by the name of Laurel Libby, because she posted on social media about a trans athlete winning a girls competition.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
STATE REP. LAUREL LIBBY (R-ME): Can you imagine trying to put your best foot forward, but knowing that the outcome was already predetermined by natural biological advantages?
STATE REP. RYAN FECTEAU (D-ME): "Government requires a bond of trust and respect between citizens and their legislators. High moral and ethical standards producing the public's confidence should be observed" -- end quote.
Sharing images of kids online without their consent is a clear violation of that trust.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Libby was censured for posting a picture on social media of that trans athlete.
This is the same state where we heard just earlier this week the governor say to President Donald Trump, "See you in court." So, there are still some, not just sitting in Indian style on a couch and speaking condescendingly to Bill Maher, but also those still in government who promise to defy President Donald Trump.
Attorney General Pam Bondi has said, California, Minnesota, Maine, get ready to deal with the legal system if you defy the executive orders of the president of the United States.
Joining us on all of this now is Meg Brock from The Daily Caller.
Meg, thanks for being with us.
The other piece of information I would share with you and the audience is where exactly the public is on this issue of transgender athletes competing in women's sports. Look at this. New York Times/Ipsos shows almost 80 percent of Americans agree with President Trump.
And yet here we have governors in Maine and other states saying, no, no, no, we're going to protect this issue that might have just tanked our entire electoral hopes.
MEGAN BROCK, THE DAILY CALLER: You have got to wonder if the Democrats just like losing because, to your point, this is a losing issue for them. America has rejected transgender ideology. We understand that women are women, men are men, and that our daughters deserve to be safe in their locker rooms, to be safe at sports and to have a chance to win.
And it's extremely unfair that anyone would suggest that a girl who is working so hard as a student athlete should have her opportunity to win taken away, as that state legislator said, from a biological boy, from a man. It's absolutely ridiculous. Americans do not want this.
And I think that there is an army rising of just normal citizens and different people who are going to protect our girls.
CAIN: You know, Meg, I think about this, and I think it's tied to the last segment that we did on the repositioning of The Washington Post, where they said they're going to focus on free markets and personal liberties.
The left at least argues that this trans issue is an issue of personal liberties. You can hear it in that conversation between an Obama bro and Bill Maher. He's saying, leave this up to people to decide.
But we don't leave it up to children to decide whether or not they drink, whether or not they take drugs, whether or not they get tattoos. Why is it all of a sudden a message of libertarian personal liberty if a kid wants to change his medical situation, his gender?
BROCK: Well, there are two sexes, and we know that from simple biology. There's an ova and there's a sperm. There's no third gamete.
When President Trump signed the order ending the mutilation of children through alleged sex change, he was right to call it that. We don't let anyone abuse children in this country. And when you see 12-year-old little girls, for example, having their breasts removed, being sterilized, having these medical treatments that are extremely experimental, all to sell them a lie that you can change your sex.
You cannot change your sex. So, no, this is not an issue of personal liberty because the entire premise is false. And we are absolutely harming children. There are so many detransition -- transitional voices who are speaking up and really leading this cause.
You think of Chloe Cole and just sharing her story of what has been done to her. And, really, this is an issue of protecting children. We do have limits. And protecting children is absolutely something that is fundamental to our society.
CAIN: It's also incredibly hollow. You all of a sudden are for personal liberties, where, just a few years ago, you wanted everybody in society to be subjected to a mandatory vaccine. It's just so incredibly hollow.
They paint the right as -- or, actually, I don't want to call it the right.They paint the 80 percent of America that sees this issue the right way as driven by hate. It's driven by love and protecting children.
Meg Brock, really great to talk to you today. Thank you so much.
BROCK: Thank you so much.
CAIN: All right, have you ever noticed what starts out as a right-wing conspiracy becomes a mainstream story? It takes about a few months.
The proof and President Trump's hats that capitalize on that proof -- -- next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: Isn't it interesting how many stories we do tell? And they all turn out to be true and they all turn out to be ultimately correct. Trump was right about everything.
Do you have one of those Trump was right about everything hats? I'm going to give it to this gentleman.
(LAUGHTER)
TRUMP: Get me one of them.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: President Trump with a hat tip to himself, and it's deserved.
"Trump was right about everything," reads the new hat. It's because, have you ever noticed that what starts out as a right-wing conspiracy theory eventually turns into a mainstream story? It takes -- let's put the over/under at two months.
Let's review in today's "Big Three."
It's a well-worn path, but one worth not forgetting. Couple of examples. How about the idea that COVID was a lab leak theory? Everyone screamed that it was a conspiracy. In 2021, NBC said the COVID Wuhan lab leak theory is being twisted to validate conspiracy theories. CNN that same year, lab leak COVID-19 theory is like something out of a comic book.
L.A. Times, the COVID lab leak claim isn't just an attack on science. Oh, there we go, appeal to authority. But it's a threat to public health.
And then came reality.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOHN RATCLIFFE, CIA DIRECTOR: I had the opportunity on my first day to make public an assessment that actually took place in the Biden administration. So it can't be accused of being political. And it does assess, the CIA has assessed that the most likely cause of this pandemic that has wrought so much devastation around the world was because of a lab- related incident in Wuhan.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: We often focus on the COVID lab leak conspiracy theory, but it is a truth, not unlike approximately probably four dozen others that were revealed over the past four to eight years.
But here's one that is unfolding before our very eyes today. How about the idea that Joe Biden is in mental decline? That was an idea that created a debate on CNN between Lara Trump and host Jake Tapper.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
LARA TRUMP, HOST, "MY VIEW WITH LARA TRUMP": What we see on stage with Joe Biden, Jake, is very clearly a cognitive decline. That's what I'm referring to. It makes me uncomfortable to watch...
(CROSSTALK)
L. TRUMP: ... on stage search for questions.
JAKE TAPPER, CNN HOST: It's so amazing to me that...
L. TRUMP: ... and try and figure out an answer.
TAPPER: A cognitive decline.
L. TRUMP: Well, you're trying to tell me that what I was suggesting was a stutter.
(CROSSTALK)
TAPPER: I think that you were mocking his stutter. Yes, I think that you were mocking his stutter. And I think you have absolutely no standing to diagnose somebody's cognitive decline.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: All right, let's remember that moment. More in just a moment.
When you hear Lara Trump, they're talking about what she's capable of seeing with her own eyes on stage, as we all are, as we all were. Right there, we got to see this from Joe Biden.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOE BIDEN, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: That $2 trillion tax cut benefited the very wealthy. I -- what I'm going to do is fix the tax system.
For example, we have a thousand trillionaires in America -- I mean, billionaires in America. If they just paid 24 percent or 25 percent, either one of those numbers, they'd raised $500 million -- billion dollars, I should say.
Making sure that we're able to make every single solitary person eligible for what I have been able to do with the -- with the COVID. Excuse me, with dealing with everything we have to do with -- look, if -- we finally beat Medicare.
TAPPER: Thank you, President Biden.
BIDEN: And I'm going to continue to move until we get the total ban on the total initiative relative to what we're going to do with more Border Patrol and more asylum officers.
TAPPER: President Trump?
TRUMP: I really don't know what he said at the end of that sentence. I don't think he knows what he said either.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: It's still hard to watch. It's like watching walking a tightrope and falling over and over and over again.
Tapper dismissed a lot of that at one point as a stutter. Now, you want the definition of audacity? How about this? Tapper has a new book out today. It's entitled "Original Sin: President Biden's Decline, Its Cover-Up, and His Disastrous Choice to Run Again."
He wrote a book on the crime, in fact, that he committed in mainstream media. But don't think it's all in the past, because, number three, we're still dealing with hoaxes today.
How about the idea that Elon Musk is actually the president of the United States? I will give you the cover of TIME magazine. Take a look at this, where it has Elon Musk sitting behind the Resolute Desk.
The reality? Well, here's Elon Musk at the White House.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MUSK: Encouraged me via TRUTH Social and also via a phone call to be more aggressive.
And I was like, OK, yes, sir, Mr. President. We will indeed do that. Look, the president is the commander in chief. I do what the president asks.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: It's not all in the past. It's still taking place today. And it will be the truth today if we all turn to the right sources of truth,like the person I'm about to bring back into this conversation. You saw her in that clip with Jake Tapper back in 2020.
She's former RNC Chair and she's the host of a brand-new show, "My View With Lara Trump."
Lara Trump here today.
Lara, great to see you. Congratulations on the new show.
L. TRUMP: Thank you, Will. I'm so excited. It's something new at FOX, and I'm excited. Every Saturday 9:00 p.m., I will see everybody there.
CAIN: I know you will do great. I know you will have a great time as well, probably not as great of a time that day back in 2020 when you were having that debate with Jake Tapper.
(LAUGHTER)
CAIN: What do you think today about him writing a book? What do you think about him writing a book talking about the cover-up of the cognitive decline of Joe Biden?
L. TRUMP: Yes, I mean, the audacity truly of some of these people, and not the least of which, of course, is Jake Tapper, who first insinuated in that clip prior to what you saw there that I was mocking Joe Biden's stutter, something that, Will, none of us had ever heard of until that very moment.
Of course, what you just saw was me referring to what we all saw. Joe Biden was having a hard time even back in 2020 putting sentences together. It was very clear to anyone who was paying attention that he wasn't the same Joe Biden of even five years prior to that.
And so I think, for a lot of us, we said, hold on, this is the person they want to put in the Oval Office as our commander in chief? But you know what? I expect nothing less from some of these folks within the legacy media, because they're all sellouts.
And the reality is that Joe Biden did have a problem. We all know it now. And Jake Tapper probably knew it back then. He was doing the cover-up that the mainstream media has continued to do for the Democrat Party. And, sadly, it has been to the detriment of the United States of America.
How anyone is going to buy Jake Tapper's book and trust him at all is beyond me, but I will wish him good luck in that.
CAIN: The trust has been not just for that individual, but for the entirety of the mainstream media, the trust has been incinerated, absolutely incinerated.
And I think you see Lara some attempt at clawing that back when you see, for example, Jeff Bezos looking to reposition The Washington Post. I don't know that it is recoverable. A reputation is a hard thing to re-earn.
The Trump administration is doing something that we haven't seen in quite some time, though. They're going straight to the people with all this. And it's not just to the people. They're actually very open with the media as well.
Here's the newest stats. He's taken over 1,000 questions in the first month of his presidency. That's a 700 percent increase from Joe Biden's 141. You know the man well or obviously. Just very comfortable. Very comfortable. Those aren't prescreened. No one knows what's going to be asked. Just very comfortable. Whatever comes, he's ready to take it?
L. TRUMP: Yes.
Well, this is the most transparent president and administration I think in presidential history. This is a man in Donald Trump who did it his first term in office. I mean, we all remember him walking out to Marine One and he would famously stop every single time and he would engage with the press.
Now he invites them into the Oval Office at every possible opportunity. When he gets off Air Force One every single time, he stops and engages with the press. I mean, the stat that you saw there, over 1,000 interviews versus 114 for Joe Biden. We just went through four years of not knowing what was going on in our government, not knowing who was really running things, Will.
This is so great for the United States of America. The press has full access to this man and he isn't afraid to answer any question. And I think the funny thing is, when you look at all those hoaxes you just referenced, the goal of all of those in many ways, especially when it has to do with Donald Trump, was to kind of undermine him and to make him look like he's unqualified, try to make him look foolish in some way.
But what happens, we all know the difference between a conspiracy theory and the truth is, like you said, about six weeks, is that the press actually ends up being the ones who look like a bunch of fools at the end of the day. So I hope they're starting to learn their lesson.
Look, I hope they're coming around, because all we want is fact and information delivered to we the people and we should be able to make our own decisions on so much.
CAIN: And you can go directly to the president of the United States or you can be very selective about your sources for information.
It came out this week, many, many people, millions and millions of people turn to FOX News. We have smashed records over the last couple of months. And so have you in your debut show smashing ratings records. Lara Trump dominates in FOX debut, even crushed ESPN basketball.
Incredible debut, Lara.
(LAUGHTER)
L. TRUMP: Oh, thank you. Well, I hope everybody's ready for another great episode this Saturday night. We're going to do a whole show on making America healthy again, the MAHA movement. It's a big reason that Donald Trump is back in the White House and he has his HHS secretary, RFK Jr., working alongside him.
So,everybody, tune in. I will see you there at 9:00 p.m.
CAIN: OK. We will see you there. Thank you so much.
L. TRUMP: Thank you.
CAIN: All right, the A.I. race is heating up in America's heartland.
Meta reportedly intends to invest billions in a new A.I. data center. Where? What does it look like? Reports are it could be four miles' long. How many jobs would it create? Is it all good investment? I have so many questions.
We do a deep dive for the answers next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: Meta is investing in America's heartland.
The tech giant reportedly is in talks to spend $200 billion to build a new artificial intelligence data center. It would be over, reportedly, four miles' long. It would exceed the company's previous A.I. investments. So potential locations for this monstrosity would be Louisiana, Wyoming, and maybe right here in Texas.
Now, Meta's spokesperson has come out denying the report. They called it pure speculation. But Meta isn't the only tech giant looking to increase its A.I. spending. Take a look at this chart. It shows capital expenditures from the five or six biggest tech companies, Amazon, Microsoft, Google, and Meta, and what they plan to lay out over the next four to five years in capital expenditures. Stunning.
All of it is hard to recognize the moment in history in which we sit.
So joining me now is Ben Van Roo. He's the co-founder and CEO of Yurts, an A.I. company that integrates data to get accurate responses.
Ben, I just want to start where I just -- where I began my thought process. My sense is -- yesterday, I had David Sacks, our A.I. czar to the White House, on the show. And he compared it to the Internet, the Internet evolution in the 1990s. I have to go back to the Industrial Revolution of the 1880s through the 1920s.
Life before and after the Industrial Revolution was unrecognizable. I'm wondering if we're not sitting at the same moment. All of us, you, me, everybody watching, are we not sitting here in this moment of something that rivals the Industrial Revolution?
BEN VAN ROO, CO-FOUNDER AND CEO, YURTS TECHNOLOGIES: Well, first of all, thanks for having me back on the show. It's great to be here.
I think you hit the nail on the head. I compare it often to the electrification of the world, because what you really see at this point in time is various groups trying to find that 20th century comparison of, is this changing the world, similar to the Industrial Revolution, similar to the Internet?
You hear people often talk about it being like the arms race. But I think it's going to be as transformational as electricity. And what you see with the investments in data centers is the largest companies in the world and also some of the largest governments in the world are investing heavily in this type of technology.
CAIN: Right.
OK, we only have three minutes left together. Here's two big questions we're going to fit in. The Industrial Revolution made the American Rust Belt. Cities like Pittsburgh were built upon that transformation. The team is named the Pittsburgh Steelers.
With these A.I. data centers going into Louisiana and Texas and potentially Wyoming, what does that mean for those communities? Like, what -- how will it transform the heartland that might house all of these data centers?
VAN ROO: Yes, great question.
The -- kind of a way to think about artificial intelligence and data centers is, artificial intelligence is a tool. It's used by consumers, businesses, governments, national security community. The data centers are more like factories that build these tools and help them run.
And so what happened during the Industrial Revolution is factories and factories were built. And it was not only jobs within the factories, but it's everything around it. Data centers require tons of electricity. So it is going to be the public works, the infrastructure, everything around it. Whole towns are going to pop up near some of these data centers just to support them.
In and of themselves, data centers do not employ hundreds of thousands of people sitting in the data center. So that's a little bit different than the comparison, but the ancillary around it, there's going to be dramatic impacts for these states that invest with these companies and can help them move very quickly to deploy that capital and build the data centers.
CAIN: I'm even interested in, architecturally, what does this look like for these towns, four-mile-long data centers? Like, I don't know. At one point, we were defined by architecture and the Industrial Revolution. Now we're building these things. What do our towns look like?
But last question, it's big, and we got to do it quickly. Could it all be money flushed down the toilet? Like, we're still dealing with the DeepSeek thing. If DeepSeek is real, we're making all these investments and we don't need it?
VAN ROO: No, I think DeepSeek is -- while everyone talked about DeepSeek and the efficiency to build essentially a tool, the infrastructure that was required, the fact that it was required to build that tool at DeepSeek was still -- it appears to be a fairly large -- at least a billion dollar capital outlay.
So I really kind of think about it differently. With the -- most performant models that are coming online now, they're pretty transformational in the types of activities and reasoning and tasks they can do. I actually think the biggest challenge and the biggest question is going to be, can the federal government, can the states move quickly and allow all of these different changes to take place?
And, look, what Meta's doing is a -- it's a pro-government, it's a pro- business, it's a pro-A.I., it's a pro-jobs play.
CAIN: Right.
I got to leave it right there, Ben. We have come to the end of the program and a big conversation. Ben Van Roo, thanks so much for being with me.
All right, thanks for being with us here today, as we get to the heart of what matters from the heart of America.
Now it's time for "The Five."
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.

Load-Date: February 26, 2025


End of Document
