




Fox News THE WILL CAIN SHOW 4:00 PM EST
February 10, 2025 Monday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; International
Length: 6848 words
Byline: Tyrus, Will Cain
Guests: Jerome Bettis, Edouard Harris, Jeremie Harris, Chris Wright, Sean Davis, Tommy Tuberville
Body


WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Live from New Orleans, the Super Bowl hangover, the walk of shame. Still in New Orleans, this is "The Will Cain Show."
Last night, the Eagles dominated the chiefs in Super Bowl LIX on Fox.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ANNOUNCER: Hurts on the sneak, pile-drives his way in, touchdown.
(CHEERING)
ANNOUNCER: Hurts lets it go, complete, A. J. Brown, he's in, touchdown.
ROGER GOODELL, COMMISSIONER, NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE: Take the Vince Lombardi home to Philadelphia.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: A huge win for Philly in front of a packed stadium and President Trump. He made history last night as the first sitting president to attend a Super Bowl.
But it was one of many things President Trump did this weekend. And to catch everyone up on his breakneck pace, we wanted to put together the latest from President Trump's to-do list.
In just the last hour, the Trump administration formally requesting the IRS provide agents to be used for immigration enforcement with ICE. It's something the president has suggested a few weeks ago, and now the ball is rolling. Over the weekend, Trump, bored at the Super Bowl, posted on X about halftime: "Let's get rid of the penny."
He wrote: "For far too long, the United States has minted pennies which literally cost us more than 2 cents. This is so wasteful. I have instructed my secretary of the U.S. treasury to stop producing new pennies."
And, by the way, it costs taxpayers around $85 million to mint pennies every year. Also yesterday, the president signing a proclamation making February 9 Gulf of America Day.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We're flying right over it right now. So we thought this would be appropriate, even bigger than the Super Bowl. This is a big thing. And almost everybody now has assented to that.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Attention on board. Ladies and gentlemen, if you could please direct your attention out the right side of the aircraft, Air Force One is currently in international waters, the first time in history flying over the recently renamed Gulf of America.
Please enjoy the flight. And we are now about to head westbound to Super Bowl LIX.
TRUMP: Wow. he did that well.
(CHEERING)
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Introducing the Gulf of America.
Also yesterday, the president sitting down with Bret Baier for a wide- ranging interview.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: You know, the prime minister said this weekend to a group of Canadian businessmen, he was at private meeting, he said that your wish for Canada to be the 51st state is a -- quote -- "real thing." Is it a real thing?
TRUMP: Yes, it is. I think Canada would be much better off being the 51st state, because we lose $200 billion a year with Canada and I'm not going to let that happen. It's too much. Why are we paying $200 billion a year essentially in subsidy to Canada? Now, if they're a 51st state, I don't mind doing it.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: You will remember Joe Biden last year skipped the interview at the Super Bowl.
And another to-do item list checked off by President Trump. He ordered the immediate dismissal of the Board of Visitors for the Army, Air Force, Navy and Coast Guard to combat what he calls woke leftist ideologues.
Finally, Trump expected to announce 25 percent tariffs on steel and aluminum imports today. OK, I think we got it all. Senator Tommy Tuberville is going to be joining us to unpack all of that in just a few minutes.
But, first, it's time to eat some crow. It's time to give credit where credit is due. It's time for accountability. I have, of course, throughout my career focused on sports, I would suggest much more than my former "FOX & Friends" weekend co-host Rachel Campos Duffy.
That hasn't seemed to help me when it comes to predicting sports or specifically the Super Bowl.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: By the way, I want your pick. That's the whole deal.
Rachel Campos Duffy is better at picking sports than Will Cain, headlines scream across OutKick. So I do want your pick here today.
(CROSSTALK)
CAIN: I'm going with -- I'm going to go Chiefs. I'm going to go Chiefs by four. So I think I gave a score. I think I said 31-27 Chiefs.
RACHEL CAMPOS DUFFY, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: I think the Eagles are going to win. Look at that condescending laugh. That's the kind of laugh he gave when I did better predictions the last time.
(CROSSTALK)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It was condescending, It was condescending, Will. It was very, very condescending.
(CROSSTALK)
CAIN: Why would I ever? Rachel Campos Duffy better at picking sports than Will.
(CROSSTALK)
CAMPOS DUFFY: No one's in my ear, Will.
You're just feeling bad about last time. You're worried another OutKick headlines going to come out as you're sitting there at the Super Bowl. And it could be embarrassing. I mean, you're a big star now in prime time and you're leading the prime time.
And then like the chick the chick who used to be a cheerleader in high school beats you again in predictions.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(LAUGHTER)
CAIN: And so the headline is here for you today, and it's my job to share with you OutKick: "Rachel Campos Duffy is still better at predicting sports than Will Cain and Clay Travis."
How did this happen? I'm going to tell you. Perhaps I'm better at analysis than predictions.
While Jalen Hurts was incredible for the Philadelphia Eagles -- he ran, he threw, he set Super Bowl records -- the Eagles' defensive line was incredible. They blitzed Patrick Mahomes zero times and still were in his face 50 percent of the games. Absolutely incredible performance by the defensive line of the Philadelphia Eagles.
But, third, the biggest story from this Super Bowl might have been the reception of our sitting president. President Trump was greeted with huge cheers during the national anthem. It represents an absolute vibe shift in America.
It was also reflected when Taylor Swift was placed on screen and she received a less warm welcome than President Trump. In fact, President Trump noticed and posted this on it on TRUTH Social: "The only one that had a tougher night than the Kansas City Chiefs was Taylor Swift. She got booed out of the stadium. MAGA is very unforgiving."
To illustrate the vibe shift, this stood out to me. Here's President Trump in his suite last night at the Superdome with country music star Zach Bryan and comedian Shane Gillis. In fact, that moment represented something such a vibe shift and there was so much criticism this morning for the NFL's halftime show featuring Kendrick Lamar that today earlier on The Will Cain digital show, we had an idea for a better halftime show,.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Think about that, a full-on Trump rally for the halftime show.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No, here's what you do. Here's what you do you. First, you have a couple Zach Bryan songs, and then you wheel out Trump's desk. He's got some executive orders on the desk and starts signing them
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And then Shane Gillis -- and then Shane Gillis tells us some jokes.
CAIN: And then Shane -- by the way, oh, my God, that would be epic. Zach Bryan does two songs. Trump rolls out, signs five executive orders, and then Shane Gillis gives us a five-minute set.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.
CAIN: Tell me that doesn't -- that's an amazing half time. The only problem with that is, it's a 45-minute halftime. There's no way Trump does his seven-minute bit of that. There's no way.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It would be hard to fill.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: That'd be better than the game.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Epic halftime. Sit back, enjoy the ratings. Rake in the credit.
You know who else was at last night's big game alongside the president? Alabama Republican Senator Tommy Tuberville.
Coach joins us now.
Coach, it's great to have you again here on "The Will Cain Show." You were there. You were in the stadium with President Trump. There's a headline today from CBS with a new approval poll out that shows that Donald Trump is doing overwhelmingly well, record-setting approval ratings with not just men, which is to be noted, but with virtually everyone in America, setting records, energetic first weeks, doing what he promised.
Did you feel that last night at the Superdome?
SEN. TOMMY TUBERVILLE (R-AL): Oh, 100 percent.
There was two winners last night, Donald Trump and the Philadelphia Eagles. The Eagles just totally dominated the line of scrimmage, Will. It was just unbelievable. I would have never believed it, but they did.
And, as you said, you well noticed this. They didn't even blitz. They didn't blitz one time, and they still controlled the line of scrimmage. But Donald Trump was a huge hit there last night, first president ever to go to a Super Bowl, amazing feat there.
But you said the loser also was a halftime show. That was god-awful.
(LAUGHTER)
CAIN: Thank you for your editorial judgment.
Coach, who has asked me to call him Coach, it's not an act of lack of self -- lack of respect. It's, he said, Will, I'd prefer you to call me Coach, instead of Senator.
But I am going to move to your other job now, Coach. And that is this. This is notable on the to-do list, President Trump deputizing IRS agents to enforce under DHS illegal immigration. This is quite a move to think that 80,000, by the way, IRS agents were hired under Joe Biden. Donald Trump redeploys them to fight illegal immigration.
TUBERVILLE: Yes, get them out of their house. They're sitting at home harassing American citizens about their taxes.
President Trump's going to get them off the couch, get them out of the front of the television and send them on the road to help where they actually can help. What an idea, right? We have got way too many IRS agents. The American people need to break here.
But we need -- we do need a lot of help at the border.
CAIN: Imagine that. How about law enforcement focused on those that break the law, those that are in this country illegally, and aid going to actual Americans and not to people of foreign countries?
You sit on the Armed Services Committee, Senator, and I found this very notable today. Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth and President Trump pointed out they're going to dissolve the Board of Visitors for the Army, the Air Force, the Navy, and the Coast Guard academies. They don't like what they have seen become of these academies.
TUBERVILLE: Yes, we're having a lot of problems with all the academies.
Now, some are better than others, Will. I'm the chairman of the Personnel Committee on Armed Services, and we're going to get to the bottom of it, but President Trump just basically let all the Board of Visitors go of all three of them. He will replace everybody on there.
We will put some good people, people that really love the military, want to build a fighting machine along with Pete and work well together. But the Air Force Academy is having huge problems. The Naval Academy is having not quite as many. West Point is doing pretty good, but we still got a lot of work to do, but we need to be 100 percent teaching these young men and women how to control and fight a war.
And it all starts there with our leaders in the military academies.
CAIN: We have seen the numbers on the recruiting increases over the last couple of months with the appointment of the new secretary of defense, and it's looking to put the United States military back on the right foot that attracts the best young men and women of merit into serving this country.
Senator, Coach, it's always good to see you. Thank you for being with us today.
TUBERVILLE: You too, Will. I saw Jerry Jones last night, our team's owner. He said he's coming back.
CAIN: Oh, well, that's good. I need somebody to put in a good word for our Dallas Cowboys. Thank you, Coach.
(LAUGHTER)
TUBERVILLE: You got it.
CAIN: All right.
All right, let's take a quick look at the corner of Wall and Broad right here from in the middle of Bourbon Street. We now go to New York. No case there of the Mondays, the Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq all ending the day in positive territory.
Democrats, though, are melting down over DOGE. In fact, a judge has looked to suspend some of the federal employee buyouts indefinitely. And can you believe that now DHS Secretary Kristi Noem says the leaks when it comes to ICE raids may be coming up from the FBI?
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. ILHAN OMAR (D-MN): What we are witnessing is a constitutional crisis.
SEN. CHRIS MURPHY (D-CT): This is the most serious constitutional crisis the country has faced certainly since Watergate.
REP. NYDIA VELAZQUEZ (D-NY): What Trump and Musk are doing is unconstitutional.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: We are live from New Orleans with the jubilant sounds of Bourbon Street.
And now for a juxtaposition, let's go live to Washington, D.C., where Democrats, we expect to see soon, like Senator Elizabeth Warren and Congressman Maxine Waters, after last week protesting outside the Department of Education, now look to once again protest DOGE and Elon Musk in front of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
It could look a lot like this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. GREG CASAR (D-TX): We are not going to help Republicans allow Elon Musk to break the law, shred our Constitution, while he makes billions of dollars in wealth for himself.
MURPHY: This is the most serious constitutional crisis the country has faced certainly since Watergate.
OMAR: What we are witnessing is a constitutional crisis. We are seeing an executive branch that has decided that they are no longer going to abide by the Constitution.
SEN. ANDY KIM (D-NJ): We are basically on the cusp of a constitutional crisis.
VELAZQUEZ: It's illegal and it is unconstitutional.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Democrats making their Alamo wasteful government spending, funding DEI projects and plays in Ireland or in Colombia, things like $3.3 million for LGBTI experience in the Caribbean, $49 million to improve reading in Zambian schools, and $59 million FEMA sent to New York City luxury hotels to house illegal immigrants just last week, according to Elon Musk.
Accountability for government waste used to be bipartisan. In fact, then- Senator Barack Obama co-sponsored a bill with Republican Senator Tom Coburn to better enhance USAspending's transparency. But, today, they stand against the wall. They barricade themselves inside that Alamo to defend every dime spent by the federal government.
My next guest, by the way, spearheaded that law between Obama and Senator Coburn. He's now the CEO and co-founder of The Federalist, Sean Davis.
Sean, you see these Democrats last week, first of all, in front of the DOE. Looks like they're going to do something similar now in front of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. What do you think? I mean, can you believe this is the flag of the party right now?
SEAN DAVIS, CEO AND CO-FOUNDER, THE FEDERALIST: Yes, it's kind of shocking to just see how much they need this trough of taxpayer money in order to survive.
And I saw the clips of them saying it's a constitutional crisis. They're half-right. It's absolutely a crisis, but it's a crisis for the Democrat Party, because, as we're finding out as DOGE goes through the federal books, so much of that party and its tentacles are dependent upon completely wasteful, ridiculous, hundreds of billions in taxpayer dollars being funneled to them and all their friends.
So I totally understand why they're mad about the spigot get shutting off, but that doesn't mean that it needs to keep going.
CAIN: You know, Sean, what's interesting is making this a left-right fight or a Republican-Democrat fight kind of misses the point of how far based Democrats are.
I just want to share with you what a professional golfer, actually a golfing legend, just posted today about this government spending in DOGE. Phil Mickelson, he posted this today about government spending.
He said: "Thank you for pointing this out, Elon. How about we take care of Americans first? Maybe we can start by helping our veterans or fellow Americans in need before we misallocate funds from their intended purpose."
Sean, there's also the effort among many federal judges to stop President Trump's attempt to roll back government spending, specifically when it comes to employment. President Trump recently talked about this. He said, if we can't, as an executive branch, rein in spending, well, then, how do we have a country? Listen to this from President Trump.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: And when a president can't look for fraud and waste and abuse, we don't have a country anymore. So we're very disappointed with the judges that would make such a ruling, but we have a long way to go.
We have to look -- we have to find all of the fraud that's going on. We have tremendous fraud, tremendous waste and tremendous abuse and theft, by the way. And the day you're not allowed to look for theft and fraud, et cetera, then we don't have much of a country.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Sean, what do you make of the legal challenges to President Trump?
DAVIS: I think they're a little bit absurd.
I mean, for a backwater judge and some blue enclave somewhere to say that the president of the United States, the person who is the executive branch, doesn't have the authority to go look at Treasury data, doesn't have the authority to stop waste, fraud and abuse, it's -- as a legal matter, it's absurd.
As a factual political matter, it's absurd. And I just don't see how it's going to have any legs to stand on as we go forward.
CAIN: All right, the last thing I want to ask you about quickly here, Sean, is, Attorney General Pam Bondi has suggested that there's huge leaks inside of ICE.
Meanwhile, DHS Secretary Kristi Noem is saying it's the FBI who's leaking these ICE raids about what's happening across the country. This is a major story, should it be the case, that it's being leaked from the FBI.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PAM BONDI (R), U.S. ATTORNEY GENERAL: If anyone leaks anything, people don't understand that jeopardizes the lives of our great men and women in law enforcement. And if you leaked it, we will find out who you are and we will come after you. And it's not going to stop our mission. It's not going to stop the president's mission to make America safe again.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: What do you think about these allegations of both ICE and the FBI, Sean?
DAVIS: Well, I suspect the leaks are coming from both of them.
When you have these agencies that have thousands and thousands of employees, many of them burrowed in and hostile to the administration, I would suspect that they're going to have to do some leak-proofing in ratting out in ICE, in DHS, and the FBI.
I doubt that just one agency is to blame, but every single leaker needs to be made public and held to account for what they're doing, because it's putting people's lives at risk.
CAIN: All right. Sean Davis of The Federalist, thanks so much for being with us here today.
DAVIS: Thank you, sir.
CAIN: You bet.
OK, President Trump says he's one of the smartest men that he knows. He once ran an oil and gas company. He's got a lot of attention when he made this video slamming North Face.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
CHRIS WRIGHT, U.S. ENERGY SECRETARY: North Face recently came out against my industry. I went through North Face's Web site of wide-ranging products, and I failed to find a single product that wasn't made out of oil and gas. So, thank you, North Face.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: The new secretary, the new secretary of energy, Chris Wright, under President Trump, he's going to join us next with his commonsense approach to make America energy-dominant.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: Is the future of American energy nuclear? Well, let's take a look at some of the benefits. It's the largest source of clean power. It can create hundreds of jobs and supports national security.
So why haven't we explored it in the past? Here are some of the arguments in the negative. Public sentiment views it as dangerous. It could have high operating costs. It's very hard to get up and running, with big capital expenditure.
But my next guest is now running the Energy Department, and they have made nuclear a priority.
Energy Secretary Chris Wright joins me now.
Mr. Secretary, thanks for being with us today. You come in with high compliments from the president of the United States. And I don't think anybody thinks nuclear is the primary source of energy for the future of the United States, but should it be a much bigger part, a bigger piece of our energy pie?
WRIGHT: Thanks for having me, Will.
Absolutely. Look, this is a reliable energy source that works 24/7/365 independent of the weather or what's going on. You can get a lot of energy out of a small footprint. Absolutely,we should see nuclear growing in the United States. We need more energy. It should come from many different places.
CAIN: What's the biggest holdup on nuclear? Is it regulation? Is it the cost of building nuclear plants? Why is it -- and I know there's the issue of the public sentiment as well. But what is the biggest holdup in building out nuclear power in the United States?
WRIGHT: The biggest holdup by far has been regulatory. It's been getting the permits to operate. I think there's an unrealistic and bureaucratic system created decades ago that's simply been ineffective.
We want to have safe, careful regulation of nuclear plants. We have the ability to do that. But we have gone so far, it's been impossible to build anything new. And we need to change that. The technology is there. The businesses are there. The capital is there.
And public support for nuclear is there as well. And I think it'll grow rapidly in the coming years.
CAIN: Well, Mr. Secretary, I mentioned that it's a piece of the pie. Obviously, oil and gas still is the majority piece of the pie that drives energy in America.
There's a scene, a famous scene from "Landman," the Paramount series featuring Billy Bob Thornton, where he talks about all the products, all the elements of our life that run on oil and gas, literally from everything we wear to every way we move other than walking, to every aspect of a very consumer product that is in our homes.
You were the CEO of a natural gas company. Of course, you guys fracked as part of the -- bringing in oil and gas. And that was suppressed, it was regulated heavily over the past administration. What can you do today to restore not just fracking, but oil and gas and its importance in our energy supply in America?
WRIGHT: Yes, we saw in the last administration, and really it was for political purposes, not for specific safety concerns or specific issues, but they viewed it as politically popular to say we're against oil and gas. That's part of our all-of-government climate agenda.
And so hard to get permits, hard to build an export terminal, hard to build pipelines to connect your wells to where the consumers are. This just made oil and gas more expensive, less available for Americans, and I think it's part of the reason President Trump got elected, really to bring back a commonsense energy agenda.
Will, as you already said, over 70 percent of all the energy Americans consume comes from two sources, oil and natural gas.
CAIN: Right.
WRIGHT: Fortunately, we're by far the world's largest producer of both of those products.
CAIN: That's a good thing for the future of America. If we can deregulate all these sources of energy that you and I have discussed today, from nuclear to natural gas to oil, it's a good thing for the future of America.
All right, Mr. Secretary, congratulations on the new job, and thanks for being with us here today.
WRIGHT: Thanks for having me.
CAIN: You bet.
All right, let's do a quick check on "Will of the People," see what the viewers are saying online. This is a two-way conversation.
David says: "Hey, Will, can we come see your show live?" I'm sure that's a question that is inspired by the fact that I'm sitting here today in New Orleans overlooking Bourbon Street. And the answer to that is yes, someday in the future as we continue to take this show across America.
And Tasha adding: 'Will Cain Show' should have started today with the congratulations to the Eagles. Come on, man, be a good sport."
If I neglected to say it at the beginning of the show, let me say it now halfway through, Tasha. Congratulations, Philadelphia. Congratulations Super Bowl champion Philadelphia Eagles.
We will be right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: The fight for A.I. dominance.
Vice President J.D. Vance making his debut on the international stage. He's at an artificial intelligence summit in Paris. He joins major tech players like Google, Microsoft, and OpenAI as the Trump administration is looking to position itself as a leader in the A.I. race.
Joining me now are two experts in the field. They're brothers, Edouard Harris and Jeremie Harris. And, together, they co-founded the A.I. company Gladstone A.I.
Guys, thanks for being with me here today.
I found it fascinating in reading what you guys have to say that you think this fight, this search for whoever takes the dominant role in A.I. to be absolutely integral to national security. Tell me a little bit about that, Edouard, if you would, like, why you think this is so important to national defense.
EDOUARD HARRIS, CO-FOUNDER, GLADSTONE A.I.: Yes, so as A.I. systems continue to become more and more capable, Will, we're going to increasingly start to see them become useful as weapons and eventually, potentially, both being WMD-like and also WMD-enabling in various contexts.
We're seeing early signs of this in their ability to extend people's ability to develop novel biological weapons, for example. You still need some level of expertise to be able to leverage an A.I. system to do that.
But there are early indications that this will be increasingly critical to national security from that perspective.
CAIN: So, A.I.-driven weapons of mass destruction.
And then, Jeremie, I have seen you guys say as well A.I. itself, though, can be a weapon in how it's actually employed on the battlefield.
JEREMIE HARRIS, CO-FOUNDER, GLADSTONE A.I.: Yes, one of the most straightforward ways that can happen is actually the offensive cyber capability side of things, right?
So what we're starting to see -- and you have seen things like the OpenAI Super Bowl ad stuff that's really coming out of mainstream. It's about these A.I. agents more and more. It's not just chatbots. It's not just the little thing that you're interacting with, like a Google Search engine.
You're telling these things to go out into the world and do real, concrete things for you. And it doesn't just have to be booking flights. It could be stuff like designing malware or things like that. So when you think about the kind of offensive potential that these things can have, when you're thinking about off-loading potentially entire cyberattacks to these systems, that's absolutely in the realm of possibility right now.
It's something that's being taken really, really seriously. It doesn't matter whether you're talking about the kind of national security agencies or the frontier labs of Silicon Valley. That's just where the conversation's headed because of the capabilities systems already have.
CAIN: We always use the term race, Edouard, when it comes to this. So if you guys are projecting into the future, things that, quite honestly, maybe not now, but at least a year ago, we thought sounded very much like science fiction, talk to me about the race.
Like, how far away is the stuff that we now know isn't science fiction, but may yet still be in the future?
E. HARRIS: Yes, absolutely.
There are things going on today, as you mentioned, that would have been science fiction a year ago. And one of the issues, of course, is that with the work going on inside the A.I. labs, they cook for a few months, and then they release something that's a sea change and potentially obliterates entire industries from one day to the next.
And so we're left looking on the sidelines, seeing nothing, nothing, nothing, and then suddenly there's a sea change. So projecting that out, and from conversations we have had with some of the insiders at the frontier labs, there absolutely is a road map to automating things like A.I. research itself.
The labs are working on automating themselves out of the loop, which potentially means you have A.I.s that can improve A.I.s. The timeline is unknown. Nobody is sure.
CAIN: Right.
E. HARRIS: But the folks at these labs are, in some respects, actually concerned about these capabilities.
CAIN: Well, really quickly, Jeremie, on the way out, then, if the timeline is unknown, is this question I'm about to ask you answerable? Is the U.S. in the lead? We saw with DeepSeek that China took a great leap forward if it's to be trusted, what that was actually accomplished.
But who's in the lead then to -- if it's weapons of mass destruction, if it's national security on the line, who's in the lead on A.I.?
J. HARRIS: Yes, one of the features of this race is, it sounds like it's a race for software. It's actually a race for hardware.
One of the things we have learned over the last five or six years is that the capabilities of the systems are determined by how much essentially computing power, how many advanced A.I. processors you can throw at training and running these systems.
Right now, America has an important lead because we have got export controls that are preventing China from accessing the most advanced chips they need to run these systems and train them. But we have got a big, big energy problem.
CAIN: Right.
J. HARRIS: You just ran a segment where you're talking about the need for deregulation. That is a national security imperative, because you can have all the chips in the world, but if you don't have the energy to run them, you have basically got nothing.
CAIN: What a fascinating connection between the last two conversations that we have had.
By the way, I have seen it said we have a lead in the United States, but our lead is basically a couple of months' lead over, say, for example, China.
All right, Edouard, Jeremie, thanks so much for being with us here today.
(CROSSTALK)
E. HARRIS: Thanks so much, Will.
CAIN: You bet.
All right, while I was here in New Orleans, I got to catch up with an NBA legend, Shaquille O'Neal. We talked about law enforcement, the men and women who put it on the line and the United States of America.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: How do you feel about America right now?
SHAQUILLE O'NEAL, FORMER NBA PLAYER: I think we have a lot of big-time people, and if everyone just does their part.
Of course, you're always going to have left and right. You're always going to have on and off. You're always going to have certain things. But, me, I try to use the things that I'm popular at and bring people together.
CAIN: Shaq, you have been there for law enforcement. You have been there for the military. I mean, you have been there for America.
O'NEAL: That's because those people helped me become the character known as Shaq. My father is a military drill sergeant. When that anthem comes on, stand up and put your hand on your chest. That's what he taught me. And people have different beliefs and that's OK.
See, I'm the type that if you have a different belief, I'm not going to try to fight you for it. I think a lot of times, like, you say this suit is blue, I say it's navy, but we're not going to fight about it. You think it's blue, I think it's navy. OK, we move on.
So I think I think...
CAIN: Blue or navy?
O'NEAL: I think we live in a world where everybody wants to be right, but everybody's going to have their own religion, own opinion, own beliefs. And the word I think America needs to focus on is respect. You respect the person, I think.
And that's why I like doing events like these, because you meet people that are different from you and we all have one thing in common. Having fun.
CAIN: That's why I have always loved sports, man.
O'NEAL: Yes.
CAIN: Brings people that are different difference together.
O'NEAL: Exactly.
CAIN: I appreciate this, man. I really do. I think it was the first time we have ever met in person. Come on. Is it?
O'NEAL: It is.
CAIN: It is.
O'NEAL: And you're (EXPLETIVE DELETED) beautiful. Oh.
(LAUGHTER)
O'NEAL: And you're freaking beautiful in person. Thank you, brother.
CAIN: Thank you, buddy. Good to see you, Shaq. Thank you, man.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Shaquille O'Neal, a great supporter of America, and someone who also made me feel about 5 years old as he put his gigantic hand on my shoulder and stood 7 feet tall over me.
Up next, another sports legend, Hall of Fame running back Jerome Bettis, joins "The Will Cain Show."
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ANNOUNCER: For the second time, the Vince Lombardi Trophy is headed to Philadelphia. Eagles fly in Super Bowl LIX.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: The Philadelphia Eagles dominate the Kansas City Chiefs to win Super Bowl LIX.
Running back Saquon Barkley, by the way, made history, setting the new single-season rushing yards record.
Joining me now is another running back great. He's a Hall of Famer. He's a Super Bowl champion. He's Jerome Bettis.
What's up, Bus?
JEROME BETTIS, FORMER NFL PLAYER: Hey, how are you?
CAIN: I'm good.
BETTIS: Thanks for having me on.
CAIN: I said this -- man, I love talking to you. This is not the first time we have ever got to talk, but I'm glad to have you over here
Jerome, I said this morning nobody saw this coming now. What I mean by that is not that they -- nobody thought the Eagles would win, but the way it happened, Jerome. Like, if we said, you and I, two days ago, oh, the Eagles are going to win, we would have predicted, well, that means Saquon Barkley is going to control the game.
And he was good, but he wasn't necessarily the difference maker. It was Jalen Hurts,it was the defense, this combination adding up to a blowout for the Eagles. I don't think anybody saw this way in which they won.
BETTIS: I don't think they saw this way, but I believe everyone knew if the Eagles were going to win this game it was not going to be a close football game.
It had to be a game where they won by a significant amount, whether it's eight points, 10 points. You knew it had to be a large margin, because, if the game was close, you knew Kansas City was going to find a way to win that game. So I think everybody didn't think that it would be this big of a domination, but everybody felt if the Eagles were going to win they would have had to have played a monster game.
CAIN: Right.
Jerome, I was in the stadium. I kept waiting for the comeback. I think everybody on TV was waiting. OK, sooner or later, Mahomes is going to turn it on. I kept adding it up. OK, the Patriots came back from, what was it, 28-3. We're down by 24 now. I could see a comeback still.
But there was a point where I'm like there will be no comeback. Were you waiting on it until you weren't?
BETTIS: I was. It was into the third quarter, I was saying,OK, after that first drive after halftime, I thought that was going to be the drive that changed everything. And when it didn't happen, I said, uh-oh, the Chiefs are in trouble, because at that point you knew they were starting to lose those opportunities.
You only get so many chances with the football. And once you start giving those away, then the chances of you coming back become slimmer and slimmer.
CAIN: OK, I want to ask you, I'm going to ask you, everybody watching, for two hot takes from Jerome, that this -- history this is context.
Let's start with Saquon. He's great, right? And there's nobody better to tell us how great he is than you. What -- how great is he? Like, where would you -- you're on the NFL's all-time leading rusher list. We know about Payton. We know about Emmitt Smith. We know about all this.
And it's early. We're not -- we can't be putting career rushing yards up there yet for Saquon. But where do you put him sort of in your rankings?
BETTIS: I would say if he had started with the Eagles and he had spent the first six years with the Eagles, he would be at historic levels right now, because, in terms of a talent, he is as talented as anybody on the all-time list.
CAIN: Right.
BETTIS: He's arguably more talented than anyone because of his skill set. He can do it all. I mean, he's the perfect size, he's got incredible speed, he's physical, he can take 20, 30 carries, he can do it all.
CAIN: Right.
BETTIS: So if he would have been in Philly the entire time, he'd be talking about him possibly winning it all.
(CROSSTALK)
CAIN: You have got to stop saying that. You keep hurting everybody's feelings. You're hurting everyone's feelings in New York. You got to stop saying that over and over.
Last thing, does that loss at all impact the legacy of Patrick Mahomes? Everybody was saying, is he going to rival Brady? That's a blowout, Jerome. Does it hurt the legacy of Mahomes?
BETTIS: It doesn't hurt the legacy, but it actually slows the comparison.
I think, had they won, people would have been putting him on par with Tom Brady.
CAIN: Right. It would have been there. Yes.
BETTIS: I believe now everybody's saying, OK, he still has a chance to get there, but it's going to take multiple years of winning a championship begin to get to the level of a Tom Brady.
CAIN: I think that's exactly right.
Always great to talk to you, Bus. Thanks so much for being here with us.
BETTIS: Thank you. Appreciate you.
CAIN: All right, let's close things out live from New Orleans here with somebody who stood on one of these balconies with me just a few moments -- few mornings ago. It's Tyrus rolling his eyes.
What are you rolling your eyes about? The minute I bring you in, already rolling your eyes.
(CROSSTALK)
TYRUS, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Because just the temerity to say no one could have called this.
At 6:18 p.m. before kickoff, I, Tyrus, said 37-13 Eagles, not close.
CAIN: Yes.
TYRUS: So, again, Will, I hate to do this to you because you're off to such a magnificent historic start on your show.
But to go with fake news and a story like that with the Jerome Bus, sir, I just -- I am shocked. I'm flabbergasted.
CAIN: Out of the woodwork they come, all the experts who tell me about what they said that I didn't hear before the game, all the experts.
(CROSSTALK)
TYRUS: Listen, I'm not going to bring up who you got your butt kicked by on your old show. Not going to bring that up. OutKick took care of that for us all.
But next time you want to predict, man, just give me a call. Call me.
(CROSSTALK)
CAIN: Tyrus, we led the show with it. I believe in accountability. I led the show with Rachel Campos Duffy.
I got to get that to you on this. I didn't like halftime. That's my opinion.
TYRUS: Me either. It wasn't good. Wasn't good.
CAIN: I'm curious on yours. You didn't like it?
TYRUS: no.
CAIN: Kendrick not -- look, I -- there are people that love Kendrick Lamar. That's great. It just wasn't for me. It wasn't mass appeal. And this is the biggest mass event in American entertainment.
TYRUS: It wasn't for anyone.
And, historically, rap halftime shows aren't great. They don't stand up to rock 'n' roll. It's just the sound. It just sounds better. Singing sounds better. They tried. This was basically an Apple commercial at the end, the thing where you can get Apple's new music.
So that's what I looked at it for. It wasn't great. It wasn't terrible. It just wasn't memorable. And I think we ought all move on forward, and it was a great game.
CAIN: Tyrus, we were talking about this a little bit earlier. You got to be able to fill a stadium, which apparently Kendrick Lamar does sell out football stadiums.
So, Morgan Wallen, Lady Gaga, Beyonce, this is halftime material, right?
TYRUS: Right.
CAIN: Like, that kind of star power. Did you hear -- I want to hear your halftime show idea, but did you hear mine at the top of this show?
TYRUS: What was yours, Will?
It's this, Morgan Wallen or Zach Bryan us two or three songs. Trump comes out with an executive desk, signs five executive orders.
TYRUS: Oh, yes, yes. I did see this, yes.
CAIN: And Shane Gillis takes us out with a five-minute set. Best halftime show ever.
TYRUS: No, I'm sorry. If I could get in a time machine, I would have AC/DC kick it off, Rolling Stones take it home, and let's play ball. Simple.
CAIN: Rock 'n' roll. Bring back rock 'n' roll, yes.
TYRUS: With Jimi Hendrix on guitar.
CAIN: You throw Metallica in there.
TYRUS: Yes.
(LAUGHTER)
CAIN: OK, there we go.
Great stuff, as always, Tyrus. Man,good to see you.
TYRUS: Oh, and it was great working with you, man. You are a star. Keep being you.
CAIN: I always love hanging out with you. Thank you, Tyrus, so much.
All right, it's time for "Will of the People."
Carmalea in a post on X says: "I'm so enjoying your show, Will. You are a freedom fighter. And that's what makes all the difference in news. Thank you, sir. A job well done."
Thank you. Thank you so much, Carmalea. That's really nice. I appreciate it. I do my best.
Joe wants to know: "Will there be a Will Cain belt buckle like the one you have?"
Oh, those are collector's items, the one I have. We should create a "Will Cain Show" belt buckle.
And then, finally, one of our favorite viewers who's always here with us on all of our programs says: "Why didn't you give me Shaq's phone number?"
Sorry, DTB. I will get it next time.
I give you now "The Five."

Load-Date: February 10, 2025


End of Document
