




Financial Times (London, England)
February 8, 2025 Saturday
Edition 1, USA Edition


Copyright 2025 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: BUSINESS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1
Length: 380 words
Byline: ELLESHEVA KISSIN ; ANJLI RAVAL
Body


Accenture has scrapped its global diversity and inclusion goals after an "evaluation" of the US political landscape, becoming the latest big company to ditch its targets since the election of Donald Trump.
A memo to staff from chief executive Julie Sweet said the New York-listed consulting group would begin "sunsetting" its diversity goals, as well as career development programmes for "people of specific demographic groups".
Sweet said the change followed an "evaluation of our internal policies and practices and the evolving landscape in the US, including recent executive orders with which we must comply".
Accenture, which employs 799,000 people around the world, joins Meta,
McDonald's and Target in ditching diversity, equity and inclusion goals in response to the new political climate since Trump's election. The US president has been highly critical of what he calls the "absolute nonsense" of "discriminatory" DEI measures.
He signed a series of executive orders cutting federal DEI programmes when he came into office last month, tapping into a vein of corporate fatigue for diversity goals. Other groups, such as Costco and JPMORGAN Chase, have reaffirmed their commitment while some are reassessing their policies for the Trump era.
In 2017, Accenture set a target that half of its staff would be women by the end of 2025. It also set a goal for 25 per cent of its managing directors to be women by 2020, a target it later updated to 30 per cent by 2025. At the time, 41 per cent of its staff and 21 per cent of managing directors were women. The group also set goals for its ethnic minority representation in some countries such as the US and UK.
Sweet has previously been outspoken on diversity. In an interview posted on Accenture's YouTube channel in 2020, she spoke of the importance of a diverse workplace, saying that committing to diversity was the "right thing to do".
In a report published by the company that year and co-authored by Sweet, she was described as a "leader" on diversity and inclusion.
In this week's memo rolling back the DEI targets, Sweet said they would no longer be used to measure staff performance, and she also announced a pause on submitting data to external diversity benchmarking surveys pending an evaluation.
Accenture declined to comment.

Load-Date: February 8, 2025


End of Document
