




The Daily Telegraph (London)
February 8, 2025 Saturday
Edition 1, National Edition


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 28
Length: 334 words
Byline: Alex Singleton
Body


ACCENTURE, the consultancy giant which employs nearly 800,000 staff worldwide, has scrapped its diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) goals after Donald Trump ordered a ban on the policies in corporate America.
Julie Sweet, Accenture's chief executive, told staff that the consulting firm was a "meritocracy" and that it would start "sun-setting" the diversity goals it originally introduced in 2017.
The company admitted making the change as a result of the changing political climate in the US.
Accenture is the latest US company to abandon diversity goals after Meta, Google-owner Alphabet and Amazon all scrapped their DEI targets since Mr Trump entered the White House.
Two weeks ago, Mr Trump ordered the federal government to "take strong action to end private sector DEI discrimination" such as by launching investigations into government suppliers that promote diversity policies.
The move puts lucrative government contracts at risk for professional services and
IT companies that fail to comply. Last October, Accenture won a five-year IT contract from the US Air Force worth $1.6bn (£1.3bn).
Ms Sweet said Accenture's policy change, first reported by the Financial Times, followed an "evaluation of our internal policies and practices and the evolving landscape in the United States, including recent executive orders with which we must comply".
Along with rolling back Accenture's DEI targets - which Ms Sweet said would no longer be used to measure staff performance - the company said it would pause submitting data to external diversity benchmarking surveys. It said it would abandon its career development programmes for "people of specific demographic groups".
The move is a major aboutturn for Accenture. Five years ago, Ms Sweet said that it was vital that DEI was backed by "commitment from the top, setting clear goals, holding leaders accountable and being very clear that our commitment to diversity and to a culture of equality are a business priority."
Accenture was approached for comment.

Load-Date: February 8, 2025


End of Document
