




USA Today Online
February 3, 2025 10:32 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Section: MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS NEWS & MEXICO NEWS
Length: 601 words
Byline: Rebecca Morin, USA TODAY
Body


Hello all! It’s Rebecca Morin, senior national news reporter at USA TODAY. To be honest, I can’t stop thinking about how amazing the Grammys were last night. 
Elon Musk made a 'special government employee'
Looks like Elon Musk is getting “.gov” email and office soon. The White House said Monday that Musk – the billionaire who is CEO of Tesla and SpaceX and a top Donald Trump ally who was tapped to lead the Department of Government Efficiency – is a "special government employee.” It's not clear when Musk got the designation, but the White House’s confirmation of Musk’s title came hours after the billionaire announced a plan to shutter the U.S. Agency for International Development. 
Early Monday, Musk announced on his social media website, X, that with Trump’s backing, the administration was going to begin dismantling USAID – which put 606 employees on leave and terminated 791 personal service contracts. The move was met with swift objection from Democrats, who said Trump lacks the constitutional authority to eliminate the office, which was established by Congress as an independent agency in 1998. 
Musk didn’t just ruffle feathers with his actions at USAID this week. Protesters gathered outside the Office of Personnel Management in Washington, D.C., after Musk and his aides last week reportedly seized the department’s data. The protesters called it a “coup.”
DOJ threatens legal action against 'anyone who impedes' 
Watch: USAID website is offline. 

A politics pit stop
'We'll see': JD Vance asked if he's running 
Fox News to air pre-taped interview with Trump 
Judge says Trump administration appears to be blocking 
Education Department places dozens of officials on 
China denounces Trump tariff: 
Trump tariffs on hold with Mexico, Canada
A full fledged trade war with two of the United States’ neighbors is briefly put on hold. Mexico and the United States first reached an agreement to stave off the 25% tariffs for at least one month. The tariffs were set to go into effect on Tuesday. Mexico agreed to send 10,000 National Guard troops to its northern border to stop the flow of fentanyl and mitigate migrants from illegally entering the country, said Trump. 
Trump’s 25% tariff on Canadian goods has also been paused for 30 days. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said in a post on X that Canada will implement a $1.3 billion border plan to reinforce the U.S. northern border with “new choppers, technology and personnel, enhanced coordination with our American partners, and increased resources to stop the flow of fentanyl.” The country will also appoint a “Fentanyl Czar.” 
Businesses close to support 'Day Without Immigrants'
Some businesses across the nation wanted their communities to see what the country could look like without immigrants for a day. Restaurants and other businesses in several states and Washington D.C. participated in "Day Without Immigrants," where employees were given paid time off on Monday in response to Donald Trump's campaign promise of mass deportations. Participants were encouraged to not shop, go to school or work. 
Protestors opposing Trump's immigration 
Got a burning question, or comment, for On Politics?  or send me an email at .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: February 3, 2025


End of Document
