




Targeted News Service
February 7, 2025 Friday 9:47 PM  EST


Copyright 2025 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved


Length: 413 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body


The U.S. Mission to the United Nations issued the following remarks by Jonathan Shrier, acting representative to the U.N. Economic and Social Council:
* * *
Explanation of Vote on UNICEF agenda item 5(a): Country program documents
Thank you Mr. President.
In light of the Executive Board's inability to reach consensus on an acceptable decision on the Country Program Documents, the United States had no other option but to call for a vote and vote "no" on the decision. The United States cannot agree to country program documents that contain terms and concepts that conflict with U.S. policies as set out in President Trump's recent Executive Orders, especially when those concepts endanger the very mission of the organization. The United States also objects to any UNICEF efforts to advance such programming in countries.
U.S. federal civil-rights laws protect Americans from discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility (DEIA) programs violate the text and sprit of our laws by replacing hard work, merit, and equality with a divisive and dangerous preferential hierarchy. As Secretary Rubio made clear, we must eliminate our focus on political and cultural causes that are divisive at home and deeply unpopular abroad.
In addition, it is U.S. policy to recognize two sexes, male and female, and not to promote gender ideology. President Trump has directed that federal funds shall not be used to promote gender ideology. It is particularly disturbing that this language is being used in UNICEF programming documents; children should be protected from this dangerous ideology and its possible results.
The United States considers the needs of children a top priority. We would have preferred to re-open the CPDs themselves to address our concerns but did not want to do so in order to not impact the ongoing UNICEF efforts on the ground.
We want to work with UNICEF and all members of the Board to comprehensively manage the CPD process in order to enable UNICEF to prepare its CPDs so they will promote equal opportunities for all. President Trump made clear that gender ideology and immoral discrimination programs under the guise of DEI undermine the success and endanger the mission of any institution that proliferates them.
* * *
Original text here: /
Copyright Targeted News Services
MSTRUCK-9044669 MSTRUCK

Load-Date: February 10, 2025


End of Document
