




The Daily Athenaeum: West Virginia University
February 11, 2025 Tuesday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 890 words
Body


Interim provost Paul Kreider discussed WVU's closure of its Division of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion and a $12 million annual reduction in Research Office funding at a Faculty Senate meeting Monday.
Kreider referred to WVU's DEI office closure as a "system-wide, complex undertaking" and said he has no updated information on the closure or subsequent opening of the WVU Division of Campus Engagement and Compliance.
Joe Jones, professor in the College of Creative Arts and Media, asked Kreider how WVU is advocating for the values of the University and needs of its students to state legislators.
"We are the leading institution of the state. If we have our own principles and values, as far as diversity, equity and inclusion, [is] President Gee there advocating for those and not just saying 'How are we going to adjust to what the governor wants?'" Jones said.
Kreider said the University is "asserting" its values and has been working with Associate Vice President for Government Relations and Collaboration Travis Mollohan to answer questions from campus community members.
Jones expressed concerns with WVU's response to President Donald Trump and Gov. Patrick Morrisey's executive orders that led to the closure, urging the University to "push back."
"We are an educational institution, and this is part of our core mission," Jones said. "I will tell this to Travis. I'll tell this to anybody that will listen to it. WVU needs to use its power and its size and its strength within the state to really push back against some of these things."
Catherine Fonseca, a WVU librarian, asked if any employees were laid off as a result of the office closure.
Kreider said he didn't know and referred Fonesca to Meshea Poore, the newly appointed leader of the Division of Campus Engagement and Compliance.
Faculty Senate Chair Diana Davis also addressed the office's closure, saying she believes WVU is strengthened by on-campus diversity initiatives.
"All of us provide needed and wanted contributions to our mission to develop knowledge, provide education, facilitate growth and serve the state of West Virginia," Davis said. "It is impossible to communicate the full extent of what may occur as a result of these actions because simply, no one knows."
Davis encouraged faculty to forward immediate questions regarding the closure to Mollohan and Poore. She said answers will be delivered following the start of the state's legislative session Wednesday.
WVU announced an annual $12 million decrease in Research Office funding to faculty Monday due to a cap on indirect costs by the National Institute of Health.
Stefania Staniscia, associate professor in the Davis College of Agriculture and Natural Resources, asked Kreider to confirm the reduction amount and discuss how it will affect research activities at WVU.
Kreider said the monetary reduction for Fiscal Year 2024 will total $5-6 million. He said the reduction amount is preliminary and that the final amount is still being determined. He encouraged anyone with questions to email 
Daniel Totzkay, professor in the Eberly College of Arts and Sciences, asked Kreider if WVU is at risk of a second "Academic Transformation" following the research funding reduction.
Kreider said he "isn't anywhere close to being able to answer that question" but advised faculty to anticipate a budgetary impact.
Presidential Search Committee Chair Patrice Harris announced that the Board of Governors has selected finalists for WVU's next University president and is preparing to conduct in-person interviews.
Brian Powell, professor in the Statler College of Engineering and Mineral Resources, asked Harris to confirm how many candidates are being considered and how many of them have higher education administrative experience.
Harris said the BOG is "not at liberty to discuss those specifics."
Scott Wayne, chair of the shared governance committee and professor in the Statler College of Engineering and Mineral Resources, provided an update on faculty participation in the presidential search process.
Wayne announced several characteristics that WVU faculty believe are most important in a future president. Harris confirmed that many of the requested characteristics are included in the presidential candidate leadership profile.
Powell asked if the BOG would release candidates' answers to questions created by WVU faculty.
Harris said the BOG is working to find the most "efficient way" to rank and review questions.
Harris provided broad interview categories for candidates, saying they will be asked about shared governance, the role of faculty in promotion and tenure and curriculum development.
Ken Blemings, dean of the Honors College, and Clarissa Estep, director of the Eberly College's International Studies program, announced the launch of Honors in Action, which will act as the new Honors College Experiential Learning Program.
The updated program will launch next week and be structured around experiential learning and career readiness, according to Estep.
Students will earn "badges" by completing learning outcomes and guided reflection activities that discuss the successes and challenges they faced.
Estep said students will be able to share their badges on LinkedIn and online job portfolios.
The Faculty Senate will meet again at 3:15 p.m. on March 10 at the College of Law.

Load-Date: February 11, 2025


End of Document
