




TheHill.com
January 27, 2025 Monday


Copyright 2025 NEXSTAR MEDIA INC.  All Rights Reserved


Length: 447 words
Body


The U.S. Air Force resumed a course using training material that referred to the Tuskegee Airmen after the Trump administration’s rollback of diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) initiatives caused an internal review, . 
“Following Trump’s order last week, the Air Force had removed all training courses with DEI references for review,” said Rose M. Riley, deputy chief of media operations at the Pentagon, in a statement. “Videos of the Tuskegee Airmen, the first Black airmen in the military, and the Women Airforce Service Pilots (WASPs), female World War II pilots who played a critical role in ferrying warplanes for the military, were interwoven in the course material but were not the focus of the review.”
Both Trump and his new Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth, who was sworn in Friday, have made eliminating DEI from the military one of the administration’s top priorities.
But the review of the training materials sparked backlash, including from Alabama Sen. Katie Britt (R), who said pausing the use of the videos was “malicious compliance” with the DEI review. Alabama is home to the Tuskegee training base where the men got their name. 
Hegseth on Sunday agreed with Britt, replying to her post on social media, “This will not stand.”
While the Air Force said “no Airmen or Guardians will miss this block of instruction due to the revision,” it did acknowledge that one group of trainees had the training “delayed,” according to . 
“That block of training was pulled in order to take out DEI material on Jan. 23 and will continue again as of Monday,” the Air Force added. 
General David W. Allvin, Air Force chief of staff, said in a statement that though the Air Force is reviewing all training courses to ensure compliance with Trump’s slate of executive orders, “no curriculum or content highlighting the honor and valor of the Tuskegee Airmen or Women Air Force Service Pilots has been removed from Basic Military Training.”
“The historic legacy and decorated valor these Airmen embodied during World War II and beyond will continue to guide our newest recruits and all who serve in our ranks,” Allvin said.  
Allvin added that despite “rumors” and “inaccurate opinions” — including accusations of malicious compliance — the Air Force is executing all of Trump’s orders. 
“Adhering to policy includes fully aligning our force with the direction given in the DEI Executive Order,” said Allvin. “Disguising and renaming are not compliance, and I’ve made this clear. If there are instances of less-than-full compliance, we will hold those responsible accountable.”


Load-Date: January 27, 2025


End of Document
