




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 30, 2025 Thursday 7:34 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 504 words
Byline: Russell Contreras
Body


January 30th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
 
Why it matters: The legal challenge comes just days before the beginning of Black History Month in a state that was the center of the Civil Rights Movement.
The big picture: The Trump administration is working to      
 
Zoom in: The   
The law, signed last year, severely restricts the viewpoints of professors and students at public Alabama universities regarding "divisive concepts" and "DEI."
Those topics include discussions of race, racism, sexism, homophobia, structural inequality and social justice.
Groups say the law amounts to censorship and discriminates against Black and LGBTQ+ students.
The injunction was filed on behalf of a group of Alabama educators, students and the Alabama State Conference of the NAACP.
A spokesperson for Alabama Attorney General Steve Marshall did not immediately return phone calls seeking comment.
Zoom out: The Alabama law is one of many passed in  
The laws are passed under the guise of banning the graduate-school level  
That's led to     
What they're saying: "Students and professors in our state have dealt with this unconstitutional law for several monthsand deserve to learn in a classroom that is free of censorship and racial discrimination," Alison Mollman, ACLU of Alabama Legal Director, said in a statement.
Antonio Ingram, LDF Senior Counsel, said: "We urge the Court to immediately halt the enforcement of this discriminatory law and prevent any further harm to students of color and LGBTQIA students."
The intrigue: The legal fight in Alabama comes as the state is set to mark the     
Those events are so central to Alabama's history from the Civil Rights Movement that the state's tourism department is promoting the commemorations on its  
Yes, but: It's unclear if the new Alabama law even allows teachers to mention or go into details about these events in the classroom.


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 30, 2025


End of Document
