




The Independent (United Kingdom)
February 3, 2025 Monday 5:52 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Independent Print Ltd  All Rights Reserved


Section: ENTERTAINMENT: LATEST
Length: 434 words
Byline: Kevin E G Perry
Body


 used a speech at the 2025  to defend diversity initiatives, saying: "DEI is not a threat, it's a gift."
The 44-year-old "Empire State of Mind" singer-songwriter was being 
Since taking office on January 20, 
Speaking out about the importance of protecting such schemes, Keys said: "This is not the time to shut down the diversity of voices.
"We've seen on this stage talented, hardworking people from different backgrounds with different points of view, and it changes the game. DEI is not a threat, it's a gift."
While Trump's orders have been celebrated by some supporters and allies, they have been criticized by advocacy groups who say they might deepen inequities and undo decades of progress made to enshrine civil rights protections for marginalized groups.
On Thursday, 
The took place at the Crypto.com Arena in Los Angeles, as gathered for a night of celebration and show-stopping performances.

Kendrick Lamar won two of the biggest awards of the night, taking home Record of the Year and Song of the Year. Beyoncé won Album of the Year for her country-influenced album Cowboy Carter. In total Beyoncé received 11 nominations this year, whichwith a total of 99 nominations throughout her career. She was previously tied with her husband, Jay-Z, at 88.
The night saw a series of electrifying live performances from the likes of Shakira, Charli XCX, Billie Eilish, Sabrina Carpenter, British star RAYE, and viral breakthrough Teddy Swims. 
Meanwhile, Kanye West caused controversy before the show even began thanks to his wife, .
This year's ceremony took place against the backdrop of . In response, the Recording Academy has pledged to use the event to support local relief efforts, ensuring that music's biggest stage also serves as a platform for solidarity.
The Dr Dre Global Impact Award was established in 2023 to recognize artists whose influence extends far beyond music. It also takes into account entrepreneurial achievements, philanthropic efforts and global impact.

Load-Date: February 4, 2025


End of Document
