




The Daily Telegraph (London)
January 23, 2025 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Pg. 13
Length: 516 words
Byline: Samuel Montgomery
Body


DONALD TRUMP has ordered that all federal diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) staff be put on paid leave "immediately" and eventually laid of. f.
The move follows an executive order the president signed on his first day back in the White House that revoked Lyndon Johnson's protection of workers against discrimination based on race, colour, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or national origin.
Mr Trump's order also encourages the private sector to "end illegal DEI discrimination and preferences".
Heralding a "new golden age" for the US, he has sought to quickly dismantle many Biden-era policies with a flurry of executive orders on immigration, gender and climate. The president has promised to fire more than a thousand of his successor's appointees.
The Office of Personnel Management directed agencies to place DEI office staffers on paid leave, take down all public DEI-focused webpages and cancel any DEI-related training. The memo also encouraged employees at federal agencies to inform on those attempting to disguise DEI programmes.
Federal department and agency bosses are required to ask "employees if they know of any efforts to disguise these [DEI] programmes by using coded or imprecise language".
The memo, issued on Tuesday, included a template email for bosses to send to employees asking them to report to the Office of Personnel Management if they were "aware of a change in any contract description or personnel position description since election day to obscure the connection between the contract and DEIA or similar ideologies".
The memo added that DEI programmes "divided Americans by race, wasted taxpayer dollars and resulted in shameful discrimination".
The US Treasury, Department for
Labour, Agency for International Development and the General Services Administration appeared to have heeded the order by dismantling their DEI landing pages.
The State Department also appeared to have removed the "selecting your gender marker" page from its website.
Where previously those applying for or updating a passport were advised on selecting between male (M), female (F), or unspecified or another gender identity (X), the page now redirects applicants to a general information page.
The move comes a day after Mr Trump issued an executive order instructing all government agencies to ensure official documents such as passports and visas "accurately reflect the holder's sex".
The order also declared that the US government would recognise only two sexes, male and female, as part of a wider campaign to end "radical and wasteful" DEI initiatives.
Marco Rubio has pledged to eliminate DEI from the State Department and restore a "strict meritocracy".
In a memo to the diplomatic corps, Mr Rubio, who was confirmed as secretary of state on Tuesday, said: "There is tremendous talent and expertise in this Department - I have seen it first-hand in missions across the globe - and upholding strict meritocracy is essential to securing our nation's future."
He added that he would follow Mr Trump's executive order to ban diversity programmes "in both letter and spirit".

Load-Date: January 23, 2025


End of Document
