




MailOnline
January 21, 2025 Tuesday 12:29 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:5
Length: 3513 words
Byline: Melissa Koenig For Dailymail.Com James Reynolds
Body


President Donald J Trump kept busy on his first official day in office, signing a host of executive orders.
Trump, 78, started off signing the executive orders into effect in front of an adoring crowd at Capital One Arena Monday afternoon.
He then made his way to the Oval Office, where he signed even more executive actions as members of the press asked him questions.
Many of the orders reversed policies his predecessor, former President Joe Biden, put into effect during his four years in the White House - and a number of the orders even include language hitting out at the former president.
The orders range in topics from national security, migration at the southern border, the use of natural resources and even gender ideology.
Together, they offer insight into the next four years under the Trump administration.
Below, DailyMail.com takes a look at all the executive actions Trump made on his first day of his new administration: 
                     Initial Rescissions of Harmful Executive Orders and Actions                   
The very first executive action Trump signed into law was to rescind 78 Biden-era executive orders.
'The previous administration has embedded deeply unpopular inflationary, illegal and radical practices within every agency and office of the federal government,' Trump's own executive action reads.
'The injection of 'diversity, equity and inclusion' into our institutions has corrupted them by replacing hard work, merit and equality with a divisive, dangerous preferential hierarchy.
'Orders to open the borders have endangered the American people and dissolved federal, state and local resources that should be used to benefit the American people. Climate extremism has exploded inflation and overburdened businesses with regulation.
'To commence the policies that will make our Nation united, fair, safe and prosperous again, it is the policy of the United States to restore common sense to the federal government.'
Among the executive actions he rescinded were some Biden signed rescinding his own executive actions from his previous administration, and a number dealing with migration-related issues.
One such action was Biden's order Enabling All Qualified Americans to Serve Their Country in Uniform, which said gender identity is not a bar from service.
Trump also rescinded policies establishing a White House Gender Policy Council and ending Cuba's designation as a state sponsor of Terrorism.
The 'Initial rescissions of harmful executive orders and actions' memo included a reversal on sanctions against the International Criminal Court
                     Restoring Freedom of Speech and Ending Federal Censorship                   
In another executive order, Trump hit out at the Biden administration for 'censoring Americans' speech on online platforms' by 'exerting substantial coercive pressure on third-parties, such as social media companies to moderate, deplatform or otherwise suppress speech that the federal government did not approve.'
Trump's policy ensures no federal government agency or employee works to 'abridge the free speech of any American citizen.'
It also ensures that 'no taxpayer resources are used to engage in or facilitate any conduct that would unconstitutionally abridge the free speech of any American citizen.'
                     Ending Weaponization of the Federal Government                   
Similarly, Trump claimed in another executive order that the Biden administration engaged 'in a systematic campaign against its perceived political opponents, weaponizing the legal force of numerous federal law enforcement agencies and the Intelligence Community against those perceived political opponents in the form of investigations, prosecutions, civil enforcement actions and other related actions.'
His executive order now directs the Attorney General to review the actions of any agency and department that exercises 'civil or criminal law enforcement authority over the last five years and identify any instances where a department's or agency's conduct appears to have been contrary to the purposes and policies of this order.'
It also directs the Director of National Intelligence to do the same thing for all departments and agencies within the Intelligence Community. 
                     Return to In-person Work                    
This executive order directs all departments and agencies to 'take all necessary steps to terminate remote work arrangements and require employees to return to work in-person' on a full-time basis.
Agency heads can, however, make any exemptions they deem necessary.
                     Regulatory Freeze Pending Review                   
This executive order prevents the federal government from proposing or issuing 'any rule in any matter' until a department or agency head appointed by Trump reviews and approves it.
It also asks agencies to consider postponing for 60 days any rules that have been issued but have not taken effect, 'for the purpose of reviewing any questions of fact, law and policy that the rules may raise.' 
                     Hiring Freeze                   
Trump's executive order says 'no federal civilian position that is vacant at noon on January 20, 2025 may be filled and no new position may be created.'
It does not apply to military personnel or positions related to immigration enforcement, national security or public safety.
Within 90 days, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget will also have to submit a plan to reduce the size of the federal government. 
                     Delivering Emergency Price Relief for American Families and Defeating the Cost-of-Living Crisis                   
The executive order directs agencies to pursue any actions to lower the cost of housing and expand housing supply, eliminate unnecessary administrative expenses and rent-seeking practices that increase healthcare costs, eliminate counterproductive requirements that raise the cost of home appliances, create employment opportunities and eliminate 'harmful coercive 'climate' policies that increase the cost of food and fuel.
                     Putting America First in International Environmental Agreements                    
This executive order directs the US Ambassador to the United Nations to immediately submit a formal written notification of the United States' withdrawal from the Paris Agreement.
'In recent years, the United States has purported to join international agreements and initiatives that do not reflect our country's values as our contributions to the pursuit of economic and environmental objectives,' it says. 
'Moreover, this agreement steers American taxpayer dollars to countries that do not require, or merit, financial assistance in the interests of the American people.'
As part of his reversals on Biden-era policy, he will also undo some of the restrictions on drilling fossil fuels in the Arctic.
Trump signed orders aimed at promoting oil and gas development in Alaska, and pledged to increase fracking while scaling back policies increasing green energy production.
                     Granting Pardons and Commuting Sentences for Certain Offenses Relating to the Events at or Near the United States Capitol on January 6, 2021                   
The executive order names 14 January 6 offenders who Trump pardoned. 
'This proclamation ends a grave national injustice that has been perpetrated upon the American people over the last four years and begins a process of national reconciliation.
It also ensures that all prisoner held on charges related to the Capitol insurrection are released immediately. 
                     Application of Protecting Americans from Foreign Adversary Controlled Applications act to TikTok                   
Trump went through with his promise to restore TikTok, instructing the Attorney General not to take any action to enforce the ban for 75 days.
'I have the unique constitutional responsibility for the national security of the United States, the conduct of foreign policy and other vital executive functions,' the order says.
'To fulfill those responsibilities, I intend to consult with my advisors, including the heads of relevant departments and agencies on the national security concerns posed by TikTok and to pursue a resolution that protects national security while saving a platform used by 170million Americans.
'My administration must also review sensitive intelligence related to those concerns and evaluate the sufficiency of migration measures TikTok has taken to date.'
                     Withdrawing the US from the World Health Organization                   
Trump signed an executive order withdrawing the United States from the World Health Organization, pausing any transfer of federal funds for the organization and reassigning personnel or contractors working in any capacity with the World Health Organization.
It cites the group's 'mishandling' of the COVID pandemic, 'its failure to adopt urgently needed reforms and its inability to demonstrate independence from the inappropriate influence of WHO member states.
'In addition, the WHO continues to demand unfairly onerous payments from the United States, far out of proportion with other countries' assessed payments,' the order says.
                     Restoring Accountability to Policy-Influencing Positions within the Federal Workforce                   
 Trump's executive order claims federal supervisors are afraid to to fire incompetent staff members.
'Accountability is essential for all federal employees, but it is essentially important for those who are in policy-making positions,' it says.
'These personnel are entrusted to shape and implement actions that have a significant impact on all Americans.'
It says the federal government must restore accountability to the federal government.
                     Holding Former Government Officials Accountable for Election Interference and Improper Disclosure of Sensitive Governmental Information                   
Trump moved forward with his vow to revoke the security clearance of the 51 pro-Biden officials who signed a now-infamous memo claiming that damning pictures and messages found on the First Son's laptop bore 'all the classic earmarks' of a Russian disinformation campaign.
Among the coordinators of the infamous memo were Secretary of State Antony Blinken, former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper and former Defense Secretary Leon Panetta.
The memo allowed the elder Biden to discredit the laptop and its damning evidence during presidential debates, town halls and other media appearances prior to the election.
But an FBI agent announced that the agency confirmed the authenticity of the materials found on the device at Hunter's federal gun trial. 
                     Declaring a National Emergency at the Southern Border of the United States                   
Trump directed the Armed Forces to 'take all appropriate action to assist the Department of Homeland Security in obtaining full operational control of the southern border.
He also allowed for the construction of a physical barrier on the southern border. 
'To protect the security and safety of the United States citizens, to protect each of the United States against invasion, and to uphold my duty to take care that the laws be faithfully executed, it is my responsibility as the President to ensure that the illegal entry of aliens into the United States via the southern border be immediately and entirely stopped.'
                     Clarifying the Military's Role in Protecting the Territorial Integrity of the United States                   
This executive order repels 'forms of invasion, including unlawful mass migration, narcotics trafficking, human smuggling and trafficking.'
                     Unleashing American Energy                   
The executive order states that it is 'in the national interest to unleash America's affordable and reliable energy and natural resources.
'This will restore American prosperity - including for those men and women who have been forgotten by our economy in recent years,' it says.
'It will also rebuild our nation's economic and military security which will deliver peace through strength.'
It eliminates Biden's electric vehicle mandate and the Green New Deal, and states that within 30 days, the head of each agency should develop and implement a plan to suspend, revise or rescind all agency actions that prohibit using America's own natural resources.
                     Realigning the US Refugee Admissions Program                   
This executive order suspends the Refugee Admissions Program 'until such time as the further entry into the United States of refugees aligns with the interests of the United States.
'The United States lacks the ability to absorb large number of migrants in particular, refugees into its communities in a manner that does not compromise the availability of resources for Americans that protects their safety and security and that ensures the appropriate assimilation of refugees.'
                     Protecting the Meaning and Value of American Citizenship                   
The executive order claims the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution has never actually been interpreted to extend citizenship universally to everyone born within the United States.
It therefore excludes birthright citizenship to anybody whose mother was unlawfully present in the United States and whose father was not a US citizen or a lawful permanent resident at the time of their birth, or if a person's mother's presence in the US at the time of birth was lawful but temporary.
                     Protecting the American People Against Invasion                   
'Over the last four years, the prior administration invited, administered and oversaw an unprecedented flood of illegal immigration into the United States.
'The American people deserve a federal government that puts their interests first and a government that understands its sacred obligation to prioritize the safety, security and financial well-being of Americans.
'This order ensures that the federal government protects the American people by faithfully executing the immigration laws of the United States,' including detention and deportation.
                     Unleashing Alaska's Extraordinary Resource Potential                   
The order reverses restrictions by the Biden administration to target resource development on state and federal land in Alaska.
'Unlocking this bounty of natural wealth will raise the prosperity of our citizens while helping to enhance our nation's economic and national security for generations to come.
'By developing these resources to the fullest extent possible, we can help deliver price relief for Americans, create high quality jobs for our citizens, ameliorate our trade imbalances, augment the nation's exercise of global-energy dominance and guard against foreign powers weaponizing energy supplies in theaters of geopolitical conflict.
                     Protecting the United States from Foreign Terrorists and Other National Security and Public Safety Threats                   
The executive order directs the Secretary of State to identify resources to ensure that anyone seeking admission into the United States are vetted to the highest degree possible, determine any information needed from any country to adjudicate any visa and re-establish a baseline for screening and vetting standards.
It also says the president must receive a report within 60 days of all the countries whose vetting and screening information 'is so deficient as to warrant a partial or full suspension of the admission of nationals from those countries' and 'identify how many nationals from those countries have entered or have been admitted into the US since January 20, 2021.
The order further says the Secretary of State should evaluate the adequacy of programs designed to ensure proper assimilation into American culture.
                     Putting American Interests First                   
The executive order states that it will make it a priority of the administration to put American interests first.
                     Establishing and Implementing the Department of Government Efficiency                   
Trump officially created his Department of Government Efficiency with an executive order on Monday.
It has been tasked with reducing government expenditure and improving productivity within the public service.
Head Elon Musk claims it can save $1trillion - but that number has already been worked down from the initial $2trillion he promised recently.
                     Defending Women from Gender Ideology Extremism and Restoring Biological Truth to the Federal Government                   
 The executive order states that the federal government will only recognize two genders - male and female.
'These sexes are not changeable and are grounded in fundamental and incontrovertible reality,' it says.
                     Ending Radical and Wasteful Government DEI programs and Preferencing                   
The executive order instructs the Director of the Office of Management and Budget to coordinate termination of all diversity, equity and inclusion programs in the federal government.
'The Biden Administration forced illegal and immoral discrimination programs, going by the name 'diversity, equity and inclusion' into virtually all aspects of the federal government, in areas ranging from airline safety to the military,' it says.
                     Reforming the Federal Hiring Process and Restoring Merit to Government Service                   
This executive order states that within 120 days, the assistant to the president for domestic policy should develop and send each agency head a federal hiring plan 'that brings to the federal workforce only highly-skilled Americans dedicated to the furtherance of American ideals, values and interests.'
It prevents the hiring of individuals based on race, sex or religion and the hiring of individuals who are unwilling to defend the US Constitution or to faithfully serve the Executive Branch.
The order also directs agencies to improve communication with candidates and integrate modern technology into the recruitment and selection process.
                     Death Penalty for Police Killers                   
The 47th President will also restore the death penalty for illegal immigrants who commit capital crimes and kill police officers.
Trump had voiced support for the penalty since at least 2015, vowing then to sign an executive order giving 'anybody killing a police officer, the death penalty'. 
                     Designating Cartels and Other Organizations as Foreign Terrorist Organizations and Specifically Designated Global Terrorists                   
The executive order designates Mexican cartels and the Tren de Aragua as terrorist groups.
'The cartels' activities threaten the safety of the American people, the security of the United States and the stability of the international order in the Western hemisphere.
'Their activities, proximity to and incursions into the physical territory of the United States pose an unacceptable national security risk to the United States.
'It is the policy of the United States to ensure the total elimination of these organizations' presence in the United States and their ability to threaten the territory, safety and security of the United States through their extraterritorial command and control structures, thereby protecting the American people and the territorial integrity of the United States.'
                     Suspending Foreign Aid                   
Trump temporarily suspended all U.S. foreign assistance programs for 90 days pending reviews to determine whether they are aligned with his policy goals.
It was not immediately clear how much assistance would initially be affected by the order as funding for many programs has already been appropriated by Congress and is obligated to be spent, if not already spent.
The order, among many Trump signed on his first day back in office, said the 'foreign aid industry and bureaucracy are not aligned with American interests and in many cases antithetical to American values' and 'serve to destabilize world peace by promoting ideas in foreign countries that are directly inverse to harmonious and stable relations internal to and among countries.'
Consequently, Trump declared that 'no further United States foreign assistance shall be disbursed in a manner that is not fully aligned with the foreign policy of the President of the United States.'
The Times of Israel suggested this would 'likely' affect the displaced Palestinians trying to return home after Israel and Hamas agreed to ceasefire terms.
                     Renaming the Gulf of Mexico                   
Trump wasted no time in ordering the renaming of the Gulf of Mexico and Alaska's Mount Denali.
The Gulf will be renamed the Gulf of America, while Mount Denali will return to being called Mount McKinley.
President Obama changed the name to Mount Denali in 2015.
Trump said the name changes would honor 'American greatness'. 

Load-Date: January 21, 2025


End of Document
