




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 5, 2025 Wednesday 10:47 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 586 words
Byline: Ivana Saric
Body


February 5th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
  
Why it matters: Trump made attacks on trans people - and especially trans athletes - a  
In just his first few weeks in office, Trump has rolled out a flurry of executive orders radically reshaping trans people's rights in the U.S.
Driving the news: The new executive order will bar trans women and girls from participating in women's sports at both K-12 schools and colleges, the  
Schools that violate the order will be denied federal funds and informed that they have violated Title IX, which prohibits sex discrimination in schools, per the  
Zoom out: Even beyond the use of executive orders, the Trump administration has restricted information about transgender issues, with a number of  
On Wednesday, 15 state attorneys general issued  
"We stand firmly in support of health care policies that respect the dignity and rights of all people," they wrote. "Health care decisions should be made by patients, families, and doctors, not by a politician trying to use his power to restrict your freedoms."
Here are some of the anti-trans executive orders issued by the administration thus far:
Recognition
One of the first executive orders Trump issued on Inauguration Day was one declaring that the federal government would  
The edict, which declared that "sex" was not a synonym for "gender identity," meant that only those two sexes would be recognized for official documents such as passports and visas.
Between the lines: While not tailored only towards trans Americans, Trump's executive order dismantling  
Gender-affirming care
Restricting gender-affirming care for youth was another key  
The president followed through last week with an  
The order directed the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to publish a review within 90 days of existing literature on best practices for promoting the health of children with gender dysphoria.
The order also called for removing federal funding from medical schools and hospitals that research gender-affirming care.
Reality check: Major medical organizations, including the  
Military
Trump also issued an  
The executive order stated that "expressing a false 'gender identity' divergent from an individual's sex cannot satisfy the rigorous standards necessary for military service."
Go deeper:  
Editor's note: The story has been updated with a statement from 15 state attorneys general.


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 5, 2025


End of Document
