




The Times (London)
February 22, 2025 Saturday
Edition 1, National Edition


Copyright 2025 Times Newspapers Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: FEATURES; Pg. 25
Length: 947 words
Byline: Janice Turner
Body


Jeff Bezos can't wait to play with his new toy. "Who'd you pick as the next Bond?" he asked on X just minutes after news broke that Barbara Broccoli had finally sold her beloved franchise to the mega-corp whose executives she had called "f***ing idiots". Now Amazon, which despite its $2.3 trillion net worth and hoovering up MGM Studios has never created a single memorable TV show or movie, controls the most recognisable character in fiction.
Whoever he picks for 007, one thing is sure: Bezos will milk Ian Fleming's IP with Bond sequels and prequels, Bond spin-offs and some listless TV Bond with a plot eked out over 12 or more ever-thinner episodes designed to be consumed while you're scrolling on your phone. He paid $250 million for Tolkien's legacy to create The Rings of Power, a pointy-eared sub-Game of Thrones series, and his first Bond venture was 007: Road to a Million, a lame game show.
Does it matter? Globalists will think of the jobs, the fiscal stimulus, the "content" created. They'll say however badly Amazon butchers Bond, the originals will still exist: no one can stop you enjoying Sean Connery in From Russia with Love ordering what in 1963 was surely a wildly outré breakfast: "green figs, yoghurt, coffee very black".
Such people think nothing matters but money. They don't care Cadbury's was bought by the American conglomerate Kraft (since swallowed up by Mondelez), so that Dairy Milk now smells like vomit, even though they deny changing the recipe. Or that Heathrow is owned by Saudis, our railways by the Spanish/
Germans/Dutch, or Thames Water was rinsed by vampiric Australians
Macquarie (that went well). They're unlikely to care central London's old, quirky, beautiful, specialist businesses have been driven out by international property speculators, so the capital now has the bland anywhereness of an airport shopping mall.
So why would they be sentimental about James Bond ? just a spy in a few old novels, and a lecherous, cruel, violent, quaintly patriotic straight white man at that? But if you are British, Bond is not just AN Other action hero: he's our soft power, our collective national id. Daniel Craig escorting the late Queen to a helicopter was the exhilarating highlight of the London Olympics opening ceremony, and in that moment was all Bond's allure: tradition and modernity, controlled power, understated cool, all salted with the right measure of humour. (Not too much: A View to a Kill. Or too little: the po-faced Spectre.)
Bond matters because great stories become part of us. You don't need to be a nerdy pedant to believe those entrusted with a beloved franchise must respect the canon. JK Rowling knows this, never letting Harry Potter be Americanised but keeping the essential Englishness at the heart of its appeal. The specificity of fictional worlds matter: round off edges, dumb down, change key elements, stray too far from the original and the essence is lost.
We see this in the outcry when Roald Dahl's books were rewritten by "sensitivity readers" so Augustus Gloop was no longer "fat" and the Oompa-Loompas became genderneutral. Or the dismal ratings for the latest iteration of Doctor Who, a BBC/Disney collaboration in which the main character was regenerated into a gay black man. A Time Lord can, of course, be anyone, but the show was also repopulated with pregnant men, drag queens and non-binaries issuing pronoun homilies ? and a wagging finger from a TV show is no fun.
Before Bezos, Bond had some rackety outings. The best Craig films stuck closest to the original formula: Casino Royale, with its dark glamour and old-school villain in Le Chiffre, whose eyes wept blood, and Skyfall, with its London vistas and Judi Dench holed up in a Highlands castle. The worst, A Quantum of Solace, was a soup of dull, humourless action, cut super-fast to conceal that it made no sense.
Then No Time To Die tried to reinvent Bond as a new man. Fleabag's Phoebe Waller-Bridge worked on the script with Lashana Lynch, who played a black female spy, Nomi, who is allocated (in a calculated wind-up of older male fans) his 007 number. Lynch says they discussed giving her character weight issues and boyfriend problems, mooting a scene where Bond sees her tossing a tampon in a bin. You go, girl! In the end they just gave a sullen, miserable Craig a daughter and "feelings", then in a metaphor for his #Metoo cancellation, killed him off. (No apology for spoilers: watch  instead.)
Does it take me, a fully signed-up Humourless Feminist, to say that this is not Bond? He is a lone shark, a heartless seducer, damaged by being orphaned and a tough war. His attitudes to women have evolved from Fleming's glee at Bond enjoying "the sweet tang of rape". He always had sassy women such as Pussy Galore, female adversaries in Rosa Klebb and loyally served a female M. But I don't think Bond is emotionally literate any more than he is female or gay or ? and I realise this is controversial ? black. (Bond is a vestige of empire, a man out of time, which only works if he's white.) The point is to create and commission new stories, not expect Bond to solve all the world's ills.
So what Bond will Bezos create in a post-Trump world, when Disney and Netflix have binned their DEI teams and learnt the ratings war lesson of "go woke, go broke"? A Bond unapologetic about his libido, surrounded by babes, certainly. But what of the villain: a Chinese or Russian dictator, a renegade US president or a global trillionaire with limitless power, accountable to no one and who even owns James Bond?
James Bond matters because great stories become part of us Just a spy in some old novels, lecherous, cruel ? and our soft power

Load-Date: February 22, 2025


End of Document
