




Targeted News Service
February 24, 2025 Monday 5:17 PM  EST


Copyright 2025 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved


Length: 437 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


[Category: Political] -- America First Legal, a civil rights organization, posted the following news release:
* * *
America First Legal Urges Department of Labor to Investigate Federal Contractors' DEI Programs
WASHINGTON, D.C. - America First Legal (AFL) has formally requested the U.S. Department of Labor and its Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP) to investigate federal contractors that appear to be engaging in illegal diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) policies in violation of the Equal Opportunity Clause (41 C.F.R. SS 60-1.4(a)) and President Trump's Executive Order " Ending Illegal Discrimination and Restoring Merit-Based Opportunity."
The Order explicitly prohibits OFCCP from "promoting 'diversity,' mandating affirmative action," and "allowing or encouraging Federal contractors and subcontractors to engage in workforce balancing based on race, color, sex, sexual preferences, religion, or national origin."
Based on facts developed through litigation and its own independent investigations, AFL's letter identifies eight high-profile federal contractors with DEI policies that may violate federal law and President Trump's Executive Order and asks the Department of Labor and the OFCCP, in the lawful exercise of their investigative authority, to examine the companies' DEI programs for compliance with federal civil rights laws. The contractors include :
* Lyft, Inc.
* Twilio Inc.
* Mars, Inc.
* CBS Broadcasting, Inc.
* Paramount Global
* PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
* Meta Platforms
* Northwestern University
AFL has filed dozens of lawsuits and U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) complaints exposing alleged unlawful discrimination by major companies; we will keep fighting relentlessly for the civil rights of every American citizen.
Statement from Will Scolinos, America First Legal Counsel:
"Federal contracts are a privilege -- contractors entrusted with American tax dollars must abide by the terms and conditions of the contracts that are designed to serve Americans. America First Legal will continue to hold accountable contractors that break their contract with the American people," said Will Scolinos.
Read the letter here.
Follow us on social media for the latest updates on America First Legal's fight to protect your constitutional rights!
X, Facebook, Instagram, Truth Social, Youtube
For press inquiries, please contact 
Photo Credit: Adobe Stocks/BRIAN_KINNEY
***
Original text here: /
Copyright Targeted News Services
MSTRUCK-9071245 MSTRUCK

Load-Date: February 24, 2025


End of Document
