




The Rebel Yell: University of Nevada - Las Vegas
February 23, 2025 Sunday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION; Pg. 1
Length: 1065 words
Body


DEI. A term coined in the 1970s which stands for diversity, equity and inclusion. A term popularized by Barack Obama during his 2008 campaign, with these terms becoming a pillar of his platform. A term that today, has been misconstrued in our vocabulary to mean things the originators of the term would denounce. During Trump's second administration, we have seen him tear apart diversity efforts in the White House and federal agencies across the board. It's disappointing to see that our own government would take actions against its people that directly harm it, but it's not a first.
The administration has signed multiple Executive Orders that end DEI programs, and directly reverse the progressive ideals that the Biden administration pushed for. For example, Trump's executive order on ending DEI programs states that "Americans deserve a government committed to serving every person with equal dignity and respect, and to expending precious taxpayer resources only on making America great." Trump calls services like Human Resources, making federal buildings more accessible, and chief diversity officers a waste of taxpayer money, as well as discriminatory.
Diversity, equity, inclusion and accessibility programs in our federal government have been a standard since the late 2000s and early 2010s in order to prevent workplace discrimination, provide resources like wheelchair ramps and ensure safe working environments. Making this a virtually irreversible decision, along with others, is dangerous to say the least.
Not only that, but the Trump administration has put a pause on celebrations within federal agencies. According to NBC News, the Defense Intelligence Agency has ordered a pause on all activities relating to Black History Month, Pride Month, Holocaust Remembrance Day, and Juneteenth. Observing these holidays comes with penalties, such as defunding and mass firing, and other United States intelligence agencies are working to carry out the executive order.
Numerous celebrities have expressed their disdain for the current administration. In fact, a clip of Hozier resurfaced where he stated that he doesn't need to make fun of Elon Musk, head of the Department of Government Efficiency, because he does it to himself. Lady Gaga took the time during her Grammy acceptance speech to call out the current administration for trying to erase these DEI programs and let members of the LGBTQ+ know that they are being seen and heard.
However, some students at UNLV feel that there are bigger problems than diversity in government programs. At the end of last month, there was a devastating midair crash that caused the death of 67 people, being one of the deadliest plane crashes in American history since 2009. During a press conference, Trump blamed the plane crash on diversity and equity programs that the former administration had put in place. With Trump's executive order to ensure all DEI programs were eradicated, hundreds of people who work for the Federal Aviation Administration were fired. A student who would like to remain anonymous stated, "I think it's weird our president is blaming it on DEI, and then those people get fired, and now there are a ton of plane crashes." Since the beginning of the year, there have been 13 fatal plane crashes, including one in Nevada that did not make national news and hasn't had a confirmed death count yet.
Companies have decided to follow suit with the U.S. government, and roll back their DEI programs. Target has caused the biggest uproar among these companies, rolling back their DEI programs such as "Belonging at the Bullseye," which helps Black employees build meaningful careers, improve the experience of Black shoppers and to promote Black-owned businesses, according to the Associated Press. Even though they stated they had plans to end their programs this year, the timing is seemingly similar to the new administration coming in, when they had goals to hire more racial minority groups, collaborate with more diverse suppliers, and include businesses owned by people of all backgrounds, such as veterans, LGBTQ+ people and people with disabilities. Even their past actions prove that this decision was out of nowhere, with the company donating hundreds of thousands of dollars to activist groups fighting for issues such as LGBTQ+ rights.
According to Time Magazine, companies such as Meta, Walmart, Amazon, Coca Cola, Pepsi, McDonalds, Ford, and Lowe's have all made statements since the 2024 election stating that they would be either looking into or completely pulling out of organizations that they collaborate with that support diversity, equity and inclusion programs across the world. All of these organizations have made valiant efforts to support minority groups and donate to organizations that support expansions of human rights.
Banks like JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup are "watering down their language around their DEI efforts," according to the Wall Street Journal. Even the media giant Disney is making changes to their diversity and inclusion performance metric,and getting rid of their website that highlights diversity in their company. Google is making efforts to collaborate with the new administration by getting rid of Black History Month and Pride Month in their calendars. Overall, companies have given in due to the Trump administration's current pattern of first gutting DEI efforts internally and then within the schools. According to Forbes, there is a push to make private companies roll back these programs through federal civil right laws.
Many fear that this push to roll back DEI programs might have reached UNLV. According to 8 News Now KLAS, our university has removed a crucial part of their hiring process, a diversity scorecard. The scorecard basically asks the candidate how they feel about diversity efforts, how educated they are on issues and inequities that underrepresented groups might have and if they have a plan to contribute to the university's effort for diversity in a positive way. Obviously this is not the determining factor of whether or not a person gets hired at UNLV, but it's an important factor to keep our Minority Serving Institute status as high as it is. Hannah Werner, a 4th year film student, stated that she thinks UNLV is "pretending they don't prioritize diversity because they don't want [the] Trump administration to get their [explicative]."

Load-Date: February 24, 2025


End of Document
