



Fox News INGRAHAM ANGLE 7:00 PM EST
January 22, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6675 words
Byline: Laura Ingraham, Christina Coleman, Raymond Arroyo
Guests: Ron DeSantis, Lorenzo Sewell, Jason Miyares, Chris Rufo
Body


BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: You can follow me on Instagram and X,@bretbaier. Thanks for inviting us into your home tonight. That's it for this Special Report. Fair, balanced and still unafraid. It is fast and furious. We've got you covered. The Ingraham Angle is now.
LAURA INGRAHAM, FOX NEWS HOST: Good evening, everyone. I'm Laura Ingraham. This is The Ingraham Angle. Thank you, as always, for joining us. As the resistance sputters. That's the focus of tonight's Angle.
All right, quick, someone please, please do a welfare check on AOC.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ (D-NY): They're going to go after legal status. They're going to go after people who are presently documented. They're going to try to make them undocumented and deport them too. They are going after people who are documented. Period. They are going after immigrants.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Poor dear. Bless her heart. Perhaps we can get a GoFundMe, I don't know, to help her get through endure the first 100 days of Trump. Because who knew that preserving American sovereignty, enforcing the border and ending the abuse of humanitarian parole could drive people so mad? Now desperate to gain some traction, any traction against Trump, the Left is falling back into an old, unhealthy pattern and creaky talking points.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. DIANA DEGETTE (D-CO): This idea of mass deportations of ICE agents sweeping through communities, through churches and schools, and taking people who might be here legally separating families that's not going to help and what's not going to help, it's not going to help reduce food prices. It's not going to help increase national security.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Now they're worried about food prices. The Democrats, where were they the last four years? Now, of course, in the age of Trump 2.0, the media are trying to find their footing, and now it's fearmongering about whether Trump will arrest priests and nuns.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
EVAN PEREZ, CNN SENIOR JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: There's a lot of Catholic churches, there's a lot of evangelical churches that are assisting and helping people who are illegal immigrants around the country. And the question is, does the federal government go in there and try to force those and are you going to arrest priests and nuns for simply doing what the Bible tells them that they should be doing?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. I mean, Evan is a pretty good reporter, I think. But did he say like, express outrage about - - for them doing what the Bible tells them to do, priests and nuns? Well, does he mean like when pro-life protesters are arrested and thrown in jail for praying outside an abortion clinic? You know the right to life sacred in the Bible. Well, where was CNN's concern then?
Look, the bottom line is other than John Fetterman, few in the Democrat Party and almost no one in the Trump hating media seem to have learned anything after November 5th. Americans do not and have never supported open borders. They have never supported millions of migrants milking the system and making fake asylum claims. And after Biden's border catastrophe, Americans moved even further to the right on the issue. Now, according to this new Ipsos survey, 66 percent of Americans support deporting illegal aliens. Now there's less consensus on the methods as to how to deport them, but the general view is still overwhelmingly supportive of deportation.
Thus all the resistance is left with are feeble attempts to frighten you into believing that your views are hateful and wrong. But Trump's team, they're impervious to this. Now, one of his executive orders may trigger federal investigations of sanctuary jurisdictions, including Denver, Colorado.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MIKE JOHNSTON (D), DENVER MAYOR: When he lifts prohibitions on being able to conduct ICE raids at schools or hospitals or churches, we assume he's doing that for a reason, so we'll challenge it in court. We'll try to injunctions to stop those practices. We think there are plenty of reasonable, common sense ways to go about enforcing the removal of violent criminals, and we can support and collaborate on that.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: OK, well, thank you. You're helping us with the violent criminals now. Well, of course, these blue state mayors have helped fuel the migrant gang activity by continuing with their sanctuary madness in the first place. 42,000 illegals arrived in Denver just in 2023 now, many of whom were then moved into motels in nearby Aurora. Remember all that video of all the gang activity there? So naturally, the gangs and the crime exploded. Thanks, Mayor Johnston. We appreciate that. And Tren de Aragua appreciates you as well.
Now voters in Colorado and other Democrat states, you're going to have to decide who's really looking out for you, the pro-illegal immigrant Democrat leaders that you have elected or President Trump, because right now, political leaders in Colorado and Illinois, California, Massachusetts and across the country are trying to make the poor migrant worker and on a roll migrant student. You know, they're always on a roll students, the faces of the new resistance. As a matter of political you know, common sense. I think it's absolutely idiotic. Now talk about not knowing how to read the room after this election. Meanwhile, in the SoCal town of Huntington Beach, the local government there just voted unanimously. This is good not to be a sanctuary city.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PAT BURNS, MAYOR OF HUNTINGTON BEACH, CA: The message is, Huntington Beach comes first. Our primary function is to keep this city safe, and if it's to assist ICE in affecting what their job is, we should be able to assist in any way possible.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Now that's surfing USA. That's what I'm talking about. And this isn't the only evidence of, I think, his comments about we can't do this, to the fact that the other side is just not getting it. They are flailing in the resistance. Now, we all know that Elon Musk is excited about the Trump agenda and that he's prone to sudden, wild gesticulation, kind of funny, and that is what the grasping, gasping resistance grabs onto.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This looks very much like a Nazi salute, no matter how they're trying to clean it up. He should be condemned for those kinds of actions. So gross, disgusting.
SEN. CHRIS MURPHY (D-CT): Over and over last night, white supremacist groups and neo Nazi groups in this country rallied around that visual. Does it concern you that those elements of the neo Nazi and white supremacist element in the United States believe that what they saw last night was a neo Nazi salute.
ELISE STEFANIK, UN AMBASSADOR NOMINEE: What concerns me is this is what -- these are the questions you believe are most important to ask to the UN ambassador.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Yes, it is desperate, desperate from Senator Murphy and good for Elise Stefanik. It's really just another sign that we've won and they're out of ideas, and that includes the Euro elites at Davos.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We saw Elon Musk raising his hand at the festivities when the new President was inaugurated. What is your comment to that?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We have the freedom of speech in Europe and in Germany, everyone can say what he wants, even if he is a billionaire, and what we do not accept is if this is supporting extreme Right positions.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Well, look Davos, what are you going to expect -- look at what Germany has done to its country, reeling from migrant crime. It's a mess. And as far as Elon Musk is concerned, I'd say welcome to the club, because they did the same to me years ago. Of course, none of them really know what the Nazi Party is or was. It was the National Socialist Party, and that they were certainly not rabid defenders of free speech like we are.
And they apparently are fine with their friends who make similar gestures. No problem at all, so transparent and so desperate. But Trump's victory has driven them all bonkers. One Danish politician is spitting mad.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Dear President Trump, listen very carefully, Greenland has been part of the Danish kingdom for 800 years. It's an integrated part of our country. It is not for sale. Let me put it in words you might understand Mr. Trump (inaudible).
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Oh, here and around the world, the globalist resistance is struggling for oxygen, and apparently him for clicks. So will they resurrect their power base? It's a big power base, still not deflated, totally defeated. Well, so far it's not looking good, and certainly they won't resurrect their old preeminence if Trump and common sense Americans keep doing what's right, and that is the Angle.
And as Democrat runs cities and states plan to resist Trump on immigration, red states leaders are ready to get to work. One of them is my next guest, Florida Governor, Ron DeSantis. Governor, great to see you tonight. Now, before we get into what your state is doing, the Pentagon just announced that its sending 1500 active duty troops to the southern border. Will that, in your estimation, make a big difference?
GOV. RON DESANTIS (R-FL): I think it's a great start. The Pentagon and the people in the brass need to recognize that under Donald Trump, the military's mission is not just simply to be halfway around the world defending borders, but actually to defend our own borders, and designated the cartels as foreign terrorist organizations, is absolutely the right thing to do. And you are going to see this operate as not just a law enforcement issue, but as a military issue.
So I think it's the right thing to do. I think you're going to see more of that. And I think what you saw on the first day, and what we continue to see, is this problem is going to be put to bed once and for all. That's what the American people voted for, and I think that's what the administration is going to deliver, and that's what states like Florida are going to do to step up and help facilitate that mission.
INGRAHAM: Governor, I want to get into what's happening in Florida in just one second. But are you surprised that they're going down the same immigration sob story route with the priests and the nuns, and you're going to arrest the nuns and you're going to arrest the priests, I mean this is the old playbook that they pulled with the kids in cages, and it didn't work, but they're going back to it. Does that surprise you?
DESANTIS: Well, what else are they going to do, Laura? I mean, you have a situation where we have seen the effects on crime, we've seen the effects on health care spending, on schools, on overcrowding, but then you have the larger issue of the American people have never consented to these millions of people pouring into our country, and so do we govern ourselves or not? So this is a fundamental question. They've been on the wrong side of all of this, and even in the Congress, just this week, they're voting on this Laken Riley Act, and most of the Democrats voted against it, and all this said was, if you're an illegal alien committing crimes against the American people, then you need to be sent home. Who could possibly object to that?
But that's the position that they've taken, so it's going to continue to hurt them politically. But yes, they don't have a leg to stand on, so all they're going to try to rely on is emotion. Now it's interesting, the media, the legacy media, they'll hype up that emotion. They don't like to talk to the angel moms who have lost kids from illegal alien crime. They don't like to talk to people that have been negatively impacted by this. It's only the ones that can try to resuscitate their agenda.
INGRAHAM: Yes, it's back to who is going to work in the restaurants and Governor, I want to get to Florida, because there's interesting dynamic brewing here in Florida where you have the Speaker of the House and you have the President of the State Senate, kind of they seem to be slow walking some of these common sense provisions that you're pushing again to really solidify the efforts against illegal immigration in this state.
So tell us about why that's happening with a state that's just incredibly well run, including on this issue.
DESANTIS: Well, since I've been governor, we've already banned sanctuary cities. We're not a sanctuary state. Couple years ago, we passed the strongest measures in the country against illegal immigration. The media said our economy was going to tank and all these prey to horribles, and yet we've grown dramatically since then. But now we're in a situation where you have an administration instead of what we had with Biden, you have administration that's serious about this. So yes, we don't allow sanctuary cities, but we want to impose affirmative obligations on all local communities, county and municipal in the state. I'll order them to do it to facilitate the Trump administration's mission.
We want to make sure that we have no more remaining incentives for people to come into Florida. We've gotten rid of almost all of them, except we still have a relic from 10 years ago where the legislature in the past gave in State College tuition to -- we've got to repeal that.
INGRAHAM: What?
DESANTIS: We got to make sure that we are working hand in hand the Trump administration. Now I've been talking -- my folks have been talking with them during the transition. I spoke with the President multiple times leading up to his inauguration. We knew these executive orders were coming, so I called a special session to start this coming Monday where we could respond to them. And the legislative leader said it's premature that this is somehow not something that's time sensitive.
I can tell you, it's not premature, Laura, we've been waiting four years to be able to have a partner in Washington, D.C. on this issue. We have a sense of urgency. We got to get the job done. No more dragging your feet. Let's do it. And this will be what the America -- the people of Florida sent us here to do. No one Imagine having to explain to a Republican voter, if you're a member of the Florida Legislature --
INGRAHAM: It's insane.
DESANTIS: -- oh, you don't want to help with this, that it's not how -- we can just wait and do it months from now. Nobody is going to accept that. Our folks want action now. We've got the momentum. We've got to get it done.
INGRAHAM: I think the voters of Florida in any state where Republicans especially are dragging their feet, but any politician are dragging their feet and or thwarting Trump's agenda on this, it's got to -- the voters have to make their voices heard, write, call, email, whatever you have to do. Governor, how are you doing in the snow? How's that going with the snow in Florida, I've never seen anything like it.
DESANTIS: We, we more than doubled the previous record. Places got nine to 10 inches. The previous record had been four inches. We had snow. Snowmen being made in the Governor's residence here with my kids. So it's unlike anything we've ever seen. But we are, we have announced a closure of I-10 from the Alabama border up until through Gaston County, just because, while this stuff melted during the day, it's now getting very cold, the roads going to freeze again, and the conditions are hazardous. And the thing is, you know, if you've been up north, you kind of get driving in this, but in Florida, we're not used to it, so we've just asked people to exercise caution when they're on the roads, and they have, by and large, done that, so stay safe. But this is going to be something that kids are going to remember for the rest of their lives that they were there for the blizzard of 2025.
INGRAHAM: I'm going to post the video of you and your family in the snow because it was quite funny with your kids. I don't know -- we don't have it, but Governor, thank you very much for sharing the story about illegal immigration, and much more. We appreciate it. And thousands more were just ordered to evacuate in L.A. County as another wildfire breaks out. Fox's Christina Coleman is live from Santa Clarita, all the details, Christina, what can you tell us?
CHRISTINA COLEMAN, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Hi, Laura, as you can see behind me, this giant, dark plume of smoke can be seen for miles across L.A. County as this fast moving fire continues to spread. I mean, just go ahead and take a look at that, all of that toxic air. The Hughes fire broke out today around 11:00 a.m. Pacific Time, north of Los Angeles and Santa Clarita near Castilla Lake. The fire exploded from 50 acres to more than 5000 acres just within an hour or two and is now burning more than 8000 acres. It is currently zero percent contained. Crews with the Los Angeles County Fire Department and Angeles National Forest are battling this wind driven fire that officials say is burning and very dry brush. This fire has prompted evacuation orders and warnings for tens of thousands of people, including local schools and a nearby detention center that is currently evacuating hundreds of inmates to a different part of the facility.
Officials urging residents not to wait as gusty Santa Ana winds fuel the flames at just over 30 miles per hour, and forecasts show those winds increasing in speed overnight, drivers trying to avoid the Hughes fire are running into major gridlock on the five freeway and surrounding roads, and this new fire erupted as crews continue to gain ground on the deadly Palisades and Eaton fires. Those fires are now 68 percent and 91 percent contained. Laura.
INGRAHAM: Christina, it's terrifying to see yet another fire breakout. Thank you very much. And we come back, the resistance is not just in politics. It's not just in the media, but it's desperately flailing in the religious community. What is that all about? And where will it go next, coming up?
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
INGRAHAM: It's not just the Democrats. It's not just the press trying to revive the new anti-Trump resistance, activists masquerading as faithful clerics. They're also in the mix. Enter the so-called Bishop Budde. Let's call the whole thing off of D.C. Episcopal Diocese. Now, hours after her Left-wing diatribe at the National Prayer service, the Peter Pan look alike became a TV star.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BISHOP MARIANN EDGAR BUDDE, GAVE SERMON AT TRUMP'S INAUGURAL PRAYER SERVICE: I was speaking to the President because I felt that he has this moment now where he feels charged and empowered to do what he feels called to do. And I wanted to say, you know, there is room for mercy. There is room for a broader compassion.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: And then the warrior princess waif, the new Trump slayer, appeared with her loyal subjects.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Bishop, I was struck by your tone. You were so gentle, you were so respectful, you were very demure and very mindful.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Bishop, predictively, you seem to strike a nerve. You seem to have more fearlessness than anyone in Congress right now.
BUDDE: My responsibility that morning, yesterday morning, was to reflect, to pray with the nation for unity. I was trying to counter the narrative that is so, so divisive and polarizing and in which people, real people, are being -- are being harmed.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Well, where is the empathy for the Americans being assaulted, for the Americans being abused and even murdered because of open borders, or the children Bishop mutilated by gender bending freaks? Any compassion there whatsoever? It's no wonder worshipers are fleeing from 2011 through 2023 there's been a 20 percent decline in her Church's attendance but expect more of these radicals camouflaging themselves in clerical robes. They're going to appear over the next four years, and they're going to want you to believe that they're just following the good book, but they use God as kind of this political Trojan horse. It's just another sign of their desperation.
Joining me now is Lorenzo Sewell, who's the senior pastor of 180 Church. He delivered a prayer at the President's inauguration. Rev, I saw you. I was right in front, and I was like, Man, I don't know. You don't even need a microphone during that prayer, I loved it. It's great to see you. Thanks for joining us now. The media is trying to make this bishop look like the latest anti-Trump hero, but also a victim, because people are criticizing her approach in the National Cathedral address, how would you describe her?
PASTOR LORENZO SEWELL, 180 CHURCH SENIOR PASTOR: Laura, I'm so Holy Ghost, happy to be here with you. I was in her service. I was physically sitting next to the First Family. And what was so sad about this bishop, she had the opportunity to preach the gospel. She had the opportunity to talk about the death, the burial, the resurrection of Jesus Christ. She had the opportunity to bring people into the faith. It was a salvific moment. Instead of using the authority of the Word of God to preach the message of Christ and to draw our president closer to Jesus, she used it to practice what I call theological and spiritual male practice. She is the worst preacher I have ever in my life heard.
It was awful. It was so bad. I'm grateful my wife was not there. She would have ran out of that church. I could not believe that she would use that moment to speak a demonic message, as if she was using the Bible. She used her platform to practice theological malpractice. It was horrible. It was the worst message I've ever been in my life. It was believers. We prayed after. We prayed for our president. After that message, I was the last person to leave that building because I was so offended about how she used her platform.
INGRAHAM: Did she come up afterward and shake their hands like how did that go down? I didn't see any of the aftermath of that.
SEWELL: It was -- she was so arrogant, the way she was -- she didn't even acknowledge the President of the United States of America. She had an opportunity to minister the gospel, instead of that, she is a heretic. She should never be allowed to preach the message of Jesus in her life, because she's not even talking about Jesus.
INGRAHAM: This is why no one's going to these -- yes, this is why these denominations are dying. Sadly, it's a beautiful cathedral, but it becomes just another, you know, long and, you know, hard to endure hour of one of our other cable, you know, competitors. It's not what people are looking for. Now in Arkansas, this weekend, Pastor religious leaders met for a service they called Resistance Sunday. So it's not just limited to the Bishop Budde, Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REV. DR. JEFF HOOD, PRIEST, ST. OSCAR ROMERO OLD CATHOLIC CHURCH: Resist and I pray with all of my heart that if he enacts these evil policies, may God damn Donald Trump and may god damn all of us if we don't do anything about it.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: I mean, I don't know who this is. He's like trying to for the Reverend Wright award of the week. I don't know who that individual is. But do any of these so-called church leaders represent, in your view, the Gospel?
SEWELL: Well, it's not biblical. There's nothing in the Bible that teaches that we should speak against our leaders. We should be praying for them. We should be interceding for them. The Bible says we will lead an honest and peaceable life. Men like Daniel, men like Nehemiah, men like Joseph, they all served God faithfully, even up under leaders, they did not agree with. This man who's speaking about damning the leader of the free world, it is so sad. He needs us to repent. And I'll be praying for that bishop, and I'll be praying for this man too, that they would really get to know the real Jesus, the Jesus of the Bible.
INGRAHAM: Well, Pastor, that's a good way to end this segment. Thank you very much. And I don't think she made a big stink about what happened right outside of St. John Church during the May 30, 2020, BLM riots. I was there. I watched it, and it was terrifying. And there was no, no message to the community about that that was, you know, in any way relatable. But Pastor, thank you.
All right, just ahead Democrats hypocrisy once again served up on a silver platter for you to see the double standard on pardons, next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNKNOWN: He's basically saying, if I incite you to riot, if you crush spines and skulls, then I am going to -- don't worry about it. You're doing it in my name for my benefit. I'm just going to pardon you.
UNKNOWN: I would not be surprised if we saw a mass resignation from the Department of Justice.
UNKNOWN: Why were they being pardoned? That's my question. In other words, were they innocent? Nobody's asserting that. Or are they being pardoned simply because they were the willing political foot soldiers for Donald Trump.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Wait, are we supposed to believe that the open borders Democrats are suddenly the party of law and order? Is that their argument now? Because that is knee-slappingly hilarious. Now, just look at the commutations and pardons Biden issued before leaving office.
Consider the case of drug dealer Adrian Peeler. He was convicted in the murder of eight-year-old B.J. Brown and his mother, Karen Clark. B.J. Brown and his mom, well, he was a -- B.J. himself was about to testify in court against Peeler's brother. He'd seen Russell Peeler shoot his mom's boyfriend as they were riding in the car together. B.J. survived that shooting, but the Peeler brothers wanted him silenced. So, Adrian Peeler went to their home and shot them both. That is the type of guy Joe Biden thought was worthy of a pardon.
And then there's the Waverly Two. Ferrone Claiborne and Terrence Richardson. Well, Biden granted them clemency despite they're being linked to the murder of Allen Gibson, a Virginia police officer. He was shot with his own service weapon while trying to break up a suspected drug deal.
Now, they cut a deal, the two men, with prosecutors, and Claiborne pled guilty to a lesser charge of involuntary manslaughter. The two eventually faced federal charges. They were then acquitted of murder, but convicted on drug trafficking charges.
Joining me now, Virginia Attorney General Jason Miyares. Mr. Attorney General, thank you for joining us. Now, Democrats will argue here that you can't compare apples to oranges, but that in the case of the Waverly Two, they were acquitted. But it's a complicated story, but is that writing an injustice?
JASON MIYARES (R) VIRGINIA ATTORNEY GENERAL: No. I mean, the injustice is what happened to Alan Gibson. He's one of those quiet heroes that Governor Youngkin and I talk about. They go, they put on the badge, they protect our society. Left behind, he went to work that day in 1998, his wife and his young daughter, and he's stumble upon this drug deal as you noted. There was a struggle. They shot Officer Gibson and orphaned his daughter.
As a result, yes, Richardson pled guilty to manslaughter, Claiborne as an accomplice. This has been reviewed multiple times as part of the frustration that the legacy media isn't talking about. There was an appeals court, a federal appeals court in 2002 that found, absolutely, there was absolutely a finding that these individuals had taken Officer Gibson's life and had orphaned this child as a result of their dastardly conduct.
But even more than this, they appealed the clemency to President Obama. President Obama reviewed this case and said they are not ineligible for a pardon or clemency. Same thing with this Justice Department actually requested --
INGRAHAM: Are you kidding me?
MIYARES: I mean, Biden's -- yeah, they requested this of President Obama. He turned it down. So, Joe Biden, who has this criminal first, victim last mindset, has even more of a left-wing position on this than President Obama. It goes time and time again where they're ignoring law enforcement.
Not just in the Waverly two, but I would remind your viewers of what happened with Leonard Peltier, an activist who brutally murdered in cold blood, two FBI agents executed him in the back of the head.
INGRAHAM: Let's see the photos of these people. Thank you.
MIYARES: Yeah. I mean, over and over again, you've seen where they are requested, those that are there. And listen, the hardest thing I've ever done as attorney general is speaking at the funerals and meeting with the families of fallen officers that have died and given the last full measure of devotion in the line of duty.
And there's an implicit contract. If my loved one, if you're an officer and your life has been taken from you by a murderer, by a drug dealer, by a cop, whoever it is, then the law is going to come down on you.
The idea that Biden would ignore law enforcement pleas for these killers, whether the FBI, the individual that murdered the FBI agents, or the individual that took Officer Gibson's life, and just ignore the request of countless individuals, I think is a slap in the face of law enforcement. It goes back to that criminal --
INGRAHAM: No, well, Mr. Attorney General, what is your reaction to the criticism, however, of President Trump's decision for a blanket pardon for all of the January 6th defendants? You know, some of them did commit some acts of violence, although a lot of them served years in jail already. We know sex assault convicts go to jail all across this country for a couple of years. Some of these people have been in jail for already four years.
MIYARES: I think President Trump campaign on this as an issue, actually. He told the American people, if you vote for me, I'm going to seek pardon and clemency for those that were involved in January 6th. It's very different than what Joe Biden did. Joe Biden repeatedly promised the American people he would not pardon Hunter, and would not pardon his whole family. He pardoned his brothers, his sisters, almost everybody in the Biden family. I think it's a huge difference between a campaign promise and somebody looked at the American people said he would never do it and then he did it.
INGRAHAM: All right. Mr. Attorney General, thank you very much. All right, a mayor needs a little help with basic spelling tasks, and hundreds of guests have their purses lifted at an inaugural event. Raymond Arroyo is here. All the details coming up.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
INGRAHAM: It's time for Seen and Unseen where we reveal the stories behind the headlines. For that we turn to Fox News contributor Raymond Arroyo. All right, Raymond, the mayor of Philly, Cherelle Parker, was cheering on the Eagles. It was very peppy the other day. Well, was it the Beagles? The Eagle? I don't know what it was.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
CHERELLE PARKER, PHILADELPHIA MAYOR: Well, listen, we've got to do this. Let me hear you all say E-L-G-S-E-S. Eagles.
RAYMOND ARROYO, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Let's go, Elgses. Look, sometimes it's better not to try to spell the words out.
INGRAHAM: Sometimes. Things happen.
ARROYO: But as you can imagine, that moment went viral and Mayor Parker responded.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PARKER: We don't promise perfection. I'm so happy that I never have. Especially after I couldn't spell Eagles right.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
ARROYO: You know, I got to say this, Laura, but you know, I looked into her schedule at -- I mean her record as, at this point, I don't care whether she can spell Hut. The woman's record, she's been there for a year, it's incredible. Homicides are down 40 percent. She's cleaned up the homeless encampment. She's enforcing drug policy. She's got more --
INGRAHAM: Yeah, it's not a big deal.
ARROYO: So, you know what? I'll give it to her. I'm extending grace and mercy. Bishop Budde would love us for that, right?
INGRAHAM: That would be a funny t-shirt, right? The eggless. I think that you can turn that into a whole thing. It's not how it happens to everybody.
ARROYO: But, Laura, one of the refreshing things about these first days of the Trump administration, really, are his repeated press avails. Where Biden, or Harris for that matter, would hide out for days and refuse questions, Trump has had two press conferences, a number of interviews, one you'll see tonight.
And when you think about it, Laura, it's really a spirited interaction with the public.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DOANLD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: They should not have served -- excuse me, listen to me for a second, stop interrupting. The American public is tired of people like you that are just one-sided, horrible people.
UNKNOWN: Do you think that the war should be frozen currently along the line?
TRUMP: The war should have never started if you had a competent president, which you didn't. All right, go ahead, yeah, please.
(CROSSTALK)
UNKNOWN: Do you have TikTok on your phone?
TRUMP: No, but I think I might put it there.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Oh, I love it when he does this with the one hand. Put it with the one hand. No, no.
(CROSSTALK)
INGRAHAM: But Raymond, doesn't he -- he loves sparring with the press. Well, you said Biden wasn't around for days. Biden wasn't around for months. Forget days. Like, he never surfaced. This was -- I love this. This is so awesome. And Hannity has the big interview tonight with Trump.
ARROYO: Yes, he does. Yes, he does. And look, I mean, now we're not reporting all of this, Laura, but the truth of the matter is, Trump is being blunt with everybody. He even sent a tweet out to Putin that could cure this entire Ukrainian war and bring a negotiation to be -- something we didn't imagine happening and is getting very little reportage.
But he told Putin today, I'm going to drop tariffs on you if you don't come to the table. We can do this the hard way or the easy way. We'll see what happens.
INGRAHAM: Well, even the Politico playbook is reporting and describing Trump 2.0 as accessible, taking questions from all comers, and now follows up with a full sit-down interview in his third day in office. Joe and Kamala Harris might like to take note.
ARROYO: Yeah, well, Jill Biden's press secretary, Michael LaRosa, retweeted that, by the way. And it's true. Yeah, she said a moment ago, they've been dodging the press, Kamala and Biden, for years. Look, Trump confronts, he makes his case clear, he puts the agenda out to the American people.
But, Laura, I have to talk about this other matter. At these inaugural events this week at the Capitol One Center, something unexpected happened. Women's purses, they had a no-bag policy, and these poor women, they had to give up their purses. Now D.C.'s finest are discovering them. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNKNOWN: I've never seen nothing this insane in my life. This is trash. I see why she left it.
UNKNOWN: I found a bag with a car key in it. So, I was able to contact the person through their college ID. And I'm waiting to give her car key back.
UNKNOWN: It's unbelievable, man, just to see how many people would leave their own belongings here.
UNKNOWN: People have left a lot of really cute bags all over the place. They're probably going to go into the landfill.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
ARROYO: Laura, that was awful. Louis Vuitton bags were left out in the cold because they wouldn't let them into the arena. Those should have been secured and given back to those people. They waited hours in the cold to see the president. The least they could do is go back home with their bags, for goodness sake.
INGRAHAM: Well, Raymond, there were some people who weren't too happy about the cold, and waiting in the cold, and it didn't include us. It wasn't fun to be out in the cold. One woman was crying on the ground saying they gave a lot of money to Trump, they didn't have a table. This happens, it's hard to organize these things, but maybe they learn a little bit for the next time around. It was a little tricky in a couple areas there.
All right, Raymond, thank you very much. I think I have my bag. All right, DEI just went bye-bye, much more, next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
INGRAHAM: Is DEI really DOA? Well, as of two hours ago, all federal employees in DEI roles, that's a lot of federal employees, have been put on leave, and the woke offices that they were in are now closed. That's thanks to Trump's sweeping executive orders. I love this. It's like Christmas every day.
And this means over at the FAA, which only runs our air traffic control, guess what? This was removed from its website. We believe diversity is needed to ensure multiple perspectives are at the table, guarantee safety is a priority, and promote a healthy work environment. Isn't, shouldn't air traffic controllers just be good at their job? Doesn't matter what gender, sex, sexual orientation.
But it also means that over at the Pentagon, folks won't be hearing about this kind of nonsense anytime soon.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNKNOWN: We currently have nearly 40 percent women enrolled at the Coast Guard Academy. I'm really excited about the talent and the diversity that I see.
UNKNOWN: We have to think of innovative new ways that we can lead a diverse and inclusive encompassing force, and that's how we can maximize our potential.
UNKNOWN: I also marched for equality. I like to think I've been defending freedom from an early age. I needed my own adventures, my own challenge. And after meeting with an Army recruiter, I found it.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Oh my god, that is painful. Joining us now, Chris Ruffo, Senior Fellow at the Manhattan Institute. Chris, this is good. I'm always very skeptical. I think DEI, DOA, is it really? But I don't know. What else does Trump's executive orders do?
CHRIS RUFU, MANHATTAN INSTITUTE SENIOR FELLOW: No, this is absolutely a sea change on DEI. His executive orders on day one and day two do a couple things. One, they rescind all of Biden's executive orders and trenching DEI in the bureaucracy. But what happened last night was even more significant.
His executive order actually instructs his administration to investigate corporations, schools, and universities for practicing DEI. And it says, if you're practicing illegal and discriminatory DEI in the private sector and you receive federal funds, you'll be under investigation. You'll pay a huge price.
This is sending shockwaves through virtually every major institution in the country. We should be always skeptical, but in this instance, Trump is the real deal. He is changing the country very, very quickly.
INGRAHAM: Yeah, I don't doubt his resolve. I doubt the resolve of some of these wokesters that are embedded in corporate America, certainly in academia. But don't you think also, Chris, some of these, especially these tech CEOs, some of them are just relieved that they don't have to do this and be engaged in this charade any longer. They do want the best of the best.
RUFO: That's exactly right. I was texting with a number of tech CEOs down in Silicon Valley. They told me that the resistance against Trump is dead. That, in fact, many executives and managers at these companies are relieved. They don't have to pretend to believe in DEI and woke and, you know, tampons in the men's bathroom.
One executive told me he used to collect the men's tampons at all the conferences at these Silicon Valley companies because it's so ridiculous. He doesn't have to do that anymore. The tampons are out of the men's room at Facebook and other companies.
We live through a national nightmare for five years. That nightmare is coming to a close. And now it's time to really make sure that that's a permanent change.
INGRAHAM: And we should remind everybody that the Justice Department's Office of Civil Rights will now be used to fight real discrimination. And Harmeet Dhillon, I assume she'll get confirmed very, very easily, and she'll be leading the charge if these companies do not abide by this executive order.
Chris, now we need to make this law, but we'll continue to have you on and monitor this. Chris, thank you very much.
All right, that is it for us tonight. Oh, my God, there's so much news, but it is kind of -- doesn't it make you feel good? Like, things are changing, and it's really good. Enjoy this moment. Jesse is next.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: Show

Publication-Type: Transcript

Transcript: 012201cb.257

Subject: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); TRUMP'S FIRST 100 DAYS (90%); GOVERNMENT BODIES & OFFICES (89%); IMMIGRATION, CITIZENSHIP & DISPLACEMENT (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY & FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); RELIGION (88%); ARRESTS (85%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (79%); DEPORTATION (78%); GOVERNMENT & PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS & NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); PAROLE (77%); NEGATIVE NEWS (74%); IMMIGRATION (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS VOCATIONS (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (65%); FOOD PRICES (62%); Mass Deportations (%); Elon Musk (%); Donald Trump (%); Politics (%); Media (%)

Company:  FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (93%)

Organization: PHILADELPHIA EAGLES (84%)

Industry: NAICS516120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%); FOOD PRICES (62%)

Person: ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ (79%); DONALD TRUMP (79%); DIANA DEGETTE (58%); ELON MUSK (58%)

Geographic: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (56%); UNITED STATES (92%)

Load-Date: January 23, 2025


End of Document
