




The Daily Caller
February 21, 2025 Friday 02:54 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS; daily-caller-news-foundation
Length: 483 words
Byline: Ireland Owens, Contributor, 
Body



Citigroup has become the latest major financial institution to retreat from some of its diversity initiatives.
Citigroup CEO Jane Fraser told staff in a Thursday  that the company is walking back some of its diversity policies, including renaming its diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) team and also getting rid of “aspirational representation goals except as required by local law.” The bank's decision comes amid growing  that activist groups are calling for financial institutions to abandon their DEI policies.
The bank will also “no longer require diverse slates of candidates and diverse panels of interviewers, but we will still encourage the best practice of having a variety of perspectives included in hiring decisions and continue sourcing talent from the broadest available pool,” according to the memo. Citigroup referred the Daily Caller News Foundation to the memo posted on its website when reached for comment.
“We've long been clear about the benefits we derive from having a workforce of varied backgrounds, experiences and perspectives because that allows us to better serve our clients and communities,” Fraser wrote in the memo. “With our global footprint, this has always been a priority for us, and we continue to aspire to have a workforce that represents all backgrounds.”
Several major American banks have been quietly backtracking on public mentions of DEI in an attempt to avoid facing litigation or probes from the federal government, The Wall Street Journal . 

(Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images)
President Donald Trump has been leading a massive  on DEI programs at American  and the federal government since he assumed office for his second term. The president signed an  on Jan. 20 to terminate “wasteful” and “radical” DEI programs and preferencing across the federal government, stating in the order that the diversity programs were “immoral.”
Other Wall Street giants have similarly begun scaling back on their diversity policies in 2025, including 
A string of other  have also been  their  efforts in the past year due to growing pressure from consumers and conservative activists, including , , ,  and .
Despite this, some companies, such as  and  have continued leaning into DEI.
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Graphic

 
(Photo by Michael M. Santiago/Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
