




Targeted News Service
February 27, 2025 Thursday 9:00 AM  EST


Copyright 2025 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved


Length: 1577 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: YELLOW SPRINGS, Ohio 
Body


Antioch University issued the following news:
* * *
Understanding Threats to Higher Education
By William R. Groves, JD
Across the country, students, faculty, staff, and administrators--whether at small liberal arts colleges or large R1 universities--are struggling to make sense of what is happening to higher education given the torrent of Executive Orders and Dear Colleague Letters from Washington DC. Concerns are being raised about the future of the U.S. Department of Education, the status of funding for research, the effect of these orders on DEI efforts, possible impacts on Title IV student loans, and so much more. The nature and rapidity of these executive proclamations literally takes our breath away--and that seems to be the point.
This communication will try to set the record straight on the legal issues and how Antioch University is, and always has been, in compliance with federal laws. At the same time, I want to reaffirm our institutional values grounded in Antioch's historic commitment to social and racial justice, mutual respect and dignity, freedom of speech and inquiry, and the essential role of education in preserving and strengthening democracy. That is why we were founded, and that is the mission upon which we will continue to stand.
Below are the issues in no particular order, their possible likelihood of coming about, and their potential impact on Antioch or its students. I have not included a discussion of the Executive Order (EO) limiting indirect costs on federal grants to 15%, but that EO has been preliminarily enjoined nationally by a federal judge. Instead, I am focused on the January 21 Executive Order (J21 EO) entitled "Ending Illegal Discrimination and Restoring Merit-Based Opportunity," and the February 14 Dear Colleague Letter (F14 DCL) from the Department of Education.
Abolishing the Department of Education (DoE)
This has been a dream of the current administration for years, although it's not clear why. In any case, while it is possible, it is widely accepted that any such effort will take an act of Congress, not simply an executive order from the President. Given the slim majority held by the Republican Party in Congress, it is not likely to succeed. It is difficult to predict all that might happen and certainly some aspects of the DoE's operations could be shuttered or crippled by Federal layoffs, but the Department itself and its programs are likely to survive.
Dismantling the Title IV Direct Student Loan Program
Again, this program was created by Congress and cannot be dismantled without an act of Congress. Given the number of Americans who depend on this funding source to obtain their education, and given the devastating economic impact any changes would have on every college and university in America, and every state and college town in America--many of which are in Republican Congressional districts--it's exceedingly unlikely that Title IV is at risk. That said, it is possible that student loans, Pell Grants, and other federal financial aid programs could be placed under other Departments, such as the U.S. Department of the Treasury, as they were in the past. The critical thing is that financial aid for our students is not under direct threat.
Dismantling DEI Programs and Initiatives
There is no question that DEI programs are being targeted and vilified. This started in State legislatures such as Florida and Texas, and then became an issue in the Presidential election with repeated references to "DEI hires"--a pejorative term, in their minds meaning "Didn't Earn It"--suggesting (1) that DEI efforts are all about circumventing the civil rights laws protecting job applicants from employment discrimination based on race, gender etc., and (2) that anyone who is not white or male was unqualified for the job they were hired into. This narrative that DEI is some kind of workaround or loophole in antidiscrimination laws is complete rubbish, but it's been repeated enough times to get traction in the eyes of the American public.
So, last weekend the Department of Education published a new "Dear Colleague Letter" (F14 DCL) and emailed it to every college President in the U.S., including me. It asserts, without evidence, that DEI programs are being used unlawfully to violate the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and warns that federal funding could be withdrawn from any university operating DEI programs, practices, or customs that, in the view of the Department, could be construed as racially discriminatory. The letter argues that the Supreme Court decision two years ago striking down affirmative action (race-conscious admissions decisions) also had the effect of striking down all other "race-conscious programs" of a university. The implication is that any efforts to educate about race, our nation's history of racial injustice, or the continuing effects of systemic racism, are unlawful. However, according to our higher education counsel and other lawyers who practice in this area of the law, their position is indefensible.
In fact, as I was writing this memorandum to you, a federal court in Maryland issued a nationwide preliminary injunction against the J21 EO enjoining any enforcement until trial on the merits. In National Association of Diversity Officers in Higher Education vs. Donald J. Trump, the court found that it was likely that the plaintiffs would prevail at trial and were therefore entitled to a preliminary injunction. [1]
It appears the F14 DCL is headed for a similar fate. For example, linked here is a legal memorandum written by a large group of law school faculty--lawyers--who teach education law, antidiscrimination law, civil rights law, employment law, and Constitutional law. This memorandum is the best analysis of the DCL and the related J21 EO I have seen. I highly recommend that all faculty read it. It provides many examples of the kinds of DEI initiatives, classroom curricula, and training that are still quite legal, or even required by the civil rights laws of the United States. So, I want to assure you, that our specific DEI efforts under the direction of Stephanie Helms Pickett, Vice Chancellor of Equity, Belonging, and Culture, are still legal and will continue to be administered in accordance with long-standing federal law.
Again, this Dear Colleague Letter (DCL) does not have the force of law and does not pretend to change the law in any way. It is merely their "interpretation of the law" that has changed, and that interpretation is likely unconstitutional. When we went to bed on Friday night, February 14, Antioch was in compliance with federal law, and when we woke up to the DCL in our inboxes on Saturday morning, February 15, we were still in compliance with the law. We are simply on notice that the DoE now interprets the law differently, and that it will use that interpretation in pursuing investigations and enforcement actions against schools they believe are violating the law. Antioch University and most of higher education will not comply in advance of a change in the law.
That said, we must take this situation seriously, very seriously. We are carefully monitoring court decisions, educating ourselves about new federal pronouncements as they take effect, seeking advice from our legal counsel, and taking concrete steps to support all in our community while protecting our most vulnerable members.
Antioch's leadership team has been attending meetings of national education associations and keeping up with all the many changes and challenges. Several of us were on a webinar presented by the American Council on Education (ACE) last week, just after the DCL was issued. The webinar was attended by over 5,000 leaders in higher education. We are not alone. Not only do we have strength in our partnership with the Coalition for the Common Good, but it is also important to recognize that higher education associations are coming together. In addition to ACE, we are members of, and collaborate with, organizations such as the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities (NAICU) and the American Association of Colleges and Universities (AAC&U). Together, these and other higher education associations have the ability to advocate, litigate, and lobby collectively for our institutional rights and autonomy in ways that individual colleges or universities cannot do on their own.
Antioch University will continue to do our best to educate for social and racial justice, and we will always aspire to create an inclusive learning and working environment for our community. We will stay true to our mission and our work. This is my commitment to you.
[1] The court held that "President's duties are of 'unrivaled gravity and breadth.'" Trump v. United States, 603 U.S. 593, 607 (2024) (quoting Trump v. Vance, 591 U.S. 786, 800 (2020)). And the Constitution "vest[s] the President with 'supervisory and policy responsibilities of utmost discretion and sensitivity.'" Id. (quoting Nixon v. Fitzgerald, 457 U.S. 731, 750 (1982)). But "a President does not 'stand exempt from the general provisions of the constitution.'" Id. at 612 (quoting United States v. Burr, 25 F. Cas. 30, 34 (No. 14,692d) (C.C.D. Va. 1807)). The preliminary injunction factors weigh in favor of issuing a preliminary injunction against the [executive orders].
* * *
Original text here: /
Copyright Targeted News Services
MSTRUCK-9079153 MSTRUCK

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
