




States News Service
February 3, 2025 Monday


Copyright 2025 States News Service
Length: 356 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


The following information was released by the office of Wyoming Rep. Harriet Hageman:
Congresswoman Harriet Hageman and the Anti-Woke Caucus sent Acting Secretary of Education Denise Carter a letter identifying wasteful and divisive federal education programs that misallocated over $1 billion toward radical ideological programs including DEI initiatives, Critical Race Theory, and other race-based education schemes. Among the most egregious examples, the Department of Education awarded millions for racially exclusive teacher recruitment programs and "equity-centered" curriculum development that prioritizes ideology over academic excellence, exclusionary professional development training, and "social-emotional" learning instead of hard skills.
"My colleagues and I urge Acting Secretary Carter to take immediate action in examining these harmful DEI programs and redirecting federal education funding toward policies that benefit all students," said Rep. Hageman. "I applaud President Trump's swift action to halt the reckless DEI programs that have plagued federal agencies for far too long, especially when it comes to educating our children. The Anti-Woke Caucus will continue to support President Trump's efforts to scale back wasteful, counterproductive federal programs."
Nicki Neily, Executive Director, Parents Defending Education Action, stated, "He who pays the piper calls the tuneand for the past four years, states, districts, and universities got the message loud and clear, submitting grant proposals that prioritized race-centered programming rather than addressing the needs of all students. This poison was encouraged by the Biden Administration from day one, and we are now seeing the results of this fiscal mismanagement through the most recent NAEP scores. America betrayed a generation of children who can barely read and write because activists and bureaucrats chose to fund DEI over ABCs, and as a country we will be grappling with this fallout for decades to come."
Other signees from the Caucus include Representatives Glenn Grothman, Barry Moore, Josh Brecheen, Paul Gosar, Troy Nehls, and Lauren Boebert.
###

Load-Date: February 3, 2025


End of Document
