




The Associated Press
February 9, 2025 Sunday 11:04 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: DOMESTIC NEWS
Length: 2099 words
Body


Trump administration orders consumer protection agency to stop work, closes building
WASHINGTON — The Trump administration has ordered the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to stop nearly all its work, effectively shutting down an agency that was created to protect consumers after the 2008 financial crisis and subprime mortgage-lending scandal.
Russell Vought, the newly installed director of the Office of Management and Budget, directed the CFPB, in a Saturday night email confirmed by The Associated Press, to stop work on proposed rules, to suspend the effective dates on any rules that were finalized but not yet effective, and to stop investigative work and not begin any new investigations. The agency has been a target of conservatives since President Barack Obama pushed to include it in the 2010 financial reform legislation that followed the 2007-2008 financial crisis.
The email also ordered the bureau to “cease all supervision and examination activity.”
On Sunday, administration officials also said that the CFPB's headquarters in Washington, D.C. would be closed the week of Feb. 10 through Feb. 14, according to an email obtained by The Associated Press. No reason was given for closure.
“Employees and contractors are to work remotely unless instructed otherwise,” the email to headquarters workers said.
___
Vance and Musk question the authority of the courts as Trump's agenda faces legal pushback
WASHINGTON (AP) — Top Trump administration officials are openly questioning the judiciary's authority to serve as a check on executive power as the new president's sweeping agenda faces growing pushback from the courts.
Over the past 24 hours, officials ranging from billionaire Elon Musk to Vice President JD Vance have not only criticized a federal judge's decision early Saturday that blocks Musk’s Department of Government Efficiency from accessing Treasury Department records, but have also attacked the legitimacy of judicial oversight, a fundamental pillar of American democracy, which is based on the separation of powers.
“If a judge tried to tell a general how to conduct a military operation, that would be illegal. If a judge tried to command the attorney general in how to use her discretion as a prosecutor, that’s also illegal. Judges aren’t allowed to control the executive’s legitimate power,” Vance wrote on X on Sunday morning.
That post came hours after Musk said overnight that the judge who ruled against him should be impeached.
“A corrupt judge protecting corruption. He needs to be impeached NOW!” said Musk, who has been tasked by President Donald Trump with rooting out waste across the federal government.
___
Pressure mounts on extending Gaza ceasefire as details on emaciated hostages emerge
MUGHRAQA, Gaza Strip (AP) — New details and growing shock over emaciated hostages renewed pressure Sunday on Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to extend a fragile Gaza ceasefire beyond the first phase ending in three weeks.
Talks on the second phase, meant to see more hostages released and a complete Israeli withdrawal from Gaza, were due to start Feb. 3. But Israel and Hamas appear to have made little progress, even as Israeli forces withdrew Sunday from a Gaza corridor in the latest commitment to the truce.
Netanyahu sent a delegation to Qatar, a key mediator, but it included low-level officials, sparking speculation that it won’t lead to a breakthrough. Netanyahu, who returned after a U.S. visit to meet with President Donald Trump, is expected to convene security Cabinet ministers on Tuesday.
Trump himself suggested he was losing patience with the deal after seeing the emaciated hostages released this week.
“I watched the hostages come back today and they looked like Holocaust survivors. They were in horrible condition. They were emaciated. It looked like many years ago, the Holocaust survivors, and I don’t know how much longer we can take that,” he told reporters onboard Air Force One as he traveled to the Super Bowl on Sunday.
___
UN humanitarian chief says Gaza ceasefire has averted famine but any truce collapse brings danger
CAIRO (AP) — Famine has been mostly averted in Gaza as a surge of aid enters the territory during a fragile ceasefire, the United Nations humanitarian chief said Sunday. But he warned the threat could return quickly if the truce collapses.
Tom Fletcher spoke to The Associated Press after a two-day visit to Gaza, where hundreds of trucks carrying humanitarian aid have arrived each day since the ceasefire began on Jan. 19.
“The threat of famine, I think, is largely averted,” Fletcher said in Cairo. “Those starvation levels are down from where they were before the ceasefire.”
He spoke as concerns grow over whether the ceasefire can be extended and talks are meant to begin on its more difficult second phase. The six-week first phase is halfway through.
As part of the agreement, Israel said it would allow 600 aid trucks into Gaza each day, a major increase after months of aid officials expressing frustration about delays and insecurity hampering both the entry and distribution of food, medicines and other badly needed items.
___
Elon Musk dodges DOGE scrutiny while expanding his power in Washington
WASHINGTON (AP) — Elon Musk made a clear promise after Donald Trump decided to put him in charge of making the government more efficient.
“It’s not going to be some sort of backroom secret thing,” Musk said last year. “It will be as transparent as possible," maybe even streamed live online.
It hasn't worked out that way so far.
In the three weeks since the Republican president has been back in the White House, Musk has rapidly burrowed deep into federal agencies while avoiding public scrutiny of his work. He has not answered questions from journalists or attended any hearings with lawmakers. Staff members for his so-called Department of Government Efficiency, or DOGE, have sidelined career officials around Washington.
It is a profound challenge not only to business-as-usual within the federal government, which Trump campaigned on disrupting, but to concepts of consensus and transparency that are foundational in a democratic system. Musk describes himself as “White House tech support,” and he has embedded himself in an unorthodox administration where there are no discernible limits on his influence.
___
A presidential first: Trump at the Super Bowl, latest chapter in a complicated legacy with football
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. (AP) — As a student, Donald Trump played high school football. As a business baron, he owned a team in an upstart rival to the NFL and then sued the established league. As president, he denigrated pros who took a knee during the national anthem as part of a social justice movement.
On Sunday, he was adding to that complicated history with the sport when he becomes the first president in office to attend a Super Bowl.
After flying from Florida to New Orleans, the Republican president was expected to meet participants in the honorary coin toss, including relatives of victims of a New Year’s Day terrorist attack in the city's historic French Quarter, as well as members of the police department and emergency personnel.
Trump’s appearance at the Caesars Superdome to see the two-time defending champion Kansas City Chiefs take on the Philadelphia Eagles follows the NFL’s decision to remove the “End Racism” slogans that have been stenciled on the end zones since 2021.
Trump recently ordered the cancelation of programs that encourage diversity, equity and inclusion across the federal government and some critics see the league's decision as a response to the Republican president's action. But NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell said the league's diversity policies are not in conflict with the Trump administration’s efforts to end the federal government's DEI programs.
___
2 mass graves with bodies of nearly 50 migrants found in southeastern Libya
CAIRO (AP) — Libya authorities have uncovered nearly 50 bodies from two mass graves in the country’s southeastern desert, officials said Sunday, in the latest tragedy involving people seeking to reach Europe through the chaos-stricken North African country.
The first mass grave with 19 bodies was found Friday in a farm in the southeastern city of Kufra, the security directorate said in a statement, adding that authorities took them for autopsy.
Authorities posted images on its Facebook page showing police officers and medics digging in the sand and recovering dead bodies that were wrapped in blankets.
The al-Abreen charity, which helps migrants in eastern and southern Libya, said that some were apparently shot and killed before being buried.
A separate mass grave, with at least 30 bodies, was also found in Kufra after raiding a human trafficking center, according to Mohamed al-Fadeil, head of the security chamber in Kufra. Survivors said nearly 70 people were buried in the grave, he added. Authorities were still searching the area.
___
Kosovo votes for new parliament as foreign aid dwindles and talks with Serbia remain stalled
PRISTINA, Kosovo (AP) — Kosovars cast their votes Sunday in a parliamentary election considered a key test for Prime Minister Albin Kurti as talks on normalizing ties with rival Serbia remain stalled and foreign funding for one of Europe's poorest countries is in question.
Voting ended at 7 p.m. local time (1800 GMT) “without problems that could violate its integrity,” according to Central Election Commission official Valmir Elezi. Results were expected before midnight.
Kurti’s left-wing Vetevendosje!, or Self-Determination Movement Party, is the front-runner but wasn't expected to win the necessary majority to govern alone. That left open the possibility the other three contenders could join ranks if Kurti fails to form a Cabinet.
The other challengers include the Democratic Party of Kosovo, or PDK. Its main leaders are detained at an international criminal tribunal at The Hague accused of war crimes. The Democratic League of Kosovo, or LDK, is the oldest party in the country and lost much of its support after the death in 2006 of its leader, Ibrahim Rugova. The third contender is the Alliance for Kosovo’s Future of former prime minister Ramush Haradinaj.
The parties made big-ticket pledges to increase public salaries and pensions, improve education and health services, and fight poverty. However, they did not explain where the money would come from, nor how they would attract more foreign investment.
___
Aga Khan, the leader of Ismaili Muslims, laid to rest in Egypt during private burial ceremony
ASWAN, Egypt (AP) — The Aga Khan IV was laid to rest on Sunday at a private ceremony in Aswan, Egypt.
The death of Prince Karim - the 49th hereditary imam of the Shiite Ismaili Muslims - was announced Tuesday by the Aga Khan Development Network and the Ismaili religious community. His son, 53-year-old Rahim Al-Hussaini, has been named as the Aga Khan V, the spiritual leader of the world’s millions of Ismaili Muslims, in according with his father’s will.
On Saturday, a private funeral service took place at the Ismaili community center in Lisbon attended by Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, Spain’s King Emeritus Juan Carlos and Portugal’s President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa.
The Aga Khan is considered by his followers to be a direct descendant of the Prophet Muhammad and is treated as a head of state.
The governor of Aswan welcomed Prince Karim’s family at the southern Egyptian’s provinces airport on Saturday.
___
Randy Moss makes an emotional return to the ESPN set following his cancer treatment
NEW ORLEANS (AP) — Hall of Famer Randy Moss made an emotional return to ESPN's coverage of the Super Bowl on Sunday, two months after he took a leave from his job to get treated for cancer.
Moss was back on ESPN's “Sunday NFL Countdown” before Kansas City took on Philadelphia in the Super Bowl. He was greeted with a video that included messages from Tom Brady, Bill Belichick, Justin Jefferson, Kevin Garnett and several other big names welcoming him back to ESPN's set.
Moss was moved to tears by the video before getting on with his job of analyzing the Super Bowl.
“Guys it’s been hard, but I got a lot of love and a lot of people believing in me,” he said. “I’m happy to be here.”
Moss took a leave of absence from ESPN in early December after undergoing surgery for cancer. He said at the time that a cancerous mass was found in his bile duct, between his pancreas and liver. He said he had surgery to put a stent in his liver on Thanksgiving and later had a six-hour procedure to remove the cancer. He also said he would undergo radiation and chemotherapy.

Load-Date: February 9, 2025


End of Document
