




The Associated Press
February 25, 2025 Tuesday 10:31 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS; DOMESTIC NEWS; STATE AND REGIONAL
Length: 577 words
Byline: MICHAEL LIEDTKE, AP Technology Writer
Body


Apple shareholders rebuffed an attempt to pressure the technology trendsetter into joining President Donald Trump's push to scrub corporate programs designed to diversify its workforce.
The  drafted by the National Center for Public Policy Research —  — urged Apple to follow  that have retreated from diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives currently in the Trump administration's crosshairs.
After a brief presentation about the anti-DEI proposal, Apple announced shareholders had rejected it. In a regulatory filing submitted Tuesday evening, Apple disclosed that 97% of the ballots cast were votes against the measure.
The outcome vindicated Apple management's decision to stand behind its diversity commitment even though Trump asked the U.S. Department of Justice to look into whether these types of programs have discriminated against some employees whose race or gender aren't aligned with the initiative's goals.
But Apple CEO Tim Cook has maintained a cordial relationship with Trump since his first term in office, an alliance that so far has helped the company skirt tariffs on its iPhones made in China. After Cook and Trump met last week, Apple on Monday announced  and create 20,000 more jobs during the next five years — a commitment applauded by the president.
Tuesday's shareholder vote came a month after the same group presented  only to have it overwhelmingly rejected, too.
That snub didn't discourage the National Center for Public Policy Research from confronting Apple about its DEI program in a pre-recorded presentation by Stefan Padfield, executive director of the think tank's Free Enterprise Project, who asserted “forced diversity is bad for business.”
In the presentation, Padfield attacked Apple’s diversity commitments for being out of line with recent court rulings and said the programs expose the Cupertino, California, company to an onslaught of potential lawsuits for alleged discrimination. He cited the Trump administration as one of Apple's potential legal adversaries.
“The vibe shift is clear: DEI is out and merit is in,” Padfield said in the presentation.
The specter of potential legal trouble was magnified last week when Florida Attorney General James Uthmeier filed a federal lawsuit against Target alleging the retailer’s  alienated many consumers and undercut sales to the detriment of shareholders.
Just as Costco does, Apple contends that fostering a diverse workforce makes good business sense.
But Cook conceded Apple may have to make some adjustments to its diversity program “as the legal landscape changes” while still striving to maintain a culture that has helped elevate the company to its current market value of $3.7 trillion — greater than any other business in the world.
“We will continue to create a culture of belonging,” Cook told shareholders during the meeting.
In its , Apple disclosed that nearly three-fourths of its global workforce consisted of white and Asian employees. Nearly two-thirds of its employees were men.
Other major technology companies for years have reported employing mostly white and Asian men, especially in high-paid engineering jobs — a tendency that spurred the industry to pursue largely unsuccessful efforts to diversify.

Load-Date: February 25, 2025


End of Document
