




Financial Times (London, England)
February 25, 2025 Tuesday
Edition 1, Asian Edition


Copyright 2025 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: BUSINESS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1
Length: 392 words
Byline: TIM BRADSHAW
Body


Apple said yesterday it planned to hire an extra 20,000 staff in the US and invest at least $500bn over the next four years, as chief executive Tim Cook became the latest business leader to court President Donald Trump with eye-catching announcements. The iPhone maker said its half-a-trillion dollar investment, spread over Trump's second term in office, included regular spending on thousands of US suppliers, data centres and corporate facilities, as well as new initiatives such as an academy in Michigan "to train the next generation of US manufacturers".
It will also open a manufacturing site in Houston to build servers to support its artificial intelligence ambitions.
"We are bullish on the future of American innovation," said Cook, who met
Trump at the White House last week.
The president thanked Cook on his Truth Social platform, claiming the investment was driven by Apple's "faith in what we are doing, without which, they wouldn't be investing ten cents".
The group declined to provide a further breakdown of its investment. The news echoes its 2018 pledge to make a $350bn "direct contribution" to the US economy after Trump was last elected.
Despite efforts to diversify its supply chain into India and other parts of Asia, Apple remains overwhelmingly reliant on suppliers and manufacturers in China to produce its devices.
That leaves it particularly at risk among US tech groups to Trump's 10 per cent tariffs on imports from China, launched this month, as well as a threatened 25 per cent levy on chips.
Apple said it planned to double its "US
Advanced Manufacturing Fund", which had previously allocated funds to longstanding suppliers such as glassmaker Corning, to $10bn. The fund will also be used to secure chips from Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company's new facility in Arizona, where Apple said it was the largest customer.
Apple said "mass production" of its chips began there last month, expanding its US-based silicon supply chain, which already operates in 24 plants across 12 states. But today the vast majority of cutting-edge chips needed for the latest iPhones are made by TSMC in Taiwan and other Asian suppliers.
Apple said the servers produced at its new facility in Houston, due to open next year, were previously manufactured outside the US, creating thousands of American jobs.
Apple faces investor DEI attack page 9

Load-Date: February 24, 2025


End of Document
