




Financial Times (London, England)
February 25, 2025 Tuesday
Edition 1, European Edition


Copyright 2025 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 8
Length: 568 words
Byline: MICHAEL ACTON ; PATRICK TEMPLE-WEST
Body


Apple's diversity policies and partnership with OPENAI will come under fire from conservative organisations at its annual shareholder meeting, as the iPhone maker holds out against corporate activism following Donald Trump's election as US president. Investors in the $3.7tn company will today vote on a motion from the National Center for Public Policy Research attempting to force Apple to scrap its diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) policies. The conservative nonprofit group argues that recent US Supreme Court rulings around DEI policies leave the company exposed to potential lawsuits.
A separate shareholder resolution calls for a report on how Apple ensures an "ethical" artificial intelligence strategy. The proposal warns that Apple's partnership with OpenAI could create data privacy and security risks.
The vote on the two shareholder proposals comes as deals in the AI space come under bipartisan scrutiny, and as corporate peers such as Meta and Google drop progressive policies as they make overtures to the new US administration. Apple is opposing both motions. They are unlikely to pass, largely because its biggest shareholders - BlackRock and Vanguard - have distanced themselves from political shareholder activism.
Such motions can have a knock-on effect. In January, Costco shareholders overwhelmingly rejected a similar DEI proposal from the NCPPR. Nineteen Republican state attorneys-general then wrote to the company urging it to end the policies.
Apple chief executive Tim Cook has courted Trump over many years and featured prominently at his inauguration.
The company is exposed to political tensions between Washington and Beijing, and Big Tech companies are also hoping that the president could force the EU to back down on regulatory enforcement.
The NCPPR's motion targets Apple's "Supplier Diversity Program", its general promotion and hiring practices, employment of a vice-president of inclusion and diversity, and donations to organisations supporting DEI.
The iPhone maker's board said the proposal "inappropriately attempts to restrict Apple's ability to manage its own ordinary business operations, people and teams, and business strategies".
While shareholder proposals are nonbinding, they can force companies to respond to political issues. In 2022, a proposal at Apple calling for a racial equity audit passed with majority shareholder support, prompting Apple to publish new diversity disclosures.
Meanwhile, the shareholder motion targeting Apple's relationship with OpenAI echoes criticism levelled by Trump's cost-cutting tsar, Elon Musk, who is also an antagonist of the start-up's chief executive, Sam Altman. If data collected by OpenAI infringes on personal privacy or copyrighted material, then it could be a risk to Apple shareholders, the National Legal and Policy Center said in its petition.
"The proposal does not focus on any issues with Apple Intelligence," Apple's board said referring to its new AI features for mobile devices, in a filing last month in response to the motion. "Instead, it focuses its criticism on OpenAI, the developer of ChatGPT, an independent service that Apple users may choose to access."
In December, Microsoft faced three AI-related shareholder proposals at its annual meeting. None passed.
Additional reporting by Cristina Criddle in San Francisco
The vote comes as corporate peers such as Meta and Google drop progressive policies

Load-Date: February 24, 2025


End of Document
