




The Independent (United Kingdom)
February 25, 2025 Tuesday 8:07 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Independent Print Ltd  All Rights Reserved


Section: APPLE NEWS
Length: 475 words
Byline: Josh Marcus
Body


 shareholders on Tuesday rejected a  to abolish the company's  (DEI) programs, bucking a trend of high-profile corporations abandoning such efforts in the face of growing  and legal complications.
The proposal, put to Apple shareholders with the help of the conservative National Center for Public Policy Research think tank, called for the tech giant to eliminate its DEI programs, policies, and goals, arguing such work is discriminatory and invites legal challenges.
"The risks to Apple stemming from continuing to push these divisive and value-destroying agendas is only increasing in light of President Trump's recent executive order focusing the Department of Justice on rooting out illegal discrimination being carried out in the name of DEI," the center's director, Stephen Padfield,  said during the meeting. "The vibe shift is clear. DEI is out, and merit is in."  
Apple CEO Tim Cook  the programs at the meeting, arguing, "Our strength has always come from hiring the very best people and then providing a culture of collaboration, one where people with diverse backgrounds and perspectives come together to innovate and create something magical for our users time and time again."
The executive  that the company's never had diversity quotas.
He did note that Apple may need to tweak its diversity approach to remain in compliance with the law, in a likely nod to the Trump administration's , as well as the  striking down race-based affirmative action in higher education. 

"As the legal landscape around these issues evolves, we may need to make some changes to comply, but our North Star of dignity and respect for everyone and our work to that end will never waver," Cook said.
Apple's work force is roughly two-thirds male, and comprised of about 42 percent white people, 30 percent Asian people, 15 percent Latino people, and just over 9 percent Black people, . 
These statistics mean that white, Black, and Latino people, as well as women, are under-represented in the company's workforce . 
In December, Costco shareholders  a similar proposal from the think tank to drop corporate DEI programs.
Costco and Apple seem to be outliers, however.
Facing a new administration and the threat of boycotts from conservative activists, high-profile U.S. companies including Meta, Amazon, McDonald's, Walmart, John Deere, and Harley-Davidson have  in recent months.
The Trump administration has  multiple executive orders seeking to eliminate diversity spending and programs inside the federal government, while pressuring private-sector companies to do the same.

Load-Date: February 26, 2025


End of Document
