




Business Insider
February 24, 2025 Monday 01:18 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Insider Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 459 words
Byline: hchowdhury@insider.com (Hasan Chowdhury)
Highlight: The iPhone maker is set to host its annual shareholder meeting this week, where it is expected to defend its DEI policies.
Body


Apple is set to defend its DEI programs against critical investors at its annual shareholder meeting.
A vote is expected Tuesday on a motion brought by a conservative think tank to axe its DEI programs.
Apple said it "inappropriately attempts" to restrict its ability to manage its own operations.
 is set to face a showdown with shareholders this week as it prepares to defend its diversity, equity, and inclusion policies against critical opponents in its investor base.
The iPhone maker is scheduled to meet investors Tuesday at its , where a vote is expected on a motion to cease DEI efforts put forward by the National Center for Public Policy Research, a conservative think tank.
The Washington-based organization argued in its motion that US Supreme Court cases have called into question the legality of corporate DEI programs, putting employers at risk of discrimination claims. 
Apple, the world's most valuable company, said in a filing it would oppose the proposal because it "inappropriately attempts" to restrict how the company manages its operations. 
It comes at a time when its Big Tech counterparts have been .
Last month, Mark Zuckerberg's  programs. The company told employees that the "legal and policy landscape" around DEI efforts in the US was changing.
Other companies that have rolled back programs include , which said this month that it would no longer pursue hiring goals based on DEI, and , which has changed references about DEI benefits on some of its websites.
Though some companies began shifting focus away from DEI before President Donald Trump's election, the start of his second term has seen several tech leaders take fresh action over DEI policies he has 
Apple's decision to stand by its DEI policies could weigh on its relationship with the president.  has taken several measures to build rapport with Donald Trump, including visiting his Mar-a-Lago resort in December. 
On Monday, Apple announced a plan to  over the next four years as part of a more than $500 billion US investment commitment.
Apple is a rare holdout among tech firms stepping back from DEI initiatives. Large shareholders in its investor base, such as Blackrock, have previously kept a distance from activist campaigns.
Shareholder proposals do not always end up on a company's ballot. A  by the consultancy ISS-Corporate found that proposals against ESG policies, including those against DEI, that came to a vote have garnered little support in the past three years.
Apple did not immediately respond to Business Insider's request for comment.
Read the original article on


Load-Date: February 24, 2025


End of Document
