




Newsweek.com
February 7, 2025 Friday 4:42 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 868 words
Byline: Anna Skinner
Highlight: A proposed executive order from President Donald Trump could ban paper straws amid health and environmental concerns.
Body


President  took to social media on Friday regarding his , prompting questions on whether biodegradable straws are worse for human health and the environment than those made of plastic.
Newsweek has reached out to the American Medical Association (AMA), the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (), and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) by email for comment on Friday.
Why It Matters
In November 2024, then-President  announced a national strategy to prevent plastic pollution. The former president supported efforts to reduce the use of plastic, including plastic straws, as a focus on shifting to more sustainable materials. This was a step toward lowering the country's dependency on single-use plastics.
Trump, meanwhile, has pursued a number of executive orders in his first few weeks of his second term as president, quickly fulfilling campaign promises with several , ending diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) programs, and orders related to the economy and energy production, with paper straws seemingly next on his list.
What Did Donald Trump Say About Paper Straws?
On Friday, Trump took to Truth Social, his social media platform, to express his plans about an upcoming executive order.
"I will be signing an Executive Order next week ending the ridiculous Biden push for Paper Straws, which don't work. BACK TO PLASTIC!" the president wrote.
What To Know
Biden's efforts to reduce plastic use were done with the EPA.
Trump, on the other hand, has a stance that is more industry-friendly when it comes to plastic. He has vehemently opposed the Green New Deal, which proposed policies to address climate change through legislation. During his first administration, Trump rolled back former President 's regulations around curbing plastic waste and promoting alternatives.
Trump is expected to place over 160 environmental justice employees on paid leave, as reported by  on Thursday. About 300 federal employees work in the EPA division. This is in conjunction with the Trump administration's offer to the majority of the 3 million U.S. government employees for resignation with temporary financial compensation.
Are Paper Straws Bad for Your Health?
Paper straws have been touted as a more environmentally friendly option, but one study published in 2023 in the journal Food Additives and Contaminants found that they might not be as friendly to the human body.
Scientists in Belgium compared plastic straws with paper and other biodegradable straws in regard to the presence of per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances, or PFAS.
Scientists found that paper straws and other biodegradable straws contained PFAS at an alarming rate, with the chemicals detected in 18 out of 20 brands.
Plastic straws also contained PFAS, according to the study, which found the chemicals in three out of four brands.
Meanwhile, a 2021 study published in the journal Chemosphere also found that most paper or biodegradable straws tested had detectable amounts of PFAS in them whereas plastic straws had no measurable PFAS.
According to USA Today, small amounts of PFAS are not harmful themselves, but rather their ability to build up over time, including in the body, is what poses the most risk to one's health.
Are Paper Straws Bad for the Environment?
The presence of PFAS in paper straws could make them bad for the environment.
Numerous outlets including ScienceAlert and USA Today reported that because of their PFAS presence, paper straws might come with environmental consequences, as the chemicals in the straw can infiltrate groundwater or waterways as the item breaks down.
What Are PFAs?
PFAS encompass thousands of man-made chemicals found in everyday items like nonstick cookware, firefighting foams, grease-resistant food wrappers, water-resistant clothing and other items. PFAS, known as "forever chemicals" because of the long time they take to break down, can .
Which States Have Phased Out Plastic Straws?
Several states have taken legislative measures to phase out plastic straws particularly at restaurants. These states include:
CaliforniaMaineNew JerseyNew YorkOregonRhode IslandVermontWashington
In many of these instances, plastic straws are still available to the customer if they ask for one.
Did Trump's 2020 Campaign Sell Reusable Straws?
This is not the first time Trump has targeted paper straws. Plastic straws were previously sold during Trump's campaign for his 2020 presidential election race. The red straws labeled with the word Trump were launched as an alternative to "liberal" paper straws.
"Liberal paper straws don't work," Trump's site said in 2019. "Stand with President Trump and buy your recyclable straws today."
What People Are Saying
The study's conclusion in Food Additives and Contaminants said the following about paper straws: "These 'eco-friendly' plant-based straws are not necessarily a more sustainable alternative to plastic straws because they can be considered as an additional source of PFAS exposure in humans and the environment."
What Happens Next?
The president said the executive order will come sometime next week.


Graphic

 
Are paper straws bad for your health
Chiemi Kumitani/Getty
A stock photo of paper straws.

Load-Date: February 7, 2025


End of Document
