




MailOnline
February 11, 2025 Tuesday 1:41 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 537 words
Byline: Will Potter For Dailymail.Com
Body


An active-duty general in the US Army has blasted Pete Hegseth's anti-DEI crackdown in response to the military ending its diversity recruitment efforts.
The anonymous soldier told Military.com the decision to abandon its hiring at a prestigious event for black engineers was 'f***ing racist.'
'For the Army now, it's 'blacks need not apply' and it breaks my heart,' the general said.
They spoke out in response to the Army Recruiting Command's decision to end its partnership with the Black Engineer of the Year Awards (BEYA). 
The Pentagon had routinely recruited young engineers from the Baltimore event, including awarding scholarships to top award winners while past Defense Secretaries gave speeches.
But the partnership was scrapped as part of Donald Trump's purge on diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) in the military.
A top Army recruiter echoed the general's concerns, saying: 'This is one of the most talent-dense events we do. Our footprint there has always been significant. We need the talent.'
Recruiters ended their collaboration with the awards event over concerns it could violate the president's orders to completely remove all DEI initiatives in the military.
A military spokesman said after the move was reported: 'In compliance with Department of Defense and Headquarters Department of the Army guidance, U.S. Army Recruiting Command will not participate in the upcoming BEYA event.
'Service members and civilians are permitted to attend this event in an unofficial/personal capacity if they choose to do so.' 
Several other recruitment events focused on racial or gender groups, some with thousands of attendees, are reportedly also likely to be scrapped. 
It comes amid struggling recruiting numbers for the military, with insiders warning the move misses the mark when aiming to only hire based on merit over race and gender quotas. 
'The military has been selecting on merit the whole time,' said Katherine Kuzminski, a military expert at the Center for a New American Security think tank in Washington, D.C., to Military.com. 
'Some people might be seeing how the civilian world has handled DEI issues and applying that view to the military, but it has frameworks in law and policy, all these interwoven standards that are rigorous and always have been rigorous.' 
The anti-DEI drive was evident soon after Hegseth was confirmed by a razor-thin margin to become the new Defense Secretary.
Just days on the job, Hegseth announced that historic months, including Black History Month and Women's History Month, were effectively 'dead' in the military and would no longer be honored. 
Speaking this week at a Pentagon town hall after he was criticized for anti-DEI moves, Hegseth added that in his opinion, 'the single dumbest phrase in military history is our diversity is our strength.' 
'I think our strength is our unity,' he said. 
'Our strength is our shared purpose, regardless of our background, regardless of how we grew up, regardless of our gender, regardless of our race. 
'In this department, we will treat everyone equally. We will treat everyone with fairness. We will treat everyone with respect. And we will judge you as an individual by your merit and by your commitment to the team and the mission.' 

Load-Date: February 11, 2025


End of Document
