




Daily Nebraskan: University of Nebraska-Lincoln
February 14, 2025 Friday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 470 words
Body


A snow day didn't stop the Association of Students for the University of Nebraska from meeting over Zoom on Wednesday. 
ASUN passed two resolutions to support the United States Department of Education and diversity equity and inclusion efforts at all Big Ten schools. ASUN also passed a bill to fund a Black LGBTQ+ Celebration and Community Night. 
Senate Bill 10, written by Sens. Marlana Saalfeld and Madie Beasley, allocates up to $275 to support a Black LGBTQ+ Celebration and Community Night. 
Saalfeld said the event will promote visibility and inclusivity and provide a space for Black LGBTQ+ people to connect over shared experiences.
The bill states the event will include a "What Pride Means to Me" board, Black Queer History Trivia and crafting stations for personalized affirmation cards and DIY Pride Pins. 
Saalfeld said they are planning for the event to take place on Thursday, Feb. 20. 
ASUN passed two resolutions that support the work of the Association of Big Ten Students, which is composed of the student governments of each Big Ten university. ABTS will travel to Washington, D.C. in March to advocate in front of federal lawmakers. The following resolutions support two proposed initiatives that ABTS will vote on. 
Resolution 10, written by President Elizabeth Herbin, sends ASUN's support to ABTS to advocate for the U.S. Department of Education in light of President Donald Trump's push to close the department. 
Resolution 11, written by Chief of Staff Reem Ahmed, sends ASUN's support to ABTS to advocate for DEI initiatives at all Big Ten schools in light of UNL's Office of Diversity and Inclusion closure and anti-DEI proposals from Nebraska and Iowa lawmakers and Iowa's Board of Regents, which would impact neighboring University of Iowa. 
Nebraska State Sen. Loren Lippincott of Central City introduced LB552, which would ban DEI offices and programming at all colleges and universities in Nebraska. 
Carter Grier, Government Liaison Committee chair, said he plans to bring legislation to ASUN next week to oppose LB552. 
The senators unanimously voted to table three bylaw amendments. Sen. Kathryn Singh, co-chair of the Environmental Sustainability Committee, proposed tabling all the bylaw amendments so senators could have deeper in-person discussions about them. 
Singh originally wanted to table Bylaw Amendment 3, which would eliminate the Environmental Leadership Program, but was advised by Herbin that it would be better to table all of them.
Speaker of the Senate Renata Cadena tabled Government Bill 11 to work out logistics issues. The bill brings an optional religious preference on housing applications.
The bylaw amendments and Government Bill 11 will be voted on next week.
ASUN's next meeting is Wednesday, Feb. 19, 2025, in the Nebraska Union Platte River Room. 


Load-Date: February 19, 2025


End of Document
