




The Post: Ohio University
January 31, 2025 Friday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 698 words
Byline: Lilia Santeramo
Body


The City of Athens has made progress toward establishing a racial equity plan in conjunction with the 2040 Comprehensive Plan.
The racial equity plan will use research data and feedback from Athens community members to create a set of goals for the city concerning its diverse population.
City Council held a committee meeting Monday to discuss reconvening the Comprehensive Plan Review Advisory Commission to update goals in the 2040 Comprehensive Plan's diversity and inclusion section.
"Some of the community concerns that have emerged in recent months and years aren't necessarily reflected in that diversity and inclusion chapter, including an increasing concern over housing insecurity and mental health," Councilmember Micah McCarey said.
Updates to the 2040 comprehensive plan, which currently calls for diversity in Athens with respect to race, nationality, sexuality and ability, include reaffirming the city's goal of diversity and inclusion, while also making a racial equity plan more intersectional.
"Diversity and inclusion are important to the residents of Athens and there is a need to better tell our multicultural story and ensure that Athens is a place where all people can feel at home," the plan reads.
McCarey is a member of The Racial Equity Coalition of Appalachia, which has been meeting with Mayor Steve Patterson and City Council President Sam Crowl every two weeks along with the Athens County Foundation to discuss getting a racial equity plan off the ground.
A separate plan comes from a recommendation from the National League of Cities, which the city has previously partnered with to participate in the National League of Cities Racial Equity and Leadership program. Athens has partnered with several other organizations in the process of developing a racial equity plan.
McCarey said the City of Athens Diversity Equity Inclusion and Accessibility coordinator Lacey Rogers has been convening a group called WOCA for Women of Color of Athens and using that group as a space for exploring intersectional topics and getting feedback about their community concerns.
Additionally, the Racial Equity Coalition of Appalachia has played a role in bringing together groups such as Athens Mediation Services, Standing Up for Racial Justice and the Athens County Health Department so that they can share information, learn from each other and partner together to apply for grants.
McCarey says through working with multiple organizations, the city has identified several target issues such as gaps in educational achievement, addressing health disparities, creating economic opportunities and including accurate representations of Black history.
At Monday's meeting, Mayor Patterson suggested reaching out to more communities in Athens such as Asian American Pacific Islanders, and LGBTQIA+ people in anticipation of re-establishing the Comprehensive Plan Review Advisory Commission.
"We need voices from different constituency groups to really make this the best document that we possibly can have," Patterson said.
Council also considered the relevance of recent attacks on DEI to its efforts.
President Trump recently signed anexecutive orderpromising to terminate DEI in the federal government, protect equal opportunity, and force schools to end discriminatory admissions policies. Senate Bill 1 in Ohio could prohibit universities from conducting DEI training and continuing or establishing DEI offices or departments.
"You would have to be an ostrich with your head in the sand to not know what's going on in Columbus with Senate Bill 1, particularly as it affects Ohio University, and what could (be) a cleaning of the house of several areas and departments," Councilmember Alan Swank said. "If that happens, who's left in the City of Athens to make sure these things continue? I think that's the commitment we're making here."
Mayor Patterson said regardless of rhetoric some may hear at the national and state level, the city remains dedicated toward addressing systems of racism in Athens.
"I am fully invested in continuing work in the world of racial equity here in Athens and supporting our DEIA coordinator with efforts on this topic," Patterson said.


Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
