




The Guardian (London)
January 21, 2025 Tuesday 7:33 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved


Section: AUSTRALIA NEWS; Version:22
Length: 16259 words
Byline: Nino Bucci (now) and Emily Wind (earlier)
Highlight: Follow today’s news live‘Paid actors’ could be behind some antisemitic attacks, Albanese saysGet our breaking news email, free app or daily news podcast
Body


block-time published-time 6.10am GMT 
 Boy dies after accident during school holiday program at WA museum 
A boy has died after being crushed by a falling parking meter stored in the courtyard of a museum in Western Australia, AAP report.
The five-year-old, Sam, was seriously injured at Bunbury Museum and Heritage Centre and later died in hospital, police said in a statement.
His family said:
We are so grateful for the support that we have received from family, friends and the general public. We would also like to acknowledge the support from the staff at the museum, first responders and the care given to Sammy at the BRH [Bunbury hospital] and PCH [Perth Children’s Hospital], which was so loving and respectful. Sammy impacted everyone he met. He was wise beyond his years and brought so much joy with his cheeky, playful nature.
The incident happened during an environmental education school holiday program run by the Department of Biodiversity, Conservation and Attractions.
The City of Bunbury’s chief executive, Alan Ferris, said the council’s staff were devastated by the incident.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 6.21am GMT
block-time published-time 5.46am GMT 
The AFL said in a statement regarding its investigation into the post:
The Integrity Unit’s inquiries, which included multiple interviews and review of other evidence, have now concluded and the AFL has found, based on the available evidence, that access to Mr Sayers’ X account was compromised, resulting in the posting of the image (i.e. by a person not being Mr Sayers) and tagging of another person.
Accordingly, the AFL has determined that Mr Sayers did not breach AFL Rules in connection with the posting of the image.
Once he was made aware of the post, Mr Sayers immediately acted to have the image removed and to shut down his X account.
The AFL wishes to thank the executive who was unwittingly tagged in the post, her cooperation and assistance throughout the inquiries have been extremely helpful.
The AFL takes all matters of respect and responsibility seriously and when alerted to matters of concern there are professional processes in place to triage and work through such matters. These matters are very sensitive in nature, and we acknowledge the effect and distress caused to numerous individuals beyond those bound by the AFL Rules and Regulations.
block-time published-time 5.39am GMT 
 Carlton president resigns, despite AFL finding he did not post lewd image  
The president of the Carlton football club, Luke Sayers, says he will step down from the role, despite the AFL finding his X account was compromised when a lewd photo was published on it earlier this month.
He said in a statement:
The past two weeks have been very tough for everyone who has been impacted by an unauthorised social media post.
I did not post the image, either deliberately or accidentally.
I fully cooperated with an independent inquiry by the AFL which concluded that access to my X account was compromised.
I am aware of speculation that the naming of another person in the post explains why it happened. It does not, and that narrative is wrong. I am so sorry for the hurt that has caused.
I deeply regret that many other people including my family, friends and colleagues, and my football club, have been caught up in this matter.
That is why I have decided to step down as Carlton President and take some time away from work.
Leading the Carlton Football Club has been one of the great honours and privileges of my life.
I leave knowing the Club is in great shape, and with my deepest gratitude for its understanding and support.
I will now deal with this away from the glare of the public and media spotlight.
This decision draws a line in the sand.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 6.07am GMT
block-time published-time 5.35am GMT 
 NSW government hopeful of securing new pay deal with rail unions 
The New South Wales government is hopeful it will be better able to negotiate a new pay deal with rail unions after they committed to halt industrial action work bans that had wrought havoc across Sydney’s train network.
On Wednesday afternoon the NSW transport minister, Jo Haylen, said that after the six combined rail unions committed to halt work bans, the government had dropped its legal attempt to quash the industrial action at the Fair Work Commission on an argument it was causing economic harm.
The government dropped the legal action at the FWC despite only five of the six rail unions – with whom the government has been locked in a bitter dispute over a new pay deal for eight months – agreeing to halt their work bans.
However, there was still conflicting messaging on Wednesday afternoon as to whether fresh industrial action could be launched if the negotiations, which have gone on for eight months, continue to falter.
The NSW transport department secretary, Josh Murray, characterised the unions’ commitment to drop work bans as allowing talks to occur “without the gun at the head of any parties”.
But Murray and Haylen acknowledged that the unions could still technically lodge fresh industrial actions – though these would have to be entirely different to the 350 work bans which the unions have committed to halting, and require a 10-day notice period.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 5.51am GMT
block-time published-time 5.26am GMT 
 Thunderstorms set to hit Queensland amid heatwave  
The Bureau of Meteorology   that thunderstorms with severe winds could hit parts of central Queensland this afternoon.
According to the bureau, a hot and unstable air mass combined with an upper trough would generate the severe thunderstorms which were likely to produce damaging winds.
The areas which may be affected include Springsure, Bogantungan, Mantuan Downs and Carnarvon national park, it said.
In a post on X, the BoM said the storms may hit Springsure about 3pm AEST.
The storms come as the Bom also has   in place across the state. Much of the state is classified as expecting a low-intensity heatwave today, with areas of severe and extreme heatwave forecast, mostly in the south-east.
The heatwave was expected to become less severe after today.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 6.05am GMT
block-time published-time 5.06am GMT 
 Village for 2032 games to cost $3.5bn, Queensland government says 
Stadiums, infrastructure and now athlete villages are part of Queensland’s ongoing Olympic Games finger-pointing saga as the state government alleges costs have blown out, AAP report.
The new Liberal National party government has accused its Labor predecessors of a multibillion-dollar funding hole for athlete accommodation.
Labor has denied the claim and questioned the government’s figures.
On Wednesday, the deputy premier, Jarrod Bleijie, said figures from his department and Treasury indicated the four athlete villages would cost $3.5bn to build.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 5.32am GMT
block-time published-time 4.44am GMT 
 Victoria police will not participate in Melbourne pride march 
Victorian police officers will not participate in this year’s Midsumma pride march after organisers announced officers would only be allowed to march if they did not wear their uniforms.
Approximately 100 police, including the chief commissioner, Shane Patton, marched in the event last year, but police were confronted by a group of 50 protesters, leading to a clash between the two groups.
Police participation in pride events is controversial among the LGBTQ+ community, given the origins of pride events as a protest movement against their treatment by police.
 You can read more on this story here: 
 Related:  
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 5.32am GMT
block-time published-time 4.38am GMT 
 More than half of primary school kids accompanied to school by parents, survey says 
A national survey of 1,000 Australian adults, conducted by Pure Profile on behalf of insurer AAMI, shows 56% of primary schoolchildren are driven or accompanied to and from school by another adult, AAP report.
More than a third (37%) of parents allow their children to travel to school unaccompanied or with other kids, compared to previous generations when 69% walked, biked or scooted there themselves, the research said.
Safety concerns were the main reason for escorting children, with 61% of parents fearing drivers were not paying attention and 17% blaming their children’s lack of awareness.
A quarter of drivers admitted to speeding through school zones as they did not notice signs, with 12% doing so when they didn’t see any children around.
Another 12% reported being distracted by their phone while driving or queueing in a drop-off zone.
“Speed signs in school zones have been around for decades, so there is no excuse to be confused by them or to be caught speeding during those designated times,” Russell White, the chair of the Australian Road Safety Foundation, said.
There were several deadly crashes in school zones in 2024.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.42am GMT
block-time published-time 4.00am GMT 
Many thanks for joining me on the blog today, I’ll hand over to Nino Bucci to take you through the rest of today’s news. Take care.
block-time published-time 3.47am GMT 
 Watch: Inquiry on antisemitism at Australian unis sees heated exchange over alleged Nazi salute 
As Caitlin Cassidy reported earlier, the ANU vice-chancellor, Genevieve Bell, had a testy exchange with Labor MP Josh Burns during a federal inquiry on antisemitism at university campuses,  over revelations an investigation into an alleged Nazi salute during a student union meeting has cleared students of any wrongdoing.
You can  , and you can now watch the exchange below:
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.49am GMT
block-time published-time 3.17am GMT 
 Private Hospitals Association calling for moratorium on overseas-trained psychiatrists to be lifted 
The Australian Private Hospitals Association is calling on the federal government to lift a 10-year moratorium on overseas-trained psychiatrists, as 200 psychiatrists prepare to quit in New South Wales.
 Related:  
The association said it was “incomprehensible” for the federal government to restrict the supply of qualified and accredited psychiatrists in private hospitals “in the midst of a national crisis in accessing mental healthcare”, and the situation in NSW.
The APHA CEO, Brett Heffernan, said the moratorium should be lifted “today”, as “Australians are being denied the mental healthcare they urgently need due to bureaucratic red tape and ministerial intransigence”.
The situation in NSW should be a catalyst for the federal government to move now. With the NSW government seeking to accommodate mental health needs in private psychiatric hospitals, the availability of more psychiatrists, is paramount.
 The moratorium restricts overseas-trained doctors from practising in most private hospitals, limiting their activity to areas of designated workforce shortage. This definition ignores the ongoing critical need with respect to private in-patient psychiatric services that have arisen post-pandemic.
He said lifting the moratorium would “provide immediate relief” for the sector, helping “both public and private healthcare providers to manage patient load and reduce strain on hospital staff”.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.21am GMT
block-time published-time 3.00am GMT 
 What are the NSW hate speech laws under consideration after Sydney’s recent antisemitic attacks? 
Critics have accused the New South Wales government of ignoring its own 2024 review into hate speech laws, as it tries to respond to a spate of antisemitic vandalism and arson attacks in Sydney that has left Jewish communities on edge.
The NSW Council for Civil Liberties says the government risks making “reactionary” legislative decisions and has warned state officials that they “cannot arrest your way into social cohesion”.
The criticism comes amid growing calls for the government to do more to stem the attacks. You can read our full explainer on what laws are under consideration in the state below:
 Related:  
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.01am GMT
block-time published-time 2.55am GMT 
 Tropical Cyclone Sean well offshore, will weaken below cyclone strength today 
 Tropical Cyclone Sean, which brought intense rainfall to the Pilbara coast earlier in the week, is expected to weaken below tropical cyclone strength today.
The Bureau of Meteorology said it has currently weakened to a category one level and is forecast to remain “well offshore”.
enltrTropical   has weakened to category 1 intensity and is forecast to remain well offshore. Sean will weaken below tropical cyclone strength during Wednesday. Latest forecasts and warnings:   or the BOM Weather app. 
 — Bureau of Meteorology, Australia (@BOM_au) 
block-time published-time 2.49am GMT 
 Blue Mountains community expresses frustration at PFAS hearing  
At a Senate hearing on PFAS, Blue Mountains residents have expressed frustration at NSW authorities over a lack of communication about the detection of PFAS in waterways.
Last year, WaterNSW disconnected Medlow Dam  and  Greaves Creek Dam from the Blue Mountains water supply system after elevated levels of PFAS chemicals were detected in untreated water in June.
 Jon Dee, of the Stop PFAS action group, said since the initial PFAS detection, water corporations and NSW government agencies had still not informed residents where and when the original contamination occurred.
Importantly, they have not told us at what levels we have been drinking PFAS chemicals in our drinking water since the first contamination took place.
Dee suggested that the PFAS had originated from “vast quantities” of firefighting foam used to put out a petrol tanker which caught fire in 1992 at Medlow Bath. The incident took place close to local waterways.
 Fiona Smith, executive manager at WaterNSW, said the statutory body was investigating the source of PFAS contamination, including potential links with the tanker crash:
We’ve collected over 250 samples from 37 different locations within that catchment. We are getting close to finalising the preliminary phase of that investigation, and once we have done that then we would seek to make that information available to the public. We are working as fast as we can to complete that investigation. It’s detailed and it’s complex.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 5.15am GMT
block-time published-time 2.43am GMT 
 Removing PFAS from water supplies becoming increasingly difficult, Senate hearing told 
Removing PFAS from water supplies and wastewater is becoming increasingly difficult, utilities providers have told a Senate hearing on PFAS.
 Adam Lovell, the executive director of the Water Services Association of Australia, said the group was “deeply concerned” about the PFAS entering the country through “thousands of everyday household and industrial chemicals and products”.
It’s getting increasingly difficult to manage the PFAS through the water cycle in more and more catchments … as more sampling is done, and we’re finding it literally everywhere … For drinking water, if we needed to install treatment, every new treatment plant would add hundreds of millions of dollars of capital and operating [costs], increasing pressure then on water bills.
Buying 1kg of a PFAS chemical costs about $150, but treating that same quantity of chemical after it had gone through a wastewater system cost between $4m and $25m, Lovell estimated.
 Paul Plowman, executive general manager at Sydney Water, said that as of 6 January, water supplied through all its systems met the   limiting PFAS levels in drinking water, which are set to be finalised later in 2025. Plowman said the corporation was currently designing its first thermal treatment facility, northwest of Sydney, which heats waste to very high temperatures to destroy PFAS molecules, creating a charcoal-like substance called biochar:
It’s extremely energy intensive and very, very expensive.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.47am GMT
block-time published-time 2.35am GMT 
 Australia falls behind on housing targets, Property Council says  
There were 44,884 new homes built in the September quarter, representing a slide in the number of completions that has put the country behind on its housing targets, according to the Property Council of Australia.
 , Australian Bureau of Statistics data released today shows that the number of dwelling completions was down 0.9% on the previous quarter.
The federal government-led national accord is designed to build 1.2m new homes over five years to alleviate housing shortages, with payments directed to state, territory and local authorities to support the delivery of new homes.
The property council said the ABS data shows that Australia is more than 15,000 homes behind schedule just three months into the housing accord. The property council’s group executive for policy, Matthew Kandelaars, said:
Few expected we’d be meeting our welcome and ambitious housing target from day one, but it’s doing its job by providing transparency about who is lagging and by how much.
Our new home target is much more than an arbitrary number. It is what’s needed to close the national housing supply shortage. It represents hard hats, steel caps and getting Australian families into the homes they deserve.
Australia regularly completed more than 50,000 homes a quarter prior to the pandemic, but the sector has been hampered by high costs and clogged planning pipelines.
While completions are down, new housing commencements are up 4.6% from the previous quarter.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.03am GMT
block-time published-time 2.29am GMT 
 Gold Coast airport resumes normal operations after screening incident 
A Gold Coast airport spokesperson says operations have returned to normal following an isolated screening incident this morning.
Footage shared online showed huge queues forming in the airport earlier today. A spokesperson said this afternoon:
Operations have returned to normal at Gold Coast airport following an isolated incident this morning that involved the screening process of one passenger. As a precaution, passengers onboard one flight were rescreened in line with security protocol without further issue.
The safety and security of all passengers and our team is always our number one priority. We thank passengers for their patience and understanding.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.33am GMT
block-time published-time 2.24am GMT 
 Wong posts photos from meeting with new US secretary of state 
The foreign affairs minister, Penny Wong, has shared some photos from her meeting with the US secretary of state, Marco Rubio, in Washington. In a post to X, she wrote:
Thank you [Rubio] for generously hosting me on day one in the job. Through Aukus, our trade and investment relationship and the sectors that will fuel the future of our economies, our Alliance has never been stronger. We are ambitious for all we can achieve together.
enltrThank you   for generously hosting me on day one in the job. Through AUKUS, our trade and investment relationship and the sectors that will fuel the future of our economies, our Alliance has never been stronger. We are ambitious for all we can achieve together. 
 — Senator Penny Wong (@SenatorWong) 
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.28am GMT
block-time published-time 2.15am GMT 
 Chalmers critical of Greens’ proposed back-to-school payment 
Continuing from our last post, via AAP : Jim Chalmers also started a food fight with the Greens after the minor party unveiled a plan to provide an $800 back-to-school payment to parents to help cover costs like uniforms, technology and supplies.
A family with two kids in a public school would be   and it would help families facing cost-of-living pressures, the Greens said.
The Greens would pump an additional $2.4bn into public schools over four years as part of their plan, paid for by higher taxes on large corporations.
Chalmers accused the minor party of being able to announce large spending policies without the need to manage the budget, saying Labor had already invested billions of dollars in schools.
The treasurer added that Labor had provided targeted cost-of-living relief including through tax cuts, energy bill rebates, reducing student debt and boosting wages.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.18am GMT
block-time published-time 2.06am GMT 
 Treasurer says Labor taking no new taxes into election  
 Jim Chalmers has poured cold water on any new taxes, AAP reports.
Asked whether Labor would bring any new taxes to the upcoming federal election, the treasurer said: “No, our focus is on the tax changes that we’ve already announced.”
The focus for us right now making the very generous superannuation tax concessions for people with high balances – still generous, but a little less generous. We’ve made another number of other changes, but we’ve made it clear that when it comes to the budget, our priority is cost-of-living relief.
Chalmers attacked an uncosted Coalition policy to make business lunches tax deductible as he tried to position Labor as being the party for the working class.
The only economic policy that [opposition leader] Peter Dutton and [shadow treasurer] Angus Taylor have is to make it to get taxpayers to fund long lunches for bosses. Labor is for trainees and tradies and workers.
Dutton said the costings would be released in due course but it was an effective spend of taxpayers’ money to help boost staff retention in small businesses.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.16am GMT
block-time published-time 1.55am GMT 
 Severe heatwave forecast for Queensland and WA later this week 
The Bureau of Meteorology has provided an update on the severe heatwave conditions in Western Australia and Queensland:
enltrSevere Weather Update: Severe heatwaves in WA and Qld for the second half of the week. Video current: 12:00pm AEDT 22 January 2025. Latest forecasts and warnings:   or the BOM Weather app. 
 — Bureau of Meteorology, Australia (@BOM_au) 
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.58am GMT
block-time published-time 1.49am GMT 
 'Criminals for hire' may be behind some antisemitic attacks – AFP chief  
The Australian federal police commissioner, Reece Kershaw,  is speaking to reporters from Canberra and is outlining the AFP’s decision to disclose that it was investigating the potential of foreign actors being involved in antisemitic attacks in Australia. He outlined the line of inquiry as follows:
These investigative lines of inquiry are looking at whether some individuals have been paid to carry out some antisemitic acts in Australia. We believe criminals for hire may be behind some incidents. So part of our inquiries include who is paying those criminals. 
Kershaw said that where these people were, “whether they are in Australia or offshore”, and what their motivation was, is under investigation.
We are not ready to rule anything or in or out.
He said that criminals were using anonymising technology and that 70% of criminals who targeted Australia were offshore. He also outlined his decision to share this information publicly.
It is important we share this information with the public so they understand how seriously the AFP is taking this investigation and to explain why there will be lengthy investigations …
As [AFP] commissioner, I have always been committed to sharing information with the public when I can and, in my view, on this issue, providing information is not only a deterrent but also keeps the public informed on matters that are very personal. 
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.55am GMT
block-time published-time 1.42am GMT 
 Wide-ranging ban on PFAS should be considered, experts tell Senate inquiry  
The federal government should consider a wide-ranging ban on so-called “forever chemicals” to avoid environmental harm and costly removal, a Senate committee into PFAS has heard.
The committee heard expert recommendations this morning on PFAS (per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances), a class of thousands of synthetic chemicals found widely in household and industrial products.
Sometimes referred to as “forever chemicals”, PFAS are difficult to break down and persist in the environment for long periods. Dr Ian Wright of Western Sydney University said there were “enormous gaps” in knowledge about PFAS in Australian waterways:
All water resources … surface water, groundwater, drinking water, need to be monitored … There’s a growing worldwide awareness that PFAS is accumulating in wildlife, and particularly as we go up to different levels in the food chain. My own research group has found PFAS in platypus … Wherever we look, we find it.
 Related:  
From 1 July, three specific PFAS chemicals – PFOA, PFOS and PFHxS – will be banned from import and use in Australia. However, Dr Nicholas Chartres of the University of Sydney said banning specific PFAS chemicals elsewhere had led to poorly researched, “similarly hazardous replacements”, adding:
We need to ban them as a class. There’s already enough exposure, because if we don’t, in 30 years’ time, these things will never leave our environment.
Water expert Dr Stuart Khan, also of the University of Sydney, said the only “realistic, affordable” way of dealing with PFAS was controlling it at the source:
To try and treat the water at the end – the cost is unrealistic. It’s prohibitive to be able to do that across the board for everybody here.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.45am GMT
block-time published-time 1.33am GMT 
 More investment in apartment construction needed to meet housing targets – builders 
Australia commenced construction on 43,247 new homes throughout the first three months of the national housing accord, according to data from the Bureau of Statistics.
The federal accord – signed with the states and territories, local government, institutional investors and construction sector – outlines a target of building 1.2m new homes over five years from mid-2024.
 Master Builders Australia  said the figures were 4.6% higher than the June 2024 quarter and 13.9% higher than the same quarter in 2023. New detached house starts saw the strongest growth, up 20.5% since June last year.
CEO Denita Wawn said that while industry welcomed this, there was still a long way to go to reach the level of output required to meet the target.
Our performance in apartment construction will be the key to whether we meet the target. Apartment construction levels remain too low because the investment appetite is not there …
If we are going to solve the housing crisis, we need to build more apartments and make them more attractive for people to invest in – only then will we see a lowering of rental inflation and more homes for Aussies.
In the year to September 2024, the number of new homes beginning construction was 165,048 – below the 200,000 required.
Master Builders Australia said if things continued at this pace, Australia would commence construction on just over 825,000 new homes over the next five years – about 350,000 new homes short of the target.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.24am GMT
block-time published-time 1.25am GMT 
 Babies’ heel prick test expanded to critical disorder in Victoria 
Newborn babies in Victoria will be offered an expanded heel prick test to include screening for another rare genetic disorder.
 AAP reports that from today, hours-old youngsters will be tested for galactosaemia, which can cause life-threatening liver disease and kidney failure if left untreated.
Its most serious form effects one in 50,000 babies and makes them unable to process a sugar found in certain dairy products, with treatment involving being fed by soy formula.
The expansion will expand the state’s screening program to 32 conditions within the first 72 hours of newborns’ lives.
Acting health minster Ingrid Stitt said it was part of more than $1m for testing for spinal muscular atrophy, severe combined immunodeficiency and congenital adrenal hyperplasia.
Newborn bloodspot screening began in Victoria in 1966 and has resulted in more than 3.6m babies tested to date. One in 1,000 are found to have rare but serious conditions such as congenital hypothyroidism and cystic fibrosis.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.49am GMT
block-time published-time 1.19am GMT 
 Student’s expulsion after pledging support for Hamas overturned on appeal, ANU boss tells inquiry 
The Australian National University’s vice-chancellor has confirmed a student accused of making an alleged Nazi salute and Hitler moustache is still enrolled at the university and no findings have been made against them.
After expressing he was “completely astounded”, Labor MP Josh Burns went on to ask why another student who had pledged their unconditional support to Hamas had been reinstated to ANU after initially being expelled.
Prof Genevieve Bell, the vice-chancellor, said their expulsion had been overturned on appeal, which could be made on “multiple grounds”.
Our disciplinary process has two pieces to it: there is a process and there is an appeals process. That appeals process is also run in a fulsome and robust way … I am satisfied that the disciplinary process and the appeals process continue to work but I also know those are processes that, like everything else, should be regularly reviewed and updated.
Asked by Burns if ANU would review or update its process on the basis the student appealed and was allowed back on campus after they “glorified a terrorist organisation”, Bell replied ANU reviewed all its processes on a regular basis. Burns said:
What are your thoughts on including examining whether a student can do a Nazi salute or glorify a terrorist organisation and still be allowed to participate in the university?
Bell replied the university would seek to balance academic speech and freedom of speech with psychosocial harm.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.35am GMT
block-time published-time 1.15am GMT 
 Strong wind warning for NSW coasts 
The NSW State Emergency Service (SES) is warning of damaging winds and possible thunderstorms forecast to hit Sydney, the Illawarra and the Hunter coast later this afternoon.
In a statement, it said that a vigorous southerly wind change currently located on the south coast would move rapidly northwards along the coast this afternoon. The wind change is likely to reach the Sydney coast in the middle of the afternoon and then extend further north to the Newcastle coastline by early evening.
Damaging winds averaging 60-70km/h with peak gusts in excess of 90km/h are possible along parts of the Illawarra, Sydney and Hunter coast, as the southerly change moves through during the afternoon and early evening.
Severe thunderstorms are also possible over parts of Sydney and the Hunter during the afternoon or early evening, it said.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.18am GMT
block-time published-time 1.05am GMT 
 Multiple capitals top 30C as heatwave hits 
The Bureau of Meteorology warned yesterday that a heatwave was expected to hit parts of Western Australia, Queensland, the Northern Territory and New South Wales from today, stretching into tomorrow.
According to its latest observations, Brisbane, Perth, Darwin and Canberra have already hit 30 degrees (that’s particularly scorching for Perth, given it has just gone 9am in the west).
Perth has a forecast maximum of 37 today, with Brisbane set to hit 36 and Sydney 35.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.09am GMT
block-time published-time 12.48am GMT 
 University probe into alleged Nazi salute prompts heated exchange 
The Australian National University’s vice-chancellor,  Prof Genevieve Bell, has been caught in a testy exchange with Labor MP Josh Burns  over revelations an investigation into an alleged Nazi salute and display of a Hitler moustache during a student union meeting has cleared students of any wrongdoing.
Burns, the chair of a parliamentary inquiry into antisemitism at Australian universities, asked Bell whether the incident had been discussed during one of 30 meetings held by management with Jewish students following the 7 October 2023 attacks on Israel.
Bell told the hearing the incidents he’d referred to were reported through ANU’s disciplinary proceedings and an investigation found “there had not been a Nazi salute or a hitler moustache”. Burns replied:
Really? Wasn’t it on film?
Bell said there were a “number of other pieces of that story that were not immediately clear”.
The investigation, which was a thorough one, and we do thoroughly investigate these issues … found there was not, in fact, an incident.
Burns loaded the vision online and appeared perplexed.
How did you get to that finding? I’m looking at pictures of it now … what else was it?
Bell said the university did not discuss “pieces of individual cases” but “multiple other pieces of evidence … of vision” formed part of the inquiry which were not reported in news accounts. Burns said:
What piece of vision would rule that out from being a Nazi salute? It’s been reported publicly. I am … please help me understand how that was not a Nazi salute.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.23am GMT
block-time published-time 12.34am GMT 
 Dutton says NSW premier ‘effective’ but Victoria premier ‘disgraceful’ on antisemitism  
The opposition leader Peter Dutton also took aim at state leaders, saying that Victorian premier Jacinta Allan ’s response to antisemitism had been “disgraceful”.
In Victoria, if you contrast Jacinta Allan’s approach, which is disgraceful, to Chris Minns ’ approach, which has been much more effective, then I think that there is a contrast there, and the prime minister has chosen the Jacinta Allan approach instead of the Chris Minns approach …
The prime minister got worked up when his office was picketed. But before that, we just allowed every redline to be crossed.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.32am GMT
block-time published-time 12.31am GMT 
 Q: The Executive Council of Australian Jewry said that people need to come together. Will you call for a more bipartisan approach? 
 Peter Dutton responded that if this meant “doing nothing like the prime minister is proposing, no”.
If it is something like the Jewish leaders asked for yesterday, that there be a bipartisan position in the proposals that we put forward, yes, I do want a bipartisan position.
But I don’t think that the prime minister will arrive at that position. Why? Because I think he’s hung a big part of the community out to dry, because you’ve got votes that they’re chasing from inner city seats, from Greens, and in western Sydney – that’s the prime minister’s motivation here.
Dutton said this was “going to escalate to a point where somebody is going to lose their life”.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.04am GMT
block-time published-time 12.29am GMT 
 Dutton says PM has let antisemitism ‘fester’ 
 Peter Dutton took direct aim at the prime minister and accused him of allowing the issue of antisemitism to “fester”. He told reporters:
And why? For political advantage. That’s the most shameful part.
The prime minister has allowed this issue to continue to fester and it has escalated to the point where we see a childcare centre and a synagogue, a place of worship, firebombed and the prime minister has essentially absent himself from this process. It’s unacceptable.
 Anthony Albanese   during this time.
He has also previously hit back at accusations from Dutton on his response to antisemitism. You can read more analysis around this issue below:
 Related:  
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.04am GMT
block-time published-time 12.25am GMT 
 Dutton calls for more details on foreign interference in antisemitic attacks  
The opposition leader, Peter Dutton, is speaking to reporters in Goulburn – asking questions on news the AFP was investigating foreign interference into alleged antisemitic attacks in Australia. He asked:
Why has the prime minister never mentioned this before now? When did the prime minister find out that there were foreign players? Are these state actors or organised crime groups? Or are they antisemitic groups? What did the prime minister know?
 , the PM fronted media in Parramatta and fielded questions for more details but said:
I will leave the work of the AFP to be done by the AFP. They’ll continue to provide appropriate briefings, but with respect, I understand the desire for more information.
Speaking now, Dutton said this situation demonstrated the federal government should have taken action sooner to combat antisemitism.
 I think that the prime minister should provide what information he can publicly. 
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.29am GMT
block-time published-time 12.20am GMT 
 Some rail unions to drop NSW industrial actions  
As flagged just  , the NSW government has welcomed a move by most of the rail unions to scale back industrial actions that have been the centre of legal proceedings amid a bitter pay dispute.
Today, as the Fair Work Commission was hearing an application by state transport authorities to quash industrial action from combined rail unions on grounds the work bans were causing economic harm, the government announced what it viewed as a positive development in the saga.
The six combined rail unions negotiating for a new pay deal have withdrawn all notified industrial action, aside from actions such as wearing union badges, and have had it noted by the Fair Work Commission that they will not pursue these actions again, a NSW government spokesperson said.
This is a significant and welcomed development.
However, the Electrical Trades Union, one of the six unions in negotiation and whose members conduct critical maintenance work across Sydney’s train network, has only undertaken not to pursue their action until 31 March.
“This means that the notified hourly stoppages could still go ahead. This uncertainty is intolerable,” the government spokesperson said, adding that this meant the government would continue its application with the Fair Work Commission to quash the industrial action “to ensure commuters are permanently protected”.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.22am GMT
block-time published-time 12.18am GMT 
 Minns says NSW should have Australia’s toughest hate-speech laws 
On last night’s national cabinet meeting, Chris Minns said leaders looked across jurisdictions at different laws.
He said WA and Victoria had stronger laws around hate speech and that NSW should be looking at this:
Because regrettably, and to my great, great regret, there’s a rising number of antisemitic attacks in my state in NSW. So I think that we should have the toughest laws or at least equal toughest laws on the books because we can’t tolerate it. 
Asked if he was disappointed the outcome of the national cabinet was for an online database, the NSW premier said:
Look, if that was the only thing we were doing or states were doing, yes, but clearly, that’s not the case.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.07am GMT
block-time published-time 12.13am GMT 
 Chris Minns said it was wrong to suggest money for mental health in NSW had “gone backwards, or we ripped money out the allocation of funds to acute mental health care”.
If we want a generalised discussion about reforming mental healthcare in NSW, I’m happy to do that. But thus far, our negotiations with them have been, ‘I know that there’s clinical nurses and counsellors and psychologists, but don’t worry about them – let’s just start with the 25% pay rise for us.’
I think that a reasonable person would say that as premier of NSW … we have an obligation across the sector that frankly, we’d blow all of our money on that pay rise when everybody else in the public health system needs a hand up as well. 
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.18am GMT
block-time published-time 12.11am GMT 
Commenting on the ongoing dispute with psychiatrists, and the mass resignations, Chris Minns told reporters “it’s not a blank cheque”.
A 25% pay increase for psychiatrists, given how much they earn, is the equivalent of $90,000 a year just in increase in salary – that’s the same as a first-year nurse earns, nearly what a first-year police officer earns, certainly more than a police cadet at the Goulburn Academy earns …
And I can’t say to the rest of the public sector, 400,000 public servants, there is a limit to what we pay, but at the same time say to a couple of hundred psychiatrists, here’s a blank cheque. It’s just not right.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.12am GMT
block-time published-time 12.06am GMT 
 Minns says NSW government has ‘strong case’ amid rail union dispute 
On the ongoing wage dispute with the rail unions, Chris Minns said the state government had “a strong case” economically but that it was before the court.
I’m not going to pre-judge them or suggest that they’re going to make a decision one way or the other.
What I can say is that with the exception of the Electrical Trade Union, all of the other unions have given an undertaking to the commission that they won’t re-lodge the bans that they’ve pursued that caused a lot of widespread delays across the public transport network. 
So I don’t know how the commission will consider that with a breakthrough that we’ve been waiting for for a long time.
We’ll bring you more details around this shortly.
 Related:  
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.19am GMT
block-time published-time 12.04am GMT 
 NSW law changes would come into effect ‘as soon as possible’ – premier 
 Chris Minns  was asked when changes to the law would come into place, if the state government changed them.
The NSW yesterday   to 93Z of the Crimes Act – the section outlining the “offence of publicly threatening or inciting violence on grounds of race, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity or intersex or HIV/AIDS status”. You can read . 
Speaking just now, Minns said the changes would come into place “as soon as possible”.
I mean, the changes to protest laws to protect religious institutions should be in place when Parliament resumes. Changes to hate speech laws, as soon as possible. We’re drafting them at the moment.
We’re talking with our counterparts in Victoria. The law has already been changed in Western Australia and has been in place since 2004. So I’m hopeful sooner rather than later, but we want to make sure that we get it right, and I can’t give you a date today other than to say that we’re not twiddling our thumbs.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.06am GMT
block-time published-time 12.01am GMT 
A reporter asked whether the AFP was referring to individuals overseas, or state’s themselves, when it said it was investigating the involvement of “state actors”?
 Karen Webb said she would be meeting with the AFP commissioner and other commissioners at 2pm this afternoon “to canvass those exact issues.”
As I’ve said, we will examine all of the evidence.
block-time published-time 11.59pm GMT 
 Chris Minns said that in some instances, those allegedly involved in antisemitic attacks were “sophisticated actors”. Asked to expand on this, he said:
It is important people don’t read or extrapolate from what I’ve said other than to say in some instances sophisticated tactics have been used.
block-time published-time 11.56pm GMT 
Asked why the alleged antisemitic attacks across Sydney don’t currently meet the threshold for terrorism charges, Karen Webb responded:
I’ve talked to this before about whether this threshold is met. I’ve also said before terrorism is actually a crime.
What we are investigating here is a crime. These people are before the courts for crimes. So, you know, let’s face it – they are being charged with a crime that carries 10 years, in some cases more.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.04am GMT
block-time published-time 11.55pm GMT 
 Foreign interference shouldn’t be only line of inquiry in antisemitic attacks – police chief  
 Karen Webb said she would be meeting with policing commissioner colleagues this afternoon to discuss the matters raised by the AFP about the potential of foreign interference in antisemitic attacks.
The NSW police commissioner said:
… but if the AFP and other jurisdictions have information relevant to our investigations, then we need to have that information.
Asked if she had been spoken to direct by the AFP on their concerns, Webb responded:
I won’t go into any specifics but certainly, as I said, really, we all have to keep an open mind and we shouldn’t rule out anything, but we also shouldn’t make that our only line of inquiry. So certainly they are all aspects under consideration.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.27am GMT
block-time published-time 11.53pm GMT 
 Second man yet to be arrested over alleged bid to start Sydney synagogue fire – police chief  
The NSW police commissioner, Karen Webb, was next to speak. She said a second man was yet to be arrested in relation to the alleged attempt to set a synagogue on fire in Newtown.
We expect to make an arrest shortly and he will also be before the court. The investigation remains ongoing for that matter, and all other matters that have been reported by police.
In terms of the targeting of the Maroubra childcare centre, Webb said “there are very good lines of inquiry”.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.10am GMT
block-time published-time 11.50pm GMT 
 Proactive policing has increased in Jewish communities, Catley says 
The NSW police minister, Yasmin Catley, has also been speaking to reporters in Sydney. She said police were taking the recent spate in antisemitic attacks “extremely seriously”.
She said “proactive policing” had increased in areas where there are large Jewish communities and at “places of significance”.
You can expect to see police in these communities. In fact, the Jewish community have told me that they are seeing a large presence. They are there.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.54pm GMT
block-time published-time 11.48pm GMT 
 Minns says state and civic leaders 'stand united' against antisemitism  
The NSW premier, Chris Minns, is speaking with reporters in Sydney. He welcomed the arrest of a man for allegedly attempting to set a synagogue on fire in Newtown, in Sydney’s inner west, earlier this month (   ).
He said this was the ninth person to be charged under Strike Force Pearl, set up to investigate alleged hate crimes with an antisemitic focus across Sydney’s eastern suburbs.
We will leave no stone unturned in combating rampant antisemitism and violence in our community. It will never be tolerated.
I want to make it absolutely clear that civic leaders and the leaders of NSW stand united against this kind of fear and intimidation, this deliberate attempt to strike terror into the hearts of people that live in this state, and together as a community we will overcome it.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.53pm GMT
block-time published-time 11.37pm GMT 
 University boss grilled on academics using ‘antisemitic sentiment’ 
Continuing from our previous post: Mark Scott was pressed over comments made by academics on social media that had received backlash in the press, including one tweet in December that read:
I rather think Palestinians don’t necessarily wish death on all Jews, but under the current assaults, I would forgive the sentiment, even while counselling dialogue and forgiveness.
Scott said the dean of the relevant faculty immediately contacted the academic responsible and the post was immediately deleted.
The deputy chair of the committee, Liberal National party MP Henry Pike, said there were “numerous examples” of academics using social media for what he described as “antisemitic sentiment”.
Could you tell us how many [academics] hold these views? Why does this keep happening?
Scott said there were rules and guidelines that applied to academics against hate speech which had been “pursued vigorously” through the courts of law when necessary.
There are times when people will tweet something that they might think are acceptable and appropriate but we need to test those processes under our policies and take actions … and there are times disciplinary action has followed.
We have a community here of 100,000 adults … the number of adults in our community is similar to the number of people in any given electorate … we are a microcosm … and if there are people in our community who hold antisemitic views, then I believe that to be abhorrent, that falls outside the license to exist in this community.
Asked by Pike how the university ensured it was not hiring people with antisemitic views, Scott replied:
I’m not quite sure what test you would suggest would be utilised.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.08am GMT
block-time published-time 11.30pm GMT 
 Freedom of speech and academic freedoms 'not unfettered rights', says University of Sydney VC  
The University of Sydney’s vice-chancellor, Prof Mark Scott, has reiterated “we did not get everything right” in management’s response to events on campus following the 7 October attacks on Israel, while fronting a parliamentary hearing into antisemitism at Australian universities.
Scott said complaints from students had “dramatically reduced” since a   in semester two last year and a string of new policies were introduced to crack down on protests.
He pointed to the university’s   which introduced strict guidelines around protests, an ongoing review of complaints processes, an   and increased security as key measures taken to create a safer campus.
There are clear responsibilities on leaders of organisations like universities now to create a psychologically safe workplace … The student representative council thought notice periods [on protests] were punitive, the staff union said that as well, others felt it had made the university a safer and more secure place.
Scott said he “strongly supports” that encampments would continue to be prohibited and demonstrations would be isolated to outdoor areas.
I believe the movement of protest indoors – occupying buildings – limiting people’s access... is not in the interests of the health and wellbeing of our staff and our students. There will be demonstrations, there will be debate, but we need to create safe spaces as well. Freedom of speech and academic freedoms are not unfettered rights, they need to apply within the rule of the land.
He said a   would be ratified for semester one this year.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.36pm GMT
block-time published-time 11.22pm GMT 
 Wong asked about potential foreign interference in antisemitic attacks in Australia 
Taking final questions, Penny Wong was asked about news the AFP was investigating the potential involvement of foreign actors in antisemitic attacks in Australia.
She didn’t have anything to add to the investigation, but said:
These attacks of hate, these attacks on places of worship – the antisemitic slogans, the torching of homes or cars or premises – this is not only an attack on the Jewish community, it is an attack on who we are as Australians.
And we all have to stand in defence of those values, which I have advocated for my whole political life, which goes to respect, acceptance and inclusion, because that is the foundation of the multicultural Australia.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.23pm GMT
block-time published-time 11.19pm GMT 
 Trump’s position on Paris accord ‘longstanding’ – Wong 
The foreign minister was asked for her reaction to Donald Trump ’s decision to withdraw US from the Paris climate agreement.
 Penny Wong told reporters Trump’s position was “longstanding”:
Australia also has longstanding positions when it comes to the UN framework convention on climate change and other matters.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.24pm GMT
block-time published-time 11.17pm GMT 
 Wong on critical minerals trade  
 Penny Wong was also asked if Australia is looking to increase trade of critical minerals with the US.
She said critical minerals were “important to where our economies are going, where the global economies are going, and we know these are areas in which there are very limited supply chains”.
And so it’s no secret that Australia is keen to look at how we might develop more processing capacity in Australia for the critical minerals which we do have. And the prime minister’s Future Made in Australia agenda has that very much at its heart.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.22pm GMT
block-time published-time 11.16pm GMT 
 Wong on US tariffs 
Asked if she left meetings feeling more or less satisfied that Australia would escape trade tariffs from the US, Penny Wong said that every new administration has had views on trade policy.
And every Australian government in office at a time where a new administration has come in has had to navigate those trade policy issues. This is no different.
She referred to the “first Trump administration and the challenges that had to be navigated by the then-Turnbull government”, and added:
What I can say to Australians is that we will work consistently, confidently, with a very clear focus on Australia’s interests to navigate any trade issues.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.19pm GMT
block-time published-time 11.14pm GMT 
 ‘We should not be surprised’ if Trump implements his agenda – Wong 
 Penny Wong was asked what the most significant change is for Australia in the change of administrations in the United States. She declined to get involved in commentary but provided this observation:
President Trump has made it clear that he is going to do things differently. He did so in his first term, and he campaigned on taking a different approach on many matters – some of them domestic, and some of them international. We should not be surprised if he implements that agenda. 
 We should also have some confidence in our capacity as a nation to navigate those challenges, to engage with the administration, and to talk through – at very many different levels of the new administration – talk about the issues that are relevant to Australia’s interests.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.16pm GMT
block-time published-time 11.12pm GMT 
 Wong says Trump administration ‘understands strategic imperative around Aukus’ 
Taking questions, Penny Wong was asked if she sought assurances from the secretary of state into the ongoing future of Aukus under the new Trump administration.
Wong said Aukus was discussed and “it was a very positive discussion”. She referred to testimony from the secretary of state which reflected their discussion – “that Aukus is an investment in security and stability in the region”.
I think it’s been really clear that the Trump administration understands the strategic imperative around Aukus, which is why the government is so committed to it.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.17pm GMT
block-time published-time 11.10pm GMT 
 Wong addresses media from Washington DC  
The foreign affairs minister, Penny Wong, is speaking to reporters from Washington DC. She said she had been involved in a number of “productive meetings” on the first full day of the new Trump administration, just returning from a meeting with the secretary of state, Marco Rubio.
It was a very warm and constructive … first official bilateral engagement. Obviously we had the Quad meeting ahead of that, and we spoke about our shared interest and ambition, the strength of our alliance, the importance of our economic partnership, the work we’re doing together with the United Kingdom through Aukus, and of course critical minerals, which has been an issue that he and the president have spoken about.
Wong said she also met counterparts from Japan and India, and with the US national security advisor, Mike Waltz.
I think across the span of the alliance, there’s a great deal of optimism and confidence about the opportunities ahead, and I am really privileged to have had this level of engagement so early in the new administration. 
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.18pm GMT
block-time published-time 11.03pm GMT 
 Allan on whether ‘fair fuel’ plan would lead to less competition in the market 
Asked about her government’s plan – announced on Monday – to   and freeze the prices for 24 hours, and whether it would lead to less competition in the market, Jacinta Allan said: 
My focus on the fair fuel plan that we announced on Monday is helping motorists save hundreds of dollars a year. And we know from work that’s been done by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission that where motorists fill up at the lowest price available, they can save hundreds of dollars a year.
block-time published-time 11.00pm GMT 
 Allan says ‘huge amount of work’ by federal and state governments to combat antisemitism 
 Jacinta Allan was also asked whether national cabinet should have been convened by the federal government earlier.
She said there had already been a “huge amount of work” going on both by the federal and state governments to combat the wave of alleged hate crimes targeting Jewish communities.
In terms of that horrific terrorist attack on the synagogue [Adass Israel] in Melbourne, there’s a joint investigation going on between Victoria police and the Australian federal police, and they are throwing a huge amount of resources and work at this investigation.
So there has already been work under way, and when there is an opportunity to look at how we can strengthen that... I will always grab that opportunity to work with state and territory colleagues and the prime minister on how we can take a national approach, the strongest approach, to condemn and act on this evil of antisemitism.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.04pm GMT
block-time published-time 10.57pm GMT 
 Allan weighs in on future of weekly pro-Palestine protests 
Asked whether she thought it was time for the pro-Palestine protests in Melbourne’s CBD to stop – they have been happening every Sunday for more than a year, and the premier has previously described them as peaceful – Jacinta Allan said:
I’m firmly of the view that if the guns can go silent in Gaza as a result of the ceasefire that occurred over the weekend, then it’s time to bring peace, not division, to our streets – whether it’s in Melbourne or Sydney or in any part of the country …
We need to heal, particularly those communities who are directly impacted. They have families, they have loved ones, who are directly impacted. My focus all the way through this has been supporting them.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.08pm GMT
block-time published-time 10.55pm GMT 
 Victorian premier ‘horrified’ by attack on Sydney childcare centre 
 Jacinta Allan was on ABC Radio Melbourne’s Breakfast program earlier this morning to talk about yesterday’s national cabinet meeting on antisemitism, which was called following an attack . 
The Victorian premier said she was “absolutely horrified” about the attack. She said yesterday’s meeting was an opportunity for state and territory leaders to discuss actions being taken across jurisdictions – and how this work can be strengthened, “particularly the work between our policing agencies”.
Around how we can track this crime, track this evil, track these incidents, and then look at how we can better coordinate responses, because it’s devastating to see that antisemitism knows no border. It can happen on any street, in any town in Australia, around the world, and we’ve got to do everything we can to look at every tool in our toolkit to stamp out this evil. 
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.59pm GMT
block-time published-time 10.49pm GMT 
 Bushfire south of Perth threatening properties as emergency warning issued  
An emergency alert was issued for communities south of Perth this morning amid a bushfire that is threatening properties.
The Department of Fire and Emergency Services said the “leave now” warning was for Byford and Karrakup in the shire of Serpentine-Jarrahdale.
It is for those bounded by Nettleton Road to the north, Barge Drive to the east, Cooperage Street to the west and Kiln Road to the south.
Dfes said the alert level for the fire had been upgraded because properties were under threat. It said:
 You are in danger and need to act immediately to survive. There is a threat to lives and homes. 
A heatwave is impacting the broader region and is forecast to continue for at least another three days.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.51pm GMT
block-time published-time 10.40pm GMT 
 $3bn WA oil and gas project put off  
 Santos has stalled plans for a $3.4bn oil and gas project in Western Australia   168.6m tonnes of emissions in its lifetime.
 Carnarvon Energy said Santos, the operator of the joint venture, had dropped plans to purchase an oil production vessel for the Dorado project and wouldn’t be starting engineering and design work. This defers the target for a final investment decision, it said.
A statement from Carnarvon said the joint venture was currently reviewing the timeline for the project and would “update the market in due time”. It said it was planning towards drilling further exploration wells in 2026.
The   that Santos is working to increase shareholder returns ahead of growth, and that Carnarvon’s shares fell as much as 27% amid the deferral.
 Related:  
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.43pm GMT
block-time published-time 10.35pm GMT 
 Albanese fields more questions on foreign interference in antisemitic attacks in Australia 
Continuing from our previous post: Anthony Albanese was also asked why potential foreign actors were being investigated for antisemitic attacks across Australia now.
He said they were “being investigated and have been”.
The point is, when you have an investigation, sometimes it’s a really good idea to not tell the people who you are investigating exactly all of that detail, and that is what’s going on here …
This action is ongoing. The decision made by the police authorities themselves to be more transparent is to make it clear the action which is taking place on the ground, given suggestions by some, in order to secure some … political advantage, that that wasn’t occurring.
Asked whether the government boosted resources before or after they were made aware of the potential of foreign actors, and how long they have been aware, the PM said:
I announced Operation Avalite some time ago.
Albanese announced that the AFP established “special Operation Avalite” to combat antisemitism . 
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.38pm GMT
block-time published-time 10.18pm GMT 
 Some antisemitic attacks appear not to be ‘motivated by ideology but paid actors’ – PM  
Just circling back to Anthony Albanese ’s press conference in Parramatta earlier this morning, which we covered throughout the blog:
The prime minister said it appeared some perpetrators of antisemitic attacks in Australia were not motivated by an ideology but were paid by foreign actors.
He was asked a litany of questions about the Australian federal police’s investigation into whether overseas actors were paying local criminals to carry out antisemitic attacks. He said:
It is important that people understand where some of these attacks are coming from, and it would appear, as the AFP commissioner said yesterday, that some of these are being perpetrated by people who don’t have a particular issue, aren’t motivated by an ideology, but are paid actors. It’s unclear who or where the payments are coming from.
Asked again where foreign interference may be coming from, Albanese did not reveal any new detail:
I will leave the work of the AFP to be done by the AFP. They’ll continue to provide appropriate briefings, but with respect, I understand the desire for more information.
 Related:  
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.55pm GMT
block-time published-time 10.14pm GMT 
 Disrespectful fan behaviour could deter girls from trying sport – minister 
The minister for sport, Anika Wells, was also up on ABC News Breakfast this morning to discuss a funding boost to help more girls and women get into tennis.
As the Australian Open continues, she was asked about the interaction between tennis stars and Australian fans, and some of the controversies that have happened throughout the tournament so far.
Wells described it as “lively viewing” and said the Australian Open was “famed for its passionate fans”. But should people be more respectful? She responded:
I think Australians love their sport. I, as sport minister, always want to make sure that we look after our athletes and that we’re athlete-led around policy, setting policy around treating our athletes with respect.
 One of the side-effects is that girls look at that treatment and decide that they don’t want to stay in sport or give it a go, because they don’t want to have that experience themselves. I think, from a policy sense, we have to look more broadly about what impact that might be having – not just on the players who are having that experience, but the kids, for example.
Asked if the PM was planning to attend a match, or if he was avoiding the crowds, Wells said he woke up with “about 8,007 commitments he has to do” each day.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.20pm GMT
block-time published-time 10.01pm GMT 
 ‘Nothing off the table’ in investigation into Maroubra childcare centre attack 
Asked if those involved may have been influenced by foreign actors, Yasmin Catley said “every line of questioning is being investigated”.
Nothing is off the table. And if that is the case, then the AFP and the NSW police, as I say, will work hand in glove to bring these criminals to a court of law.
Catley was asked what information she received on these foreign actors at yesterday’s national cabinet meeting, but said this was intelligence information and she didn’t want to interrupt that.
But I can tell your listeners now – rest assured, every line of inquiry is being investigated thoroughly and forensically.
Asked if the recent spate of antisemitic attacks were being characterised as “an emerging wave of terrorism”, Catley described them as “certainly very aggressive” and a “criminal activity”.
A very, very serious crime is being committed here.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.12pm GMT
block-time published-time 9.58pm GMT 
 Sydney antisemitic attack perpetrators ‘can expect a knock on the door’ – police minister 
The NSW police minister, Yasmin Catley, has provided an update on the investigation into the targeting of the Maroubra childcare centre.
Speaking to ABC News Breakfast, she said police had increased the number of officers involved in Operation Pearl – set up to investigate alleged hate crimes with an antisemitic focus across Sydney’s eastern suburbs – to 40 detectives.
These are 40 detectives from the state crime unit – highly specialised detectives that are going to be investigating these crimes. And let me tell you – they may not catch them this week, maybe not next week, but they can expect a knock on the door, and they will face the full charge of the law.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.08pm GMT
block-time published-time 9.52pm GMT 
 Clare defends government response to antisemitism 
The education minister, Jason Clare, spoke with ABC News Breakfast earlier this morning, where he also defended the federal government’s response to antisemitism amid criticism from Israel’s deputy foreign minister.
He said he disagreed with those comments, and listed a number of measures the government had taken (   ).
The bottom line here is that we can’t let what’s happening on the other side of the world tear us apart here in Australia. There’s been too much bloodshed overseas and there’s too much hate here in Australia. 
Asked what practical steps could be taken to unite Australians right now, Clare pointed to a program by Rabbi Zelman Cowen, who visits schools and helps “break down the barriers between different groups”.
We’re not born racist. It’s something that’s learnt. Programs like that in our schools are very, very important.
And asked about criticism from Peter Dutton on the government’s response, Clare said he “just wants to say something negative about everything at the moment”.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.55pm GMT
block-time published-time 9.41pm GMT 
 PM says he has worked ‘my whole life’ against racism ‘in all its forms’ 
 Anthony Albanese pointed to his student politics days to defend his track record on responding to racism, saying he had established Students Against Racism at Sydney University. He continued:
When my local council was controlled by the Greens and adopted a BDS – a boycott, divestment and sanctions campaign – against Israel and against products, and called for a ban based upon where things came from, I worked with Peter Wertheim and others, two decades ago, on these issues.
 I have, my whole life, worked against racism in all of its forms – in all of its forms – without exception. I continue to call it out, and I’ll continue to call it out. 
The PM repeated his call for unity, saying the country needed to come together and “not look for difference, not look for division, not look for political advantage”.
We need to bring the country together, because we are overwhelmingly a harmonious society. We can be a microcosm for the world that can show that, in this community here you, have people of Jewish, Muslim, Catholic, Hindu, Buddhist, living side by side in harmony. 
That’s what people want to see. That’s what I’m working towards.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.51pm GMT
block-time published-time 9.36pm GMT 
 PM denounces ‘people who seek political advantage from traumatic circumstance’ 
 Anthony Albanese denied that his government had been slow to act on antisemitism and said it had “acted from day one”.
The PM said what was of concern to him was “people who seek political advantage from what is a traumatic circumstance”.
I’ve worked with all of the communities. Peter Dutton, for someone who is responsible for some national security issues … should know better.
We have acted. We have established the first envoy on antisemitism that could have been done by the former government. We’ve outlawed Nazi and hate symbols that could have been done by the former government. We’ve outlawed doxing that could have been done by the former government. We’ve provided increased security funding for synagogues, places of worship, schools etc that could have been done by the former government as well. What we have done is act.
Albanese said he was concerned that “an attempt to politicise this has another result, which is it denies agency of the actual perpetrators”.
It is an attempt to turn away from those people engaged in these hate crimes, towards it being a political issue. And I tell you what should happen: Australia should come together, not look for difference – look for unity of purpose.
That is absolutely what we need at a time where those perpetrators of these actions do so in order to divide our country, that is what they are trying to do. We should not succumb to that. We should unite, look for common purpose, look for a joint and – across the board – a whole-of-society response.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.45pm GMT
block-time published-time 9.29pm GMT 
 Anthony Albanese is fielding questions on what information the AFP is able to release regarding its investigation, and said:
 The point is that when you have an investigation, sometimes it’s a really good idea to not tell the people who you are investigating … 
I’ll leave that to the AFP. I am not going to compromise the investigations. We want to hunt down these perpetrators. We want to see them face the full force of the law. 
block-time published-time 9.27pm GMT 
 PM says it is unclear where possible attack payments are coming from  
 Anthony Albanese is speaking to reporters in Parramatta. Taking questions, the prime minister was asked about news the AFP is investigating potential foreign interference in antisemitic attacks in Australia, and said it was important the AFP was allowed to do its job:
Those investigations are ongoing. I’m reluctant to say anything that compromises those investigations, but it is important that people understand where some of these attacks are coming from, and it would appear as the AFP commissioner said yesterday that some of these are being perpetrated by people who don’t have a particular issue, aren’t motivated by an ideology, but are paid actors. Now it’s unclear who or where the payments are coming from.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.44pm GMT
block-time published-time 9.25pm GMT 
 Burke says AFP has ‘very deliberate reasons’ for what it does and doesn’t disclose publicly 
 Tony Burke was also asked if he had been personally briefed after the AFP said it was   by “overseas actors” using cryptocurrency.
Burke declined to go into what he is and isn’t briefed on. But he responded to an earlier interview by James Paterson on ABC RN (see earlier blog posts) and said the AFP had “very deliberate reasons” for what they do and don’t reveal to the public.
They operate independently, as they should, but my only interest in what they put out is that they make decisions that are designed to advance investigations.
And you know, I’m not able to add to anything that that’s been put out there, but I certainly would not join in what I thought was a surprising and potentially naive call from Mr Patterson, just randomly saying, ‘oh, we need more information on this.’ They should put out the information that they think helps with the investigation. That’s how the Australian Federal Police should operate, and how they do.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.29pm GMT
block-time published-time 9.22pm GMT 
 Burke says government focused on ‘action rather than meetings’ 
Circling back to Tony Burke ’s interview on ABC RN:
Asked why it took so long for the federal government to convene national cabinet on antisemitism,  Burke repeated earlier remarks from the PM that the government’s priority was on “taking actions rather than having meetings”.
The principal challenges that we’ve seen have been in NSW and Victoria, you would have seen there have been joint statements that have been made with those jurisdictions. There’s a whole lot of cooperation and work that’s happening across jurisdictions. It’s the action that was the priority.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.25pm GMT
block-time published-time 9.20pm GMT 
 Man charged for allegedly trying to set fire to Sydney synagogue  
NSW police have charged a man for allegedly attempting to set a synagogue on fire in Newtown, in Sydney’s inner west, earlier this month.
On 11 January, police allege the man attempted to set a building alight, with offensive graffiti also allegedly sprayed on the building.
Detectives arrested a 33-year-old man after search warrants were executed overnight at two addresses on Pyrmont Bridge Road, Camperdown.
The man was initially taken to St Vincent’s Hospital under police guard, according to police, but on release was taken to Surry Hills police station and charged with destroying property using fire, having goods suspected of being stolen and cultivating a prohibited plant.
Police said during the search they seized a number of items for further examination.
The man has been refused bail to appear at Downing Centre local court today. 
Police said he was the ninth person to be charged under Strike Force Pearl, set up to investigate alleged hate crimes with an antisemitic focus across Sydney’s eastern suburbs.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.25pm GMT
block-time published-time 9.17pm GMT 
 Burke says Israeli claim Australia slow to act on antisemitism ‘simply not right’  
The home affairs minister, Tony Burke, has been speaking with ABC RN about the government’s response to antisemitism.
He was asked about   that Australia has been too slow to act, and listed a number of actions the government had made to date.
With respect to to those comments, the comment that this government is somehow waiting is simply not right. Australia never had an antisemitism envoy. We now have an antisemitism envoy, and I talk and work with Jillian Segal  very, very closely.
Is the fact antisemitic attacks are still occurring evidence that what the government is doing is not working? Burke said he didn’t accept that:
I gave you the list because you played me an audio of a deputy minister claiming that we hadn’t acted, so I went through a series of actions, because that claim is simply not right. There is no doubt that we are dealing with one of the oldest forms of bigotry that there is and the fight against antisemitism never stops.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.44pm GMT
block-time published-time 9.05pm GMT 
 Birmingham on Trump move to withdraw from Paris agreement and WHO 
Turning to the United States, Simon Birmingham was asked about Donald Trump ’s move to withdraw from the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the Paris climate agreement.
How should western nations approach a second Trump presidency? And is there a responsibility for Australia to speak out when actions, such as this, are taken that really weaken our global cooperation in big pillars of foreign affairs?
Birmingham said “nobody should be surprised by many of the steps taken” by Trump, because this is what he said he would do as president.
From an Australian perspective, the shadow minister said, there were two things to manage:
Our equities with the United States – our closest security alliance partner – and our equities with other countries around the world. And it’s important we do manage both of those …
But, of course, continue also to work with our valued partners around the rest of the world in areas of important cooperation and collaboration such as the tackling of HIV, the tackling of tuberculosis, the types of things that we do when near neighbours like Papua New Guinea do important work on that [and are] aided by some of the work at the World Health Organisation.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.13pm GMT
block-time published-time 9.00pm GMT 
 Birmingham asked if earlier national cabinet meeting would have prevented rise in antisemitism 
The shadow foreign minister, Simon Birmingham, spoke with ABC News Breakfast earlier this morning, as the Coalition continues to criticise the government for its response to antisemitism in Australia.
Asked if it was realistic to assume an earlier national cabinet could have prevented this rise in antisemitism, Birmingham said there were “a number of steps” that could have been taken:
There’s of course the type of moral leadership and language that is essential. But there are also some of the practical things. And the reason for seeking a national cabinet meeting was to engage the states and territories – to make a single national value statement to our Jewish community and to all Australians about that type of respect that’s necessary to stamp out antisemitism.
But also, because the states and territories are the leads in law enforcement, to ensure the coordination of those efforts …
Of course also, that civic leadership, that national leadership, by all of Australia’s heads of government [is needed] to make clear that this should not be occurring in the first place.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.06pm GMT
block-time published-time 8.52pm GMT 
 ‘It’s a matter for Peter Dutton’: Patterson on Coalition shadow cabinet reshuffle 
 James Paterson was asked if he is interested in taking on the role of foreign affairs spokesperson within the shadow cabinet, amid the retirement of Simon Birmingham.
A Coalition shadow cabinet reshuffle has been due for some time. Paterson told ABC RN:
Obviously, to [opposition leader] Peter Dutton, I’m happy to serve in any role that he would like me to do. There is a lot of work to do. 
And frankly, all the national security portfolios, [we should] clean up the mess of this government. Whether it’s foreign affairs, defence or home affairs, and I’m very honoured to have the role that I already have under Peter Dutton’s leadership, and happy to continue in that, but it’s a matter for him.
block-time published-time 8.48pm GMT 
 Paterson says ‘serious penalties’ needed on antisemitism 
 James Paterson said that out of yesterday’s national cabinet, he would have liked to see a more combined response from state and federal police – pointing to the Coalition’s call for mandatory minimum sentences:
Serious penalties, like mandatory minimum sentences, would have sent a much stronger signal.
He criticised the online database announced by the government yesterday and said he was “not sure how” this would act as a deterrent.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.00pm GMT
block-time published-time 8.44pm GMT 
 Australians deserve more information about ‘overseas actors’ possibly linked to antisemitic attacks – Paterson 
The shadow home affairs and cybersecurity minister, James Paterson, has been speaking with ABC RN about the recent spate of antisemitic attacks and the response from the federal government.
He said it was “undeniably true” the government had been slow to act, saying it took the PM 14 months to convene a national cabinet meeting on antisemitism.
It was only yesterday, after months and months of pressure and other appeals – including from the antisemitism envoy Jillian Siegel – that the prime minister caved in, basically dragged kicking and screaming, into convening a national cabinet.
On reports that federal police are   by “overseas actors” using cryptocurrency, Paterson said this was a “gravely serious claim”.
I think the Australian people are entitled to more information from the prime minister today about what he knows about this, when he was briefed about it, and what action the government is taking about us.
Paterson said a claim like this would “make it the most serious domestic security crisis in peacetime, in Australia’s history, and will cause incredible alarm within the Jewish community”.
So a lot more information is required about this claim, and a lot more comfort needs to be given about what is being done in response to it. You cannot put information out this partially, as has been done so far.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.05pm GMT
block-time published-time 8.38pm GMT 
 Accusations government was slow to act on antisemitism ‘unfair’ – Clare 
The education minister, Jason Clare, also spoke with Sunrise, where he defended the government’s response to antisemitism.
The host noted that national cabinet met yesterday and .  But was the government too slow to act?
Clare was this was “unfair criticism” and that within two weeks of 7 October 2023, the government allocated $25m to the Jewish community for more security at schools, preschools and synagogues.
We’ve also introduced legislation to criminalise hate speech, and we’ve set up police task forces at a national level, as well as at a state level. Some people have already been arrested … But there’s obviously more morons out there and that’s why we need more police.
Clare said the idea that people overseas might be paying criminals in Australia to perpetrate antisemitic attacks was “truly terrifying”.
Ultimately, if this is going to stop, we’ve got to hunt down the criminals that are doing this and lock them up.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.45pm GMT
block-time published-time 8.32pm GMT 
 Rabbi says recent antisemitic attacks have to be ‘taken very seriously’ 
Rabbi Zalman Goldstein spoke on the Today Show earlier, live from the Maroubra synagogue in Sydney, near the childcare centre that was targeted with antisemitic graffiti and set alight this week.
He said it “means a lot” to the Jewish community that the PM convened national cabinet to address antisemitism, because the recent attacks have to be “taken very seriously”.
We definitely welcome that and hopefully we’ll see some real results and that these attacks will just finally stop.
He said that last night, a huge turnout of people came to the Maroubra synagogue to “pray, to sing, to get strength and courage”.
What the perpetrators wanted to accomplish was to make us scared. They weren’t successful … We hope that the law enforcement will find the perpetrators and will finally bring an end to this.
 Related:  
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.39pm GMT
block-time published-time 8.26pm GMT 
 Hume says there is ‘no Coalition position’ to take same route as Trump on gender 
The shadow finance minister, Jane Hume, also appeared on Sunrise and fielded questions on whether the Coalition would follow Donald Trump in recognising only two genders.
 Related:  
Hume said it wasn’t an issue that was being raised with her or Peter Dutton, and that people were focused on the cost of living.
I think Donald Trump will create a lot of issues that people debate around the world. I’m not focused on this one.
Asked if she agreed with her Coalition colleagues Matt Canavan and Barnaby Joyce, who backed the move by Trump, Hume said:
It’s not an issue to keep me awake at night. This is not an issue that mainstream Australians are talking to me about … There is no Coalition position to take the same route as Donald Trump.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.32pm GMT
block-time published-time 8.21pm GMT 
 Watt defends government response to antisemitism as ‘very strong’ 
Asked if the federal government has been going enough to combat antisemitism, Murray Watt said it had responded “very strongly here”.
He said there had been dozens of arrests, and in recent years the federal government moved to ban the display of hate symbols, including the Nazi salute and certain flags, and doxxing.
Unfortunately, there are some people in the community who are engaging is disgusting behaviour and the AFP and state police have demonstrated they will be caught and go to jail, which is where they belong.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.23pm GMT
block-time published-time 8.19pm GMT 
 Watt says news of foreign interference in antisemitic attacks is ‘worrying’ 
The workplace relations minister, Murray Watt, says it is a “worrying development” that “overseas actors” have potentially funded antisemitic attacks in Australia using cryptocurrency.
Speaking on Sunrise, he said these attacks were happening “far too frequently in Australia.”
I [will] leave it to the AFP to confirm some of the details about this, but I think this demonstrates exactly how far our police authorities are going to try to crack down on the shocking behaviour …
[The number of arrests made] sends a really clear message from the whole community that there is no tolerance that this kind of hate, and you will be caught if you do these kind of disgusting attacks.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.24pm GMT
block-time published-time 8.15pm GMT 
 Paterson says PM must ‘urgently clarify’ overseas link to antisemitic attacks  
Yesterday, federal police revealed they were   by “overseas actors” using cryptocurrency.
Earlier this morning, the shadow home affairs and cybersecurity minister, James Paterson, called on the prime minister to “urgently clarify” what he knows and what action will be taken. He wrote in a post to X:
It is a gravely serious claim to suggest foreign actors may be behind the spate of terror attacks targeting the Jewish community. The PM must urgently clarify what he knows about it and what action he will take to address it.
Paterson is due to speak on ABC RN later this morning – we’ll bring you   when he speaks.
 Anthony Albanese is also due to address reporters in Parramatta today, about 8.15am AEDT. We’ll bring you the latest here in the blog – there are sure to be questions asked around this.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.46pm GMT
block-time published-time 8.11pm GMT 
 More effort needed to ensure free pads and tampons reach those most vulnerable to period poverty, study finds 
Australian state government policies to provide free pads and tampons in public schools are a step in the right direction to alleviate period poverty but more effort is needed to ensure the people most in need receive them, a study has found.
Researchers at the Burnet Institute conducted in-depth interviews with menstruating people aged 19-45 from marginalised groups, including First Nations people, recent migrants, trans and nonbinary people, people with disability, those experiencing homelessness, and welfare recipients.
The study, published in the Australian and New Zealand Journal of Public Health today, sought to understand how free product provision could best be targeted to help vulnerable people.
Interviewees in housing insecurity, recent refugees and asylum seekers, and those fleeing intimate partner violence, were among those experiencing severe period poverty, and described improvising with old towels and clothes, stealing products, and accessing them from social services when they could due to need.
Those on low incomes, welfare payments, and people with disability also described high levels of insecurity, with rural or remotely located participants struggling with travel costs, limited supply or stigma causing barriers to access. They described prolonged wear of menstrual products, stealing from friends or family, and purchasing products only when on sale as ways of getting by.
The study found that what was convenient and accessible could be vastly different depending on a person’s situation. Those experiencing severe period poverty were much more likely to already frequent food banks and community centres, while the option for provision methods like home delivery or collection from a specified location was more likely to help participants living with a disability or based in rural areas.
Participants also emphasised the need to balance privacy in the provision of free period products with visibility of the service for those who needed it.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.59am GMT
block-time published-time 8.07pm GMT 
 Good morning  
 Emily Wind here, signing on for blogging duties. Thanks to Martin for kicking things off for us – I’ll be taking you through our rolling coverage for most of today.
As always, you can reach out with any tips, questions or feedback via email:  Let’s go.
block-time published-time 8.05pm GMT 
 Analysis: Albanese has pledged action on antisemitism – but Dutton still setting agenda 
In an analysis piece this morning, our political correspondent     that although Anthony Albanese has pledged action on antisemitic attacks and called a national cabinet meeting, he still looks like “he’s playing catchup” to Peter Dutton on this issue.
Albanese has reacted quicker than he did with the Melbourne attack at the end of last year when he as panned for an allegedly slow response.
But no matter which he goes, he seems to end up being panned, as Josh writes:
Of course, despite taking the course demanded by the Coalition, Albanese will receive little credit from opponents. Once again he has been criticised first for a lack of action, and then for taking too long to act after he moves. Moments after reports of a snap national cabinet meeting emerged, the deputy opposition leader, Sussan Ley, slammed him for ‘mealy-mouthed words’.
Read Josh’s whole piece here:
 Related:  
block-time published-time 7.57pm GMT 
 University heads to front antisemitism inquiry  
University heads will be confronted over hate on campus as Australia struggles through a crisis of antisemitism, AAP reports.
Vice-chancellors from the University of Sydney, the Australian National University, the University of Queensland and Western Sydney University, alongside members of the student and educators’ unions, are due to front a federal inquiry on the topic when it resumes today.
With university students set to return in a matter of weeks, the institutions have acknowledged an increase in antisemitism and committed to prevent its occurrence on campus with education and disclosure initiatives.
Western Sydney University’s submission said:
We support freedom of speech but draw the line at hate speech.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.03pm GMT
block-time published-time 7.50pm GMT 
 Boy dies after being crushed by falling parking meter  
A child has died in hospital in Western Australia after being crushed by a falling parking meter stored in a museum courtyard.
The five-year-old boy was seriously injured last week at Bunbury Museum and Heritage Centre south of Perth.
He died two days later, police said in a statement yesterday.
The incident happened during an environmental education school holiday program run by the state’s biodiversity and conservation department.
Paramedics were called to the scene about 10.30am and transported the boy in a critical condition to Bunbury hospital.
He was later airlifted to Perth children’s hospital.
The City of Bunbury’s chief executive, Alan Ferris, said the organisaton was “heartbroken”.
WorkSafe is investigating the incident and police will prepare a report for the coroner.
block-time published-time 7.42pm GMT 
 Adam Bandt to announce latest public schools spending pledge  
Every public school child would receive an $800 “back to school” payment and fees and charges would be abolished under a suite of election announcements to be announced by the Greens in Brisbane today.
The $800 payment, to be distributed to students enrolled in primary and secondary schools from 1 July, is estimated to cost $7.6bn to 2028 and would be spent on out-of-pocket costs like uniforms, technology and school supplies.
Additional funding of $2.4bn over forward estimates would also be distributed to public schools to abolish public school fees, charges and contributions, estimated to have risen by 20.58% from 2021 to 2022.
The Greens said the policy was the latest in a suite of   in the instance of a minority parliament.
The Greens leader, Adam Bandt, will make the announcement at Coorparoo state school in Brisbane on Tuesday, alongside the Greens spokesperson for primary and secondary education, Senator Penny Allman-Payne, and Griffith MP Max Chandler-Mather.
The Greens were reduced to one seat in Queensland’s state election in October, placing pressure on the party to maintain its three federal seats when voters hit the polls later this year.
Bandt said the cash boost would be funded via the Greens’ planned “big corporations tax”. He said:
Parents are forking out thousands on ‘voluntary’ fees, uniforms and out-of pocket costs, but meanwhile one in three big corporations pays no tax. We can’t keep voting for the same two parties and expecting a different result. If Brisbane voters return their Greens MPs, they can keep Peter Dutton out and get Labor to act on the cost-of-living crisis.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.17pm GMT
block-time published-time 7.33pm GMT 
 Welcome  
Good morning and welcome to our live news blog. I’m Martin Farrer with some of the best overnight stories before Emily Wind takes the reins.
Sydney’s Jewish community   after the latest antisemitic attack in the city targeted a childcare centre in Maroubra and left people fearful about their safety. Since late November, there have been six major antisemitic incidents in Sydney and one in Melbourne, five of those involving arson. Yesterday federal police revealed they were   by “overseas actors” using cryptocurrency.
It comes as vice-chancellors from some of Australia’s leading universities front a federal inquiry on antisemitism today.
The Greens leader Adam Bandt is on the pre-election trail this morning and is due to visit a school in Brisbane to promote his party’s new policy of giving every public school child an $800 “back to school” payment. The party would also abolish other fees and payments faced by parents under a suite of announcements to be announced today. More coming up.
A young boy has died in Western Australia after being crushed by a falling parking meter. The five-year-old was on an education trip to a museum in Bunbury south of Perth last week when the parking meter, which was being stored in a courtyard, fell on him. More details coming up.

Load-Date: January 22, 2025


End of Document
