




Business Insider
January 31, 2025 Friday 12:41 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Insider Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 1406 words
Byline: lryan@businessinsider.com (Lisa Ryan)
Highlight: "Our whole air traffic control system has been blinking red, screaming at us that we've got it overloaded," one expert told BI.
Body


This post originally appeared in the Business Insider Today newsletter.
You can sign up for Business Insider's daily newsletter here.
Hello! This is Lisa Ryan, an executive editor at BI. I'm normally behind the scenes of this newsletter, but today I'm filling in for Dan DeFrancesco. (Don't worry - he'll be back next week.)
This just in: Dell is "retiring" hybrid work and calling workers back to the office.  that CEO Michael Dell sent staff this morning, exclusively obtained by BI.
In today's big story, we're looking at the tragic American Airlines crash over DC and why aviation experts have been .
What's on deck
Markets: These agencies are policing the wild west of crypto .
Tech: Mark Zuckerberg told Meta employees to get ready .
Business: Microsoft has begun .
If this was forwarded to you, 
The big story
Near-miss warnings
Wednesday's fatal aircraft collision over Washington, DC, is a nightmare scenario that aviation experts have been warning about.
As BI's senior aviation reporter Taylor Rains writes, pilots and aviation workers have been warning for years about .
"Our whole air traffic control system has been blinking red, screaming at us that we've got it overloaded," said Brian Alexander, a military helicopter pilot and partner at an aviation accident firm.
Taylor's report comes in the wake of the tragic collision between an American Airlines flight and a military helicopter on the jet's final approach into Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport.  are presumed dead in what became the first complete-loss US airline crash in 15 years.
Alexander cited the "intense inadequacy" of staffing and overwork facing air-traffic controllers as major problems at airports across the US. Another aviation expert, Anthony Brickhouse, said  has also become a significant safety risk.
The US has been battling  for years, Taylor writes. Back in 2023, the Federal Aviation Agency created a safety review committee to address the issue. They recommended increased staffing, added oversight funding, and investing in airport technology.
But Brickhouse told Taylor that not enough changes have been made to prevent these close calls. And Wednesday night's crash has  about air-traffic control staffing and procedures at US airports.
The investigation into the tragic crash is ongoing. Here's what to know:
There were no survivors from the collision. Three Army crewmembers aboard the Black Hawk were from the 12th Aviation Battalion in Virginia. A spokesperson for US Figure Skating told BI that "several members" of the organization were aboard.
The crash occurred in congested airspace. The DC area's Reagan Airport has , with over 800 takeoffs and landings daily. Military helicopters often fly low over the nearby Potomac River.
Investigators recovered the black boxes from the passenger jet. "The recorders are at the NTSB labs for evaluation," .
Without citing evidence, President Trump criticized FAA DEI efforts. In a press conference, Trump said he didn't know what caused the crash before laying out a  that he suggested could have contributed to the incident.
News brief
Top headlines
Trump confirms his new tariffs are coming this weekend. Here's where all of his trade plans stand - and how they'll impact Americans.
Google offers voluntary exit for staff in Pixel and Android group.
Churned customers, incriminating texts, and a CEO's involvement: The latest claims from Yipit in its legal fight with rival M Science.
What Silicon Valley really thinks of DeepSeek, TikTok, and Trump.
Solar is likely to be the fastest-growing energy source this year, even as Trump promises a fossil fuel bonanza.
Plane crashes can cause upticks in flight anxiety. Here's how to manage it.
3 things in markets
1. With Gensler out, who's policing crypto? The SEC bid goodbye to Biden appointee Gary Gensler, who many crypto insiders felt was too harsh on their industry. Digital-asset enthusiasts are hoping for clearer guidelines in the crypto-friendly Trump era, and these eight government agencies are likely to be .
2. An unloved stock sector is waiting in the wings. Healthcare stocks took a hit late last year as investors fretted over the impact of RFK Jr.'s nomination to be health secretary. But those fears were likely overblown, strategists at Janus Henderson, Citi, and State Street said, and the sector's recent sell-off may have , with big gains on the horizon.
3. Blackstone COO addresses DeepSeek concerns. During a Q4 earning call, Jon Gray said the firm is  on the threat DeepSeek could pose to Blackstone's multibillion-dollar bet on AI infrastructure. The firm is a leading investor in data centers, having touted more than $100 billion. Gray added that Blackstone is particularly interested about what it will mean for demand.
3 things in tech
1. "Buckle up" for an "intense" year, Mark Zuckerberg tells employees. At a company all-hands meeting, the Meta CEO made it clear he's embracing tech's old motto of moving fast. In a  obtained by BI, Zuckerberg said AI would be top of mind this year and that DeepSeek's recent shake up would . He also reflected on one of the company's big missteps in social media: .
2. Missed China and iPhone targets take a bite out of Apple's record Q1 revenue. The tech giant , narrowly beating the $124.1 billion estimate. However, China and iPhone sales missed their targets. During the earnings call, CEO Tim Cook addressed DeepSeek and mentioned Apple is pursuing a hybrid AI model that he says will serve the company well.
3. When ChatGPT gets replaced by AI. OpenAI said this week that Chinese competitor DeepSeek may have used its models "inappropriately." Yet OpenAI has also been accused of inappropriately using other people's content to train its models. DeepSeek might just be OpenAI's karmic repayment, .
3 things in business
1. Meet the millionaire boomers next door. how they retired comfortably, balancing their seven-figure net worths with some frugal habits. Some wish they'd worked less and enjoyed life a little more.
2. The next big thing in social media? Private networks. Alex Hofmann, CEO of the social-media conglomerate 9count, is betting on a  over media. Social platforms have become awash with influencers, brands and ads competing for attention, he said, but users want to connect with their friends and meet IRL.
3. Microsoft's performance-based job cuts have begun. Termination letters viewed by BI show workers impacted by Microsoft's performance cuts will lose their health benefits immediately. Ex-employees also say they won't receive severance.  from the termination letter Microsoft sent to affected employees.
In other news
I asked DeepSeek and ChatGPT for financial advice on investing and retirement. Here's how the two rival chatbots stack up.
A 'Trump tariff fee': Small businesses worry about raising prices in a new era for US trade.
Social-shopping startups are raking in funding amid TikTok ban.
UPS plunged after saying it'll deliver fewer Amazon packages. Its CEO says it's about 'taking control of our destiny.'
World Cup Champion-turned-investor Alex Morgan sees a VC wave coming to women's sports. Here's how she thinks Silicon Valley will shape the future of athletics.
New CEO of Douglas Elliman has a plan to right shaken real estate brokerage.
Included Health filed to go public for a 2022 IPO that never happened. Now, it's private, profitable, and bigger than before.
What's happening today
Samsung, ExxonMobil, and Chevron report earnings.
Spirit AeroSystems stockholders vote on potential acquisition by Boeing.
The Insider Today team: Lisa Ryan, executive editor, in New York. Grace Lett, editor, in Chicago. Ella Hopkins, associate editor, in London. Hallam Bullock, senior editor, in London. Amanda Yen, associate editor, in New York. Elizabeth Casolo, fellow, in Chicago.
Read the original article on


Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
