




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 13, 2025 Thursday 10:55 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 1464 words
Byline: Jim VandeHeiMike Allen
Body


February 13th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )

Masculine maximalism.
Why it matters: Trump and Musk believe powerfully in maximalist action and language, carried out by strong (mostly) white men as blunt, uncompromising instruments to prove new limits both to power and what's possible.
"Fix Bayonets," Steve Bannon, a first-term Trump official whose  
Trump, first in business and then politics, and Musk, first in business and now politics, are feeding off each other's natural instincts to do, say and operate by their own new rules.
These instincts made them rich, famous and impervious to traditional rules, norms and even laws. Their success makes dissuasion by others futile, administration officials tell us.
Trump and Musk view masculinity quite similarly: tough-guy language, macho actions, irreverent, crude - and often unmoved by emotionalism, empathy or restraint.
The big picture: So much has happened so fast, in so little time, that it's hard to measure what matters most in the first 24 days of the Trump presidency (not even a month yet!). But stepping way back and appraising the totality of actions, the biggest shift is the instant imposition of this new power theory across all of government and the Republican Party:
There's no opposition to this maximalist approach among Trump's staff or major MAGA media voices. And it's extremely limited among Republican lawmakers: Some have privately expressed concerns about DOGE, and winced at  
Here's the Trump-Musk formula:
1. Power asserted, power claimed: Trump and Musk, much like they did in the private sector, set their own new limits of authority by stating them emphatically and acting aggressively. Trump and Musk have moved to cut        
Trump and Musk           
Trump's Pentagon     
Trump, after campaigning as an American First hardliner, often sounds like limitless expansionist: saying the U.S. would " 
2. Precedents are for chumps: Both think conventional, polite, rule-following CEOs and leaders are suckers and conformists. They believe wimps and posers play by the rules, worry about hurt feelings or damaged lives, and seek consensus. So far, Trump and Musk have every reason to feel vindicated: Most Republicans in Congress have sat by idly, or applauded gleefully, as the two laid claim to congressional powers of the purse and scrutinizing Cabinet picks.
Trump and Musk are freezing programs and firing federal employees - with scant scrutiny and little transparency. A      
3. Let men be men: Yes, there are some powerful women around Trump - led by White House chief of staff Susie Wiles.
But the vast majority of the public and private action is carried about by aggressive, white men, including Musk and his all-male DOGE posse;   
4. Humiliate the humbled: Both Trump and Musk use public appearances and social media posts to bully and pummel critics across politics, media and culture. They scoff at calls for humility and grace when blessed with power. In the case of transgender people, they want to restore "biological truth" and "the immutable biological reality of sex," as a Day 1  
Both men like to provoke outrage - and outrageous responses. That makes Trump and Musk the center of the national conversation - and baits hyperventilating critics into outrageous responses. Trump and Musk have followed through on their promise to    
5. Fused styles, fused worldview: As captured by Vance's   
Trump was indifferent or outright hostile to many Big Tech companies in his first term and most of his campaign. But now: Quick, vast AI expansion sits at the heart of his evolving economic agenda and philosophy. At the same time, Musk has been a vocal champion of nationalism. They're of one style, and increasingly of one shared mind and ideology.
Behind the scenes:    
Kirk, who is very close to Trump, told us Trump's maximalist instincts are being amplified by his battle-hardened staff and Cabinet. "You have an entire Avengers team of people able to fulfill the president's wishes and orders," Kirk said. "When you're in exile for a couple of years, and have people writing your political eulogy, you enter with increased motivation and energy."
Kirk, whose  
Reality check: Trump is very intentionally testing the limits of executive power. The  
What to watch: Democrats are beyond baffled on how to deal with Trump, Musk and maximalist power simultaneously. The opposition lacks anyone with a remotely similar social media and traditional media star power, or a coherent legislative way to slow or stop them.
So Democrats are down to betting on the courts - or a future maximalist public backlash to maximalism.

Join Jim & Mike next Wednesday for a webinar on "How Trump Thinks" - with special guest Marc Caputo, one of the best-wired Trump reporters - as part of our AM Executive Briefing membership series.  


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 13, 2025


End of Document
