




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 19, 2025 Wednesday 10:54 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 1313 words
Byline: Jim VandeHeiMike Allen
Body


February 19th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
Whether you admire - or abhor -  
Why it matters: As we've  
The big picture: U.S. presidents face very few restraints. They're free of conflict of interest laws, enjoy the presumption of immunity in all official acts, and have wide latitude to impose their agenda.
So it's worth paying attention when Trump says, as he did over the weekend on   
That followed Vice President Vance  
Also important to note: Trump  
So after one month in office and a dizzying amount of rhetoric and real action, what has Trump done that truly pulls America into uncharted waters?(This is our attempt to help readers sift out the hyperbolic reactions, and instead focus on legitimate boundary-busting actions worthy of deeper reflection.)
1. Claiming power clearly granted to Congress.This might seem like a nerdy social studies argument, but it's massive in consequence.The Constitution clearly gives Congress the power to allow and then set spending for the federal government. Take it away, and Congress is left as a weakened  
Trump has dismantled USAID ... moved to shut down the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ... tried to freeze trillions of dollars in federal grants and loans ... targeted at least     
The Supreme Court, one dominated by conservatives in 1975, ruled unanimously that a president couldn't " 
Congress could stymie presidential actions like this. But this Congress, controlled by Republicans, is ceding its power to check Trump.
2. Rewriting an actual Constitutional amendment. Trump is already locked in a court fight after seeking to unilaterally rewrite - again by executive order - the 14th Amendment, which grants birthright citizenship to those born here.
Trump wants to exclude babies born to mothers who are in the country without authorization.  
3. Firing watchdogs. President Trump has fired a lot of people fast, following through on a campaign promise. He has wide latitude to staff the federal government as he sees fit.
But his abrupt sacking of   
4. Empowering Elon. Trump and MAGA supporters love the most inventive business mind of the 21st century rifling through agency budgets and databases to cut spending.
But Musk and DOGE are deep in uncharted waters by gaining access to personal data, and by operating with minimal vetting. Imagine future presidents letting friends set up inside the government, and secretly get the power to see your most sensitive information while they help govern.
5. Profiting from the presidency. This isn't illegal. But it defies a long history of unspoken presidential behavior. Most presidents avoided any actual - or perception of - commingling of their presidential power with personal business deals. Former President Biden took a public beating from Trump and his supporters after it was revealed Biden's son and brother profited off his name and actions.
Three days before taking office, Trump launched a cryptocurrency that, on paper, was worth   
As The New York Times  
6. DOJ dictates. Trump supporters seem jazzed by, or at least cool with, more than a half-dozen seasoned Justice Department lawyers quitting instead of helping to kill the corruption indictment of New York Mayor Eric Adams. Trump apparently wants to free Adams to help the administration crack down on immigration, which he can't do from court or jail.
This specific case is unprecedented on its face. This many top U.S. lawyers quitting en masse hasn't happened since the infamous "  
Reality check: Trump has every right to do and say everything unfolding overseas, from taunting Canada to belittling Europe to freezing Ukraine out of his war negotiations.
All presidents are free to conduct foreign policy as they see fit. He can also rid his government of DEI staff and offices, and fire as many unprotected government workers as he chooses. There's a difference between shattering expectations and shattering laws.
Between the lines: Alex Pfeiffer, White House principal deputy communications director, told us everything Trump is doing is democratic - "in fact, the most democratic thing possible. President Trump won the election, made promises in the election and is enacting those promises."
"Elon is a White House employee," Pfeiffer added. "He and political appointees act on behalf of the president to do the things voters voted for. ... Letting bureaucrats run everything is the opposite of democracy."
"President Trump is restoring control to the people ... swiftly enacting what was voted on," Pfeiffer continued. "And that is as democratic as it gets."
Our thought bubble: Axios tries to cover Trump's actions seriously and clinically without overreacting to random social media posts, given his penchant for ephemeral provocation.
Our aim: Arm readers with facts and context for making sense of the velocity of news and change.
The bottom line: The first Trump term seemed unprecedented, and sometimes was. This one is authentically unprecedented in totality.
Shoot us questions you have for future columns: , 



Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 19, 2025


End of Document
