




The Daily Kent Stater: Kent State University
February 20, 2025 Thursday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 541 words
Byline: Chloe Porter
Body


When you think about activism, ice cream isn't the first that comes to mind. Well, Ben and Jerry's Ice Cream has flipped the script on corporate activism by working to use their voice to promote activist agendas. They are using ice cream to quite literally change the world.
Ben and Jerry's has been making it known that they support social justice, environmental protection, and human rights. Using their TikTok platform to reach more people with this message. 
Ben and Jerry's stands up for democracy, sustainability, refugee rights, racial justice and so much more. People are just now noticing this, and I think that it's insane that it took so long for people to realize just how much this ice cream company has done for the world. 
"We are committed to honoring the rights of all people to live with liberty, security, self-esteem, and freedom of expression and protest, and to have the opportunity to provide for their own needs and contribute to society." Their mission statement says. 
Since Donald Trump took office, Ben and Jerry's has hosted Freedom Marches all across the country in protest of his executive orders and administrative agenda.
With how large their company is, it makes absolute sense that they are using their voice for the good of the people. 
The company is certified B-Corp, which means that they have high standards for all of their employees. This is also why they tend to team up with other B-Corp companies like Greyston Bakery which has a life-changing open hiring program. Ben and Jerry's is also known for their diverse supplier list. They focus on buying from black-owned and operated businesses to support that community.
Ben and Jerry's is also currently facing a "MAGA boycott" because they are refusing to back down from this political position that they hold. 
In one of the company's TikTok videos, they say, "We use our power, our privilege, our platform, and our relationship with our fans to advocate for progressive social change." In that video, it also states "We're never gonna stop trying to dismantle white supremacy, end the climate crisis or fight for our democracy." If this doesn't make you want to go out and buy a whole bunch of ice cream, I don't know what will. 
It's a company that is for the people and I feel like that is so rare to come by anymore.
Companies like Walmart, Target, META, and Amazon are all working to suspend their DEI goals. In stark contrast to this, Ben and Jerry's is doubling down on their diversity, equality, and inclusion plans; they have never been more open about it than now. 
DEI is something that all companies need to get a good understanding and coverage of all audiences. 
You wouldn't want an all-male team making makeup, would you? Or a group of bald people making hair products? What about your 18-year-old cousin managing a bar? They don't have people who would actually buy the product there, DEI helps companies avoid these scenarios. 
Ben and Jerry's knows their target audience and how to keep them happy. Ice cream isn't all that they do and they want to make that message clear to everyone. 
They are an activist company who are trying to make the world a better place, one march at a time.
Chloe Porter is a columnist. Contact her at [email protected].

Load-Date: February 20, 2025


End of Document
