




MailOnline
February 3, 2025 Monday 8:28 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: SHOWBIZ; Version:3
Length: 1508 words
Byline: Milly Veitch For Mailonline
Body


READ MORE: Sabrina Carpenter, Taylor Swift, and Cardi B lead best dressed
Have YOU got a a story? Email 
Beyoncé, Shakira and Alicia Keys turned Sunday into 'Bring your kid to work day' as they led the stars bringing their children as their adorable plus-ones to the 2025 Grammy Awards at the Crypto.com Arena in Los Angeles.
Despite their parents being some of the biggest names in music, the celebrity offspring managed to steal the show at the awards ceremony with their sweet outfits and heartwarming shows of support to their famous mums and dads.
Beyoncé made sure she was joined by her husband Jay-Z and their eldest daughter Blue Ivy Carter, 13, for her big night, which saw her scoop three gongs.
The teen, who has been eyeing a career in music, looked the spitting image of her mother in a strapless blue ballgown.
And as Beyoncé accepted the coveted award for Album of the Year for Cowboy Carter, Blue Ivy sweetly graced the stage with her and gave her mother a big hug to help celebrate the feat. 
An emotional Queen Bey concluded her epic speech by thanking her family, including her eldest - and everyone who helped her work on her critically-acclaimed album. 
She said: 'I'd like to thank my beautiful family. All of the artists that were collaborators. Thank you. This ones have been this album without you. I'd like to thank god, again, and my fans. I still am in shock, so thank you so much for this honour.' 
                     Shakira also made sure her two boys were with her on Sunday night to see her win the award for Best Latin Pop Album for Las Mujeres Ya No Lloran.
As the Hips Don't Lie hitmaker, 48, was announced as the winner by Jennifer Lopez, she turned to hug her rarely-seen sons Milan, 12, and Sasha, 10.
She shares her boys with her ex-partner, former professional soccer player Gerard Piqué, 38, whom she split from in June 2022.
In her acceptance speech, Shakira thanked her adorable kids, who were both rocking matching silver suits for the evening. 
She gushed: 'I want to share this award with my kids, Milan and Sasha, who are here with me.
'I'm so proud of you guys, of your kind hearts. Thank you so much for supporting me the way you do. I love you. Thank you.'
Alicia Keys also shared her award win with her family and like Beyoncé she brought her youngest son up on stage with her.
The If I Ain't Got You star, 44, was joined by her husband Swizz Beatz and their two sons Egypt, 14, and Genesis, 10, as well as her mother Terria Joseph.
The singer later took to the stage to be awarded with the Dr. Dre Global Impact Award by Queen Latifah, holding hands with her youngest.
Genesis - dressed in a suit and sunglasses - sweetly applauded his mother as she gave her acceptance speech, which saw her call out President Trump's executive orders rolling back diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) initiatives.
Alicia was applauded by her fellow musicians as she declared: 'This is not the time to shut down a diversity of voices. 
'We've seen on this stage talented, hard-working people from different backgrounds with different points of view, and it changes the game. DEI is not a threat - it's a gift.
'The more voices, the more powerful the sound. When destructive forces try to burn us down, we rise from the ashes like a phoenix. And as you see tonight, music is the unstoppable language that connects us all.' 
Kehlani may not have gone home with any trophies on Sunday night, but she certainly won the award for the cutest plus-one.
The singer, 29, brought her adorable 5-year-old daughter Adeya Nomi along to the ceremony, with the pair wearing coordinating black dresses.
Kehlani - who was nominated for Best R&B Song for After Hours, Best Melodic Rap Performance for Kehlani and Best Progressive R&B Album for Crash - posed for a slew of heartwarming snaps with her little girl on the red carpet.
Adeya threatened to upstage the glamorous star, as she pulled a number of adorable faces at the crowd of cameras and attempted to pull her mum away.
Meanwhile, Will Smith had his famous offspring by his side as he made his awards show return, years after he made headlines for his now-infamous Oscars slap.
He was sat with his two children Jaden and Willow, who he shares with Jada Pinkett Smith and in one sweet moment he was seen giving his daughter a piggy-back backstage.
And as usual, Jaden and Willow stole the show from their movie star dad with their very quirky outfits.
Jaden, 26, was roasted by fans as he arrived on the red carpet wearing an all-black, structured suit complete with an elaborate black hat shaped like a castle covering his head.
Fans quickly took to social media, with many joking the hat reminded them of a 'Haunted Minecraft building' and 'a Halloween outfit for a 5 year old'.
While Willow, 24, left little to the imagination on the red carpet in a bedazzled bra and matching tiny bottoms under an oversized black blazer.
Unlike the other celebrity kids at the show, she was the family member up for an award on the night, instead of her famous parents.
Willow was nominated for Best Engineered Album, Non-Classical for her record Empathogen and Best Arrangement, Instruments and Vocals for her track Big Feelings.
However, dad Will appeared on stage to give a tribute to the late Quincy Jones, who passed away in November at the age of 91.
He gave a lengthy speech about the record producer, but many fans blasted him for talking about himself during it, while others claimed it was far too long, and begged for 'someone to get him off the stage.'
'You probably wouldn't even know who Will Smith was if it wasn't for Quincy Jones,' he said.
He went on to talk about how Quincy 'changed his life,' pointing out that Quincy produced his show The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air.
American singer-songwriter and guitarist Trey Hensley, 34, looked delighted as he was joined by his beaming daughter Emmalyn on the night.
And she got to see her dad win his first ever Grammy, for his work on the album Swingin' Live at the Church in Tulsa by Taj Mahal.
Trey contributed to the vocals and played acoustic guitar on the LP, which was award the gong for Best Traditional Blues Album.
Music critic Josh Kun also put on an adorable father-daughter display with his 12-year-old daughter, Yamila, who looked sweet in a black and white polka-dot dress.
US music producer Jimmy Jam handed out several awards on the night and made sure the ceremony was a family affair, by bringing along his wife Lisa Padilla Harris and their twins Max and Bella, 24.
In a night of shocks and snubs, Beyoncé finally won her first Album of the Year at the Grammy Awards just 12 months after her husband Jay-Z had an epic public tantrum about her being overlooked by the Recording Academy.
Meanwhile, music superstar Taylor Swift was stunningly snubbed in all six categories she was nominated, despite her record The Tortured Poets Department being the best-selling album of 2024.
Kendrick Lamar was also a massive winner as the rapper earned two of the 'big four' awards with both Song Of The Year and Record Of The Year for his Drake diss track Not Like Us at the event held at Crypto.com Arena in Los Angeles on Sunday. 
The final award which is considered part of the 'big four' was earned by Chappell Roan in the Best New Artist category which featured one of the most impressive fields of all-time in the category.
It was a historic night for the queen Bey as she finally earned her crown in the country genre and she was presented it by none other than Taylor earlier in the night. 
Beyoncé also earned Best Country Duo/Group Performance with Miley Cyrus for II Most Wanted for a total of three.
This comes just a year after her husband Jay-Z used his acceptance speech at last year's award show to condemn the Recording Academy for failing to give her the Best Album award despite already being one of the most decorated artists of all-time. 
While accepting the Dr. Dre Global Impact Award for his contribution to the music industry he said at the time: 'I don't want to embarrass this young lady, but she has more Grammys than everyone and never won Album of the Year. 
'So even by your own metrics, that doesn't work. Think about that. The most Grammys; never won Album of the Year. That doesn't work.' 
Meanwhile, Sabrina Carpenter defeated her mentor Taylor to earn the coveted Best Pop Vocal Album at the Grammy Awards 2025. 
No doubt two of music's biggest stars had to be honored on music's biggest night as Lady Gaga and Bruno Mars earned Best Pop Duo/Group Performance for Die With A Smile.
Doechii kicked off the show with a major upset as they earned the first gramophone in the Best Rap Album category over a field including Eminem. 
The 2025 Grammys were hosted by Trevor Noah for the fifth consecutive year and held at LA's Crypto.com Arena. 
The show raised funds to support fire relief efforts after the devastation caused by the LA blazes which began on January 7 in Pacific Palisades.
Winners were chosen by the roughly 13,000 singers, songwriters, producers, engineers and others who make up the Recording Academy.

Load-Date: February 3, 2025


End of Document
