




The Independent (United Kingdom)
February 3, 2025 Monday 7:23 AM EST


Copyright 2025 Independent Print Ltd  All Rights Reserved


Length: 1391 words
Byline: Naomi Clarke
Body


 has secured the prestigious album of the year  Award for her chart-topping country album Cowboy Carter after previously missing out four times.
The US superstar had previously failed to secure the prize with 2008's I Am... Sasha Fierce, 2013's Beyonce, 2016's Lemonade and 2022's Renaissance.
The recognition, alongside earlier wins on Sunday of best country album and the country duo/group performance award for her song featuring Miley Cyrus, titled II Most Wanted, has extended her lead as the most-awarded artist in Grammys history to 35 awards.

Collecting the album of the year award at the Crypto.com Arena in Los Angeles, the 43-year-old said: "I just feel very full and very honoured.
"It's been many, many years and I want to thank the Grammys, every songwriter, every collaborator, every producer, all of the hard work.
"I want to dedicate this to Ms (Linda) Martell, and I hope we just keep pushing forward, opening doors. God bless y'all. Thank you so much."
US singer Martell, a groundbreaking country performer who became the first black woman to play at the Grand Ole Opry, features on Cowboy Carter tracks Spaghettii and The Linda Martell Show.
The singer, who was joined on stage by her daughter , also praised the firefighters for "keeping us safe" during the Los Angeles wildfires.
Earlier in the night, fellow album of the year nominee Taylor Swift presented a stunned Beyonce with the best country album award.

The singer admitted she was "not expecting" to win the award and praised the "incredible country artists" who accepted her album, adding: "I think sometimes genre is a cold word to keep us in our place as artists and I just want to encourage people to do what they're passionate about and to stay persistent."
Ahead of releasing the album last year, she said in a social media post that the record had been born out of an experience where she "did not feel welcomed", but this prompted her to "dive into the history of Country music".
The major wins come after Beyonce was snubbed at the Country Music Awards last year, despite the Texas-born star becoming the first black woman to top Billboard's country music chart with the album's lead single Texas Hold Em'.
Her husband  used his winner's speech for the global impact award at the Grammys last year to address his wife Beyonce never winning the top prize.
The US rapper, real name Shawn Carter, is currently fighting a US lawsuit which alleges he raped a 13-year-old girl along with Sean "Diddy" Combs, an allegation he has vehemently denied and has claimed is a "blackmail attempt" by the claimant's lawyer.
Ahead of the ceremony, the singer announced she would be taking Cowboy Carter on tour with an Instagram post featuring a light-up billboard.

US rapper Kendrick Lamar scooped up two of the other top awards - record of the year and song of the year - for his "diss" track Not Like Us which is reportedly directed at Canadian rapper Drake.
The song also picked up a slew of early prizes including best music video, best rap performance and best rap song.
Lamar dedicated the record of the year award to his hometown Los Angeles after the city was devastated by wildfires.
The Compton-born artist added: "This is my neck of the woods that held me down since a young pup, since I was in the studio scrapping to write the best raps and all that...
"I can't give enough thanks to these places that I rolled around since high school. Most importantly the people and the families out in the Palisades and Altadena. This is a true testament that we can continue to restore the city."
This year's award ceremony is raising funds for wildfire relief following wind-driven blazes that swept through parts of the Californian city last month, destroying neighbourhoods and killing at least 28 people.

Meanwhile,  offered her support to the transgender community as she collected her award after the new Trump administration issued executive orders rolling back transgender rights.
Accepting the best pop duo/group performance prize for her collaboration with Bruno Mars on Die With A Smile, Gaga said: "It is a privilege to be a songwriter and a producer, a musician, such an honour to sing for all of you.
"And I just want to say tonight that trans people are not invisible. Trans people deserve love. The queer community deserves to be lifted up. Music is love. Thank you."
Chappell Roan called for the music industry to provide a "liveable wage and healthcare for artists" as she collected her first Grammy award.
After the 26-year-old US star secured the coveted best new artist prize, she revealed she had told herself she would demand that labels and the industry would protect artists more if she ever won a Grammy.
She recalled feeling "betrayed" and "dehumanised" when she struggled to find work and afford health care during the pandemic after getting dropped by her first label as a young artist when she had given "everything" to them.
Earlier in the night, she delivered a joyful performance of her disco anthem Pink Pony Club which saw start by sitting on a giant pink pony before joining a group of dancers dressed as rodeo clowns for some western-inspired choreography.

Colombian singer Shakira dedicated her best Latin pop album award for her 12th record Las Mujeres Ya No Lloran to all of her "immigrant brothers and sisters" in the US after US President Trump toughened immigration policies.
She added: "You're loved, you're worth it, and I will always fight with you. And to all of those women who work really hard every day to provide for their families, you are the true heroes".
US singer Alicia Keys also spoke out against recent political moves by the new administration as she hailed the importance of having a "diversity of voices" after winning the Dr Dre global impact award.
"DEI (diversity, equity, and inclusion) is not a threat, it's a gift, and the more voices, the more powerful the sound", the 17-time Grammy winner said.
"When destructive forces try to burn us down, we rise from the ashes like a phoenix, and as you see tonight, music is the unstoppable language that connects us all, it's so beautiful."
Elsewhere, pop star Sabrina Carpenter secured her first two Grammy wins, picking up best pop vocal album award for her sixth studio album Short n' Sweet and best pop solo performance award for her summer hit Espresso.
The US singer was cheered on by fellow nominees Swift and Billie Eilish as she made her way to the stage shortly after performing a theatrical medley of Espresso and Please Please Please from the winning album.
Rising star Doechii took home best rap album for her third mixtape Alligator Bites Never Heal, becoming the third woman to do so after Lauryn Hill and Cardi B, with the latter rapper presenting the award on Sunday.

British star Charli XCX was among the early winners at the Grammys premiere ceremony with the singer picking up best dance/electronic album and best recording package for her culture-shaping sixth record Brat and best dance pop recording for its lead single Von Dutch - her first Grammy wins.
She was later joined on stage by actress Julia Fox, who got a birthday shout out from the singer, and collaborator The Dare as she performed hit Von Dutch during the main ceremony.
The Beatles also picked up best rock performance for their new song Now And Then, which was written and sung by John Lennon and later finished by Sir Paul McCartney and Sir Ringo Starr using overdubs and guitar tracks by George Harrison.
Meanwhile, fellow British rockers The Rolling Stones won best rock album for 2023's Hackney Diamonds, their first album of original music in 18 years.
Dan Nigro, who has worked with Roan and US pop star Olivia Rodrigo, won non-classical producer of the year, while Amy Allen became the first woman to take home the Grammy for songwriter of the year, non-classical, after co-writing smash hits with Carpenter, Rodrigo and Tate McRae.
Among the other performers included British singer-songwriter Raye who sang her hit Oscar Winning Tears, while US star Billie Eilish delivered a melodic rendition of her song Birds Of A Feather - both artists had several nominations but were snubbed from all awards.
The 2025 award show was hosted by South African comedian Trevor Noah for the fifth year in a row.

Load-Date: February 3, 2025


End of Document
