




USA Today Online
January 29, 2025 10:12 AM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Length: 849 words
Byline: Casey Ryan
Body


When President Donald Trump needed a fighter to lead his Department of Education, he picked a woman with a proven record of success. Linda McMahon is the perfect choice to fix a  that has failed our nation’s students for generations.
Under President Joe Biden’s administration, student achievement drastically declined nationwide. The National Center for Education Statistics recently published a report in showcasing the  from 2019 to 2023. In mathematics,  by 18 points for fourth-grade students and by 27 points for eighth-grade students.

A recent report from NWEA . The the K-12 assessment and research organization’s report found that the “ in 2023–24 in nearly all grades, by an average of 36% in reading and 18% in math.”
Students will need approximately  to catch up to where they should be. The NWEA concluded that achievement gaps "in some cases, now surpass what we had previously deemed as the low point.”
Biden spent $1 billion on DEI in schools
These findings should come as no surprise. The Biden administration’s Education Department wasted an unprecedented amount of funding on woke priorities. 
, Parents Defending Education found that from 2021, the Department of Education spent more than $1 billion on grants for diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives.
Opinion: 
Out of this exorbitant amount, nearly $490 million was designated specifically for race-based recruiting, training and hiring practices; $343 million was designated for DEI programming such as training and youth activism. 
Some school districts received notably more funding than others, such as Montgomery County Schools in North Carolina receiving $21.5 million and Ypsilanti Community Schools in Michigan receiving $15.5 million. 
Opinion alerts: Get columns from your favorite columnists + expert analysis on top issues, delivered straight to your device through the USA TODAY app. Don't have the app? .
The funds wasted on woke initiatives would have been much better spent improving the nation’s schools academically to ensure that students are better prepared for the real world. 
McMahon is the perfect pick to turn this ship around. Whether leading a billion dollar company or serving in Trump’s first administration, McMahon succeeded where others would have likely failed.
McMahon built WWE into a thriving business

McMahon, with her family, led World Wrestling Entertainment into the global behemoth it is today.  as the chief executive officer of the WWE from 1997 to 2009 and president of the company from 1993 to 2000. Under her stewardship,  from a worth of $1 million in 1982 to the multibillion dollar empire of today – now worth approximately $9.3 billion.
In his first administration, Trump nominated McMahon to lead the Small Business Administration. Under her leadership at the SBA,  with millions of new jobs added, unemployment reached a low of 3.5% and incomes increased for Americans across the board. McMahon took the time to tour the country and meet with small business owners to understand what assistance they needed to succeed.
 that the SBA’s “core business is to provide federal guarantees so that banks can offer loans to small businesses that otherwise couldn’t get financing.”  to the position in February 2017. By the beginning of 2018, the SBA was “on track to back more than $30 billion in loans which she says has helped create more than 650,000 jobs.”
Opinion: 
After succeeding in the position for more than two years, McMahon resigned in April 2019 to lead efforts to advance Trump’s policies outside the administration. She currently , which has  from radical gender ideology in schools and to protect children from .
McMahon has been a tremendous success in every position she has held, from helping to rebuild America’s economy to transforming a small sports venture into a global phenomenon.
The Department of Education crumbled under the Biden administration’s woke leadership. McMahon will have the opportunity to rebuild America’s dilapidated education system into a force that works for our nation’s students. 
She is the perfect choice to body slam woke education.
Casey Ryan is a writer at 
You can read diverse opinions from our  and other writers on the , on X, formerly Twitter,  and in our .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
