




MailOnline
February 24, 2025 Monday 3:34 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:4
Length: 636 words
Byline: Brittany Chain For Dailymail.Com
Body


PODCAST: Listen to Welcome to MAGAland - our new podcast revealing all the latest politics news and gossip
Bill Maher eviscerated a former speechwriter for Barack Obama over Democrats' ongoing obsession with platforming transgender rights issues.
The 'Real Time' host and comedian said the controversial issue alienated everyday voters, most of whom are more interested in policies involving the economy or other matters relevant to their lives.
Speaking to former Obama speechwriter Jon Lovett, on the Pod Save America podcast on Sunday, Maher warned that following the same trajectory would cost Democrats the election time and time again.
Lovett accepted it is a difficult and divisive topic, but said 'the least bad answer is to not have the government decide from above' whether gender affirming healthcare should exist.
'The Democrat position is just leave it up to people and parents... the kids and the doctors, right?' he said. 'You want the government to ban gender affirming care for kids?' 
Maher shot back instantly, asking: 'You want to lose every election? 
'Just keep coming down on the side of parents coming in second and a "who gets to decide what goes on with my kid" contest.'
Maher had taken issue to the Democratic position in California which allows schools to hide a child's decision to change genders from their parents.
'That is not something that's going to go well with the average voter,' Maher said.
'A lot of people on the left think that even if you just have this debate, it makes you a bigot: you just have to roll over. 
'If you even question this, you're some sort of a bigot. And this is new science. And it has to do with children. And it's not going to look good in the future, that position.'
Lovett tried to justify the Democrat position by noting that there are only a small amount of instances in which a person regrets their transition.
He argued that 'really important surgeries people get for their heart' can also go wrong.
'Nobody says "we must stop the cardiologists," no one says "we must stop the surgeons,"' Lovett said.
An incredulous Maher said: 'That's your analogy?'
'We don't throw out a whole field of medicine. We say, let's make sure we're doing it in a way that's healthy,' Lovett argued. 
'The science, the research... makes clear that, yes, there are exceptions. Yes, there are people practicing it in ways that maybe go too far, but for the most part, study after study shows that gender-affirming care saves a lot of lives.' 
Referring directly to the issue within California schools, Lovett accepted that 'as a baseline,' teachers should not be keeping a secret from parents. Of f***ing course not.
'No one thinks that,' he said. 'No one thinks that.'
But he said in some cases, 'parents do such a bad f**king job that the kids are in danger.
'That happens in outside of trans issues. That happens all the time. It's terrible. Some parents are f**king terrible.'
During the presidential election campaign, Kamala Harris was bogged down by a narrative that she and her party were more focused on divisive gender politics than they were on fixing the state of the economy.
Trump, meanwhile, promised that on 'day one' of his administration he would end the 'transgender lunacy' in the federal government.
Since returning to the White House, Trump has declared there are 'only two genders', forbidding trans athletes from competing in women's categories and banning transgender troops and DEI military programs.
He also banned federal funding for sex-changes for minors, noting 'countless' children regretted the surgeries that 'mutilated' and trapped them into fighting 'a losing war with their own bodies.'
The White House noted in a memo that four out of five children outgrew feelings of gender dysphoria, without costly and irreversible surgeries they later learned to regret.

Load-Date: February 24, 2025


End of Document
