




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 1, 2025 Saturday 1:00 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 695 words
Byline: Delano Massey
Body


February 1st, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
President Trump signed a proclamation recognizing Black History Month on Friday after earlier having   
Why it matters: Conservatives argue Black history lessons induce guilt, while critics of Trump's agenda view the president's work as an effort to erase hard truths.
State of play: In his first days back in office,  
The executive order ended programs to bolster diversity and inclusion on the federal level in schools.
The orders also signal possible legal challenges to private sector diversity efforts, a move civil rights groups say could dismantle decades of progress.
Marc H. Morial, president of the National Urban League, called this an "assault on the  
When asked about reports that the  
The proclamation released Friday touts the achievements of American heroes Frederick Douglass, Harriet Tubman, Thomas Sowell, Justice Clarence Thomas and Tiger Woods.
Context:   
Next year will be the  
Friction point: What some see as an effort to erase "  
The push to erase Black history isn't theoretical-it's already happening.
The Tuskegee Airmen, once American heroes, nearly became collateral damage in a political battle. The Air Force initially   
Zoom in: Edmond W. Davis, a scholar of the Tuskegee Airmen, says their legacy should not be swept into DEI politics.
"For the men and women of the Tuskegee Airmen, this isn't DEI-it's plain old history. Military history. American history," Davis said.
He argues their contributions stretch beyond race: "We focus heavily on African Americans, but there were also women, Latinos-the first wave of civil rights pioneers before MLK and Rosa Parks even got up. They were fighting."
Zoom out: Some historians argue Black history is being framed as controversial, much like the fight over  
Martha S. Jones, a history professor at the Stavros Niarchos Foundation Agora Institute at Johns Hopkins University, argues that although DEI restrictions, anti-wokeness, book bans, and curriculum limitations restrict access, history cannot be erased.
"As heinous as book bans are, they're not making history disappear," she says. "The fight over history has always existed, but so has the resistance."
Jones highlights  
Black History Month was not a government gift; it was a hard-won effort by Woodson during  
"Woodson didn't wait for permission," Jones said. "He established institutions, authored books, and ensured Black history was told despite barriers."
The bottom line: Jones said it is important to remember that "no one gave us permission" to have Black history.
"I don't want to be cheeky, but I have news for folks who imagine they can declare Black History Month done," she said. "Black folks have been told that before, and we have persisted. We will persist. We will continue to know our history, research our history, teach our history, capture our history, and celebrate our history."
"It doesn't live in the White House. It lives in us."


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 1, 2025


End of Document
