




Daily Mississippian: University of Mississippi
February 26, 2025 Wednesday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 884 words
Body


Justice Rose
For more than 62 years, the University of Mississippi has been an integrated institution of higher learning - thanks to civil rights activists' well-documented, deliberate struggles during that time. Depending on the metric of time measurement you choose, that period is equivalent to two or three generations that have lived in a fully integrated society - at least in theory. We all know how these rule changes played out in reality.
While overt hate symbols, speech and demonstrations are less common today, they still exist. To deny this is absurd. Still, the primary contemporary obstacles facing the Black community today are more pervasive, tactical and - to an extent - self-inflicted compared to those that stifled us in the past.
Modern barriers
Take a look at the past month of news alone. Some of the executive orders signed by President Donald Trump are so egregious they amount to the legislative version of prejudice and violence. For example, an executive order focuses on rolling back diversity efforts and another ends federal protections against workplace hiring discrimination.
While some of these moves have been blocked by our judiciary, support for them is more common than many would think. This is evidenced by the troves of people who have described these mishaps as steps toward a more equitable society. Equitable for whom, I ask? It is further evidenced by those who watch idly, complicit in the undermining of our nation's values. 
Alas, when the king, as he has ironically dubbed himself, speaks, the kingdom listens.
Let it be known that it is unfair to point all of this blame at one individual, or a handful of people, in one branch of government. Our state leadership here in Mississippi has assisted in yanking open the floodgates. The celebration of confederate history, the unnecessary targeting of critical race theory programs and the introduction and support of DEI adverse policies are a few examples. 
Even beyond that, many other dynamics and phenomena in society contribute to the modern oppression Black Americans face.
The cost of inaction and complacency
Unfortunately, it takes blatant abuses of power like what we have just witnessed to remind our community that we are not the protected ones and that those in power who truly have our best interests at heart are few and far between.
The truth is, it never should have reached this point. Modern hate should never have been given the space to breathe, to grow slowly like a small flame allowed to consume an entire forest. This failure isn't just on Black Americans - it's on all Americans who claim to stand against unchecked power and injustice. While these are not issues that have popped up in the past few years, they have been dramatically exacerbated by pivotal moments in recent memory. 
Self-examination
While it is easy to highlight the problems that threaten the community from the outside, it is irresponsible to credit these issues as the chief reason for our adversity. A moment of self-reflection proves a few things.
We lack solidarity as a people, which ultimately hurts our battle against authority. Sure, there will always be division among any group of people. That's human nature. However, when one group threatens ours and seeks to undo much of the progress from the last half-century, it is imperative to our survival that we be of one accord.
To Black students: Apathy and indifference are far too commonplace. I've gathered that a "what's the point of fighting an unwinnable battle" attitude has developed among some students as they have grown discouraged by the troubling headlines we see yearly. The thing is, this is a winnable battle. Our people have won before and can win again. As we come of age, we are the new generation that must shoulder the weight of these battles and cross the finish line. If not, we risk losing a race that determines our freedoms as a people.
Building unity: strength in numbers
It is easier to point out what's wrong than to actually lay out the steps to fix it. My word is certainly not the end-all, be-all, but I do think we, as students, can benefit from these few adjustments.
In the organizations we have on campus, we must examine our efforts and programming to determine whether they are genuinely improving the existence and mobility of Black students at UM
Are these organizations amplifying a voice or a range of opinions? If not, do they have the ability and membership to do so? Focus on membership for a moment.
Black students, you must be deliberate and participate in these organizations. These are the entities that unite us in one way or another. Thus, you need to be willing to unite, to advocate and to express your voice and experience. In this instance, to engage is to survive.
To Black student leadership on campus: It is largely in your hands to determine how we organize and for what we organize. Be tactful in your decision making and use your resources to hear from the students you serve. Use the resources available to you to organize your membership and put pressure on authority. Show the strength in numbers we have.
Remember: To advocate, empower and congregate as the whole minority is to present ourselves as the responsible majority. 
Justice Rose is the opinion editor. He is a senior journalism major from Madison, Miss.

Load-Date: February 26, 2025


End of Document
