




thetimes.co.uk
January 30, 2025 Thursday 2:35 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 1187 words
Byline: Josie Ensor, US Correspondent | Harriet Alexander | Hugh Tomlinson, Washington | Jacqui Goddard
Highlight: President Trump blames predecessors while report suggests understaffing at Reagan national airport in Washington contributed to collision that killed 67
Body


Two black boxes from the American Airlines flight which collided with a Black Hawk helicopter, leaving 67 people dead, have been found and sent to a lab for testing. 
These contain the flight data and cockpit voice recorder, so may provide key clues about what happened. The National Transportation Safety Board said a preliminary report would be published in 30 days. 
On Thursday, President Trump blamed the Washington air collision on Democratic policies promoting diversity in the workplace, as it emerged that staffing shortages on the night of the crash forced one air traffic controller to do two people’s jobs.

As questions were asked about how the aircraft could collide, it emerged that a plane had to abort landing at the same airport 24 hours before the fatal crash because a helicopter was in the way. 
Republic Airways flight 4514, from Bradley airport in Hartford, Connecticut, was forced to circle and come in to land a second time, according to an audio recording of air traffic control obtained by The Washington Post. It then landed safely.
Trump suggested that the collision, which is thought to have killed all 67 people on both aircraft, was due to the government prioritising diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) initiatives above capability.
He said that under his government he would ensure only the most qualified and skilled people were hired, regardless of their race, gender or sexual orientation. Asked what led him to blame DEI for what is America’s worst air disaster for more than 20 years, he said it was “common sense”.
Trump acknowledged that he had no evidence to support his claims, saying: “It just could have been.”
Pete Buttigieg, who was Joe Biden’s secretary of transport, said the accusations were “despicable”, adding: “As families grieve, Trump should be leading, not lying. We put safety first, drove down close calls, grew air traffic control and had zero commercial airline crash fatalities out of millions of flights on our watch.”
Jennifer Homendy, chairwoman of the National Transportation Safety Board, was asked about Trump’s claim and said: “As part of any investigation we look at the human, the machine and the environment so we will look at all the humans involved in this accident.”
The board will issue a preliminary report within 30 days, she said. An initial Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) report, obtained by The New York Times, said the control tower at Reagan national airport was understaffed at the time of the crash. It said the controller was dealing with helicopters near the airport as well as instructing planes departing and landing, when normally two people would do those two separate jobs.
Reagan airport’s control tower, like most in the US, has been understaffed for years. As of the most recent Air Traffic Controller Workforce Plan, in September 2023, they were missing a third of staff. There were only 19 controllers at the airport, when the FAA said 30 were needed. The shortage has forced controllers to work ten-hour days and six-day weeks.
Audio from the control tower confirmed that the pilot of the helicopter saw an aircraft near him, and was told to pass behind it. Staff were heard gasping in the background seconds later as they watched the collision. “Tower, did you see that?” a pilot on another aircraft asked. A controller is later heard saying: “I just saw a fireball and then it was just gone.”

Aviation experts believe the pilot may have been confused as to which plane he was looking at in the busy skies over the nation’s capital.
Trump speculated that it could have been pilot error, air traffic control mistakes or “vision” issues, before focusing on the FAA’s diversity hiring policies. At a briefing on Thursday morning he accused his presidential predecessors Barack Obama and Joe Biden of lowering air safety standards with federal DEI programmes, which he has banned.
He suggested the FAA had hired sub-par air traffic controllers. “You need a very special talent and a very special genius to do it,” he said.
The Black Hawk helicopter was carrying three members of the military on a training flight when it hit American Airlines flight 5342 from Wichita, Kansas.
Both the commercial Bombardier CRJ 700 airliner and the helicopter fell into the Potomac river. None of the 64 people on the jet or three soldiers in the helicopter survived.
The crash is the deadliest since an American Airlines flight crashed in Belle Harbour, New York, on November 12, 2001, killing all 260 people on board and five people on the ground.
Passengers on the flight from Kansas to Washington included ice skaters from the US national team, their family and coaches returning from events in Wichita, including the Russian-born former world champions Evgenia Shishkova and Vadim Naumov.
“Unfortunately we were not able to rescue anyone,” Jack Potter, chief executive of the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority, said. 
Two pilots on the plane were identified as Captain Jonathan Campos, 34, and first officer Samuel Lilley. A third female pilot has not yet been named.
Asked about Trump suggesting in an overnight social media post that the collision could have been prevented, Sean Duffy, the transport secretary, said “absolutely”, adding that the US had “the safest airspace in the world”.
Robert Isom, the chief executive of American Airlines, seemed to place blame on the helicopter pilot, saying that the commercial jet had been operating on a “standard flight pattern”. 
The helicopter had been carrying out a night training exercise “on a standard corridor for a continuity of government mission”, Pete Hegseth, Trump’s defence secretary, said. “The military does dangerous things. It does routine things on a regular basis. Tragically, last night, a mistake was made.”
In a post on his Truth Social platform on Wednesday night, Trump wrote: “The airplane was on a perfect and routine line of approach to the airport. The helicopter was going straight at the airplane for an extended period of time. It is a CLEAR NIGHT, the lights on the plane were blazing, why didn’t the helicopter go up or down, or turn.
“Why didn’t the control tower tell the helicopter what to do instead of asking if they saw the plane. This is a bad situation that looks like it should have been prevented. NOT GOOD!!!”
The FBI said on Wednesday there was no indication of criminality or terrorism.
The last fatal plane crash in the United States involving a US commercial airline was in February 2009, when Continental Flight 3407 crashed into a house, killing all 49 people aboard and one person on the ground as the plane was arriving in Buffalo, New York.
In 1982, a plane took off from the airport in a snowstorm and hit a bridge, falling into the Potomac and killing 74 of the 79 people on board. Air Florida Flight 90, a Boeing Model 737-200 series aeroplane, crashed shortly after takeoff at what was then named Washington National Airport. The crash was found to have been caused by buildup of snow and ice on the plane’s wings and control systems, leading to changes in de-icing rules.

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
