




Newsweek.com
January 31, 2025 Friday 6:24 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 738 words
Byline: Anna Commander
Highlight: The Army released the names of two of the three soldiers involved in Wednesday night's midair collision.
Body


The withholding of the name of one of the pilots inside the Black Hawk helicopter involved in the fatal midair collision near D.C.'s Ronald Reagan National Airport has sparked questions online.
Newsweek reached out to the Army via email on Friday for comment.
Why It Matters
The crash on Wednesday night over the Potomac River was the first fatal  since 2009, when a propeller plane crashed near Buffalo, New York, killing nearly 50 people.
Recent airplane incidents and close calls nationwide have raised concerns of safety protocols, and in a news conference on Thursday, President   may be partly to blame for the crash near Reagan National.
Trump also questioned air traffic controllers and the helicopter during the press briefing.
What To Know
Wednesday night's collision involved a Sikorsky H-60 military helicopter and an  passenger jet. In an emailed response to Newsweek on Wednesday, the airline confirmed the plane was carrying 60 passengers and four crew members. The Black Hawk was carrying three soldiers on board.
In an emailed release to Newsweek on Friday, the Army confirmed the identities of two of the three soldiers involved in the crash. The Army said that 28-year-old Staff Sgt. Ryan Austin O'Hara, of Lilburn, Georgia, "is believed to be deceased pending positive identification."
The remains of 39-year-old Chief Warrant Officer 2 Andrew Loyd Eaves have not been recovered, the Army says, and "therefore is duty status-whereabouts unknown."
The Army added, "At the request of the family, the name of the third Soldier will not be released at this time." That pilot is also duty status-whereabouts unknown.
The third pilot's name not getting released sparked speculation and questions online. In a briefing on Thursday, Jonathan Koziol, chief of staff for Army aviation, told reporters the .
The New York Times on Thursday that on the night of the collision, the helicopter was flying too high and at least a half mile off the preapproved path, citing people briefed on the matter.
What People Are Saying
Conservative commentator Matt Walsh on X on Friday: "The military is withholding the name of the female helicopter pilot. This is totally unacceptable. The helicopter was involved in, and may have actually caused, one of the worst airline disasters in American history. We have a right to know the names."
Kyle Becker, "Independent thinker," on X: "'At the request of the family, the name of the third Soldier will not be released at this time.' The U.S. Army is still declining to release the name of the female Blackhawk helicopter pilot at the family's request. This is extremely odd. It is only going to fuel more suspicion that military policies may have played a role in the crash.
"The public seems to have a right to know in this case, since the story has become a national policy matter. Do you believe the Army should release the name of the pilot?"
Conservative country singer John Rich said on X: "Why do you think the White House is withholding the name of the Blackhawk pilot?"
X account @amuse said on Friday: "CRASH: The  has refused to release any information about the pilot who has been identified by the Army as the 'female' pilot. This is unacceptable. The family has been notified and the American people have the right to know the name, rank, and history of each of the pilots involved in the crash that killed the passenger and crew of the American Airlines. Do you agree? Should  release ALL of the information about the Blackhawk crew?"
Lt. Col. Erika A. Holownia, commander of the 12th Aviation Battalion, said in the release on Friday: "Each of our fallen Soldiers were exceptional leaders and teammates. Their legacy and honorable service to our Nation will forever remain."
"Their experience and dedication made our unit better, every day. As we mourn this tragic loss, our top priority is supporting their families, friends, and fellow Soldiers. Our thoughts and prayers are also with the families and friends of American Eagle Flight 5342," Holownia said.
What Happens Next
Recovery of the remains of those involved in the crash is ongoing. In a news conference on Friday, officials said that when they remove the plane from the river, they believe it will help them find the remaining victims.


Graphic

 
DCA crash
Recovery teams can be seen searching the wreckage after the crash of an American Airlines plane on the Potomac River as it approached the airport on January 31, 2025, in Arlington, Virginia. (Photo by Al Drago/Getty Images)

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
