




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 12, 2025 Wednesday 5:36 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 352 words
Byline: April Rubin
Body


February 12th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )

Why it matters: The removal of events like Pride Month from G-cal comes as President Trump has taken aim at  
Pride Month, Black History Month, Indigenous People Month, Jewish Heritage, Holocaust Remembrance Day, and Hispanic Heritage were all removed the desktop website and mobile app, according to multiple outlets and an Axios review.
The change was widely reported in February, but Google said it made the changes in 2024, per   
Axios reached out independently to Google for comment.
Zoom in: A Google spokesperson told the Verge it wasn't feasible to continue manually adding events from around the world, rather than using an automated system, reports said.
The company said it returned to its previous model, globally using public holidays and national observances from  
The website  
Context: Google  
The moves are meant to comply with Trump administration rules for government contractors - as the president's agenda has targeted DEI initiatives across the public sector.
It's also attracted attention for saying it would change the "Gulf of Mexico" to "Gulf of America" for its U.S. map users, following a name change ordered by Trump.
Reality check: The U.S. does not exclusively control the body of water and doesn't have full say over what it's officially named.
Go deeper:  


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 12, 2025


End of Document
