




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 13, 2025 Thursday 10:30 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 737 words
Byline: Maya Goldman
Body


February 13th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
Trump administration attempts to   
Why it matters: The pandemic put a   
Ongoing studies include how to prevent the higher risk of major complications from  
State of play: The concern is that President Trump's sweeping executive order could derail  
The  
Case in point: Ndidiamaka Amutah-Onukagha, an assistant dean and professor at Tufts University, receives National Institutes of Health funding to research maternal health inequities among Black women. She hasn't heard anything from her contacts at NIH about the status of the grant since Trump's executive order, she said.
Her research center just applied for another NIH grant to study postpartum mental health interventions with a focus on Black women.
"If it gets reviewed, is it going to be reviewed competitively? And then who is still participating in the review process?" Amutah-Onukagha said. "All these things are kind of at play, and I think that's very concerning."
Health and Human Services did not respond to Axios' request for comment. A Centers for Disease Control and Prevention webpage on reducing Black maternal mortality is available  
The push against DEI could also curtail opportunities for   
The Trump administration is "green-lighting discrimination by rolling back these [DEI] initiatives," said Jamila Taylor, CEO of the Institute for Women's Policy Research.
More discrimination will only deepen maternal health inequities faced by Black Americans, she said.
Zoom in: CDC data released earlier this month shows that 50.3 Black mothers died out of every 100,000 live births in the U.S. in 2023. That's compared with 14.5 deaths for white people, 12.4 for Hispanic people and 10.7 for Asian people.
Black people were the only racial or ethnic group to see an increase in maternal mortality between 2022 and 2023.
The Biden administration devoted significant time and resources to addressing racial disparities in maternal health, but the new funding sources and coverage expansions need more time to make a difference, said LaTasha Seliby Perkins, an assistant professor at the Georgetown University School of Medicine.
A link to the Biden administration's maternal health action plan that was hosted on the White House website appears to have been  
"We've spent hundreds of years building these systems and having these disparities," Seliby Perkins said. "It's going to take more than two or three years to fix it."
What we're watching: HHS Secretary-designate Robert F. Kennedy Jr. said he'd continue to address maternal mortality if confirmed, but he's been noncommittal about interventions to decrease racial disparities in maternal health.
He refused to provide a yes or no answer when Sen. Lisa Blunt Rochester (D-Del.) asked during a confirmation hearing whether he'd consider programs that target maternal mortality in Black women as "health DEI programs."
Kennedy said in response to  
The bottom line: "There's not a lot that I can say with confidence right now" about how the new administration will approach maternal health for Black women, said Tufts University's Amutah-Onukagha.
"I'm a glass-half-full person, and I do know that even in situations of disruption and situations of crisis, there are good people still working in these places," she said.


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 13, 2025


End of Document
