




New City Collegian: Seattle Central Community College
February 21, 2025 Friday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: FEATURES; Pg. 1
Length: 958 words
Body


Doug Baldwin Jr., 36, is the former NFL Superbowl champion in 2014 and is currently the CEO of Vault 89. Born and raised in Pensacola, West Florida, Baldwin attended Stanford University in California, where he studied science, technology, and society, graduating in 2011. 
Baldwin started playing football when he was six years old, and though he admits that he wasn't passionate about the sport early on, he was just "really good" at it "naturally." He also stated that certain aspects of the sport were an outlet for the "trauma" he was going through at the time, and football helped him "find his value in the world." He appreciated the "artistic value of the sport," such as "manipulating your body" and "disguising your intention." Baldwin added that his competitive nature kept him in the game, allowing him to rise to the highest levels of professional football. 
SI Staff Baldwin in the middle of a game
When asked how he maintains his focus on the field despite the noise, Baldwin said, "Practice and a lot of mental training" were the key factors. However, he said that in college, he "struggled mightily" to stay focused, primarily because he was away from his family. To overcome this, he learned "mental presence" techniques, such as focusing on his breathing-a process that took him three years to finally make him more grounded. Balwin also mentions that getting eight and a half to nine hours of sleep was a "vital element" that enhanced his performance in the field. Balwin was very consistent with his sleep schedule which helped him "recover" physically and mentally.
Larry Brown Baldwin in a game
Baldwin's most memorable football moment was winning the Super Bowl in 2014. "Going through that experience with people who I was growing up with essentially in that time is a beautiful thing," emphasized Dough. When asked how he maintained momentum and resilience after being at the top of his career in 2014, Balwin explained that his natural tendency to always compete kept him motivated to do better and keep going. However, Balwin confessed that "winning the Super Bowl didn't feel as fulfilling as he thought it would." His mind was racing to the next game and he kept thinking "Let's go do this again," he kept saying to himself "We won that one, now it's time to go win again." 
John Lok  Baldwin during the 2014 Superbowl victory 
Baldwin is currently the director of Vault 89, a "social impact investment firm." Some of its current projects include food security and a web application that promotes students' well-being. Balwin is also passionate about supporting underrepresented entrepreneurs. When asked whether Vault 89 would continue to engage in Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion efforts-despite many companies moving away from them- he stated, "Everything we do is embedded in DEI." Balwin believes that more diverse perspectives at the table will lead to a better solution for the business. He also mentioned that he "sees business concepts as puzzle pieces" and that "everything is just math."
Mbaire | The Seattle Collegian Vault 89 office
After retiring from football, Baldwin decided to give back to society. He founded the Family First Community Center, a space designed for all members of the community to engage in recreational activities. The center offers dance studios, a gym, a basketball court, and other sporting activities. The goals of the center are to promote personal growth and encourage community connections. 
Mbaire | The Seattle Collegian Family First Community Center exterior
Mbaire | The Seattle Collegian Family First Community Center interior
Baldwin is also an avid mental health advocate not just because he has witnessed loved ones struggle, but because he has battled his own challenges as well. After retiring from football, Balwin experienced "clinical depression" for eight months. Although he didn't seek therapy at the time, Baldwin said that he was able to pull through the dark period with a great support system-his wife, parents, former teammates, and friends. Baldwin admitted that he expected some challenges as he knew that it was common among a couple of retired football players, but he wasn't prepared for how challenging it would be. 
Mbaire | The Seattle Collegian Paintings of the members of the Family First Community Center
During the interview, Baldwin was very reflective. When asked why, he shared that it was something he learned during pre-marital counseling, which his now-wife introduced him to before their marriage. This led Baldwin to open up to the idea of therapy, where he learned how to "unlearn to relearn." Baldwin said his top three values are honesty, curiosity, and forgiveness. Above all, he said that he "lives to serve." Lastly, Baldwin believes that "faith is everything" and that whatever we do has to be "connected to love."
Author
AboutRelated Posts
Mbaire
Mbaire is an international student at Seattle Central College, majoring in economics. Whether she's traveling, diving into a good book, or catching up on her favorite shows, Mbaire loves exploring different perspectives. As a writer for the Seattle Collegian, she enjoys interviewing people and uncovering the stories that connect us, hoping to offer her readers thoughtful insights and spark meaningful conversations.
Mbaire Seattle College romance: Mai Le and Skye Hobbs
Mbaire kicks off Black History Month
Mbaire childcare as a student parent in Seattle
Mbaire Donald Trump's Triumph-Victory despite two impeachments, 34 guilty felony counts, and an assassination attempt

Load-Date: February 21, 2025


End of Document
