




The Daily Caller
February 17, 2025 Monday 06:10 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: DAILY-CALLER-NEWS-FOUNDATION; education; education; education
Length: 511 words
Byline: Jaryn Crouson, Contributor, 
Body



The head of Michigan's board of education said the state will not be following President Donald Trump's executive order demanding schools stop teaching radical gender ideology and Critical Race Theory (CRT).
 strips schools that refuse to halt these lessons of federal funding. Michael Rice, superintendent of the Michigan board of education said in an  with Chalkbeat that his state is committed to teaching the topics in K-12 schools anyway.
“In Michigan, it is unlawful to discriminate against individuals on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity or expression,” Rice said in a  sent to local school superintendents on Thursday in response to the order. “Neither a presidential executive order nor federal regulations, whether related to federal funding or not, can supersede or otherwise set aside our obligation to comply with a validly enacted state anti-discrimination law. State civil rights law remains the law.”
Rice cited a 2023 statistic that nearly 25% of public high school students in the state “identify as LGBTQ+.”
US President Donald Trump speaks to the press after signing an executive order, alongside US Secretary of Commerce nominee Howard Lutnick (R), in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington, DC, on February 10, 2025. (Photo by ANDREW CABALLERO-REYNOLDS/AFP via Getty Images)
The Department of Education has already  within its walls, scrubbing hundreds of documents from its website outlining , dissolving DEI teams, halting DEI trainings and placing several staff on administrative leave.
“LGBTQ+ students do not disappear just because websites are scrubbed of LGBTQ+ content,” Rice continued in the letter. “Despite attempts to redefine language and delete pages from federal websites, LGBTQ+ students remain a valued part of Michigan schools and communities and deserve to be supported.”
Trump has also signed orders declaring the federal recognition of only , banning  from going towards the “chemical and surgical mutilation” of children and prohibiting men from . 
The Biden administration  into DEI initiatives, working to entrench topics focusing on “LGBTQ inclusion” and “anti-racism and anti-oppression” into schools. It also attempted to  Title IX, which protects women from discrimination, to include gender identity, which would have allowed men to use women's bathrooms, locker rooms and participate in women's sports.
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Graphic

 
AUSTIN, TEXAS - JUNE 10: People dance during a drag time story hour at the Waterloo Greenway park on June 10, 2023 in Austin, Texas. The Texas Senate has passed a pair of bills that defund public libraries that host Drag Queen Story Hour. The bills seek to prevent children's exposure to sexualized performances by criminalizing events where people perform under the guise of the opposite gender. (Photo by Brandon Bell/Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 26, 2025


End of Document
