




The Daily Caller
February 21, 2025 Friday 04:00 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: BIG-TENT-IDEAS; daily-caller-news-foundation; daily-caller-news-foundation
Length: 748 words
Byline: Bob Ehrlich, Contributor, 
Body



Democrats seem intent on taking every single syllable spoken by Donald J. Trump literally, regardless of context or circumstance.
This insistence on literal interpretation has in fact blossomed into a key symptom of Trump Derangement Syndrome - and a major problem for lefties attempting to keep up with the furious pace of executive orders and policy proclamations daily coming from the Oval Office. 
But being overwhelmed by sheer volume is only half of the challenge. Of greater importance are the   that make nuanced interpretations of the ways, means, and ends of “47” nearly impossible.
The result is what the public has observed over the first month: an unfocused (and ineffective) opposition playing defense to the aggressive Trump and his America First appointees.
Speaking of which, more than a few Americans have to be wondering, “What is the statute of limitations on the entire 'Nazi' - 'Fascist' - 'Racist' narrative after having proven so ineffectual on the campaign trail?”
If at some point the blinders are removed, the loyal opposition will discern a far more complex opponent in the White House.
Indeed, a look back at this first month of Trump 2.0 reveals a multidimensional leader, far removed from the clownish caricature widely marketed by his opponents.
To wit: There is “Trump: The Art of the Deal Manipulator.” This Trump assures Volodymyr Zelensky that the U.S. military will be happy to supply his retreating army with advanced armaments ... in exchange for U.S. access to Ukraine's trove of rare minerals.
Then there is “Trump: The Unapologetic Threat Maker” ready, willing and able to send the 82nd Airborne to Panama in order to challenge Beijing's expanding footprint around the Canal zone - a high stakes gambit (mocked by the legacy media) that paid off when Panama walked back a previous commitment to Xi Jinping's Belt & Road initiative.
Then there is the familiar “Trump: The In-Your-Face Disruptor” running roughshod over the woke and arrogant U.S. Agency for International Development - now down to about 3% of previous manpower.
Next up are the famously bureaucratic  (long a target of GOP cost cutters) - a suddenly  - and a  - late of Hurricane Helene infamy.
And what about “Trump: The Visionary” per his call for a comprehensive rebuild of Gaza that does not include the murderous likes of Hamas in order that history would not repeat itself. Or his executive order calling for the formation of an American Sovereign Wealth Fund that would help get the country in the black for a change, and even the suggestion for a deal with Greenland that would expand America's strategic presence in the Arctic.
Finally, there is “Trump: The Jokester” per thoughts (spoken out loud) about incorporating Canada as America's 51st state (since they are clearly part of our nuclear umbrella). But even here - where Trump throws out a not-too-serious proposition - the mere public uttering (together with the omnipresent threat of tariffs)  to expand his border security by 10,000 officers.
I could go on, but the point is plain to see.
The multi-dimensional Trump continues to play chess while his adversaries are content to play literal checkers - all the while refusing to acknowledge (1.) the complexities of their nemesis and (2.) the results of November 5, 2024. It is not a formula for long-term success.
Jus' sayin'.
Bob Ehrlich is a former governor of Maryland, member of Congress and state legislator. He is the author of five books on American politics and opinion pieces that have appeared in America's leading newspapers and periodicals. He and his wife, Kendel, can be seen and heard on their weekly podcast, “Bottom Line with Bob & Kendel Ehrlich.”
The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of the Daily Caller News Foundation.
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Graphic

 
WASHINGTON, DC - FEBRUARY 20: U.S. President Donald Trump and golf legend Tiger Woods arrive for a reception honoring Black History Month in the East Room of the White House on February 20, 2025 in Washington, DC. The Black History Month celebration comes as Trump has signed a series of executive orders ending federal diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) programs and cutting funding to schools and Universities that do not cut DEI programs. (Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
