




The Daily Caller
February 5, 2025 Wednesday 08:42 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: BIG-TENT-IDEAS; daily-caller-news-foundation; daily-caller-news-foundation
Length: 817 words
Byline: Bob Ehrlich, Contributor, 
Body



Less than twelve months ago, the Democrat Party's progressive wing was in firm control of the good ol' USA.
The cover-up of Joe Biden's  was in full throttle, with only periodic breaks of truth peeking out from behind the White House's iron curtain. The four criminal cases cooked up to derail Trump's re-election were proceeding apace, albeit with a degree of cringe, owing to the essential weaknesses and selectivity of the prosecutions.
To boot: Trump had been hit hard with a $430,000,000 civil judgment in New York. But civil cases were only about money. The thought of  was the accelerant for the “Stop Trump” chorus. 
Around the country, DEI  in corporate C-Suites. Migrants continued to pour over the border. The DOJ's speech control ops were operational and (mostly) under the radar.
And, with few exceptions, the gender-bending initiative that has placed biological men in women's athletic contests (and women's locker rooms) had successfully shamed most (but thankfully not all) female athletes into silence.
And then the whole progressivism gig suddenly spiraled out of control.
A  at the first (and only) Biden face-to-face with Mr. Trump ended the mental acuity charade. A vice president with the lowest approval numbers in vice presidential polling history was hastily installed by Democrat elders, to the consternation of many party faithful.
The two state prosecutions began to sputter from both ethical issues (Georgia) and perceived political bias (New York). The extent of the (forced) cooperation between Biden's agencies and social media platforms (focused on fading pro-Trump narratives) was exposed.
And then Harris chose the uber progressive Tim Walz to be her running mate, rather than the attractive high polling, swing state Pennsylvania governor Josh Shapiro - one of many strategic blunders committed by her campaign.
Nov. 5, 2024 was of course the inflection point - now followed by daily headlines reflecting the remarkable economic-cultural-and foreign policy 180s taking place at blinding speed.
On immigration, daily raids now take down the “worst of the worst” criminal aliens from our streets, to protests from hard left politicians, Hollywood actors, and media wokesters.
On the economy, a renewal of Trump's original tax cuts and the return of “drill baby, drill” plus no new taxes on tips, overtime, and Social Security benefits will feed supply side fans while the Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) focuses on fraud, waste, abuse, and redundancy to increase efficiency and achieve savings for a broken, debt-ridden federal budget.
On culture, the counter-revolution is rolling.
Not a day goes by without some  announcing a pull back on DEI and/or ESG. Now Mark Zuckerberg and META are fully invested in the restoration of free speech on social media, even down to parroting X's “Community Notes” rather than censoring edgy or controversial speech.
To boot: One cannot watch a college or NFL football game without players (winners and losers) openly professing their faith out loud and proud. Geez, even the woke NFL is newly enthused about patriotism and the people in uniform that protect us from the bad guys.
And then there are the devastating  at once horrific, and instructive. Horrific for familiar reasons: loss of life; loss of homes; loss of communities. An unmitigated disaster of historic proportions.
But also instructive as Americans (again) gain an up-close look into the failure of a woke left coast leadership that prioritizes progressive values over preparedness, and sound water and forestry practices.
Twelve short months later, America is back to two genders...“Stay in Mexico”... a southern border ...”1776”... parent power ...“maximum pressure” ... presidential press conferences ...the lab leak theory ... even Diet Coke and “YMCA.” Don't blink.
Bob Ehrlich is a former governor of Maryland, member of Congress and state legislator. He is the author of five books on American politics and opinion pieces that have appeared in America's leading newspapers and periodicals. He and his wife, Kendel, can be seen and heard on their weekly podcast, “Bottom Line with Bob & Kendel Ehrlich.”
The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of the Daily Caller News Foundation.
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Graphic

 
WASHINGTON, DC - JANUARY 29: U.S. President Donald Trump walks into the East Room before signing the Laken Riley Act, the first piece of legislation passed during his second term in office, at the White House on January 29, 2025 in Washington, DC. Jason Riley and Allyson Philips, the parents of 22-year-old Laken Riley, a University of Georgia nursing student who was murdered in 2024 by an undocumented immigrant, attended the signing ceremony. Among other measures, the law directs law enforcement authorities to detain and deport immigrants who are accused but not yet convicted of specific crimes, if they are in the country illegally. (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
