




TheHill.com
February 6, 2025 Thursday


Copyright 2025 NEXSTAR MEDIA INC.  All Rights Reserved


Section: SYDNEY NEWS & US POLITICS NEWS
Length: 337 words
Byline: Zack Budryk
Body


U.S. Attorney General Pam Bondi wrote in a  Wednesday that the Justice Department will reverse  to prioritize enforcement of environmental laws in disadvantaged and low-income communities.
Bondi’s predecessor, Merrick Garland, issued guidance in 2022 directing the department to enforce environmental laws with emphasis on communities that have historically been underserved by such enforcement, including those that are low-income and majority racial minority. 
On Wednesday, Bondi, who  by the Senate Tuesday, rescinded Garland’s memo, along with any similar guidance for U.S. attorneys “to ensure that the Department engages in the even-handed administration of justice.”
Garland’s original directive was accompanied by the creation of the Justice Department’s Office of Environmental Justice (OEJ), which The Washington Post  was disbanded after Trump’s inauguration. The OEJ website now  to an error message. The Hill has reached out to the Justice Department for comment.
The Trump administration has taken aim at a number of Biden-era climate and environmental policies, largely through the Interior Department and Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). 
Since taking office, Trump has ordered  of the U.S. from the Paris Climate Agreement, as he did during his first term, and EPA  under the Inflation Reduction Act has been halted. 
Newly confirmed Interior Secretary Doug Burgum, following  of an “energy emergency” on Inauguration Day, this week  the Interior Department to identify legal and regulatory venues to speed up permitting and development of energy on federal lands and waters.
The move also follows  the administration has taken to dismantle programs and offices it perceives as connected to diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) efforts and federal initiatives to address racial disparities. 


Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
