




TheHill.com
February 27, 2025 Thursday


Copyright 2025 NEXSTAR MEDIA INC.  All Rights Reserved


Section: SYDNEY NEWS & LAWSUITS NEWS
Length: 382 words
Byline: Filip Timotija
Body


Attorney General Pam Bondi ordered the Department of Justice (DOJ) this week to throw out lawsuits the Biden administration filed accusing police and fire departments around the country of discrimination when hiring candidates.
Bondi directed the DOJ’s Civil Rights Division on Wednesday to , arguing the prior administration “unjustly” went after fire and police departments for utilizing standard aptitude exams to comb through and help select their new employees. 
“American communities deserve firefighters and police officers to be chosen for their skill and dedication to public safety – not to meet DEI quotas,” Bondi said in a statement, referring to diversity, equity and inclusion. 
When President Biden was in office, his DOJ filed lawsuits against several police and fire stations nationwide, looking to alter the written tests it said discriminated against Black applicants.
“Discriminatory employment tests do more than cost applicants a fair chance to compete for public service jobs like firefighting; they also prevent communities from being served in these crucial positions by the most qualified candidates for the job,” then-Assistant Attorney General Kristen Clarke said in . 
Biden’s administration  Maryland State Police in October to alter the way applicants were tested for jobs following the DOJ’s claims the department utilized a written exam that discriminated against Black applicants and a fitness test that discriminated against female applicants. 
In the Wednesday news release, the DOJ said there was no evidence of “intentional”  discrimination by the departments, only “statistical disparities,” accusing the previous administration of raising issues over the aptitude tests as a way to “advance a DEI agenda.” 
The DOJ said the Biden administration “sought to coerce cities into conducting DEI-based hiring in response and spending millions of dollars in taxpayer funds for payouts to previous applicants who had scored lower on the tests, regardless of qualifications.” 
President Trump penned  in January that ordered federal government agencies to end all “equity-related” contracts and grants.


Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
