




The Daily Telegraph (London)
January 21, 2025 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Pg. 4,5
Length: 2269 words
Byline: Susie Coen; Tony Diver
Body


DONALD TRUMP vowed to send American troops to the Mexican border "to repel the disastrous invasion" of migrants as he began signing more than 100 sweeping executive orders.
The US president said he would use his first day in office to sign a "series of historic executive orders" which he claimed would "begin the complete restoration of and the revolution of common sense".
Mr Trump, 78, was expected to sign a raft of orders from the US Capitol, where his swearing-in took place, followed by more at the White House and at his inaugural rally in the Capital One
Arena. Executive orders allow presidents to enact some policies without the consent of Congress and can take effect immediately, although many are expected to be challenged in court.
Shortly after Mr Trump was sworn in, the White House website landing page showed a picture of him pointing into the distance accompanied by the text "America is back".
Listed among his "first priorities" were plans to make the US "safe again" by securing the border, make it "energy dominant again", root out bureaucracy and reinstate "American values".
Other policy areas Mr Trump will target include his planned tariffs on imports and Joe Biden's TikTok ban.
Members of Mr Trump's team have been working on the orders for months and intend to use them to signal an abrupt change in direction from the Biden administration.
Here are key areas Mr Trump has indicated he intends to make changes.
'National emergency' on the border Mr Trump intends to sign at least 10 executive orders focused on border security and immigration, an issue he used to prop up much of his campaign.
"I will declare a national emergency at our southern border," he said during his 29-minute address. Such a move will unlock resources from the Pentagon.
National emergency orders have previously been used to speed up the federal government's response to the 9/11 attacks, the pandemic and the war in Ukraine.
Mr Trump has said he will use the US military to enforce immigration removals, and can circumvent Congress by designating the issue an emergency.
End Biden's border policies Mr Trump has said he will end Mr Biden's catch-and-release policies, reinstate his "remain in Mexico" order, build the wall and end asylum for those who cross into the country illegally. The
White House said he will also crack down on "criminal sanctuaries" and enhance the vetting of immigrants.
"President Trump's deportation operation will address the record border crossings of criminal aliens under the prior administration," it said.
Yesterday, Mr Trump shut down Mr Biden's border app called CBP One which allowed almost 1 million people to legally enter the US with eligibility to work. In border cities, migrants saw their appointments cancelled just after Mr Trump took office.
In Matamoros, Mexico, migrants from the Mexican state of Zacatecas arrived at a legal border crossing at midday but were turned back by border authorities who said all appointments were now void.
The "remain in Mexico" policy forced non-Mexican asylum seekers to wait in Mexico for the outcome of the US cases. Mr Biden ended the program in 2021.
The White House said the president will also "begin the process of designating cartels, including the dangerous Tren de Aragua, [a Venezuelan gang] as foreign terrorist organisations and use the Alien Enemies Act to remove them".
Axe birthright citizenship Mr Trump is also expected to issue an executive order to end birthright citizenship for the children of illegal migrants, a move some legal scholars have said would be unconstitutional.
The 14th amendment states that every child born "within the jurisdiction" of the US is a US citizen, regardless of their parent's immigration or citizenship status.
DEI initiatives dismantled The president vowed to sign an executive order aimed at ending Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) initiatives in the federal government.
The White House said Mr Trump "will freeze bureaucrat hiring except in essential areas to end the onslaught of useless and overpaid DEI activists".
The order will instruct the Office of Management and Budget and the Office of Personnel Management to end "all discriminatory" diversity practices, according to Axios.
Alluding to this in his speech, Mr Trump said he would "end the government policy of trying to socially engineer race and gender into every aspect of public and private life", adding: "We will forge a society that is colour blind and merit based."
Gender Mr Trump will also sign an executive order declaring the federal government will only recognise two sexes.
"As of today, it will henceforth be the official policy of the United States government that there are only two genders: male and female," he said.
The order will instruct the secretaries of state and Homeland Security to ensure the official government documents like passports and visas only reflect two sexes: male and female.
In 2022, the Biden administration allowed citizens to select "X" - a gender neutral marker - on their passport.
Death penalty for police murders Mr Trump will also attempt to restore the death penalty for any illegal immigrants who murder police officers or "maim and murder" Americans.
During his election campaign, Mr Trump called for a mandatory death sentence for anyone who murders a police officer in the wake of the killing of Jonathan Diller, an NYPD detective.
Drill baby, drill The president also told the crowd: "The inflation crisis was caused by massive overspending and escalating energy prices, and that is why today, I will also declare a national energy emergency, we will drill baby, drill." The White
House said Mr Trump will "unleash American energy by ending Biden's policies of climate extremism, streamlining permitting, and reviewing for rescission all regulations that impose undue burdens on energy production and use, including mining and processing of non-fuel minerals."
Mr Trump will also end leasing to wind farms which officials said "degrade our natural landscapes and fail to serve American energy consumers". He will also withdraw from the Paris Climate Accord.
The president will reverse some Biden-era restrictions on fossil fuel extraction, in his quest to "drill baby, drill".
When Mr Bident's ok office, he vowed to wean the US off fossil fuels. Mr Trump said the US will ""ill our strategic reserves up again, right to the top" and export energy all over the world.
The president's orders could also include the reversal of some protections for areas of northern Alaska that were designated by Mr Biden. Alaska has been a contentious area of the country for energy and the environment, with Republicans having long seen opportunities for oil and gas production there while Democrats have sought to preserve pristine land. One Trump official said the administration would take "decisive action to unleash Alaska's natural resource potential".
Mr Trump also pledged to increase fracking, and to scale back policies to encourage green energy production.
Electric vehicle mandate Mr Trump is also expected to issue an executive order to end what he refers to as the "electric vehicle mandate".
Mr Biden's emission regulations included a target for 56 per cent of all new US vehicles sold to be electric by 2032. Electric vehicles made up less than 8 per cent of all new car sales in 2023 and the policy was criticised in states which rely on the auto industry.
TikTok Mr Trump will pause the ban on TikTok in the US for 90 days. The president has said he hopes the app can be brought under partial US ownership to address concerns about foreign interference.
The ban briefly came into effect over the weekend, but was later reversed on the expectation that Mr Trump would act as soon as he took office.
Tariffs The first tariffs in an executive order could include levies of 25 per cent on imports from Canada and Mexico.
Mr Trump has pledged to impose blanket tariffs on foreign goods, including a rate of 100 per cent on imports from China and between 10 and 20 per cent on every other country.
He has demanded that Mexico and Canada take more action on illegal migration and drug trafficking on America's southern and northern border in exchange for tarif frelief.
Renaming the Gulf of Mexico Mr Trump said he would order the renaming of the Gulf of Mexico to the Gulf of America, and Alaska's Mount Denali to Mount McKinley after the former president.
The executive order will reverse Barack Obama's decision to change the name of North America's tallest peak to Mount Denali in 2015.
End working from home for civil servants
Mr Trump also indicated he will end remote working for federal employees. The White House said. "The president will also return federal workers to work, as only 6 per cent of employees currently work in person."
Elon Musk, who will lead the Department of Government Efficiency, previously said ordering federal staff back into the office would result in "a wave of voluntary terminations that we welcome".
Final act Biden pre-emptively pardons family to avoid 'revenge'
Joe Biden pre-emptively pardoned members of his family and a swathe of Donald Trump critics in an effort to guard against potential "revenge" minutes before the new president's inauguration. In his final act in office, Mr Biden granted clemency to his brother James Biden, his sister-in-law Sara Jones Biden, his younger sister Valerie Biden Owens, her husband John T Owens, and his brother Francis W Biden.
He has also pardoned Dr Anthony Fauci, America's Covid chief, Liz Cheney, retired General Mark Milley and members of the House committee that investigated the Jan 6 attack on the Capitol. It is customary for a president to grant clemency at the end of his term, but those acts of mercy are usually offered to everyday Americans who have been convicted of crimes. Yet Mr Biden used the power in the broadest and most untested way possible: to pardon those who have not been formally accused of any crimes.
"My family has been subjected to unrelenting attacks and threats, motivated solely by a desire to hurt me - the worst kind of partisan politics," Mr Biden wrote, adding: "Unfortunately, I have no reason to believe these attacks will end. "I believe in the rule of law, and I am optimistic that the strength of our legal institutions will ultimately prevail over politics. But baseless and politically motivated investigations wreak havoc on the lives, safety, and financial security of targeted individuals and their families. "Even when individuals have done nothing wrong and will ultimately be exonerated, the mere fact of being investigated or prosecuted can irreparably damage their reputations and finances." The decision by Mr Biden comes after Mr Trump warned of an enemies list filled with those who have crossed him politically or sought to hold him accountable for his attempt to overturn his 2020 election loss and his role in the storming of the US Capitol on Jan 6 2021.
Mr Trump has selected cabinet nominees who have pledged to punish those involved in efforts to investigate him. "The issuance of these pardons should not be mistaken as an acknowledgement that any individual engaged in any wrongdoing, nor should acceptance be misconstrued as an admission of guilt for any offence," Mr Biden said in a statement. In December last year, Mr Biden angered Democrats and Republicans by pardoning his son. Hunter Biden, 54, was convicted on gun possession charges and was due to be sentenced on Dec 12. He was also set to be sentenced for federal tax evasion charges, for which he has pleaded guilty.
Mr Trump has called the pre-emptive pardoning "disgraceful", telling NBC News "many are guilty of major crimes". Dr Fauci was a target of criticism over pandemic mask mandates and other policies. Responding to the pardon, he said the "baseless threat" he faced "create immeasurable and intolerable distress for me and my family". Mr Milley is former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff who called Mr Trump a fascist and detailed Mr Trump's conduct around the Jan 6 insurrection to the investigating committee. Mr Biden is also extending pardons to members and staff of that Jan 6 committee, as well as police officers who testified. Samuel Montgomery
World according to Trump Key quotes from his speech
The challenges While they are plentiful, they will be annihilated by this great momentum that the world is now witnessing in the United States of America The future From this moment on, America's decline is over. Our liberties and our nation's glorious destiny will no longer be denied, and we will restore the integrity, competency, and loyalty of America's government Immigration As commander in chief, I have no higher responsibility than to defend our country from threats and invasions and that is exactly what I am going to do The economy We will be a rich nation again and it is that liquid gold under our feet that will help to do it
Equality I will also end the policy of trying to socially engineer race and gender into every aspect of public and private life. We will forge a society that is colour-blind and merit based World stage America will reclaim its rightful place as the greatest, most powerful, most respected nation on Earth, inspiring the admiration of the entire world Foreign affairs China is operating the Panama Canal and we didn't give it to China, we gave it to Panama and we're taking it back The American dream With your help, we will restore America's promise and will rebuild the nation that we love The final frontier We will pursue our manifest destiny into the stars, launching American astronauts to plant the stars and stripes on the planet Mars

Graphic

 
Boris Johnson, the former prime minister, attends the presidential inauguration

Load-Date: January 21, 2025


End of Document
