




thetimes.co.uk
February 2, 2025 Sunday 12:01 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 1387 words
Byline: Cormac Lucey
Highlight: Taoiseach and tanaiste could take a leaf out of the US president’s book and be willing to tread on toes to get things done
Body


It may hurt many readers to see these words in print, but President Trump may be the most consequential American political figure since Franklin Roosevelt. Yes, he’s brash, he’s venal and he unleashed a mob on Capitol Hill in his attempt to overturn the result of the 2020 presidential election. On the other hand, Trump may be the harbinger of profound political change. The 1979 words of James Callaghan may apply today to the new US president: “There are times, perhaps every 30 years, when there is a sea-change in politics … I suspect that there is now such a sea-change.”
Several decades of policies that promoted social democracy, DEI (diversity, equality and inclusion) and political correctness may have seen those policies tested to the point of political destruction. Last November, Americans voted for the Republican candidate unsure of what they would get but determined to remove the Democrats from power.
What lessons, if any, should Irish politicians and ministers learn from 

? The first and most immediate is the value of high energy, of directness and of cutting to the chase.

Last Sunday, booking into the Ardilaun hotel in Galway to attend the funeral of the last of my parents’ generation of siblings, I was struck by how full the lobby was. Yet at breakfast the following morning, the restaurant was almost empty. Those Sunday afternoon visitors were refugees from their homes whose 

. They were seeking warmth, plugs to recharge their phones and functioning wi-fi.
On Monday, an Irish Times story had the sub-headline “Up to 100,000 customers likely to be without supply for rest of the week”. When somebody says that you won’t have service for the rest of the week, that does not mean it will return early the following Monday. It suggests that many people may lack power for a week and a half to two weeks. In fairness to the ESB, repair crews from Austria, Finland, the Netherlands and France are helping its engineers to restore electricity across the country.
In the midst of this energy crisis, can you name Ireland’s energy minister? Those stuck in areas without power and unable to access Wikipedia may use homing pigeons to contact friends and relatives to discover the answer. Faced with an equivalent crisis, 

, met people directly affected by the recent fires and then held a freewheeling press conference with Karen Bass, the embattled mayor of Los Angeles.
It was an earlier President Roosevelt, Theodore , who referred to his office as a “bully pulpit” — a great platform from which to push an agenda. Trump used the press conference to bully Bass into removing planning law impediments that were restricting victims of the fires from immediately cleaning up their sites and rebuilding using broadly the same plans as had been used before.
In Ireland, there is no sign of anything similar from Micheál Martin, the taoiseach; Simon Harris, the tanaiste; or Darragh O’Brien, the lack-of-energy minister. Tea and sympathy. O’Brien is our minister for climate, environment and energy and for transport. Ireland has 14 full cabinet ministers in addition to Micheál Martin; only two of them, Paschal Donohoe, the finance minister, and Jennifer Carroll MacNeill, the health minister, have responsibility for a single department labelled with just one word.
Being a practical businessman who cuts quickly to the chase, as he did in his press conference with Bass, Trump is less concerned with intentions, procedures and supposed best practice and, instead, focuses on results and on what’s needed to improve them. 
One has the worrying feeling that Irish ministers lack the self-confidence and natural authority to understand that, from day one, voters will judge them largely based on what their officials deliver. While they may work very closely, ministers and officials are not friends: it is a key job of ministers to drive officials forward. Another key ministerial task is to judge whether officials are up to the job. When Elon Musk took over Twitter, he fired 80 per cent of the staff. I have not noticed any subsequent change in the quality of his company’s performance. I am unaware of a single departure in anger from the senior ranks of the Irish public service administration over the last ten years.
Fearing that I might be unfair, having missed such a removal, I googled “senior public servant dismissed” and came upon a 2016 story in the Irish Independent with the pleasing headline “Inept civil servants ‘will be dismissed’”. The “will be dismissed” quotation came directly from the lips of Robert Watt, then secretary-general at the Department of Public Expenditure and Reform, now the top official at the Department of Health.
I am not aware that this threat was ever acted upon. Having spent most of my life working in the private sector, I simply cannot see how ministers can effectively manage the public service without occasional high-profile dismissals for occasional high-profile failures. This is another area where Ireland 

. Deregulation is another area.
Who compared his government to Margaret Thatcher’s as he pledged to cut through “thickets of red tape” to clear the way for growth? Answer: 

, the British prime minister. It shows just how divorced from the small and medium-sized enterprise (SME) sector Ireland’s political leaders have become that the leader of Britain’s largest left-wing party sounds more right-wing on this question than Martin or Harris.
If, by some miracle, I arrived in government, the first task I would set myself would be to find the gom who requires those buying alcohol-free beer at supermarkets to prove they are aged over 18. If the Cat Laughs, the summer comedy festival in Kilkenny, is looking for the coming star in stand-up, they should invite Christine Lagarde, a French lady making a name for herself in Frankfurt. Last week she unleashed belly laughs all around the continent when she said that Europe might be able to attract disillusioned talent from across the Atlantic following Trump’s election.
The problem with Europe is that it is too focused on politics: saying the right thing and appearing to do the right thing are paramount. Doing the right thing lags far behind. Election concerns dominate good government. As a result, Europe’s economic performance, relative to that of the US, is lamentable.
PS:
These days I’m in full confession mode. Some months back I revealed that, if I were an American, I would vote for Trump. It’s not that he is great — he isn’t. It was that Kamala Harris, his Democratic opponent, and her policy programme were abysmal. I find it discomforting that I cannot think of a single other Irish media commentator who would have voted for Trump even though 60 per cent of white American males are reckoned to have done so. 
Germany is due to vote in federal election on February 23. If I had a vote there. I would vote for the 

 (AfD), a party that has been declared far-right and fascist. 
There is no avoiding the fact that the AfD has an ugly side to it. Björn Höcke, its regional leader in the eastern state of Thuringia, was fined €13,000 last year for his use of a Nazi-era slogan. And in 2018, Alexander Gauland, then the national AfD leader, stated that “Hitler and the Nazis were no more than a speck of bird shit in over 1,000 years of successful German history”.
On the other hand, Germany is going to the dogs. Incomes and output are stagnating. Mass immigration has led to massive growth in welfare dependency. And someone with a doctorate in molecular physics — Angela Merkel — decided to shut down Germany’s nuclear power industry, thereby forcing the nation’s heavy industry to switch from low-cost to high-cost power.
Will Germany’s downward trajectory be reversed if a Social Democrat, Green Party and Liberal coalition is replaced by a Christian Democrat and Social Democrat alliance? No. By contrast, I believe that a Christian Democrat and AfD coalition would be able to take the tough measures needed to reignite German enterprise and restore old-fashioned and time-proven ways of doing things. Such a coalition might also see off extreme elements of the AfD, once it was confronted by the realities of government.

Load-Date: February 1, 2025


End of Document
