




thetimes.co.uk
February 5, 2025 Wednesday 5:00 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 967 words
Byline: Jon Moynihan
Highlight: No politician has yet been honest about what it would take to reverse our economic decline
Body


Labour’s push for economic growth has so far been a disaster. Rachel Reeves and Sir Keir Starmer began this government saying growth was their number-one priority but businesses across the country can see that a recession looms.
There were, however, things to welcome in Reeves’s speech last week. She says she is going to cut red tape around planning, which the previous government didn’t do. She proposes to get going at last on the Oxford-Cambridge corridor. She says that “growth trumps net zero” — take that, Theresa May and Boris Johnson!
All of this should be applauded. But will she actually get the Thames Crossing done? Will 

 be operational by 2035?

Her “growth” announcements were mostly about infrastructure, confusing the temporary employment of construction workers with the permanent jobs we need from new and old businesses. The conditions for creating real economic growth are well documented: lower taxes, cut public spending and slash regulation. Countries with such free-market economies grow the fastest, with employers of all sizes, and their employees, able to benefit. Yet both the Conservatives in the previous 14 years and Labour since it came to power have instead increased spending, increased taxes and proliferated regulation.
The regulations most destructive of growth are those created by moral panics — net zero, diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives (DEI), environmental social governance (ESG), “hate speech” and on. This government has created a new regulator every week. Each chips away at the ability of businesses to focus on selling their products and managing their employees. DEI and ESG are destroying the London Stock Exchange. The ludicrous proposal for a new football regulator will muck up one of our most successful sectors. Net zero is wrecking our automotive industry, our steel industry, our petrochemical industry, oil and gas businesses, farming, housebuilding … you name it. As Reeves is beginning to understand, net zero must be entirely put aside if we want to have growth.
The critical growth measure is GDP per capita. With 

 to 0.75 per cent, even positive GDP growth of 0.5 per cent means negative growth in GDP per capita. Which is why more citizens than not are experiencing “personal recessions”, where each succeeding year is worse than the last, regardless of whether overall GDP is slightly up or slightly down. No growth means steadily increasing poverty.
What has gone wrong? We’re stagnating because of our kneejerk, four-step response to every societal problem. It goes like this: first, the government must intervene to “solve” the issue; second, vast sums of taxpayer money must be spent on it; third, yet another law should be passed; and fourth, yet another regulator should be created. Frederich Hayek summed up the dysfunctionality of state over-reach in The Fatal Conceit. The inevitable outcome: the larger the government, the higher the taxes, the greater the regulation, then the lower the economic growth. Eventually, national bankruptcy.

No one is explaining the obvious: there is no money. In 1950, the UK had the fifth-highest GDP per capita in the world. Now we’re 27th and dropping. Yet we still act as though we have money to burn, spending more per capita on benefits than our wealth allows. We spend what “feels right” or seems “fair” rather than what we can afford. More prudent, formerly much poorer countries such as Poland are forecast to overtake us. Our brightest and best are leaving the country.
The problem: our economy is based on rights rather than responsibilities. New Labour’s reforms, culminating in Gordon Brown’s Equality Act 2010, created a lawyer’s paradise of an ever-expanding menu of rights. Our focus should be on citizens’ responsibilities — to get a job, support themselves and their family and contribute to the tax base (53 per cent of citizens currently get more in benefits than they pay in taxes).
But who is going to say this? All the major political parties regard it as electoral suicide to oppose the pension triple lock, cut disability payments, scrap regulators. Just look at the hysterical reaction to Labour’s eminently sensible cuts in the winter fuel allowance. Political leaders got the message: we must pretend that current levels of government spending are entirely affordable. But until some politician can persuade the electorate of the hard realities of what’s needed to get us growing again, things can only get worse.
The commentator Janan Ganesh recently proposed that declining countries like ours need a “Carter moment”, a regime so catastrophic that voters opt for radical change, as with 

. Labour might supply us with such a moment in the next four years, but will our own version of Milei appear in the meantime, and would the electorate vote for that?
Four possible outcomes in 2029: the Conservatives crush Reform (unlikely); Reform crushes the Conservatives (possible); the two form a successful electoral pact/coalition (unlikely); or the two right-of-centre parties cancel each other out and Labour is elected for another five years (likely). Might a Carter moment save us from that fourth option? Perhaps. The economy isn’t growing, the finances will get worse, the IMF might well come calling. But which of our politicians will dare to level with the electorate and persuade them what is required if we are to restore our economy to health and growth?
                   Lord Moynihan is a Conservative peer. He is the author of                    
Return to Growth
                   , published by Biteback                 

Load-Date: February 5, 2025


End of Document
