




The Times (London)
February 24, 2025 Monday
Edition 1, Ireland


Copyright 2025 Times Newspapers Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 23
Length: 341 words
Byline: Alex Ralph
Body


Britons are split on whether UK business should follow the lead of their US rivals by scaling back diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) initiatives, with a narrow majority opposing any change.
The second Trump presidency has unleashed a backlash to DEI targets and led big US companies to dilute policies and rhetoric.
They include Citigroup, whose Brit- ish group chief executive Jane Fraser told staff last week that the changes came after "developments related to diversity initiatives across all US institutions". Polling by Apella Advisors and Find Out Now on the implications of the Trump agenda for UK business found that 53 per cent agreed it would be "bad" if it led to British companies scaling back their own commitments. Conversely, 22 per cent disagreed that it would be bad, 11 per cent were undecided and 14 per cent did not know.
Opposition was highest among people of working age and especially younger ones. Critics of the initiatives argue that they come at the expense of merit in awarding jobs.
Mike Granleese, head of data and insights at Apella Advisors, said: "For some, that's because firms would miss out on talent. But the biggest reason for thinking less of firms that junk diversity programmes is that they would be abandoning principles they previously said they held dear. The public values authenticity."
There was some support, however, for scaling back the commitments: 29 per cent either agreed with or understood the move. Older people and men were more inclined to hold those views.
"The Trump agenda is not popular among Britons, with most opposing moves by business and politicians to adopt the president's ideas," Granleese said. "But that view is not universal."
It emerged last week that the US arm of KPMG had withdrawn from its website years of annual "transparency reports" on representations of women and minorities across the organisation. Deloitte, a rival accounting firm, told its US employees this month that it would be "sunsetting" its diversity goals. Few think government should ignore DEI, page 27

Load-Date: February 24, 2025


End of Document
