




MailOnline
January 27, 2025 Monday 8:44 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 767 words
Byline: Mark Duell
Body


From declaring a border emergency to backing fossil fuel production, British voters have supported a raft of Donald Trump's policies in a blind polling test.
Some 2,000 voters were asked for their thoughts about the US President's views on migration, the environment and diversity - without being told they were his policies.
Those being surveyed by polling firm Opinium were questioned on excerpts from Mr Trump's inauguration speech in Washington DC last Monday, adapted for the UK.
The poll looked at the difference between cultural and political attitudes in Britain and the US, once the link between a policy and Mr Trump has been removed.
Some 58 per cent supported 'declaring a national emergency in the Channel', after Mr Trump announced a national emergency at the US border with Mexico.
And 55 per cent backed 'filling up our gas reserves and exporting British energy all over the world', after the President declared similar pro-fossil fuel actions.
Meanwhile 'forging a merit-based, colour-blind society' was supported by 53 per cent after Mr Trump used the phrase in his speech to announce the pushback against diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) schemes.
Advisory firm Nepean, which commissioned the survey, revealed that Conservative and Reform voters overwhelmingly backed the policies. 
However, there was also majority support from Labour voters across the aforementioned policies as well as 'overhauling our trade system to protect UK workers', one of Mr Trump's key programmes in the US.
Declaring 'a national emergency in the Channel and [beginning] the process of returning thousands and thousands of criminal migrants back to the places they came from' had majority support from Labour (50 per cent), Conservative and Reform (both 76 per cent) voters. It also had net support in every age group and region.
However, 'Ending Net Zero', 'there are only two genders' and 'removing support for electric vehicles' had the lowest support.
Meanwhile Mr Trump's criticism of the current state of affairs found majority support in the UK for criticism of the healthcare system, failure to protect citizens and trust in government.
The statement 'Our country can no longer deliver basic services...we have a healthcare system that does not deliver yet costs more than any other in the world' was over 60 per cent supported by nearly every voter type. Only Labour voters came in below, with 57 per cent.
Mr Trump's broader values and optimistic pitch for the future of the country, had strong support with UK voters, notably with statements on prosperity for all regardless of background (63 per cent), hope for future generations (61 per cent) and a 'revolution of common sense' (58 per cent).
In addition, all voter types - other than Green voters at 48 per cent - overwhelmingly support the statement we should 'once again be a growing nation', at over 65 per cent.
Gavin Davis, managing Partner at Nepean, which commissioned the survey, said: 'Whether you like Trump or not, this research shows the danger of simply dismissing many of his policies out of hand.
'Politicians and businesses need to dig deeper into what is actually going on during this moment of change. We might be closer to the US than we think or would like to believe.'
James Crouch, head of policy and public affairs research at Opinium, said 'While Trump's policies are rightly scrutinised, it's his mastery of narrative and storytelling that stands out.
'The polling suggests British politicians could benefit from taking a page from his playbook when advancing their own policy agenda.'
Opinium conducted a nationally representative survey amongst 2,050 adults in the UK between Wednesday and Friday of last week.
Mr Trump was sworn in for his second term as President of the US last Monday after winning the election in November 2024.
He marked his first day in office by signing a flurry of executive orders, making sweeping changes to the economy, immigration and climate change policies.
Mr Trump and Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer could meet within weeks after what was described as a 'warm' first phone call last night in which the pair committed to 'close' ties.
The positive tone of the 45-minute conversation, which was the first since Mr Trump resumed control of the White House, will be a relief for Sir Keir as he desperately tries to get off to a good start with the new president - who was previously branded a 'neo-Nazi-sympathising sociopath' by Cabinet ministers.
It came hours after the Republican praised the Prime Minister doing 'a very good job thus far', and suggested his first foreign visit might be to the UK.

Load-Date: January 27, 2025


End of Document
