




The Times (London)
February 6, 2025 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition


Copyright 2025 Times Newspapers Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 33
Length: 398 words
Byline: Emma Powell
Body


Diversity measures in the bonus scheme for thousands of middle managers at BT are set to be scrapped, just weeks after its chief executive criticised other companies for "stepping back" from their commitments to inclusion.
The FTSE 100 constituent has told investors that it plans to remove the diversity, equity and inclusion element of its scorecard for its lower-level managers from next year, although it would retain the measures for its 550 most senior leaders.
Under the current system, up to 10 per cent of the annual bonus payable to its 37,000 managers is dependent on targets for representation by gender, ethnicity and disability, and engagement among under-represented groups of employees. Instead it will be based upon a general survey of engagement for all employees.
A spokesman for BT said the company had retained its 2025 and 2030 targets set out under a manifesto of such commitments, which include goals for 41 per cent of its senior management team to be female, 15 per cent from ethnic minorities and 10 per cent with a disability by this year. Progress against those targets has been mixed, with 35 per cent of its senior managers female and 9 per cent from ethnic minority groups, although 14 per cent had a disability.
The proposed changes, first reported by The Telegraph, have been put forward as Allison Kirkby, who was appointed as the first female chief executive of the telecoms group last year, attempts to turnaround its fortunes.
BT said: "We remain committed to our inclusion and representation targets and are making good progress towards them."
The planned changes come after Kirkby, 57, sought to reassure staff of her commitment to "inclusion". She told staff in a memo: "It's been hard lately to see companies and governments stepping back from their commitment to inclusion, equity and diversity. For many of you watching this unfold, I imagine it feels worrying and upsetting. It sends the message that these things are optional, temporary or not worth prioritising. I want to be absolutely clear: that's not what we believe at BT."
Her comments came after several of the world's largest businesses, including Meta and McDonald's, eliminated their diversity, equity and inclusion policies after the election of Donald Trump, who has since ditched several government DEI programmes. Britain should re-examine diversity programmes, leading article, page 25

Graphic

 
Allison Kirkby had reassured staff that BT backed inclusion policies

Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
