




telegraph.co.uk
February 4, 2025 Tuesday 6:46 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: BUSINESS; Version:1
Length: 820 words
Byline: By Christopher Williams, Business Editor, Lucy Burton, Employment Editor, James Warrington, Senior Business Reporter
Highlight: Telecoms giant joins major US companies in rolling back DEI initiatives amid return of Trump
Body


BT is to scrap diversity measures in its manager bonus scheme in one of the clearest signs yet that British business is rethinking the role of ethnic and gender representation targets.
The former state telecoms monopoly has told major investors that it intends to replace the diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) component of its scorecard with a measure of employee engagement.
The moves are being made despite criticism in recent days by Allison Kirkby, BT chief executive, of companies that are “stepping back from their commitment to inclusion”.
BT’s new system is scheduled to come into effect in April after receiving what it told The Telegraph was “strong support” from shareholders.
Under the current system 10pc of the annual bonus payable to up to 37,400 managers is based on targets for the representation of women, ethnic minorities and disabled people, and on measures of employee engagement among under-represented groups.
Next year a survey of engagement of all employees will underpin the calculation.
Ms Kirkby, who  , has been working on the change in the background as part of a strategic overhaul. She has advocated for dropping DEI from the manager bonus scorecard despite a memo to staff last week in which she reaffirmed BT’s commitment to the movement.
Ms Kirkby said: “I believe we need to be as diverse as the customers we service, to be the customer-centric company we aspire to be, and to be able to live up to our purpose.
“When we determine to be inclusive, we create an environment where everyone, no matter their background or characteristics, feels respected, valued and like they belong.”
She made the comments in response to   including Meta and McDonald’s to hail the return of Donald Trump by abandoning DEI initiatives.
Ms Kirkby said: “It sends the message that these things are optional, temporary or not worth prioritising. I want to be absolutely clear: that’s not what we believe at BT.”
Nevertheless, BT’s move away from DEI in its bonus scorecard has the potential to improve payouts for managers.
In last year’s scheme, it did not hit either its target to ethnic minority and disability representation, or on employee engagement for under-represented groups. On the latter measure, BT’s performance deteriorated and it . 
The company was among British organisations to ramp up its DEI efforts in the wake of the Black Lives Matter protests of 2020, which centred on the US murder of a black man, George Floyd, by a white police officer.
The following year, BT launched a “manifesto” which included a target for a quarter of its UK staff to be from an ethnic minority background by 2030. Last year’s figure was 16pc.
A spokesman said that despite the planned changes to its bonus scorecard, the target remained in place. The top 550 senior managers are eligible for an additional personal bonus which will continue to include DEI measures.
The BT spokesman said: “We remain committed to our inclusion and representation targets and are making good progress towards them.
“Inclusion will remain part of our senior management bonus calculations and we have received strong support from our shareholders on the proposals to amend our group scorecard.”
                     Diversity in the City                   
Bankers and investors are   to tear up plans to impose diversity targets on companies amid concerns that extra red tape would slow growth.
One source who has held private meetings with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to discuss the plans said there was “an undercurrent of ‘we must do something, this is something, therefore we must do this’”.
They added: “There is a risk the FCA is on course to introduce a cumbersome reporting regime. The only certainty of its impact will be to create jobs in HR.”
Rachel Reeves, the Chancellor, who has vowed to turbocharge growth, has also   from three members of the Conservative frontbench arguing that the FCA’s diversity drive could cost the City up to £1bn.
Major US investors are under particular pressure from DEI critics as the tide turns politically. Larry Fink, chief executive of BlackRock, was once   after pursuing a focus on so-called ethical investing.
BlackRock is BT’s fifth-biggest shareholder with a 3.8pc stake.
BT bosses have this week been summoned to meetings with Sunil Bharti Mittal, the Indian billionaire who   in the former telecoms monopoly after agreeing to take a stake of nearly 25pc last summer.
Mr Mittal, who is one of India’s richest men, will meet more than a dozen BT executives during two days of meetings which highlight his outsized influence, although BT has insisted the meetings are routine.
It disappointed the City last week with figures showing the impact of tougher broadband competition.

Load-Date: February 4, 2025


End of Document
