




thetimes.co.uk
February 5, 2025 Wednesday 5:45 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 882 words
Byline: Emma Powell | Louisa Clarence-Smith, US Business Editor
Highlight: Diversity, equity and inclusion scorecard will be removed for middle management in chief executive’s plans to turnaround the former state-backed telecoms group
Body


Diversity measures in the bonus scheme for thousands of middle managers at BT are set to be scrapped, just weeks after its chief executive criticised other companies for “stepping back” from their commitments to inclusion.
The FTSE 100 constituent has told investors that it plans to remove the diversity, equity and inclusion element of its scorecard for its lower-level managers from next year, although it would retain the measures for its 550 most senior leaders.
Under the current system, up to 10 per cent of the annual bonus payable to its 37,000 managers is dependent on targets for representation by gender, ethnicity and disability, and engagement among under-represented groups of employees. Instead it will be based upon a general survey of engagement for all employees.
A spokesman for BT said the company had retained its 2025 and 2030 targets set out under a manifesto of such commitments, which include goals for 41 per cent of its senior management team to be female, 15 per cent from ethnic minorities and 10 per cent with a disability by this year. Progress against those targets has been mixed, with 35 per cent of its senior managers female and 9 per cent from ethnic minority groups, although 14 per cent had a disability.
The proposed changes, first reported by The Telegraph, have been put forward as 

, who was appointed as the first female chief executive of the telecoms group last year, attempts to turnaround the fortunes of the former state-backed monopoly.
A spokesman for BT said: “We remain committed to our inclusion and representation targets and are making good progress towards them. Inclusion will remain part of our senior management bonus calculations and we have received strong support from our shareholders on the proposals to amend our group scorecard.”
The planned changes to the scorecard come after Kirkby, 57, sought to reassure staff of her commitment to “inclusion”. She told staff in a memo: “It’s been hard lately to see companies and governments stepping back from their commitment to inclusion, equity and diversity. For many of you watching this unfold, I imagine it feels worrying and upsetting.
“It sends the message that these things are optional, temporary or not worth prioritising. I want to be absolutely clear: that’s not what we believe at BT.”
Her comments came after several of the world’s largest businesses, including Meta, Walmart and McDonald’s, eliminated their diversity, equity and inclusion

 after the election of Donald Trump. He has 

 since he came to power.Louisa Clarence-Smith
While BT was ditching diversity targets, on the other side of the Atlantic Google announced it is scrapping a goal to hire more employees from historically underrepresented groups, in the latest example of an American company rowing back on diversity, equity and inclusion policies.
Employees at the search engine giant were told via email on Wednesday that the company is abandoning the hiring targets and reviewing other so-called DEI policies. Details of the email were first reported by The Wall Street Journal. 
In 2020, Google set a target of increasing the proportion of “leadership representation of underrepresented groups” by 30 per cent by 2025. The ambition was announced in the wake of the murder of George Floyd and the Black Lives Matter protests, which led to sweeping pledges from corporate America to increase the representation of ethnic minorities in their workforce.
However, a slew of companies have recently announced they are watering down DEI initiatives after critics claimed the policies exclude some groups of employees and customers. Companies have questioned the legality of some DEI hiring policies after a Supreme Court ruling in 2023 found it unconstitutional to consider race in university admissions. 
President Donald Trump has added pressure by issuing an executive order directing federal agencies to terminate DEI initiatives and encouraging private companies to do the same. 
Last month, Meta Platforms, the owner of Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp, scrapped DEI programmes, including those that influenced hiring and picking suppliers.
Retailers Walmart, Amazon and Target, as well as McDonald’s and Harley Davidson, have all watered down DEI policies after facing scrutiny.
Google parent Alphabet’s annual filing with the US Securities and Exchange Commission on Wednesday showed it omitted a line saying it was “committed to making diversity, equity and inclusion part of everything we do and to growing a workforce that is representative of the users we serve”. That statement appeared in annual reports from 2021 to 2023.
A spokesperson for Google said: “We’re committed to creating a workplace where all our employees can succeed and have equal opportunities, and over the last year we’ve been reviewing our programs designed to help us get there. 
“We’ve updated our 10-k [securities filing] language to reflect this, and as a federal contractor, our teams are also evaluating changes required following recent court decisions and executive orders on this topic.” 
Some companies, including JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs, the US banks, have said they plan to continue to promote diversity initiatives related to their employees and customers.

Load-Date: February 5, 2025


End of Document
