




The Independent - Daily Edition
February 7, 2025 Friday
First Edition


Copyright 2025 Independent Print Ltd All Rights Reserved


Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 31
Length: 570 words
Body


Ryanair plans post-ceasefire routes to Ukraine
After Volodymyr Zelensky said he is ready to negotiate the end of the Ukraine war with Vladimir Putin, Ryanair has set out plans for a post-ceasefire flight network to and from Kyiv and Lviv. "We want to be the first airline back into Ukraine," said Michael O'Leary, chief executive. He told The Independent that within six weeks of the skies reopening, his airline would set up bases at both cities and fly to around 25 destinations - likely to include London Stansted.
Civil aviation ended on 24 February 2022, the day Russia invaded. At present, the EU Aviation Safety Agency says missile systems "pose a high risk for civil flights operating at all altitudes and flight levels". But after a ceasefire, the ban on flying to, from or over Ukraine could be lifted. "We have about 14 million Ukrainians dispersed all over Europe. They haven't seen their friends and families for three years," O'Leary said.
Google removes commitment to diversity policies
The latest US firm to row back on diversity equity and inclusion (DEI) policies is Google. The tech giant has followed the firms Amazon, Meta and McDonald's as corporate America continues to shift towards more conservative social stances; in his first days as president, Donald Trump has signed a flurry of executive orders relating to DEI, including removing protections for minorities.
In its new annual report, Google's parent company Alphabet omitted a sentence from previous reports that had stated the firm is "committed to making diversity, equity, and inclusion part of everything we do and to growing a workforce that is representative of the users we serve". It remains unclear how the changes will affect the UK's workforce but companies must still comply with UK equality laws. PA
Clubcard prices tailored to individuals in Tesco trial
Tesco has revealed it is beginning a trial that could shake up how its Clubcard works for shoppers. It will begin by giving certain customers personalised offers, with tailored prices on products they more regularly purchase. Called the "Your Clubcard Prices" programme, the trial will see shoppers sent new offers every Wednesday - on top of all their other deals. These multi-use discounts will be valid for seven days after they are received.
Tesco bosses have not made clear how many people will be able to participate in the trial, nor how long it will last. It also comes with a catch that will affect many shoppers: the discounts will not be eligible for use at Tesco Express locations.
Almost half of UK firms hike prices anticipating US tariffs
Nearly four in 10 UK businesses are hiking prices in response to the threat of tariff hikes as fears grow over a global trade war kicked off by US president Donald Trump, according to a survey. A poll of 1,500 businesses by banking giant HSBC found 39 per cent are increasing prices in anticipation of higher tariffs. It also revealed that half of firms are shifting their export markets to countries with lower trade barriers in an effort to sidestep the worst of the hit from any trade war.
The results of the survey, which was conducted in November for the bank's going global for growth report, come as Mr Trump fired his opening shots over the weekend by slapping 25 per cent trade tariffs against Canada and Mexico (subsequently delayed after deals were struck between the countries), and 10 per cent on Chinese imports. PA

Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
