




States News Service
February 3, 2025 Monday


Copyright 2025 States News Service
Length: 4177 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: LOS ANGELES, CA 
Body


The following information was released by the Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation (GLAAD):
The LGBTQ records of candidates and the significance of their roles in LGBTQ rights and protection have gone unexamined in most hearings.
By GLAADFebruary 3, 2025
The Senate confirmation hearings for President Donald Trump's nominees began January 14, 2025. Despite the critical roles these nominees, if confirmed, will play in shaping national policy, the hearings notably lack substantive questioning or responses regarding the safety and equality of LGBTQ people, even as President Trump has taken high interest in targeting the community via executive order.
The first Trump administration was marked by the greatest number of anti-LGBTQ actions ever undertaken by a U.S. president. Many of his nominees have records that reveal action and antipathy against LGBTQ Americans.
One of the most contentious hearings so far was for the nomination of Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., known for his activism against vaccines. Kennedy's anti-medicine, anti-science, anti-equality views include unproven, baseless claims that COVID-19 was designed to target Black people and evade Chinese people and Ashkenazi Jewish people. In the hourslong hearing, senators missed a chance to question Kennedy's other outrageously false and baseless beliefs and harmful rhetoric, including:
Spreading disinformation about transgender health care and referring to medications inaccurately as castration drugs, which is as inflammatory as it is inaccurate. Decades of medical research and consensus confirm the safety and necessity of these treatments that reduce self-harm and improve mental health.
Rejecting HIV science and promoting AIDS denialism: Kennedy has openly questioned the well-established link between HIV and AIDS. Undermining scientific and medical advances and research risks all progress made to eliminate the stigma that fuels HIV and the global goal to end the epidemic by 2030.
Propagating baseless claims about vaccines: As founder of Children's Health Defense, Kennedy's campaigns against vaccines threaten public trust in critical immunizations like HPV (the virus that causes cervical cancer) and Mpox vaccines, especially vital to LGBTQ people and their health.
Additional hearings have included unfounded and outright inaccurate claims to support President Trump's obsession with diversity, equity, and inclusion, even as the majority of his nominees have little experience, merit, or qualifications for their roles, but do have allegiance to President Trump and appear on his favorite television programs.
The Senate committees' are also led by all white, all male chairmen from the Republican party, which regained the majority in the 2024 election.
Marco RubioSecretary of StateCONFIRMED
During the confirmation hearing in the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, LGBTQ issues were only tangentially mentioned. The hearing primarily focused on foreign policy challenges, including Rubio's stance on China, which he described as a "potent and dangerous" adversary. However, when Sen. Mike Lee (R-UT) brought up the topic of LGBTQ curriculum, Rubio suggested that it "probably has not helped" in relations with China.
Rubio's hearing also touched on broader cultural and ideological issues within the State Department. Sen. Jim Risch (R-ID) emphasized the need to end what he perceived as the prioritization of "progressive ideology" and diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) initiatives, suggesting these had undermined morale and distracted from the mission.
Rubio's confirmation as Secretary of State was unanimous, with a 99-0 vote, marking him as the first Latino to hold the position.
Pete HegsethSecretary of DefenseCONFIRMED
The Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Armed Services, Sen. Jack Reed (D-RI) said in his opening remarks: "Our military is more diverse than it has ever been, but more importantly, it is more lethal than it has ever been. This is not a coincidence. Mr. Hegseth, I hope you will explain why you believe such diversity is making the military weak, and how you propose to undo that without undermining military leadership and harming readiness, recruitment, and retention."
In the questionnaire submitted by Hegseth prior to the start of the committee, Hegseth was asked:
Q: Since the repeal of "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" (DADT) in 2010, gay and lesbian members of the Armed Forces have served in the United States military without having to conceal or lie about their sexual orientation. According to RAND, approximately 6 percent of the force identify as gay or lesbian. Successive chiefs of service in administrations of both political parties have noted that repeal of DADT did not create any significant challenges opponents foresaw. Do you believe repeal of DADT has created challenges for the military? If yes, please provide a detailed explanation.
Hegseth's written answer didn't directly answer the question: "I personally knew soldiers impacted by the repeal and I was unconcerned by the policy change.... Military service should be open to all Americans who can meet its high standards and maintain readiness."
This is not a reflection of Hegseth's views. He has advocated for no women in the military and he supported Trump's transgender military ban. Hegseth previously said without basis that, "Transgender soldiers are 'not deployable' because they are 'reliant on chemicals' and suggested that women should not serve in certain combat roles." There is no evidence to support this.
Sen. Kristen Gillibrand (D-NY) challenged his evasion and comments denigrating women soldiers saying, ""Please explain these types of statements because they are brutal and they are mean and they disrespect men and women who are willing to die for this country.... Women you have denigrated. You have also denigrated members of the LGBTQ community. Did you know that when "don't ask, don't tell" was in place we lost so many crucial personnel, over a thousand in mission critical areas. We lost 10% of all our foreign language speakers because of a political policy. You said in your statement you don't want politics in the DOD but everything you said in these public statements is politics."
CNN reports that In Hegseth's 2024 book The War on Warriors and while promoting the book, Hegseth "described both the original 'Don't Ask, Don't Tell' policy and its repeal in 2011 as a 'gateway' and a 'camouflage' for broader cultural changes that he claims have undermined military cohesion and effectiveness."
John RatcliffeCIA DirectorCONFIRMED
U.S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Tom Cotton (R-AR) noted in his opening remarks that Pres-elect Trump had not formally delivered Ratcliffe's nomination to the committee before his confirmation hearing. Ratcliffe's history includes defending President Trump during his first impeachment when Ratcliffe was a member of Congress from Texas.
Cotton claimed CIA intelligence gathering, analysis and priorities had become too bureaucratic and politicized, yet went on to claim its work became too aligned with the Biden administration's views: "The CIA's misplaced priorities have led to too many reports on matters like the prospects for gay rights legislation in Africa, or climate change. These topics may have their place in government, but it's not at the CIA. And I certainly hope to never again see another video, statement, or social media post, from the CIA about diversity, or equity, or inclusion." Cotton's LGBTQ record includes the claim that LGBTQ people in the U.S. should "get perspective" about a restrictive religious exemption bill in Indiana for its potential to discriminate because in Iran, "they hang you" for being gay. He also cosponsored a bill to ban transgender students from sports participation.
Understanding the environment for LGBTQ people worldwide is essential for understanding a country's propensity for violence and peace overall, measurements that reputable intelligence agencies recognize. International human rights groups have noted the connection between rising anti-LGBTQ sentiment and incidents as a ploy to scapegoat the community and distract from other anti-democratic violence. "The most extreme example is Russia, where we've seen the criminalization of the LGBTI movement, as a move to distract from other problems around the rule of law, democracy, the war on Ukraine," a report by ILGA-Europe stated.
Ratcliffe noted in his opening statement: "We will collect intelligenceespecially human intelligencein every corner of the globe, no matter how dark or difficult. We will produce insightful, objective, all-source analysis, never allowing political or personal biases to cloud our judgement or infect our products...I am committed to protecting and supporting the CIA's workforce. We will fully investigate workforce health and wellness issues, including Anomalous Health Incidents. Our officers must embrace a culture of toughness and resilience."
6.1% of the U.S. military identify as LGBTQ, according to a study. A CIA document from 2014 explains the need for a diverse workforce: "The United States is one of the most diverse nations on earth. Our national heritage is built on the work, ideas and beliefs of people from virtually every national origin, creed and culture. We achieve our greatest accomplishments when we draw on the talents of all parts of our society and bring diverse perspectives to our greatest challenges... Patriotism has no barriers; it is not based in gender, ethnicity, ability, religion or sexual orientation."
Ratcliffe was confirmed by a 75-24 vote.
Kristi NoemSecretary of Homeland SecurityCONFIRMED
The US Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs held a hearing regarding the confirmation of Gov. Kristi Noem (R-SD) as Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security. The hearing focused on immigration, border security, cyber security, and the threat of international and domestic terrorism. In discussing these critical national security questions, the committee failed to address the real concerns of violence and harassment facing marginalized groups in America, especially LGBTQ Americans.
While Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) did question Noem on her position regarding hate crimes, he did not mention the need to protect LGBTQ people. Sen. Blumenthal directly mentioned the need to protect Muslim, Jewish, and BIPOC Americans. In another round of questioning, Sen. Bernie Moreno (R-OH) took the opportunity to make anti-trans remarks about "sex change operations on illegals," denigrating the importance and life-saving nature of healthcare for transgender people, the legality of providing health care for anyone held in custody, as well as dehumanizing immigrants.
Noem's LGBTQ record of policies supported as governor and rhetoric is documented here. She was confirmed by the full Senate, 59-34.
Scott BessentSecretary of the TreasuryCONFIRMED
The only out gay candidate among Trump's nominees is Scott Bessent who testified before the Senate Committee on Finance. Bessent said, "In 1979 I wanted to fight for my country... I wanted to attend the US Naval Academy." Scott Bessent describes not being able to accept an appointment to the US Naval Academy because of his "sexual preference." He continued, "I wanted to join the foreign service and was also told, 'Not welcome.'" I sit here knowing that president Trump chose me because I'm the best candidate. It's a tribute to President Trump that he looks at people as people."
In fact, Trump has nothing to do with expanded rights for LGBTQ people. His administration was historic in enacting the most anti-LGBTQ policies of any presidential administration. Trump's administration enacted policies that directly targeted LGBTQ rights. Trump's ban on transgender people serving in the military and the rollback of protections for LGBTQ employees in federal contracting reflect a broader trend of discrimination against the community during Trump's tenure. It is false that he "looks at people as people."
Pam BondiAttorney General
The U.S. Senate Democratic Whip and Ranking Member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Dick Durbin (D-IL), said in his opening remarks: "At issue I believe in this nomination hearing is not your competence nor your experience. At issue is your ability to say no. More than any other cabinet official, the Attorney General has to be prepared to put the Constitution first and even tell the President of the United States you are wrong.... To my knowledge, Donald Trump has never acknowledged the legal result of the 2020 election. Are you prepared to say today under oath without reservation that Donald Trump lost the Presidential contest to Joe Biden In 2020?"
In her response, Bondi never acknowledged that Biden won the election. She said, "You know, Senator, all I can tell you as a prosecutor is from my firsthand experience. I accept the results. I accept, of course, that Joe Biden is President of the United States."
When California Sen. Adam Schiff inquired if she would defend the marriages of LGBTQ couples, Bondi responded by stating that she would "respect the law" on marriage equality. In fact, as Florida's attorney general Bondi was critical of LGBTQ rights, and defended a constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage in Florida, even after the U.S. Supreme Court ruled similar federal laws unconstitutional.
Russell VoughtNominee for Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB)
Re-applying for a position he previously held in the first Trump administration, Vought, one of the key architects of Project 2025 which targets LGBTQ rights, abortion rights, and immigrant rights for removal from the federal government, testified before the Senate Committee on Homeland Security. In his opening statement Vought said, "The President has promised the American people a federal government that works for all Americans, not the interests of bureaucrats and an entrenched establishment."
In fact, the reality of the first Trump administration contrasts with Vought's characterization. Under Trump's administration, significant measures were taken to roll back protections for LGBTQ individuals. He enacted more anti-LGBTQ actions than any other U.S. president in history. Trump's first administration enacted more anti-LGBTQ policies than any previous administration, including the removal of anti-discrimination regulations, and the assertion that federal civil rights laws do not cover anti-LGBTQ discrimination. Trump undermined existing protections and encouraged discrimination across multiple areas such as employment, housing, and healthcare.
Vought also testified, "Throughout my career, I've been driven by a commitment to taxpayers and their families." This is not true. The policies proposed under Project 2025 include measures that could strip protections for marginalized groups, including LGBTQ people and low-income families. Project 2025 outlines a Christian Nationalist agenda for the federal government and not a commitment to all taxpayers.
Sen. Bernie Moreno (R-OH) asked if "giving sex change operations to illegal immigrants" helps working class Americans. Vought answered "no." Sen. Moreno is perpetuating a smear against both transgender people and immigrants, while neglecting to note that the law requires all people held in custody must receive health care they need.
Vought previously stated that he wants to put career civil servants "in trauma," aiming to demoralize them to the point where they do not want to go to work. This week, White House Press Secretary answered a flurry of questions from a confused press corps about a national spending freeze order that spun the country into chaos and that the administration had to rescind, and a federal judge blocked. Karoline Leavitt stated that groups could petition "OMB Director Vought" to see if they could get the funds that Congress had already approved, despite the fact that Congress controls the funds, it is illegal for the executive branch to impound funding approved by Congress, and the fact that Vought has not been confirmed and legally cannot be directing policy or decisions until confirmed.
The Washington Post Editorial Board urged the Senate to deny Vought's nomination: "Vought is not acceptable, given his combative disdain for Congress's constitutional power of the purse and his refusal to abide by a vital reform enacted after Watergate to check the president's authority." The editorial also detailed other lawbreaking by Vought, his defiance of a Congressional subpoena in the Trump impeachment investigation for attempting to distort Ukraine at Trump's behest, and a resume that is "bursting with other red flags."
Doug BurgumSecretary of the Interior
The hearing in the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee remained focused on the U.S.'s role in international energy production, debates over carbon emissions, and the proper use of federal lands. While these issues are of critical importance, the committee missed the opportunity to question Burgum on how he plans to fight climate change, and especially how he plans to counteract the impacts of climate change on marginalized communities like LGBTQ people. Even recently as fires raged through California, we've seen anti-equality politicians claiming that the Los Angeles fire chief's sexual orientation is somehow responsible for these climate disasters, rather than discussing how they can provide environmental resources to vulnerable communities and proactively fend off climate change.
According to the findings of a report by The Williams Institute at UCLA School of Law, climate change "exacerbates existing disparities among individuals and communities." LGBTQ people face discrimination and exclusion, creating unique vulnerabilities that compound and heighten their exposure to climate-related harms.
Lee ZeldinEnvironmental Protection Agency Administrator
Senators Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Ed Markey (D-MA), Bernie Sanders (I-VT), and Adam Schiff (D-CA) asked great pointed questions particularly about what Project 2025 and Elon Musk have said about cutting 70% of EPA staff (approximately, 12,000 positions) as well as traumatizing staff so they quit.
Zeldon answered, "...My job is to increase productivity and efficiency and be accountable to all of you."
Markey asked if he intends to follow Project 2025 and eliminate the office of compliance. Zeldon said no.
Schiff listed all the ways that Zeldin leveraged federal dollars in the Hurricane Sandy recovery and asked if as EPA Admin he'd provide the same support for wildfire recovery in California. Zeldin said, I will do everything in my power to assist California in wildfire recovery.
Elise StefanikAmbassador to the United Nations
Stefanik boasted about her work to combat antisemitism in her prepared opening remarks to the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations: "My oversight work led to the most viewed testimony in the history of Congress. This hearing with university presidents was heard around the world and viewed billions of times. It exposed the antisemitic rot in colleges and universities and was a watershed moment in American education." Stefanik repeated "antisemitic rot" rhetoric to describe the United Nations' resolutions against Israel's bombardment of Gaza.
Yet when Connecticut Sen. Chris Murphy (D-CT) questioned Stefanik about Elon Musk's Nazi salutes at the Trump inauguration rally, Stefanik defended Musk.
Murphy asked, "What do you think of Elon Musk, the president's most visible advisor, doing two Heil Hitler salutes last night at the president's televised rally?"
Stefanik answered, "No, Elon Musk did not do those salutes. I was not at the rally but I can tell you I have been at many rallies with Elon Musk who loves to cheer [raises arms] when the president says we need to send our U.S. space program to Mars but that is simply not the case, and to say so, is, the American people are smart, they see through it, they support Elon Musk, we are proud to be a country of successful entrepreneurs that is one of our greatest strengths as Americans."
Murphy pointed out that right wing anti-semitic commentators believed otherwise noting, "Evan Kilgore, right wing commentator [and Holocaust denier], wrote on X, 'Holy crap ... did Elon Musk just Heil Hitler at the Trump Inauguration Rally in Washington, D.C. ... this is incredible, we are so back.' Andrew Torba, founder of the right wing Christian Nationalist platform GAB: 'Incredible things are happening' as he amplified the visual. Proud Boys chapter in Ohio, posted the clip on a Telegram channel with the text 'Heil Trump.' White Lives Matter, 'Thanks for hearing us Elon, the white flame will rise again.'"
"I could keep going." Murphy continued. "White supremacist groups and neo-Nazi groups rallied around that visual. Does that concern you that those elements believe that what they saw last night was a neo-Nazi salute?"
Stefanik said, "What concerns me is these are the questions you believe are important to ask the UN ambassador. I have a very strong record when it comes to anti-semitism. I intend to bring moral clarity to this position continuing to condemn anti-semitism at the United Nations."
Murphy said, "Your work only comes with credibility if it holds both left and right accountable when it comes to calling out anti-semitic behavior."
Tulsi GabbardDirector of National Intelligence
The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence hearing regarding the confirmation of former US Rep. Tulsi Gabbard as Director of National Intelligence was focused on Gabbard's record relating to national security, including her support for a pardon for Edward Snowden and a previous visit to Syria in 2017 to meet with then-president Bashar al-Assad while serving as a representative for Hawaii. Other comments focused on her perceived sympathies for Russia and their invasion into Ukraine. The hearing did not include any LGBTQ-related topics, nor did they address the impact of Trump's Executive Orders especially around DEI and federal funding on the ODNI.
Kash PatelFBI Director
The Senate Judiciary Committee hearing for Kash Patel's confirmation as FBI Director centered on his past statements and loyalty to President Trump. Senators scrutinized Patel's previous calls to prosecute journalists and dismantle the FBI headquarters and turn it into a "museum of the deep state." Patel faced questions about his pledge to investigate corrupt actors in the Justice Department and FBI and on his remarks praising the January 6 rioters and his interactions with QAnon conspiracy theorists. The hearing also addressed concerns about potential political influence on the FBI, given Patel's close relationship with Trump. The hearing did not delve into Patel's tenure at the Department of Defense or his role in the House Intelligence Committee's Russia investigation. The hearing did not include LGBTQ issues except in a question by a senator about Jussie Smollett which included an assertion that the FBI investigation of the actor's crime hoax set back civil rights.
Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. Secretary of Health and Human Services
During two days of testimony, Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., the Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary nominee, sought to fend off attacks on his long history of vaccine skepticism. Senate Democrats grilled Kennedy on his past statements against vaccines and in support of abortion, causing the nominee to backtrack repeatedly.
"News reports have claimed that I am anti-vaccine or anti-industry," Kennedy said." I am neither. I am pro-safety. I worked for years to raise awareness about the mercury and toxic chemicals in fish, but that didn't make me anti-fish. All of my kids are vaccinated, and I believe vaccines have a critical role in health care."
Sen. Michael Bennett (D-CO) confronted Kennedy over previous debunked statements including the baseless assertion that pesticides contribute to gender identity development in children. Kennedy said, "No, I never said that." In fact, Kennedy has repeatedly spread false conspiracy theories about the effects of endocrine-disrupting chemicals, including the false claim about pesticides.
Kennedy also stumbled on questions about Medicaid during an exchange with Sen. Bill Cassidy (R-LA), exposing a lack of knowledge about the cost associated with the public health insurance program. Kennedy said Medicaid premiums and deductibles were too high and that most people enrolled in the program were "not happy." In fact, most Medicaid enrollees don't pay premiums or deductibles.
While senators did not directly question Kennedy about his views on LGBTQ people, in an exchange with Sen. Josh Hawley, Kennedy offered the following statement about necessary medical care for trans youth: "I do want to add that people who have gender differences should be respected, Kennedy said. "They should be loved. But loving them does notsometimes love means saying 'no.'" Kennedy has repeatedly shared unfounded conspiracies that man-made chemicals in the environment could be making children gay or transgender.

Load-Date: February 4, 2025


End of Document
