




Newsweek.com
February 24, 2025 Monday 10:47 AM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 586 words
Byline: Chloe Mayer
Highlight: An hour-long system outage at the Oakland Oceanic Air Traffic Control Center affected flights across the West Coast and Hawaii on Saturday evening.
Body


Flights were delayed, diverted and held in long holding patterns across several states when a Californian  due to an I.T. outage.
The incident on Saturday evening was sparked when an air traffic computer system, named the Advanced Technologies and Oceanic Procedures (ATOP), suffered technical difficulties at a site in Oakland, according the San Francisco Chronicle.
It is unclear how many passengers and flights were affected. Newsweek has contacted the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for comment.
Why It Matters
The incident comes amid a spate of aviation safety issues in recent months.
An  jet collided with a military helicopter in Washington D.C. on January 29, claiming 67 lives. It was the deadliest plane crash in the U.S. since November 2001.
Just days later a Cessna aircraft crashed while travelling to Nome, Alaska, .
President  claimed in January that Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) initiatives at the FAA , alleging the scheme had lowered employment standards. However, he later acknowledged that he did not have the evidence to support this.
What To Know
ATOP, which , helps air traffic controllers manage flights in the airspace above the Pacific Ocean.
The system reportedly suffered an hour-long outage at the Oakland Oceanic Air Traffic Control Center on Saturday evening, which affected flights across the West Coast and Hawaii.
One affected flight,  1684, reportedly left San Francisco International Airport (SFO) at 6.34 p.m. bound for Kauai in Hawaii, but was forced to fly around in a circular holding pattern before returning to SFO at 8.46 p.m., the Chronicle reported
Flights to and from Los Angeles, as well other West Coast cities, including Seattle and Portland, were also caught up in the disruption.
Passengers reportedly received status update messages telling them: "Your flight is departing late to allow air traffic control to safely manage the volume of aircraft along your route. We value your time and we're sorry for the inconvenience."
The Oakland area's ATOP system is responsible for managing around 878 flights per day across 18.6 million square miles of airspace, according to the Chronicle.
Commenting on the system, the FAA said: "With ATOP, the Federal Aviation Administration significantly reduced the intensive manual processes that limited the ability of controllers to safely handle airline requests for more efficient tracks or altitudes over long oceanic routes.
"It allows the FAA to meet international commitments of reduced aircraft separation standards, thereby dramatically increasing capacity and efficiency for customers, and reducing carbon emissions."
What People Are Saying
Hassan Shahid, president and CEO of the Flight Safety Foundation, told Newsweek last month: "Aviation remains one of the safest modes of transportation, but every incident is a stark reminder that safety requires continuous vigilance."
The Professional Aviation Safety Specialists union, which represents over 11,000 FAA employees, told Newsweek previously: "The FAA is understaffed in both the technical workforce and among aviation safety inspectors.
"We have called on  to ensure appropriate funding for the FAA to address these issues."
What Happens Next
FAA experts will be investigating what caused the ATOP outage in Oakland.


Graphic

 
Air traffic control tower
Kayla Bartkowski/Getty Images
An archive stock image of an air traffic control tower at the Reagan National Airport on February 03, 2025, in Arlington, Virginia.  Over the weekend, flights across the West Coast were delayed and diverted following a system outage at a control tower in Oakland, California, according to reports.

Load-Date: February 24, 2025


End of Document
