




The Collegio: Pittsburg State University
February 22, 2025 Saturday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 1222 words
Body


Joshua Smith editor in chief
A "campus coalition" of roughly 25 Pittsburg State University students marched in protest of President Donald Trump's executive orders on Feb. 6. The coalition marched two miles from the Student Recreation Center to the Carver League building, choosing a route that made their presence heard at busy intersections and key campus landmarks. Subjects of their chants included protecting diversity, equity, and inclusion programs and fears of "mass deportation" carried out by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement . At time of writing, there have been no officially-confirmed ICE raids in Pittsburg, nor has the University announced the shutting down of any DEI programs. Protest Demands (Feb 06 2025)
The students were organized with some level of media training as evidenced by initial requests for comments resulting in a copy of a printed out prepared statement and list of demands being wordlessly handed over. These demands and the University's official response will be printed in this issue of the Collegio.
The event was not publicly advertised, choosing instead to organize quietly via word of mouth and group chats. The signs and chants may have expressed a focus on the Trump administration, but interviews of the students revealed contention with messaging from University officials.
Kennadie Campbell, a junior majoring in elementary education and Spanish, led many of the chants during the march, her voice elevated with a megaphone along the way. She said this march was made up of students coming together as "a coalition, not any student organizations." Campbell outlined the route taken by the march.
"We wanted to hit all the major traffic areas of campus, so Ford and Rouse is a pretty busy intersection, and then obviously Joplin is busy," Campbell said. "We hit the oval too, and then down Broadway in front of Frat Row, and coming back to the Carver League building, which has historically been a building of gathering."
Khadija Ceesay, a grad student majoring in English literature as well as a graduate teaching assistant, said she is concerned about the threat of ICE activity the defunding of DEI programs. She also asserted that an email from the University was not enough of a show of support.
"I'm friends with Kennadie; she told me about it like a week ago and I thought it was a great idea, so we put the group chat together," Ceesay said. "Personally, with a bunch of DEI programs being paused and funding stopped, I hope this opens the University's eyes to a lot of problems that directly affects them and their students. And the threat of ICE coming on to several campuses across the county is a real problem that they can't just make go away or ease people's anxieties with just a simple email. They have to show support for the students."
Ceesay detailed what she believes would be a good first step for the University, which she says involves Pitt State President, Dr. Dan Shipp.
"I've had conversations with Dr. Shipp when I was an undergrad as vice president of the Student Government, and he seemed very 'for and with' the students," Ceesay said. "And so, I think (a first step would be) if Dr. Shipp comes out and says, 'I support the students, I am here for them in any way possible, and that this is a real threat, and we are doing everything we can to ensure that our campus stays a safe place for these marginalized communities.' Just be more upfront with what efforts they are making to protect students' rights."
On the surface, the coalition did not appear to be comprised of only students being affected by the subjects of the protest, but Campbell said that she believes the diverse group came together because everyone will eventually be affected.
"It's a diverse group because everyone is affected by the prejudices of Project 2025," Campbell said. "If it's not you, it's your neighbor or your best friend. Everybody's going to be affected by this in the end. You think you're safe, until you're not. It's the importance of realizing that one group being affected is everybody being affected and them coming for one person is them coming for everybody. It's not right to be quiet in the face of injustice."
Co-Chair of the Young Democratic Socialists of America at Pittsburg State University, Allen (A.J.) Kohler, a senior majoring in communications with an emphasis in multimedia journalism, expressed his fears of undocumented students losing their right to education in the future. Kohler also said that a statement put out by the Pittsburg State University College Republicans is scaring students. The statement was addressed in last week's issue of the Collegio in which the vice president of the club, Jonathan Adam, said it was symbolic support, however Dean of Students, Dr. Jon Bartlow, said that students reported feeling unsafe. Officially, the statement is considered protected.
"When campus put out that email, it said we have undocumented students, and they have the right to be educated here," Kohler said. "But what about tomorrow? These executive orders are coming in so fast that we don't know what tomorrow is going to look like. So, if these people don't have their education protected, what's the University going to do? Furthermore, we have the College Republicans offering to assist ICE deport undocumented students, and they are scaring people. But they're allowed to put that out?"
Campbell described the symbolic importance of the Carver League building as the march's destination.
"The Carver League was established in 1947 as a way for Black people to safely meet within the community of Pittsburg," Campbell said. "At that time, Pittsburg was still segregated. Hundreds of people were fed out of this building. A group called 'the Mothers,' which were just the Black women in the community, fed students, they did camps, just an amazing history of it being almost a Mecca for the Black community."
Official University response from Karl Stumo, vice president for student affairs and enrollment management.
Pitt State is deeply committed to a safe and inclusive living and learning environment for all of our students. Their health, safety, and well-being are our top priority. Our teams, services, programs, partnerships, and policies support our commitment.
Securing student safety includes following state and federal laws. We cannot prohibit federal immigration enforcement officials from enforcing federal laws on our campus, but we have provided guidance to both students and employees here and sent this to everyone on January 30. Though the probability of Immigration and Customs Enforcement appearing on our campus remains low, we strongly encourage everyone to read this information and be prepared. If anyone has questions, our Inclusion and Belonging team is here to help. We understand the worry that can come from this situation for some of our students, and we encourage them to reach out to us, seek mental healthcare at the Bryant Student Health Center, and call 911 in any kind of emergency.
While we monitor political discussions, we are not in a position to respond to specific political ideology like that expressed in Project 2025. However, we will continue to carefully track any federal and state legislation that impacts Pitt State and our students, and will communicate guidance as soon as possible and as needed.

Load-Date: February 22, 2025


End of Document
