




The Daily Caller
January 28, 2025 Tuesday 04:03 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: BIG-TENT-IDEAS; daily-caller-news-foundation; daily-caller-news-foundation
Length: 981 words
Byline: Carly Atchison Bird, Contributor, 
Body



President Donald Trump returned to the White House last week with a clear mandate from the American people for change and conservative leadership. So far, he has delivered.
To date, the Trump administration has  the CBP One app,  over  and deported  via military aircraft, and drug cartels have been  as foreign terrorist organizations, delivering on a campaign promise to crack down on illegal immigration. And he's not backing down.
Colombian President Gustavo Petro's denial of two repatriation flights was met with  from President Trump, imposing immediate 25% tariffs on imports to the U.S. Within the hour, Colombian's president , sending a clear message to any who fail to cooperate with deportation efforts: This is a president who is not to be messed with.
Meanwhile, all federal employees in Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) roles have been  and their offices shut down, putting  to woke identity politics in the executive branch. President Trump  twenty-three pro-life activists, a long-awaited win for pro-life conservatives.
Pursuing  through strength in the Middle East, four additional  are being released from Hamas. All of this and more in just one week.
President Trump is pulling ever lever of power given to him by the U.S. Constitution, as he should. An energetic executive is exactly what the American people voted for. But it's not enough. 
Congress needs to match President Trump's quick and decisive actions without excuses or delay.
That starts with confirming the president's cabinet.
Dissenters point to the “advise and consent” role the Senate has via Article II, section 2 of the Constitution. But this ignores today's realities. First, that senators have abused their role in the confirmation process, standing in the way of nominees not because they are unqualified or present a danger to the United States, but because they disagree with their politics.
Secondly, and regrettably, the executive branch has become so enormous that there are hundreds, if not thousands, of appointments to be made before the government can fully operate. Delays in getting the heads of agencies means delays in ensuring those agencies can perform their daily tasks and responsibilities.
For the first time since Ronald Reagan, President Trump won the popular vote, meaning he has extensive support across the country for his vision, his discretion and his decisions. Republican Senators would do well to adhere to the will of the American people and allow President Trump to do the job he was elected to do with the people who he has tapped to serve alongside him.
It doesn't stop there. Republicans enjoy a majority in the House as well as the Senate.
For years both sides of the aisle have acknowledged a very broken immigration system. Enough talk.
The time is now, with a president who is fully motivated to sign reform, to deliver solutions to the immigration crisis in this country. That begins with securing the border, building a wall and deploying as many resources as necessary to ensure that the United States' sovereignty is protected and our borders are enforced.
Democrats are welcome to join the effort, but the American people want results, not uniform agreement in Washington. If the other side of the aisle refuses to see reason, leave them out.
Congress must also codify into law President Trump's actions to unleash America's full energy potential.
This includes permitting reform to expedite energy projects, allow energy-producing states like Alaska to explore and develop the production of oil and gas, and working with the Trump administration to pass laws that facilitate the identification, leasing, siting, production, transportation, refining and generation of domestic energy resources, including on Federal lands.
This president understands that domestic energy dominance translates directly into lower prices for Americans and global security for our nation and our allies.
Importantly, every politician in Washington must take seriously the inflation crisis created by years of unabated printing and spending. Congress chronically fails to adhere to its own appropriations process, opting instead for massive trillion-dollar omnibus bills packed with pork and irresponsible spending. (Here's hoping that the  will succeed in exposing and bringing an end to the gross underbelly of Congress' spending problem.)
President Trump and Republicans in Congress have a once-in-a-generation opportunity to curb Washington's spending addiction. Audit the Federal Reserve. Pass 12 separate appropriations bills for once, as the law requires.
The American people deserve long-lasting change that will benefit our nation for generations to come. Unless Congress matches President Trump's rip-roaring pace, his executive actions will last only as long as the next president allows.
Carly Bird is the former national spokeswoman for the Ron DeSantis presidential campaign. She is the founder and president of Bird's Eye Consulting and lives in Virginia Beach.
The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of the Daily Caller News Foundation.
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Graphic

 
WASHINGTON, DC - JANUARY 27: U.S. President Donald Trump pumps his fist to reporters on the South Lawn of the White House after returning from a weekend trip on January 27, 2025 in Washington, DC. Over the weekend, Trump traveled to North Carolina and California to survey storm and fire damage, to Nevada for a rally and to Florida to address a Congressional Republican conference. (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
