




Targeted News Service
February 13, 2025 Thursday 11:17 PM  EST


Copyright 2025 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved


Length: 663 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


Rep. Earl L. Carter, R-Georgia, issued the following news release:
* * *
Carter Delivers Opening Remarks at Budget Markup
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Rep. Earl L. "Buddy" Carter delivered opening remarks at today's House Committee on the Budget markup for the Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2025.
See his full opening remarks here.
Rep. Carter's remarks, as prepared for delivery:
Thank you for holding this markup today, Mr. Chairman.
Today we are taking a critically important step towards unlocking President Trump's mandate that over 77 million Americans voted for.
That includes extending President Trump's tax cuts for American families, securing our borders, unleashing American energy dominance, and eliminating waste, fraud, and abuse from our federal balance sheet.
The Biden-Harris Administration left our country in peril.
Our federal debt is more than $36 trillion, and what do we have to show for it? A bloated bureaucracy that is weaponized against the American people and sends hardworking, American taxpayer dollars to fund woke, radical, DEI nonsense not only in America, but around the globe!
This is wholly unacceptable, and it stops now.
House Republicans are working in lockstep with President Trump to identify and eliminate waste, fraud, and abuse at all levels of government and enact America First policies.
To get America back on track, we are delivering a budget resolution that will allow us to extend President Trump's tax cuts, rein in out-of-control spending, and keep Americans safe.
In 2017, President Trump and Republicans delivered tax cuts that created more jobs and higher wages for hardworking Americans.
The impact of President Trump's tax cuts on our economy have been undeniably beneficial for all Americans.
From 2018 to 2019, real wages rose 4.9%, the fastest growth in 20 years.
During this time, we had the lowest poverty rates in history.
Unemployment rates for African Americans, Hispanic workers, and those without a college degree fell to historic lows.
On top of that, Trump's economy produced five million jobs, affording more people the opportunity to earn a living here in America.
It benefited low-income Americans, too: The bottom 10% of earners saw a 50% higher wage growth than those in the top 10% as a result of these policies.
Extending President Trump's tax cuts will allow us to continue to Make America Great Again, and that starts with us passing this budget blueprint.
This budget blueprint also delivers on the promise to secure our borders.
For the past four years, the American people suffered from the Biden-Harris Administration's open-border policies that led to an unprecedented national security and humanitarian crisis.
Last fiscal year, Customs and Border Protection confiscated over 21,000 pounds of fentanyl at our borders.
That is enough fentanyl to kill every American several times over. And that's just the drugs we know about.
Under the Biden-Harris Administration, we saw rates of overdose and poisoning deaths skyrocket, peaking at nearly 108,000 in 2023, driven by the surge of fentanyl coming across our borders.
Illicit fentanyl overdoses are now the number one cause of death among adults 18 to 45. Each year, more Americans are dying from illicit fentanyl than the number of American lives lost during the Vietnam War.
Thankfully, the budget resolution we are considering today supports border security so that we secure our borders and stop the flow of drugs pouring into our communities.
Let me be clear: This budget resolution works for America. It will put us back on the path towards fiscal responsibility, keep money in the pockets of Americans, unleash American energy dominance, and keep Americans safe.=
That is why I urge my colleagues to support this bill so that we can advance America First policies.
Watch Rep. Carter's full opening remarks here.
***
Original text here: 
Copyright Targeted News Services
MSTRUCK-9056007 MSTRUCK

Load-Date: February 15, 2025


End of Document
