




MailOnline
February 3, 2025 Monday 2:13 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: MEDIA; Version:1
Length: 825 words
Byline: Rachel Bowman For Dailymail.Com
Body


                     Florida Rep. Brian Mast butted heads with CBS journalist Margaret Brennan over 'woke' spending in the U.S. Agency for International Development.
On Sunday, the congressman and Face the Nation host sparred over Mast's support of 'purging' the State Department.
Mast said 'freezing aid' and 'purging of people throughout the State Department' is 'important and necessary' to securing the country. 
Brennan - reeling from her recent clash with Vice President JD Vance - appeared to be taken aback by Mast's statement.
'You want to authorize purging of State Department personnel? What does that mean exactly?' she said.
'Well, if you want to take a look at the State Department, where DEI has been a priority over, let's say, diplomacy, in many accounts, I can give you hundreds of examples of where they were authorizing,' said Mast.
'What proof do you have of that?' Brennan interrupted. 
'Sure. Let's list them off. Half a million dollars to expand atheism in Nepal, $50,000 to do, let's see, a transgender opera in Colombia. $47,000 to do an LGBTQ trans comic book in Peru. $20,000 a pop to do drag shows in Ecuador. Shall I continue with more examples of where DEI was the priority?' Mast replied.
Brennan defended the spending, arguing it is relatively small in the scope of the federal budget of the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID).
USAID, an independent agency established by an act of Congress, manages a budget of $42.8 billion meant for humanitarian relief and development assistance around the world. 
'Oh, it- it certainly seems like there- there could be a review of things. Foreign aid, as you know, is less than one percent of the entire federal budget. So we're talking small amounts of money by comparison, but...' Brennan said
'We're still talking about tens and tens of billions of dollars,' Mast quipped. 
Elon Musk and President Donald Trump shut down the entire embattled agency on Monday. 
USAID, whose website vanished Saturday without explanation, has been one of the federal agencies most targeted by the Trump administration in an escalating crack down on the federal government and many of its programs.
The billionaire 'first buddy' led a civilian review of the federal government with Trump's go-ahead and decided to close the USAID Washington, D.C. offices
'It became apparent that it's not an apple with a worm it in,' Musk said of the six-decade U.S. international aid and development agency. 'What we have is just a ball of worms. You've got to basically get rid of the whole thing. It's beyond repair.'
'We're shutting it down,' he said in the audio-only appearance on X.
The message comes after the Trump administration placed two top security chiefs at USAID on leave after they refused to turn over classified material in restricted areas to Musk's government inspection teams, a U.S. official revealed on Sunday.
Members of Musk's Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) eventually did gain access Saturday to the aid agency's classified information, which includes intelligence reports, the former official said.
Musk's DOGE crew lacked a security clearance high enough to access that information, so the two USAID security officials - John Voorhees and Deputy Brian McGill - believed they were legally obligated to deny access.
Last week, Vance tore into Brennan as she repeatedly questioned him over the decision to suspend the Afghan Refugee Program during his first interview since taking office.
The Vice President vehemently defended Trump's decision to cut off the program while also putting Brennan in her place as she said that the Oklahoma man who plotted an election day terrorist attack in October was 'a very particular case.'
'I don't really care, Margaret. I don't want that person in my country, and I think most Americans agree with me,' Vance said as he honed in on refugees not being 'properly vetted' before they touch down on American soil.
When Brennan asked the VP if he stood by his statement to the outlet in August stating that he doesn't think 'we should abandon anybody who's been properly vetted and actually helped us,' Vance immediately clarified his stance.
'Well, Margaret, I don't agree that all these immigrants or all these refugees have been properly vetted. In fact, we know that there are cases of people who allegedly were properly vetted and then were literally planning terrorist attacks on our country,' he said.
'That happened during the campaign if you remember, so clearly not all these foreign nationals have been properly vetted,' he added, referring to Afghan national Nasir Ahmad Tawhedi, 27, of Oklahoma City, who confessed to investigators that he had planned his attack to coincide with election day.
'My primary concern as vice president, Margaret, is to look after the American people, and now that we know we have vetting problems with a lot of these refugee programs, we absolutely cannot unleash thousands of unvetted people into our country.'

Load-Date: February 3, 2025


End of Document
