




Targeted News Service
January 31, 2025 Friday 10:15 AM  EST


Copyright 2025 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved


Length: 344 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: DENVER, Colorado 
Body


The Colorado Education Association issued the following news release on Jan. 30, 2025:
* * *
CEA Responds to Trump Administration's Executive Order to End "Radical Indoctrination in K-12 Schooling"
Kevin Vick, president of the Colorado Education Association (CEA), today released the following statement in response to the Trump Administration's recent executive order titled "Ending Radical Indoctrination in K-12 Schooling:"
"This executive order, which seeks to eliminate federal funding for schools that teach concepts related to gender identity and diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI), undermines the professional autonomy of educators and disregards the diverse needs of our student population.
"By imposing such restrictive measures, the executive order not only hampers our ability to provide a comprehensive and inclusive education but also sends a message of distrust toward educators. This erosion of professional respect and autonomy is likely to exacerbate the current teacher shortage, as dedicated educators may feel compelled to leave the profession.
"The departure of qualified teachers will inevitably lead to larger class sizes, reduced individual attention for students, and a decline in the quality of education. Such outcomes are detrimental to student learning and development.
"Diversity is our greatest strength, enriching our classrooms, communities, and society as a whole. It fosters innovation, critical thinking, and empathy by exposing students to different perspectives, cultures, and lived experiences. Protecting diversity in education ensures that every student feels seen, valued, and empowered to reach their full potential. When we embrace and safeguard diversity, we create a more inclusive, equitable future where all learners can thrive."
By Bethany Morris, CEA Director of Communications
* * *
Original text here: 
[Category: Union]
Copyright Targeted News Services
T80MV-MgEd-9027099 T80MV-MgEd

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
