




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 30, 2025 Thursday 4:57 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 639 words
Byline: Eleanor Hawkins
Body


January 30th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
Data: The Weber Shandwick Collective; Chart: Axios Visuals
If it's hard to be a  
Why it matters: Only 17% of CEOs feel their communications and public affairs functions are "very equipped" to keep pace with rapid economic, geopolitical and cultural changes, a  
What they're saying: "The increased volatility, at least in the U.S., is something that [CEOs] are concerned about. And unfortunately, for whatever reason, they don't think that their communications teams are equipped to fully address or navigate that," Weber Shandwick CEO Jim O'Leary  
"What maybe is potentially most disappointing is that a lot of the people in our profession feel like over the past several years we've gained a significant amount of influence at the C-suite level because the role of comms is much more materially important to the success or failure of a company than it's ever been."
By the numbers: Weber Shandwick surveyed 200 global executives from Nov. 14-Dec. 4, 2024, and found that roughly 7 in 10 are anticipating heightened volatility in the year ahead, and few feel prepared.
C-suite leaders feel the least prepared to address violent and nonviolent attacks or protests, getting caught in the political crosshairs and division within the workplace.
And executives aren't likely to increasingly turn to their comms or public affairs teams for guidance.
Overall, only 27% reported an increased sense of confidence in their communications and public affairs function over the past three years, with a majority of CEOs (59%) saying their confidence in the team remains unchanged.
Of note, leaders of larger companies and those operating in more than 20 countries are more likely to report a loss in comms and public affairs confidence.
Zoom in: Executives are navigating the competing demands and expectations of their stakeholder groups.
According to the report, CEOs are prioritizing customers first - with 86% naming this group as "very important" - followed by investors and shareholders (73%), employees (45%), policymakers (32%), partners and suppliers (24%) and local communities (22%).
Zoom out: While policymakers might not be the top audience, several CEOs are tripping over themselves  
The big picture: Corporate America found itself in the political crosshairs with the new Washington taking shape. This prompted several companies to revise their diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) policies and sustainability commitments.
Data: The Weber Shandwick Collective; Chart: Axios Visuals
Yes, but: Even given their wavering confidence levels, CEOs are investing more in some communication and public affairs functions.
According to  
Meanwhile, about 1 in 4 plan to pull back on environmental, social and governance (ESG) and DEI efforts.
What to watch: New governments are forming across the globe and proposing policies that may affect business operations, supply chains, investments and reputation, the report points out.
This creates more opportunity for communication and public affairs teams, said O'Leary.
"No scenario plan is ever going to survive contact with the amount of volatility that's out there in the world. So, in addition to being able to plan for and be resilient through all of the change, you also have to have an enormous amount of agility in the year to come."
More on Axios:  



Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 30, 2025


End of Document
