




Financial Times (London, England)
February 13, 2025 Thursday
Edition 1, Asian Edition


Copyright 2025 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 6
Length: 415 words
Byline: CHRISTOPHER GRIMES;ANNA NICOLAOU
Body


Walt Disney has replaced diversity and inclusion as a standalone metric in setting executive pay, following criticism from conservative politicians who accused the entertainment group of pushing a "woke" agenda. In an internal memo, the company said it was updating "how our values are embedded in our leader compensation programmes".
A new metric, "talent strategy", was added to its executive pay scheme to replace the "diversity and inclusion" category, though it said "important concepts" from the old plan would remain. Its other performance categories, "storytelling and creativity" and "synergy", were unchanged.
Disney is also removing advisories that it plays ahead of some old films, such as Dumbo and Peter Pan, which warn viewers they "include negative depictions and/or mistreatment of peoples or cultures", said a person familiar with the matter. The advisories will be moved to a box along with other details about the film.
The moves, first reported by Axios, come after other large corporations have also backed away from DEI programmes since the election of Donald Trump as president in November.
Meta, McDonald's and Target have each scrapped their diversity and inclusion programmes.
Disney, which has a large base of LGBT+ employees, positioned its shift as an adjustment rather than an abandonment of DEI policies. It promised to keep hiring processes "barrierfree" and to "purposefully champion a culture where everyone belongs".
In 2022, Disney came under strong attack for its response to a Florida law to restrict discussion of sexual or gender identity in primary schools - a proposal labelled by critics as "Don't
Say Gay". Disney's LGBT+ employees initially criticised the company, which operates huge resorts and amusement parks in Florida, for not taking a stand against the bill.
When the company opposed the proposal, the state's governor, Ron DeSantis, took actions to claw back Disney's 50-year-old ability to run the property around its theme parks. The publicity made the company a target for conservative activists seeking to dilute DEI initiatives.
Since his return to Disney in November 2022, chief executive Bob Iger has sought to dampen impressions that the company is pushing a political or social agenda. "What I've really tried to do is return to our roots, which is to remember we have to entertain first. It's not about messages," Iger said at a 2023 conference.
Last year, Disney-owned Pixar removed transgender themes from the streaming series Win or Lose.

Graphic

 
Disney's park in Anaheim, California. Critics have accused the group of pushing a 'woke' agenda - Paul Rovere/Getty Images

Load-Date: February 12, 2025


End of Document
