




The Gleaner: Rutgers University - Camden
February 26, 2025 Wednesday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 590 words
Byline: Sadie Fiore
Body


Read Time:2 Minute, 53 Second
On February 5th, Rutgers-Camden Chancellor Antonio D. Tillis addressed the university community regarding recent Executive Orders coming from President Donald J. Trump. The main focus was on cuts to federal funding and DEI. However, during the open forum portion, students and staff raised concerns regarding divestment from Israel, financial aid, the status of International students, and gender affirmation.
The Town Hall was called following reports of Immigration and Customs Enforcement sightings on campus the preceding Friday. The rumors were quickly put to rest by RUPD and the Rutgers-Camden Student Governing Association and proven to be false.
Student Government President Kimberly Lugo was among the first to take the floor for the open forum, stating that the rumors of ICE raids on campus "spiked a lot of fear in our student population.[The SGA] quickly found out that those were rumors, [and] talked with executive leadership to confirm that they were rumors. And then, after that, we posted on our Instagram and spoke with student leaders to confirm that they were rumors." Lugo followed up by asking for clarification on the University's plans and policies on working and cooperating with ICE. Chancellor Tillis responded by calling Acting Police Chief Matthew Gulbsy to the floor, who said about Immigration Enforcement, "We don't share any services. We don't share any facilities. We do not give access to any non-public facing information that's on the Internet already. So that's the directive that we're working on...It's an ever changing environment, not only daily, but almost hourly in some cases. And I think that our offices will continue information through the proper channels with the community."
Another student asked about Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion programming cuts, asking whether or not DEI programming and the Division of Diversity, Inclusion, and Community Engagement would remain in place. Tillis responded that "There is no intention to undo the services through DICE that we provide for our students. I can't say it any clearer." Tillis followed that, saying "[Here at] Rutgers University, particularly Rutgers University of Camden, we have a responsibility to make sure that our campus is inclusive, that our campus is inviting, and that every student on this campus feels that he, she, or they have a place."
Subsequent students asked about financial aid concerns, to which Chancellor Tillis replied that there will be no changes to the current financial aid situation until there is an act of Congress that requires it change.
Another student raised concerns about divestment from Israel and the weapons industry, to which Tillis explained that he is not a member of the Board of Governors, and has no say in the matter. He also illustrated how "academia works as a business" and how that impacts how universities handle funds and investments.
Chancellor Tillis also invited a staff member from the Rutgers Immigrant Community Assistance Project to speak, and she said that their "attorney is available to meet with any student at Rutgers who has an immigration concern. If they're undocumented, if they have a temporary status like DACA, TPS, or other concern...they can reach out to our office."
Towards the end of the Town Hall, a University-wide email was sent out to all staff, faculty and students regarding a new website that was put up to help members of the Rutgers community track Federal Government actions and their impacts. That website can be found here.

Load-Date: February 26, 2025


End of Document
