




MailOnline
January 29, 2025 Wednesday 1:48 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: MEDIA; Version:2
Length: 1257 words
Byline: Stephen M. Lepore For Dailymail.Com
Body


PODCAST: On Welcome to MAGAland, we dive into the JFK files, that Gavin Newsom kiss & Trump's latest sparring matches
Charlamagne tha God had a tense exchange where he predicted Elon Musk would 'crash and burn' with Vivek Ramaswamy after discussing his quick exit from DOGE. 
Ramaswamy, 39, departed the fat-cutting new agency he was supposed to run with Elon Musk before it could even get started in Donald Trump's administration.
The former presidential candidate has been rumored to be running for governor of Ohio in 2026 instead.
Speaking the Charlamagne on The Breakfast Club Tuesday morning, Ramaswamy was directly asked: 'What happened with DOGE? Did you get pushed out? Did you get fired?'
Ramasawamy responded by suggesting the DOGE that Elon wanted had a 'slightly different vision from where we started to where we landed.'
He tried to describe how he wanted to dismantle the bloated government bureaucracy whereas Musk wanted a 'technology-first approach.' 
'And what he and I both concluded - and I think this is right - is given my focus on law, on legislation, the right way to realize my vision is through elected office, so that's what I'm gonna be pursing.' 
He also claimed that running for governor of Ohio and working on DOGE would violate the Hatch Act.
'I would say that we arrived at it pretty mutually. I've been committed to this path of likely running for governor of Ohio for a long time. My plan initially might have been to do those at the same time,' Ramaswamy said. 
'Once it became clear that was impossible to do at the same time, once it became clear to me that that was the right next leadership destination for me, it felt like the start of the project on day one was the right way to start that next chapter.' 
He claimed that he and Musk are 'on good terms, good personal relationship, slightly different approaches to the project.' 
However, Charlamagne had a more pointed question: 'Do you think you were pushed out of DOGE because Trump rolled back the DEI initiatives?'
Ramaswamy denied it: 'It was really just an actual mutual decision where you look at here was one vision on approach, here's a different vision on an approach. That's great, there's no right or wrong answer.'
The radio host and ally of Kamala Harris during her failed presidential run was not convinced and even nastier words for DOGE. 
'I hear you, Vivek. I don't believe you. I think you either got pushed out or you know that it's going to implode. I think that you know Elon is gon' crash and burn it, and you're a smart guy, and you said, 'You know what, let me get out of Dodge and go do my governor Ohio thing.'' 
Ramaswamy deflected, denied and said: 'We're all on very good terms. And so I wouldn't want to speak for anybody else, but I will say that they're very supportive of of the decision that I made to pursue as my next step.' 
The former presidential candidate has been on a media tour post-DOGE and before announcing his run for governor, sitting down with Fox News' Jesse Watters Monday.
Watters joked that Ramaswamy was leaving DOGE 'after like three Scaramuccis' and asked him what happened, as it was previously reported that Musk wanted him out. 'Scaramuccis' are a unit of measurement based on the extremely short, 11-day tenure of Trump White House Communications Director Anthony Scaramucci. 
'Well, the reality is, I'm pursuing an elected office very shortly. We will have an announcement soon,' Ramaswamy answered. 
Watters then asked Ramaswamy about the rumors that he and Musk weren't getting along. 
'I think that's incorrect,' Ramaswamy replied. 'But what I would say is, we had different and complementary approaches.'
Watters also asked Ramaswamy straight up if Musk had fired him. 
'It's - no, we had a mutual discussion,' the 2024 Republican hopeful answered. 'And I think I wish him well.' 
Ramaswamy further explained their 'different' approaches in a similar manner to his talk with Charlamagne.
'I focused more on a constitutional law, legislative-based approach,' he said. 'They focused more on a technology approach, which is the future approach.' 
'No better person to lead that technology, digital approach than Elon Musk,' he offered. 
'But when you're talking about a constitutional revival, it's not just done through the federal government, it's done through federalism, where states also lead the way,' he continued. 'So I will have to be saying more on that very shortly Jesse, But that's going to be my next stop.' 
He also claimed that he and Musk were 'on the same page.' 
'Divide and conquer,' he explained. 'In saving the country, it's not a one-man show from the top down or the bottom up. It's all of the above. And that's what I'm for.' 
Ramaswamy further teased an Ohio governor's bid by saying he was flying back to the Buckeye State later Monday night. 
'We look at the country over the last 20 years, Silicon Valley was at the bleeding edge of the American economy. I think the Ohio River Valley can be at the bleeding edge of the American economy for the next 20 years,' he said, readying his pitch to voters. 
'People leaving this state from New York or California, right now, they go to Florida or Texas,' he said. 'I think places like Ohio should be where they're headed in the next couple of decades.'
Watters said the weather in Ohio might even improve over the next few years. 
'All right, if global warming keeps happening, it's going to get really nice and sunny in Ohio,' the Fox News anchor said. 
Ramaswamy, if he announces, will follow Ohio's Attorney General Dave Yost into the Republican primary. 
They will be vying to replace the term-limited GOP Gov. Mike DeWine. 
Ramaswamy ran in the 2024 GOP primary against Trump but when he fell short in the Iowa caucuses last January he quickly endorsed and campaigned for the now-president.
Without him, Musk's DOGE has hit the ground running much like the rest of the Trump administration in the first week on the job.
DOGE has set to work removing the Chief Diversity Officers Executive Council website from the U.S. Office of Personnel Management. 
                     President Trump has been highly vocal about his intention to dismantle diversity, equity and inclusion offices across federal government, describing them as 'Marxist.'
'I will end all of the Marxist diversity, equity and inclusion policies across the entire federal government immediately,' Trump said in December. 
Now, Musk is ensuring that Trump's vision is carried out at the highest level, with the removal of the executive council website.
Just yesterday the website described its services as the 'principal interagency forum to implement and sustain a national strategy for DEIA across Federal government.'
But Musk's call to wipe the website from the personnel platform indicates the entire department will be - or has already been - shuttered.
The department is also looking into stopping production of the penny to save taxpayers money. 
In a post on X, the group pointed out that a penny now costs three cents to make - triple its value. 
That cost taxpayers a whopping $179 million in fiscal year 2023, the post said. 
DOGE has been tasked with coming up with recommendations on how to cut federal spending. 
It's unclear if it would advise permanently killing off the penny, or just halting or trimming the penny's production. 
Musk's DOGE has been tasked with reducing government expenditure and improving productivity within the public service.
He claims it can save $1trillion - but that number has already been worked down from the initial $2trillion he promised recently.

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
