




The Daily Caller
February 6, 2025 Thursday 07:21 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION; us
Length: 1073 words
Byline: Charlie Kirk, Contributor, 
Body



President Trump has raised the bar when it comes to energy and ambition at the outset of a president's term. He has issued dozens of executive orders, with more coming every day. He has wielded tariffs as a weapon with great success against both Canada and Mexico. And of course, he is trying to remake the federal government itself as quickly as possible, issuing decrees to terminate DEI offices, freeze huge numbers of grants and programs, and even shut down the entire Department of Education. 
Historians and professors like to claim that America has an “imperial presidency.” They say that the president's power has grown out of control, overwhelming the other two branches of government. Proper balance, they say, means granting far more power to Congress and the courts, and rolling back that of the president.
But this is mistaken. Sure, the power of government has grown immensely in America over the course of our history, and in particular over the past hundred years. But the power of the president himself within that government has declined. The role of the elected president, chosen by the American people, has been endlessly curtailed and circumscribed by the bureaucracy built around him, by the Congress, and by the courts. 
All of this was on display in Trump's first term. Trump's own FBI entrapped his chosen National Security Advisor, General Flynn, because they considered his foreign policy views suspicious. Trump's own DHS helped set up the tech censorship apparatus that then worked to rig the 2020 election. Federal employees loudly engaged in performative resistance or malicious compliance, or simply ignored the president's directives over and over. A military liaison to the National Security Council became a “whistleblower” to undermine the president's policies on Ukraine.
None of this is in alignment with how the Founders saw the presidency.
, which establishes the U.S. presidency, is barely a thousand words long, but the parts that lay out the president's powers are a small fraction of that. Yet the powers given are expansive. The president, it says, is the commander in chief of the armed forces. He can make treaties with other nations, though the treaties require Senate ratification. He may appoint all judges, ambassadors, Cabinet ministers, and other officers of the United States. 
The most important power of all, though, is a single 8-word clause near the end of Article II, decreeing of the president that “he shall take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed.”

TOPSHOT - US President Donald Trump signs the No Men in Women's Sports Executive Order into law in the East Room of the White House in Washington, DC, on February 5, 2025. President Trump on Wednesday is signing an executive order to ban transgender girls and women from competing on sports teams that match their gender identity, marking his latest move targeting transgender rights. (Photo by ANDREW CABALLERO-REYNOLDS / AFP) (Photo by ANDREW CABALLERO-REYNOLDS/AFP via Getty Images)
In Federalist No. 70, Alexander Hamilton expressed the vision of the presidency as held by the men who had actually drafted the Constitution. The essential trait of the new president, he said, was that he was strong, in contrast to the nearly powerless chief executives who governed under the Articles of Confederation.
“A feeble Executive implies a feeble execution of the government,” Hamilton . “A feeble execution is but another phrase for a bad execution; and a government ill executed, whatever it may be in theory, must be, in practice, a bad government.”
An effective executive, Hamilton wrote, needed four things: Unity, duration, support (i.e. a salary), and competent powers.
Duration and salary should be clear enough, but what did Hamilton mean by unity? What he meant was that the executive branch must, ultimately, flow from the decisions of a single person. Many countries in history and even a few today have been led by a council acting collectively, with no chief executive. It was one of the options America rejected in writing its constitution. For running an entire country, Hamilton emphasized, only one decisionmaker could ensure “decision, activity, secrecy, and despatch” in getting things done. But this unity could be ruined, Hamilton warned, if power was vested “ostensibly in one man, subject, in whole or in part, to the control and co-operation of others, in the capacity of counsellors to him.”
What does that mean today? 
For decades, the federal bureaucracy has grown and engorged itself to become, effectively, the fourth branch of government, and sometimes it feels like the only branch of government. America's thousands and thousands of bureaucrats are supposed to assist the president in his constitutional job of executing the laws. But just as Hamilton warned, the counselors and advisors have effectively become the masters. Regulators enact rules, sight unseen from the president, then tell the president he is bound by them. Diplomats treat every foreign assignment as their personal fief and undermine presidents who disagree with their agenda. Intelligence agents assume the right to choose America's allies, enemies, and priorities, sight unseen from their boss.
This isn't just a problem for Trump. It's a crisis for the entire American republic. The president is an elected Constitutional office, accountable to the public. Bureaucrats are elected by no one and accountable to no one. When presidents are unable to preside, then America ceases to be a republic at all. Instead, it becomes a dictatorship of the managerial elite.
And that is why the aggressive actions of President Trump at the outset of his second term are so important. President Trump is restoring the Article II presidency, the presidency as it is described by our founders in the Constitution. In a real Article II presidency, it is the president who executes the laws, sets foreign policy, manages federal law enforcement, and controls the military. The president hires, fires, or removes those who stand in the way of him doing so. The check on his powers is the Constitution, Congress's power of the purse, and the voters themselves - not whether bureaucrats in Washington feel like going along with things.
Charlie Kirk is the founder and CEO of Turning Point USA, Turning Point Action, and host of the top-ranked podcast and nationally syndicated radio program, “.”

Graphic

 
WEST PALM BEACH, FLORIDA - NOVEMBER 06: Republican presidential nominee, former U.S. President Donald Trump arrives to speak during an election night event at the Palm Beach Convention Center on November 06, 2024 in West Palm Beach, Florida. Americans cast their ballots today in the presidential race between Republican nominee former President Donald Trump and Vice President Kamala Harris, as well as multiple state elections that will determine the balance of power in Congress. (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
