




The Daily Caller
January 24, 2025 Friday 08:37 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION
Length: 924 words
Byline: Charlie Kirk, Contributor, 
Body



In 2008, President Obama signed 19 executive orders in his first hundred days as president.
At the start of his second term, Donald Trump beat that number in less than 12 hours. At the rate he's going, he'll pass the 42 executive orders of Joe Biden's first hundred days in less than a week.
You've seen the headlines and the tweets by now - and in fact, there have been so many you've probably already forgotten some of them. DEI departments have been  across the federal government, with their workers furloughed indefinitely. An executive order has ended  citizenship for the children of illegal immigrants. America has pulled out of the Paris Climate Agreement and the World Health Organization. The new administration has revived its push to beautify America's civic architecture. The Pride flag has been yanked off the flagpoles of America's embassies. The JFK, RFK, and MLK assassination files are being released after half a century of being hidden. Troops are going to the border and ICE has been unleashed to remove illegal immigrants from the interior. 
And, of course, there are the pardons for the politically persecuted patriots of January 6, as well as for pro-life activists imprisoned by the Biden Administration.
I've skipped over a bunch. I've had to, because so much is happening. The new Administration is the most aggressive, ambitious, and prepared of any conservative administration in my lifetime, or yours. 
And Washington wasn't ready for it at all.
Eight years ago, the opening days of President Trump's first term were a bit shaky. It says a lot that even the President himself, the most supremely confident man in the world, will admit things weren't perfect. Hundreds of crucial staffing positions had no nominees, and many of those that did were people not aligned with the MAGA agenda. New arrivals struggled to understand how the government worked and what they needed to do to overcome a hostile bureaucracy. By the time the new administration found its footing, the so-called “Resistance” had spun up the Russia hoax as a way to paralyze the administration and rob it of momentum.

WASHINGTON, DC - MARCH 22: President Donald J. Trump shakes hands with Charlie Kirk, Founder and Executive Director of Turning Point USA, during a panel discussion at the Generation Next Summit in the South Court Auditorium of the Eisenhower Executive Office Building on the White House complex on Thursday, March 22, 2018 in Washington, DC. (Photo by Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post via Getty Images)
But President Trump is a brilliant politician and businessman for a reason. He watched what happened in his first term, and when he completed his triumphant return this past fall, he came prepared. 
President Trump's furious burst of activity doesn't just show more readiness and ambition than his first term. It's a genuinely brilliant strategy - “Shock and Awe” applied to politics. By acting so decisively and quickly, President Trump has effectively overwhelmed the media's ability to form and dictate a news cycle.
Consider this: On the night of January 21st, President Trump announced that he was repealing Executive Order 11246. That order, which dates back to the LBJ administration, had mandated the use of affirmative action within the federal government as well as companies receiving federal contracts. In reality, as chronicled in Chris Caldwell's The Age of Entitlement, Jeremy Carl's The Unprotected Class, and other books, that order became the legal bedrock driving mandatory racial discrimination in countless areas of American life. President Trump's order rights that wrong, abolishing federal affirmative action and recommitting America to its historic principle that all people should be judged on the basis of individual merit.
It was bold and incredibly important - and on the night it dropped, it wasn't even the lead story on CNN's website. Instead, CNN was fixated on Trump's J6 pardons. Papers like The New York Times or The Washington Post, meanwhile, were giving attention to Trump's immigration agenda. None of them were ready to instantly react the way they would have if this order had dropped two or three months from now. 
In the following days, regime media had caught up enough to give the order some attention . . . except by then, Trump was already bombarding them with even more daring moves to transform the American government. His affirmative action order was drowned out by troops deploying to the border, the shutdown of DEI offices, the order to release JFK files, and more.
Even for 24-hour cable news stations, there are still only 24 hours in a day. The legacy media still has some of its old power to set narratives, but there's a limit to how many they can set at once. They can tell you to be angry about . They can tell you to be upset about birthright citizenship going away. They can try to manipulate you with sob stories about illegal aliens facing deportation. And yes, they can try to argue that it's “racist” to ban racism in federal hiring. But it turns out, it's very hard for them to do all of those at once. And if they try, they'll immediately be blindsided by the next order, policy, or pronouncement from an administration that has learned the value of speed, energy, and constantly being on the attack.
The “shock and awe” administration is here to stay.
Charlie Kirk is the founder and CEO of Turning Point Action, and host of the top-ranked podcast and nationally syndicated radio program, ““

Graphic

 
WASHINGTON, DC - JANUARY 20: U.S. President Donald Trump holds up an executive order after signing it during an indoor inauguration parade at Capital One Arena on January 20, 2025 in Washington, DC. Donald Trump takes office for his second term as the 47th president of the United States. (Photo by Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
