




telegraph.co.uk
February 3, 2025 Monday 8:38 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: MUSIC; Version:1
Length: 749 words
Byline: By Ed Power
Highlight: Worthy winners including Kendrick Lamar, Charli XCX and Chappell Roan brought a party atmosphere to a city in desperate need of good news
Body


The Grammys tend to be one of the more watchable American awards shows to the extent that, even when the marathon of gong-giving starts to lose its novelty, there is always lots of reliably bonkers music to enjoy.
The 2025 edition lived up to the ceremony’s reputation for top-rank sonic shenanigans – with highlights such as Charli XCX singing in the concrete bowels of the Crypto.com Arena’s parking garage, Chappell Roan bestriding a giant pink pony and Beyoncé pretending to be astonished when she won Album of the Year, for the first time, for . 
But amid the ambitious set pieces, the enjoyable (if typically overlong) evening had its sombre moments. The   – and claimed 29 lives – were doused just days before the event at the downtown venue previously known as the Staples Centre, and at one point, it had been touch and go whether the Grammys would proceed as planned.
Acknowledging these challenges, the night opened with local soft-rock duo Dawes (who lost their homes in the blazes) singing Randy Newman’s I Love LA, accompanied by a star-studded backing band that included Brad Paisley, Sheryl Crow, St Vincent and John Legend.
The aftermath of the fires made for a challenging night for returning host Trevor Noah, who had to deliver the traditional inane blather whilst acknowledging a natural disaster that had the cheek to intrude on the gilded lives of the rich and famous. He did his best, and his monologue – performed from amongst the crowd, with   just over his shoulder – was solid, even if a dud joke about Shakira being “the greatest thing out of Colombia that isn’t a Class A felony” appeared to have been dialled in from the late 1990s.
The comedian also touched the live-wire subject of American current affairs – though he was careful not to get singed. “We’re going to make tonight special,” he said. “We’re going to try and have some fun, and we’re going to do something different. I don’t know if you know this, there’s been a few changes in Washington, so I’m going to enjoy tonight, because it may be my last time I get to host anything in this country.”
Political commentary was elsewhere at a minimum.   used her Best New Artist acceptance speech to urge labels to be more supportive of new artists. And Alicia Keys, accepting the Dr Dre Global Impact Award, defended diversity in the American workplace, saying, “DEI [“Diversity, Equality, Inclusion”] is not a threat, it’s a gift”. But the battlements were not quite stormed and anyone who expected the music industry to come out swinging against Donald Trump was in for a let-down.
Typically for the Grammys, the music was more memorable than the speeches.   charmed her way through an Old Hollywood-style medley of her hits Espresso and Please Please Please, during which she pretended to drop her baton mid-swirl and bump into one of her dancers.
It was a triumph of elevated Tinseltown ditz – which could not be said of a brooding unbilled return to the Grammys for The Weeknd (who had boycotted the ceremony in the past). Wearing a hoody and surrounded by dry ice, his rendition of Timeless and Cry For Me brimmed with “teenager refusing to leave his bedroom” vibes. You half expected his mother to walk in and warn that he was banned from Fortnite until he made his bed.
The evening was then topped off with a moment we’ve all dreamed of: Chris Martin singing about dead people. The Coldplay frontman soundtracked the In Memoriam section, singing his weepy dirge All My Love as a video montage flashed images of the late Kris Kristofferson, Liam Payne and others. There was also a separate tribute to  , who died in November, featuring Stevie Wonder, Janelle Monáe, Herbie Hancock and Wicked’s Cynthia Erivo – and introduced by Will Smith in his first awards show appearance since he slapped Chris Rock at the Oscars in 2022.
No such controversies attended at the 2025 Grammys. Beyoncé was honoured and humbled to win both Album of the Year and Best Country Album (becoming the first black woman to win the latter). Rapper Kendrick Lamar dedicated one of his five awards to his native LA. Amid a time of turmoil for the city, and upheaval in the world in general, the ceremony was just getting on with business – though the absence of any awards for Taylor Swift (with six nominations for The Tortured Poets Department) was testament to the strange new times through which we are living.

Load-Date: February 3, 2025


End of Document
