




MailOnline
February 4, 2025 Tuesday 8:16 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NFL; Version:1
Length: 731 words
Byline: Max Winters In New Orleans
Body


READ MORE: NFL fans call for Super Bowl boycott over black national anthem
                     Kansas City Chiefs and Philadelphia Eagles players are unfazed by the prospect of playing in front of Donald Trump in the Super Bowl on Sunday.
                     It was reported on Tuesday morning that the president will be at the Superdome in New Orleans to watch Patrick Mahomes and Jalen Hurts battle for the Vince Lombardi Trophy.
The game will be the first Super Bowl he has ever attended as President.
When asked for their reactions to the news that Trump would be flying into Louisiana for the game, players on both rosters claimed they did not see it as a distraction.
Eagles offensive lineman Jordan Mailata said: 'That's cool but Donald is not on that field. That's cool but again that's blocking out the noise.
'What am I going to do thinking about Donald Trump? How is that going to make me win the game?' 
Fellow Eagles lineman Lane Johnson replied: 'Ask him who he's pulling for?'
Asked if he felt under more pressure to perform in front of the President, Eagles linebacker Zack Baun answered: 'No. There's gonna be a lot of big names and celebrities at the game. No pressure.'
Meanwhile, Chiefs tight end Noah Grey said it was going to be 'awesome' to have Trump in the Superdome. 
His teammate, linebacker Drue Tranquill, said: 'Yeah. It will be cool to have the president at the game.'
Trump, 78, is also recording an interview for Fox as part of their coverage on the day but is now expected to be the first President in attendance since 2002 - which was also held in New Orleans. 
That day, George H. W. Bush took part in the coin toss before Patriots beat the Rams 20-17.
It will likely set up a battle in the stands at the Superdome for television airtime between Trump and Taylor Swift, who is expected to be there to cheer on her boyfriend Travis Kelce.
When Trump went to New York Jets at Pittsburgh Steelers earlier in the NFL season, fans were dismayed that he was only shown on television once compared to how often Swift is shown at Chiefs games. 
Swift publicly backed Kamala Harris at the last election but Brittany Mahomes, the wife of Kansas City Chiefs quarterback Patrick, endorsed Trump. 
Mahomes himself didn't reveal who he voted for but his mom Randi also publicly backed Trump.
He was also endorsed by Chiefs kicker Harrison Butker and long snapper James Winchester before the election in November.
Trump's scheduled appearance at the game has coincided with the NFL reportedly choosing to remove 'End Racism' messages from end zones at the Super Bowl for the first time in four years this weekend.
According to The Athletic, Sunday's showdown will be the first Super Bowl since 2021 to not include the statement at each end of the field. Instead, NFL chiefs have opted for 'Choose Love' and 'It Takes All of Us' to be used.
Trump, who returned for a second term at the White House last month, has been highly critical of Diversity Equity and Inclusion (DEI) initiatives in the US since his reelection; describing the programs as 'discrimination' while calling for 'merit-based' hiring to be restored.
It is believed the NFL's decision to axe the 'End Racism' messages from the Super Bowl led one high-ranking official to express concern in light of the president's controversial comments on DEI.
The Athletic's report went on to suggest that the move could well be considered 'a nod to the current political climate'.
However, earlier this week NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell said he was 'proud' of the league's diversity efforts while refusing to backtrack despite several organizations abandoning DEI programs in light of Trump's stance.
Super Bowl end zones had included 'End Racism' messages since 2021, one year after the murder of George Floyd by a Minneapolis police officer sparked nationwide protests against police brutality. 
Trump, a New Yorker who now calls Florida home, has not indicated which team he's supporting, but posted congratulations to the Chiefs after their AFC Championship win last month.
'Congratulations to the Kansas City Chiefs,' Trump said on his social media platform.
'What a GREAT Team, Coach, Quarterback, and virtually everything else, including those fantastic FANS, that voted for me (MAGA!) in record numbers. Likewise, congratulations to the Buffalo Bills on a tremendous season. They will do a lot of winning long into the future!!!'

Load-Date: February 4, 2025


End of Document
