




Fox News THE WILL CAIN SHOW 4:00 PM EST
January 28, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; International
Length: 7257 words
Byline: Kat Timpf, Chad Pergram, Alexis McAdams, Jacqui Heinrich, Will Cain
Guests: Ben Van Roo, Peter St. Onge, Markwayne Mullin
Body


WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Live from the heartland, welcome to "The Will Cain Show."
Well, the White House Briefing Room, it's back.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: The Trump White House will speak to all media outlets and personalities, not just the legacy media who are seated in this room.
To foreign nationals who are thinking about trying to illegally enter the United States, think again. The president is confident that we will restore American dominance in A.I.
This is not a blanket pause on federal assistance and grant programs from the Trump administration. If you are receiving individual assistance from the federal government, you will still continue to receive that.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt going about 50 minutes in her first briefing and making some news on those New Jersey drones.
Jacqui Heinrich was in the room this afternoon, and she joins me now.
Hey, Jacqui.
JACQUI HEINRICH, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Will.
Yes, when Karoline Leavitt walked up to the podium with no binder, it was clear that things were going to be different this time around. She also really did her homework. She called on everyone by name in the room, did her research on who the press corps is that covers this White House, and also announced that it will be expanding.
Not only is the White House giving up two seats on that left wall that usually go to White House staffers designated for new media, but they're also adding credentials, basically allowing anyone who does traditional or does legitimate, they said, news reporting regardless of the medium.
So it could be social media. It could be podcasts. You are now eligible to apply for credentials to cover this White House. The Web site that she gave was WhiteHouse.gov/newmedia. Today, they had two newsletters in those seats, Axios and Breitbart, widely read publications, so definitely expanding who gets to cover the administration and the channels through which that information gets out.
There were a lot of questions today on the new OMB directive that pauses federal grants and loans for a period of review. The initial memo did lead to some confusion about what programs would be impacted because, basically, it announced a pause.
And OMB had to release a new memo that made clear it's not an across-the- board pause and is limited to programs that are impacted by the president's directives, his executive orders like ending DEI and unleashing American energy.
Karoline Leavitt said repeatedly in that briefing that no individual assistance programs would be impacted, including Social Security, Medicare, food stamps, welfare programs, but the Medicaid Web site portal went down. And that added to questions about whether that would be impacted.
She tweeted after the briefing that the White House had confirmed no payments were affected. They're still being processed and sent out and the portal will be back online soon. The White House also released a supplemental memo clarifying the outstanding questions and answers on what this pause does and how long it might last.
And, finally, she made good on the president's pledge to tell America what was up with the drones. Take a listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
LEAVITT: After research and study, the drones that were flying over New Jersey in large numbers were authorized to be flown by the FAA for research and various other reasons. Many of these drones were also hobbyists, recreational, and private individuals that enjoy flying drones.
And, meantime, in time, it got worse due to curiosity. This was not the enemy.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HEINRICH: So we did follow up with the White House and asked what research it was that these drones were doing, that the FAA had approved. We didn't get an answer on that, but, overall, a really impressive first briefing from the youngest press secretary in history, Karoline Leavitt, Will.
CAIN: A couple of quick questions for you first. Jacqui.
I saw the back-and-forth on the OMB pause and spending. It seemed to take up a good chunk of the time devoted to that, 50 minutes with Karoline Leavitt. Would you describe the room -- I'm curious how this will go going forward for the next four years.
Would you describe the room as antagonistic to Karoline? We saw that in the first administration with our colleague Kayleigh McEnany. We saw the formerly employed Jim Acosta at CNN take a very antagonistic tone with the Trump administration.
What did you feel was the tone in there today with Karoline Leavitt?
HEINRICH: I think that, for the most part, everyone's just excited to get to cover an administration that is so accessible.
I mean, I had a hard time making my way to my seat because the room was just packed with people. Of course, you're going to get from some people who are in this press corps questions that are framed in a way that probably conflicts with how the administration sees things.
I think you saw that with Peter Alexander from NBC talking about whether criminal migrants who come across the border are in fact criminals because they have violated federal law of crossing illegally. Obviously, the phrasing of that question did not comport with how the White House sees that issue.
But I think it was a very professional exchange that they had. And, overall, I mean, she and the administration are showing that they're committed to being transparent by having so many of these press conferences with the president himself.
CAIN: Right.
HEINRICH: We expect to see him also later on this week. So it's going to be busy around here.
CAIN: Tough questions -- tough questions are fine. Tough questions are fine as long as they're honest questions and not just looking to create a viral moment.
One last question, Jacqui. Those two rotating seats for new media, will they rotate? You mentioned Breitbart and Axios. Is that going to be permanent seats for Breitbart and Axios? Or might we see that rotate in, and as it's been kind of speculated, I don't know, a seat for "The Joe Rogan Experience"?
HEINRICH: Well, it's unclear if the two seats will rotate. I know today they were filled by Axios and Breitbart. What we do know is that the first question of the briefing is going to go to those new media seats rather than to the Associated Press.
I will say Sarah Huckabee Sanders did the same during her tenure as White House press secretary, sort of bucked tradition of calling on the AP first. But the new media seat is open to credentials. I assume they're going to get an influx of tons and tons of people...
CAIN: Right, I'm sure.
HEINRICH: ... including podcasters, who want to be in that seat -- so, back to you.
CAIN: Right. OK, Jacqui. Thank you so much.
HEINRICH: Thanks.
CAIN: Good to talk to you there on the White House lawn.
By the way, if the drones were simply FAA licensed flights to conduct research, why couldn't that have been told to us by the Biden administration?
All right, now to another busy Trump official today. That's Department of Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem. She's addressing her new staff. She did so in the last hour, this after she spent time in New York City this morning for immigration enforcement.
Alexis McAdams joins us now from the Big Apple -- Alexis.
ALEXIS MCADAMS, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Will.
Yes, Kristi Noem got an early start here in New York City. She was up and on the streets at like 2:00 or 3:00 in the morning during these ICE raids. We have been talking about the migrant crime across the Big Apple for months. And now those ICE raids are under way
And we're told they're far from over. Investigators tell me, Will, they're going after the worst first. They're looking for criminal migrants who they say are wanted for a long list of serious crimes, including assault, child sexual assault, and more.
So these were some bad people, according to the feds, that they wanted to get, and get quickly. It was a multiagency effort. Now, I want to show you those pictures from the DHS secretary herself, Kristi Noem, so she was out in New York City specifically in the Bronx, OK? She was out on the ground in the middle of the streets.
The DHS secretary says, what was she doing? Exactly what President Trump wanted? Listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KRISTI NOEM, U.S. HOMELAND SECURITY SECRETARY: And that is my commitment to all of you, that we will walk through every single situation together and I will prepare you as much as I can for it and we will have the flexibility to make sure that we can always keep the American people first and foremost.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MCADAMS: So, who did they arrest? This Venezuelan migrant identified by DHS is Anderson Zambrano-Pacheco.
So Pacheco was arrested on a few charges. Listen to this, kidnapping, assault and burglary, to name a few. Sources tell me, Will, he's part of the South American gang Tren de Aragua. I have never heard of that gang so much is in the past like six months here in New York City with a lot of crime connected to them.
He had a warrant out for his arrest in connection to that viral takeover out of that apartment complex in Aurora, Colorado. People at home, do you remember this, seeing these groups of migrants caught on camera armed with weapons breaking into different units out there?
Back our here live in New York City, it's not just the Big Apple. These raids happened across the country. And with so much TDA activity on the ground there in Denver, this happened too. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
(SHOUTING)
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MCADAMS: So where are authorities taking these migrants once they're arrested? That's a good question.
Well, some of them are being sent by plane back to South America. You're looking at a plane there that was landing in Colombia after President Trump threatened the president there that, if you don't take your people back from America once we deport them, you're going to be hit with tariffs.
So how quickly things changed there. So back out here live, we're going to keep you posted on exactly what happens with these raids, Will, but we're told they're going to continue here on the ground.
CAIN: All right, thank you so much, Alexis.
Let's dive more into those raids taking place across the country and answering the question asked by Alexis. Where are those illegal immigrants being taken?
That brings us to our "Big Three."
First, Kristi Noem on the streets of New York City. This is your DHS secretary on the ground showing leadership on the front line in a way that the inaccessible previous administration never exhibited. As you heard Alexis say, it's not just happening in New York and Denver. It's happening in Los Angeles, Phoenix. It's happening in Chicago, San Diego. It's happening in Miami, Atlanta, Seattle, and various cities across Texas.
That brings us to number two. It's had a tangible effect on border enforcement. I want to share with you some numbers today that highlight the success of a heightened activity at the border and deportations in our American cities, 582 illegal crossings on Monday.
Now, for context, FOX's Bill Melugin said, that's unheard of. It was 1,200 to 1,400 per day in the last week of the Biden administration, but if you rewind the clock a couple of years, it was 11,000 a day, down now on Monday to 582 illegal crossings.
Let's go to one sector, Del Rio. In December of 2023, so a little over a year ago, 4,000 crossings in that sector alone, Sunday, 60. How about what's happening in American cities? In Denver, 130,000 fentanyl pills confiscated, two cartel-linked arrests as well in Denver.
Now, part of the mission here at "The Will Cain Show" is for us to dive deeper and not only analyze the news today, but look into what the news could be tomorrow. That brings me to where these illegal immigrants are being taken, what can be done about a problem that's been intractable at least through the last half-century in the United States.
Senator Mike Lee of Utah has a fascinating idea that he has put forward today. It's up at FOXNews.com and I want you to listen to this. I think it's absolutely worth consideration. He talked about letters of marque and reprisal.
What are letters of marque and reprisal? Lee laid out on X that they are issued by the government. They're commissions to authorize private citizens to perform acts that would otherwise be considered piracy, like attacking enemy ships during wartime.
So, a commission for private citizens, AKA privateers, to go stop illegal activity and in turn get a cut of the loot. This has been done throughout American history, whether it's James Madison or Thomas Jefferson, but it hasn't been done for over 100 years.
How would it work? Well, Congress or the secretary of state could authorize, according to Lee, issue letters of marque and reprisal, authorizing private security firms or security trained civilians to intercept cartel operations. They could target, for example, Lee points out, supply chains, capturing high-value targets or seizing assets.
Why is this a possibility? Why should this be necessary? Well, maybe it's not. All we know is this, that there are unconfirmed reports that Mexican drug cartels are now threatening deportation flights back to Mexico, again, unconfirmed.
But I can confirm for you that FOX San Antonio has said that Mexican drug cartels are lining explosives along the American border. This is an intractable problem, again, for the last half-century of the U.S., and it's a problem specifically tied to Mexican drug cartels, who we know are involved in human trafficking and drug trafficking.
Maybe a president who's looking at innovative solutions like reexamining birthright citizenship might also consider Senator Lee's suggestion of letters of marque and reprisal.
All right, joining me now -- we are one full week into this border crackdown -- is Oklahoma Republican Senator Markwayne Mullin.
Senator, are you ready to get a bunch of good old boys from Eastern Oklahoma head to the border and handle this privately?
SEN. MARKWAYNE MULLIN (R-OK): Well, I think they just all raised their hand and volunteered. In fact, I'm pretty sure, when I get home, my yard may be full of my buddies.
(LAUGHTER)
MULLIN: So, when I was looking at it, I thought, ah, you're going to get a lot of guys from Oklahoma and Texas taking this up on this offer. This is going to get interesting.
CAIN: I know where you're from, Senator. And I can imagine there'd be a disproportionate number of Eastern Oklahomans ready to handle this problem privately.
MULLIN: Yes.
CAIN: I do want to talk to you about a couple of other things.
MULLIN: And for free, by the way. They would do it just for the thrill.
CAIN: Not even for the cut of the loot.
MULLIN: Yes.
CAIN: I do want to ask you about a couple of things that are in the news cycle today.
I want to start with my former colleague, my friend Pete Hegseth, secretary of defense, someone you ushered into his confirmation late last week. He and Donald Trump, of course, president of the United States, are talking about an Iron Dome for the United States. It's on the list of things they want to see from DOD.
I'm curious, Senator, in your mind, why would we need an Iron Dome? We have two gigantic oceans on each side of us. Reagan looked at a Star Wars initiative. Is this something we need to consider, an Iron Dome?
MULLIN: Yes, and I'm glad you brought up, Will, Ronald Reagan. This actually started with Ronald Reagan.
And in fact, if you listen or watch his movie, it actually mentions it slightly in there. It ended up getting pulled out just because of some treaty. We absolutely should be considering, and not considering, we should have the Iron Dome.
In fact, if you talk to most Americans, they probably think we do have a missile system, same as what you see in Israel. But the truth is, we don't, which makes us highly vulnerable, because, if we do get attacked by ballistic missiles or hypersonic missiles, or, God forbid, even nuclear, it's probably not going to be shot all the way from Russia.
It's probably not going to be shot all the way from North Korea or from China. It's going to be shot in international waters just off our shores, which isn't going to give us a whole lot of time to respond. And when you start dealing with hypersonic missiles, it doesn't have a projected pattern like a ballistic missile does, where a ballistic missile has an arc that goes up and you intercept it.
When you're dealing with hypersonic missiles, you have got to intercept quick because of the fact that it's moving quick and it's moving at an unredacted location. So the Iron Dome is something that the president needs to be ushering in, just like he did Space Force.
People made fun of him when he said Space Force, and now we realize that the next war will probably be fought in space because it's going to try to knock out our communication. When he's talking about Iron Dome, this is a president that's looking at future fights and he's looking at a way to prevent it and keep America safe, which, by the way, was part of his promise to America.
CAIN: It's amazing how much make America great again is actually forward- looking and making America great into the future.
I mentioned, Senator, you helped...
MULLIN: But he's a business guy, Will. That's what businesses do. The business owner looks forward.
CAIN: Making...
MULLIN: They don't look at today, they look at tomorrow, and that's what President Trump is so good at.
CAIN: Right, innovating, making deals, projecting into the future.
I mentioned, Senator, you helped usher in Pete Hegseth. I know you and I have spoken that you're personal friends with Tulsi Gabbard. We are expecting Tulsi and Kash Patel and RFK Jr. confirmation hearings later this week. Do you feel confident that your fellow Republican senators will confirm Tulsi Gabbard, Kash Patel, RFK Jr.?
MULLIN: I feel confident on Bobby. I feel very confident on Kash. I'm not as confident on my very good friend Tulsi. We have got some work to do and she's the person to get the work done.
She leans into this fight, much like you saw Pete lean into it. The -- Tulsi's a new target for the Democrats now that Pete won his confirmation. They're putting all their eggs and all their firepower towards Tulsi. I talked to her early this morning. She's on the Hill. She's having the conversation.
She's taking the fight directly to each senator's office, which is exactly what she needs to do. But she's got some headwinds. And I believe we can get it done, but it's going to be tough. It's going to be tough. Thursday, when you see her in the hearings, she's got to perform really well. And I know she's up to the task.
We saw her in the debates. I know she's capable of handling herself. She's going to be calm and collected, just like Pete was, and I think she can perform just as good too. So I feel like she can get it done, but I'm not 100 percent sure we can get it done, but I believe we can.
CAIN: All right. Well, our eyes will be glued to that on Thursday and be glued to that tomorrow for RFK Jr.
And it's probably a very important step for America to seek and find accountability for the problems that have been involved with the intelligence agencies over the past eight years, from the first Trump administration to the lies of the last four years.
MULLIN: That's why the Democrats fear her.
CAIN: Yes, but we both know all she needs is Republican votes.
MULLIN: Right.
CAIN: So that fight has to happen on the right within Republicans.
MULLIN: That's right.
CAIN: All right, Senator Markwayne Mullin...
MULLIN: We have got to win the Republican votes.
CAIN: Got to win Republican votes. And we will dive a little more into that later here on "The Will Cain Show."
Thank you so much. Always great to see you, Senator.
MULLIN: Thanks Will. Appreciate you.
CAIN: OK.
As I mentioned, we're going to be diving more into RFK Jr. and Tulsi Gabbard just a little bit later here.
But, first, the Trump White House is saying that it's taking on pricey costs of eggs, despite what is being said by the left.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
LEAVITT: I would like to point out to each and every one of you that, in 2024, when Joe Biden was in the Oval Office or upstairs in the residence sleeping, I'm not so sure, egg prices increased 65 percent in this country.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: All right, and call it turnaround Tuesday for your money, all three major stock averages rallying today after yesterday's tech rout sparked by the Chinese A.I. company DeepSeek.
Also more on that coming up on "The Will Cain Show."
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ (D-NY): I'm going to tell you all right now, they do not give a damn about the cost of eggs.
REP. RASHIDA TLAIB (D-MI): Eggs in my district are $9.19, and the 200 executive orders that we've seen this week is missing any mention, any mention of lowering the grocery prices for our families.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: The Squad going after President Trump for expensive eggs, but the new White House press secretary had something to say about that today.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
LEAVITT: I would like to point out to each and every one of you that, in 2024, when Joe Biden was in the Oval Office or upstairs in the residence sleeping, I'm not so sure, egg prices increased 65 percent in this country.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Heritage icon was Peter St. Onge, friend of "The Will Cain Show," he joins us now with an incredible American flag shirt that is just capturing your television screen.
Peter, the thing about inflation is, once it starts, it's really hard to stop. It spirals. Now, the Trump administration says, we're going to attack energy, unleash energy, and if we can bring down the cost of transporting bacon and eggs, we can bring down the price of bacon and eggs. When will that work?
PETER ST. ONGE, HERITAGE FOUNDATION: Yes, that -- and that's all true.
Another huge part of it, of course, is the regulations. So that's something that Biden has spent 40 years piling on enormous regulatory costs onto all these things, of course, Biden's money printing. So all of that has momentum to it. It's going to take time to bring that back.
And as for eggs themselves, the biggest driver right now has been culling birds because of bird flu. Again, that's something that's a public health question. That's not necessarily something that Trump is just going to jump in and fix with an executive order.
But the wider issue here, of course, is that Democrats are going to take every single price they can and they're going to try to pump that for all it's worth. They're going to completely ignore all of the momentum on inflation, the regulatory cost that Biden put on, and they're just going to try to imagine that all these things cropped up immediately on the day that Trump took office.
CAIN: Right.
I was excited to talk to you today, Peter, because this conversation that's now being had about the role of tariffs and President Trump even musing about ultimately sunsetting income tax, well, quite honestly, you're the perfect person to address this.
So Trump has said this more than once, Peter. This is what he's saying in regards to income tax.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: The income tax came in, in 1913. As I said in my speech last week, instead of taxing our citizens to enrich foreign nations, we should be tariffing and taxing foreign nations to enrich our citizens.
SEN. RON WYDEN (D-OR): I believe these tariffs, you can call it whatever you want in terms of trying to gussy it up, they're going to be paid for by our workers and small businesses.
SCOTT BESSENT, U.S. TREASURY SECRETARY: I would respectfully disagree. And the history of tariffs and tariff theory, optimal tariff theory does not support what you're saying. Traditionally, we see that the current -- if we were to, say, use a number that has been thrown around in the press of 10 percent, then traditionally the currency appreciates by 4 percent.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: That was your current and new Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent embracing the idea of tariffs.
You and I, Peter, we have had long conversations about this golden age of America from about 1880 to 1920, where there was no income tax and the government was funded off of tariffs. Is that realistic in modern America?
ST. ONGE: Yes, well, first of all, I have been very excited that Trump has kept talking about this issue, right? It's something that he brought up during the campaign that he wants to replace the income tax, just completely get rid of it, replace it with tariffs.
And a lot of people said, well, that's election talk, it's not really going to happen. And here we are, and he will not let it go. He genuinely wants to do that. He's got the, what, Department of External Reserve Revenue that he wants to replace the IRS with to make foreigners pay for it.
It is very realistic. The key here is that, so, if he were to lay down something like 20 percent across-the-board tariffs, you could raise something like $730 billion a year to the federal government just from import tariffs.
Now, if you're trying to replace the entire income tax, the income tax raises something like $2.1 trillion. So you would have to cut government spending. Now, of course, Trump wants to do that. He tried that in his first term. Democrats keep forgetting this. Every single budget in Trump 1.0, he tried to enact massive cuts to spending.
Every single time, Congress said no. It was either RINOs or it was Democrats, of course.
CAIN: Right.
ST. ONGE: Trump has been trying to cut spending all along. If you could pair that with tariffs, you would massively grow the economy. That would actually be deflationary. It would cancel out the tariffs and much more.
CAIN: So you would have to bring in government spending cuts, institute tariffs, and then you could maybe phase down at least the role of the income tax in supporting the federal government. OK, it's worthy of deep historical analysis, which you always do.
You should check out Peter St. Onge, especially when he's here, on the digital 12:00 streaming version as well of "The Will Cain Show."
Heck of a shirt, man. Thanks for wearing it today and being with us on the show.
ST. ONGE: I had to do it. Congratulations, Will.
CAIN: Thank you so much.
All right, next up for President Trump's Cabinet picks, RFK Jr. Will he face the same headaches as Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth did?
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: Robert F. Kennedy is meeting with senators today ahead of his confirmation hearing tomorrow to be the next director, secretary of health and human services.
Chad Pergram has the pulse of it on Capitol Hill.
Good afternoon, Chad.
CHAD PERGRAM, FOX NEWS CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Will, good afternoon.
There is significant consternation that Kennedy lacks the votes to be confirmed. That's why he's on Capitol Hill now. He met Utah Republican Mike Lee and then the top Democrat on the Finance Committee, Ron Wyden of Oregon. Democrats are opposed.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): I cannot recall a nominee more dangerous to the health of Americans than Mr. Kennedy. He is neither a doctor nor a scientist nor a public health expert nor a policy expert of any kind.
When I met with him, he would not answer many questions directly, saying he would defer to the president, who also is hardly a health expert.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERGRAM: But it's unclear if all Democrats could oppose RFK Jr.
That said, he faces a skeptical chairman in Bill Cassidy when he appears before the Senate Health Committee Thursday. Cassidy is a doctor. He says RFK Jr. is -- quote -- "wrong on vaccines."
Here's where it gets dicey for Kennedy. Mitch McConnell could vote no. He suffered from polio. He also opposed Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth. But Republicans are not backing off any of the president's nominees.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. JOHN THUNE (R-SD): And they can do this the hard way or the easy way. If they want to continue to obstruct and delay, we're going to continue to grind and grind and grind, and we will do that through the weekend if necessary.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERGRAM: Kennedy could face blowback from Midwestern Republicans. That's because of his demand to cut high fructose corn syrup in food.
It's about the math. If all Democrats are opposed, Kennedy can only lose three votes on the GOP side -- Will.
CAIN: So, some follow-up questions here for you, Chad.
Betting odds, when I looked this morning, for whatever they are worth, were something like at 80 percent for Kennedy. You just laid it out. If this follows the same path as Hegseth, then Collins, Murkowski and McConnell are problems. You let out others, Bill Cassidy. I know North Carolina Senator Thom Tillis is deeply connected to the pharmaceutical industry, Midwestern senators connected to ag.
So how does the math add up for RFK? What are the betting markets seeing that this math seems to be defying with you and I right here, right now?
PERGRAM: Yes, it's one that's right on the edge right now. You talked about Midwestern senators. He just met with John Hoeven, the Republican senator from North Dakota. He wanted some assurances on agriculture. We talked a moment ago about high fructose corn syrup.
There are pro-life senators out there, James Lankford of Oklahoma.
CAIN: Right.
PERGRAM: Tillis, you talked about the pharmaceutical industry. And then could he get Democrats? We don't know. Bernie Sanders, some others have maybe indicated that they might be interested in voting for RFK Jr.
But we just don't know it's a jump ball. And it's going to be very telling to get through those not one, but two committee hearings, the Finance Committee tomorrow and then the Health Committee on Thursday. And he wouldn't still be meeting with senators if they thought they had this nailed down.
CAIN: And really quickly, Chad, because I am over time.
But I earlier in the program had a conversation with Senator Markwayne Mullin about these nominees. He expressed less optimism about his friend and somebody he supports Tulsi Gabbard than RFK. Is that what you're hearing as well on the Hill, that there's going to be a real uphill climb for Tulsi?
(CROSSTALK)
PERGRAM: Yes, that's probably the nominee that's the most in trouble. It might not even get out of the committee. The committee hearing is Thursday.
It probably is a jump ball, as I said with RFK Jr. Republicans will probably stick together on Kash Patel. And Tulsi Gabbard, that's the problem.
CAIN: OK. Wanted to make sure we pay attention to that.
Thanks for the update, Chad. Appreciate your time.
PERGRAM: Thank you.
CAIN: All right, is the United States in deep trouble with DeepSeek?
We will try to answer that, as China makes what some are calling a Sputnik moment when it comes to A.I.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: All right, and now to a story we touched on yesterday, but I wanted to spend some more time today, because I think it's very important, that we might dive deeper.
It's the story of DeepSeek. It's a small A.I. start-up company out of China. It's causing big headaches. And White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt addressed it today.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
LEAVITT: The president said that he believes that this is a wake-up call to the American A.I. industry. The last administration sat on their hands and allowed China to rapidly develop this A.I. program.
And so President Trump believes in restoring American A.I. dominance.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: So what is DeepSeek?
Well, it's an A.I. model that appears to be on par, maybe even better than industry leading models here in the United States. But the key is, it was built at a fraction of the cost.
It's also something my next guest knows all about. He says China is either changing the geopolitical landscape or they're lying.
Ben Van Roo the co-founder and CEO of Yurts, an A.I. company that integrates data to get accurate responses. And he joins me now.
Ben, your fellow tech entrepreneur Marc Andreessen has called this a Sputnik moment. Of course, that's the historical reference to the Russians putting a man into space that launched the American space race. The point is, this is a great leap forward for China when it comes to A.I.
So let's start with this. Before we get into whether or not they're lying, why would it matter if they totally disrupted what's happening in A.I.?
BEN VAN ROO, CO-FOUNDER AND CEO, YURTS TECHNOLOGIES: Well, I think what you see to date is, the United States has had such a strong position in building models, building the infrastructure for models, our dominance in developing GPUs, our dominance in funding new companies in this space.
And so what has happened kind of quietly over the last few months and then really over the last couple of weeks is, we have seen that DeepSeek is not just something that's been released by potentially a small company or potentially by China with China's backing, but what it shows is, it's a pretty proficient model. It's pretty capable.
It shows that it has advanced reasoning capabilities. It can be used and has been focused on certain things like math, on certain things like language. And it's left us all kind of stepping back and say, OK, if it's not the Sputnik moment, at least to say that China's here and this is a little bit of their coming out party.
CAIN: Right.
VAN ROO: Now, behind that is where all the questions and the complexities come in.
CAIN: Right, and I want to get to those in just a moment, specifically whether or not this whole thing is a fraud, whether or not they're lying.
But let's assume for a moment they're not, that it's true. The real key is not just that DeepSeek is good, but that it's cheap and that it's undercut the entire business model here in the United States, the one built by OpenAI, Microsoft, everyone else, and the need for all these chips and data centers. They built it for 1/20th of the cost. It's what they're saying, right?
So if they win and dominate, Ben, I guess what I'm wondering is, why is that so important to America? Is it because then they control the potential for thought? We already know that DeepSeek won't deal with questions about Uyghurs or Tiananmen Square. It won't deal honestly with those kinds of questions. So is that the real fear?
If they win this A.I. race, they control essentially artificial intelligence, which controls the information flow to our minds.
VAN ROO: Yes, I mean, I kind of bucket them into two categories.
First is really more organized around, have they cheaply trained this model and with some processes that they have described loosely in some papers? But there's a lot of speculation how they approached it. And I actually do think that that has a profound effect. If they were lying, but it is still what I kind of call out 10 times more expensive than what they're describing, they actually build a really, really high quality model for a fraction of the cost of what we're seeing with some of the current development.
Now, again, why that's important is, right now, the major corporations in the United States, whether proprietary organizations like OpenAI or companies releasing open source models like Meta, are the ones that have the GPUs, all the infrastructure to go and build with the techniques that we have in place.
CAIN: Right.
VAN ROO: Now, if you cut that down, it allows for all new types of entrants to come into the world, whether they're smaller companies or sovereign nations.
Now, the second part of your question is really more focused around whether or not they will control A.I. and how we -- what we are thinking. DeepSeek did release the top downloaded app that's in the Apple Store today. And that is something that you can go and chat against.
And one of the things that I spent time thinking about is, is this TikTok 2.0 all over, where, instead of just our videos and our thoughts and dance moves, we're asking corporate level questions that might be sent over to China? And so it opens up a very different can of worms on how we might use a model.
CAIN: That too.
VAN ROO: What I will note is they also open it up so this model could be open source downloaded and brought into companies by themselves...
CAIN: Right.
VAN ROO: ... and then delivered and put in a more secure environment.
CAIN: I want to see if I can fit two questions in really quickly, Ben.
So I like the analogy to TikTok 2.0, so a Chinese Trojan horse, but you made an important point. They made this open source. So is there an argument this is actually good for free speech, that while we might not trust DeepSeek in particular, if it is being made cheaply and it's open source, that's better than it being dominated by OpenAI or Meta.
It actually makes it so you, for example, or anybody else can create competing A.I.s and allow for free speech to flourish.
VAN ROO: Yes, I think it's a fantastic point and something that's going to drive real debate.
Artificial intelligence, frankly, this hasn't been just launched two years ago, when ChatGPT happened. There's been entire institutions over the past several decades that have slowly built out capabilities, both -- that have basically been published in the open domain. And a lot of techniques are really well-known.
CAIN: Right.
VAN ROO: So I think the short answer is, Meta is open sourcing models today.
You have Mistral in France open sourcing models today. It can help the community flourish. But, to your point, when you talk about the Uyghurs, when you talk about Tiananmen Square, you do have to start to understand and think about...
CAIN: Right.
VAN ROO: ... well, wait, what's behind some of these really complicated models? And we don't quite yet know with this model...
CAIN: And that's not...
(CROSSTALK)
VAN ROO: ... in particular.
CAIN: And that's not an argument to trust DeepSeek in particular, but a field full of cheap competitors.
I'm not going to ask you my last question, because, honestly, I know you don't know the answer, and I'm tight on time. And that is, are they lying? And I know that's an open question and one you have written about.
You should go check out Ben Van Roo's Substack, where he's written about this. It all could be a lie. Did they really make it for that cheap?
Fascinating conversation, Ben. Thank you so much.
VAN ROO: Thanks for having me.
CAIN: All right.
More from "The Will Cain Show" next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: Welcome back. We have got a few stories today that make you stop and think "You Cain-Not Be Serious."
I didn't write that. I didn't name it that, and I feel funny reading it.
But here to help us tell those stories is Kat Timpf.
All right, Kat, thanks for joining us here on the show. Let's jump straight into it, if we might.
First up, Democrats in Congress are bringing in emotion regulation specialists. These are to help cope with Trump's return to office, Kat.
KAT TIMPF, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Oh, man. OK, so I'm nine months pregnant, so my emotions are about as unregulated as one's can possibly be. So I guess there's nothing wrong with seeking help, but this did give me a little bit more of the vibe of the teacher wheeling the TV into the classroom so you don't have to get any work done, because it was part of this big workshop type of thing.
How helpful is this going to be? I would say that their goal needs to be to actually be able to work with Republicans, to accept the fact that Trump is the president for the next four years. If this is going to help them do that, then great. But I'm not so sure.
CAIN: Yes. But I'm with you.
And this isn't because I bought into modern-day therapy society, but rather because they acted insane the first time around, like legitimately insane. So you might see someone. And so now they have. They brought in a psychotherapist or a psychiatrist, and emotional support might be needed to handle it differently this time with Trump.
All right, topic number two, Kat. I don't know if you were at this party. I don't know if you were in D.C. during the inauguration, but take a look at this party. This is the night before the inauguration. There's the cover of the New York Magazine. You can see it's in the white -- white frame. That's a bunch of good-looking people and beautiful outfits, all smiling and having a good time.
But the headline is "The Cruel Kids' Table."
TIMPF: Yes.
CAIN: And they go on in New York Magazine to write that basically the story is a bunch of white people and it's all their plans to be cruel.
But, look, look, put it back up real quick, if you wouldn't mind, because I want to point this out to the audience.
TIMPF: Yes.
CAIN: Look beyond the white frame. You see the white frame? This is the full picture, right? Look at the circles on the left.
TIMPF: Yes.
CAIN: That's three black dudes. They framed it...
TIMPF: They also put text over another person's face who wasn't white.
So they...
CAIN: Oh, I think I can see that. Yes.
(CROSSTALK)
TIMPF: It's not -- it was very quite clearly on purpose that they cropped it that way.
So if you need to crop something a certain way, then what you're writing, you're hiding reality. And just to think that nobody would point that out is quite arrogant also.
CAIN: It isn't just like there's a meme about this. The media is zooming in on something, right? And it looks like the victim is the assailant when it's actually the assailant is the victim. Whatever.
And it's because that's what they specifically did here.
TIMPF: Right.
CAIN: They zoomed in to distort reality.
TIMPF: And I'm a writer and I know how difficult it is to come up with an idea and then do some research and then realize, actually, I wasn't right about that. Or, actually, the research I'm doing doesn't line up with what I thought reality was.
It can be tough to scrap everything, but that's what you got to do. OK? That is what you got to do.
CAIN: You got to. Yes.
TIMPF: I understand how hard it is. It's better than it is to continue to push a false narrative.
CAIN: Right.
All right, last story with you here. Captain America actor Anthony Mackie, he is saying he's -- I don't know if he's the new Captain America, but he's the star of the new Captain America franchises. And he's saying: "For me, Captain America represents a lot of different things. And I don't think the term America should be one of those things."
He said -- he talked about like integrity and being a man of your word. But, look, Captain America upholds the values of America. That's what makes him Captain America, not Captain Integrity.
TIMPF: Mm-hmm.
I think overall, like, these movies are more for boys.
(LAUGHTER)
TIMPF: But I think, from what I can just deduce from words, I would say that Captain America is about America. He might have thought he had something there, but that's -- even I know that. And I'm just a girl who watches different movies.
CAIN: I think he's Falcon. And maybe Falcon's turned into Captain America. They're wearing kind of a similar outfit. I don't know. I'm not -- for sure.
We'll be watching you tonight.
TIMPF: Yes. You won't see me at Comic-Con.
CAIN: I won't see you on that. OK.
But I will see you tonight at "Gutfeld."
TIMPF: Yes.
CAIN: Thank you so much, Kat.
All right, it's time for "Will of the People," your feedback, making this a conversation.
Larry on X says: "You're spot on about everything, but what separates you from the others is your ability to tie a power knot with your tie. A pleat shows confidence and knowledge. Your tie pleat has both. FYI, hook 'em."
Hook 'em, Larry.
Mandie says about the show: "Some of it, I like. Some of it, I have muted. I can't take liberal nonsense and I'm not a sports fan. The rest is good."
Well, thanks for what you like, Mandie.
And then another user says: "Always watch 'Kudlow.' Maybe I will now DVR 'The Will Cain Show.'"
However you watch, we enjoy you watching us from the heart of America,
"The Five."

Load-Date: January 28, 2025


End of Document
