




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 22, 2025 Wednesday 12:29 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 216 words
Byline: Dan Primack
Body


January 22nd, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
Cisco CEO Chuck Robbins defended  
Why it matters: Robbins also serves as chair of the Business Roundtable, one of America's most powerful corporate trade organizations.
The big picture: Corporate DEI has become a political flashpoint, with President Trump on Tuesday encouraging the private sector to eliminate such programs.
He did so in an executive order that dismantled DEI policies at federal government agencies and set the stage for DEI-focused government employees to be laid off.
What Robbins said: "I think the pendulum swings a little wide in both directions. And for us, it's about finding the equilibrium ... You cannot argue with the fact that a diverse workforce is better. There's there's too much business value ..."
"It's being discussed like it's a single-issue discussion, and you either believe it or you don't. And in reality, it's made up of 150 different things, and maybe seven of them got a little out of hand. I think those six or seven things are going to get solved and then you're going to be left with common sense."
"But the core reasons that you have a diverse workforce are still there from a business perspective."


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 22, 2025


End of Document
