




Michigan Daily: University of Michigan-Ann Arbor
February 4, 2025 Tuesday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS-; Pg. 1
Length: 1030 words
Byline: Glenn Hedin
Body


The Ann Arbor City Council met at Larcom City Hall Monday evening to express their appreciation for Groundcover News, discuss the effects of the new presidential administration on the city and commemorate Black History Month.
The meeting began with a motion to establish the week of Feb. 2, 2025 as Groundcover Vendor Appreciation Week, a week dedicated to city-wide celebration of the newspaper vendors of Groundcover News. Groundcover is a nonprofit street newspaper which aims to give a voice to underrepresented populations in Washtenaw County and provide economic opportunities for people experiencing poverty and homelessness.
Ann Arbor Mayor Christopher Taylor shared his appreciation for Groundcover vendors and said the council was honored to recognize their dedication to the city.
"As everyone knows, the downtown is for everyone," Taylor said. "If you've ever been downtown, you know that there are folks who are there working hard every day, working to sell the Groundcover News ... in that light, it's my great pleasure to proclaim this week Groundcover Appreciation Week."
Groundcover vendor Joe Woods spoke on behalf of the newspaper and thanked the Council for designating the week of appreciation.
"Groundcover is really bigger than what people think," Woods said. "Yes, we do help people get jobs and help people earn money to get housing. But also Groundcover has helped many of us, myself included, achieve goals - personal goals, all kinds of goals. So I just want to say thank you all for allowing us to be out here and for, first and foremost, embracing us in the community."
City Councilmember Erica Briggs, D-Ward 5, then spoke on the negative effects of President Donald Trump's federal funding freezes. A Jan. 27 memo issued by the Office of Management and Budget, which has since been rescinded and temporarily blocked by a federal judge, sought to pause federal financial assistance that would conflict with the new administration's agenda. Briggs said the attempted freeze and other recent executive orders have caused uncertainty throughout the community.
"Our country has been involved in chaos from a series of cool and calculated executive orders and administrative actions by appointed officials and non-appointed individuals," Briggs said. "On the economic side, we've seen billions of dollars in federal funding frozen to Michigan. Although some of that funding has been unfrozen, much is still in limbo, as it is tied to conditions and policies for DEI and immigration policy and others."
Briggs continued, promising that the city would do whatever it could to protect its citizens, including nonprofit organizations and federal employees based in Ann Arbor, from potential negative impacts of the current presidential administration.
"Nonprofit agencies serving refugees have already lost precious dollars, and many of our residents, who are federal employees, who work with EPA, are fearful of their jobs," Briggs said. "I just want to acknowledge that the road ahead will be tough and there are limited tools we have as local government, but I know we'll be using all the leverage that we have to protect each and every member of our community."
City Councilmember Cynthia Harrison, D-Ward 1, spoke on the importance of recognizing Black History Month while pushing back against increasingly prevalent efforts to erase that history as a part of Trump's anti-DEI push. The Council approved resolution CA-10, approving a grant of over $200,000 to the James L. Crawford Elks Lodge, a historical building and organization with special significance to the Black community of Ann Arbor. The lodge houses the local chapter of the Improved Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks of the World, a Black fraternal organization founded in 1898. Harrison highlighted the importance of the grant and said the lodge represented the Ann Arbor Black community's resilience.
"Black history is Ann Arbor history," Harrison said. "The James L. Crawford Elks Lodge stands as a testament, as proof that when Black Ann Arborites were policed out of spaces we built our own. When exclusion was the norm, we created institutions that not only sustained us, but uplifted an entire community, and today, as efforts across the country try to erase that history, the city is choosing to recognize it, invest in it and ensure its future."
The city council also approved several resolutions as part of the consent agenda, including CA-4, to approve the collective bargaining agreement between the city and the Ann Arbor Police Professional Assistants; CA-6, to authorize the purchase a new fire truck for the Ann Arbor Fire Department; CA-8, to approve a professional services agreement with 4 LEADERS LLC to advise on the city's Sustainable Energy Utility initiative; and CA-7, to approve a professional services agreement with the University of Michigan for the Ann Arbor Office of Sustainability and Innovations' Neighborhood Decarbonization Project .
The CA-7 resolution will support a series of evaluations on Ann Arbor's Bryant neighborhood. Over the past three years, Bryant residents have partnered with Community Action Network in the hopes of creating a more sustainable neighborhood, emphasizing carbon neutrality in the community. Backed by Taubman professor Lesli Hoey and a University evaluation team, residents, landlords and other community stakeholders will be surveyed to understand how potential improvements to heating and cooling systems, power usage and home safety could achieve their goals.
Missy Stults, the Office of Sustainability and Innovations director, addressed concerns about financial support for the project despite the uncertainty surrounding federal funding.
"Staff are working very hard to preserve as much funding as we can," Stults said. "We are lucky that we've been quite successful in the last 18 months to bring down just over $32 million in federal awards, and what I can tell you is true is that OSI has the funding to cover CA-7 if the grant funds are revoked. As such, we feel confident moving this proposal forward regardless of the uncertainty in the federal landscape."
Daily Staff Reporter Glenn Hedin can be reached at 

Load-Date: February 5, 2025


End of Document
