




CNN Wire
February 6, 2025 Thursday 10:37 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Cable News Network All Rights Reserved
Length: 624 words
Byline: By Daniel Wine, CNN
Dateline: (CNN) 
Body


             Editor's Note: CNN's 5 Things newsletter is your one-stop shop for the latest headlines and fascinating stories to start and end your busy day. 
Welcome to 5 Things PM! Ocean currents. Chemical reactions. Blood flow. Storm clouds. These are all examples of turbulence, and scientists believe they've made progress in tackling 
Here's what else you might have missed during your busy day:
5 things
1   Go-to guy: Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas has taken on a prominent role by swearing in many of President Donald Trump's Cabinet members. Appointed to the bench in 1991 - and now at 76 the eldest justice - Thomas has led .
2   'The fear is real': Shortly after taking office, Trump ordered all federal diversity, equity and inclusion workers to be placed on paid leave and signed an executive order targeting private companies. DEI professionals 
3   Cardiac clearance: Focusing on your heart health means eating right, exercising and paying attention to potential warning signs. One important assessment before undergoing surgery .
4   A second home: As a young boy, Kobe Bryant spent a lot of time in Italy, and that's where he developed a love of basketball. A tiny playground in Reggio Emilia with hoops glued on opposing walls 
5   Style on the run: There are so many options for jogging apparel that online directories, Instagram mood boards and sub-Reddits have sprung up to help people make sense of it all. 
Watch this
Tough times: As a human resources executive, Diane Evans used to make more than $200,000 a year. After she was laid off a year ago, she's only been able to find work as a bathroom attendant.  Evans said of the job market.
Top headlines
·  for federal workers to accept Trump's resignation offer· Musk associates  to shut down USAID spending, emails show· Video: Hear what voters who didn't vote for Harris because of Gaza 
270,769
 That's how many beads were found buried in a 5,000-year-old tomb in Spain that revealed 
Check this out
Then and now: In 1994, three guys took this "iconic photo" while they were on vacation in Cabo San Lucas, Mexico. They became best friends and have traveled all over the world together.  after they recreated it.
Celebrity corner
     Clean slate: Laverne Cox is no stranger to being marginalized. While promoting her new series, she discussed  as a trans performer and said the country is "worried about the wrong 1%."
Quiz time
  Google's original AI-generated Super Bowl cheese ad had some holes in it. What is the tech giant's artificial intelligence tool called? A. QB. GeminiC. CopilotD. ChatGPT   Scroll down for the answer.
Good vibes
Puppy love: Some people in Japan are finding comfort from robotic dogs known as "aibo," and they even take their battery-operated best friends to blessing ceremonies. Watch as these owners explain 
Thanks for reading
  Quiz answer: B. Cheese fans caught a mistake  Test your knowledge with CNN's weekly news quiz in tomorrow morning's 5 Things newsletter. Check out all of .
5 Things PM is produced by CNN's Chris Good, Meghan Pryce and Kimberly Richardson.         
             By Daniel Wine, CNN         
TM & © 2025 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.

Load-Date: March 8, 2025


End of Document
