




Targeted News Service
January 21, 2025 Tuesday 8:47 PM  EST


Copyright 2025 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved


Length: 384 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


Rep. Yvette Clarke, D-New York, issued the following news release:
* * *
CLARKE RELEASES STATEMENT ON TRUMP'S EXECUTIVE ORDERS, INCLUDING HIS DECREE TO END BIRTHRIGHT CITIZENSHIP
:
January 21, 2025
MEDIA CONTACT:
e: 
c: 202.913.0126
Washington, D.C. -- Today, Congresswoman Yvette D. Clarke (NY-09) issued the following statement on the numerous executive orders issued by President Trump on his first day in office, including his decree to end birthright citizenship:
"Months ago, Donald Trump promised us he would be a dictator on 'Day One.' Having reached 'Day One,' and having seen our new president sign numerous executive orders that either override Congress, overrule the courts, or undo the Constitution altogether, it is entirely clear that Mr. Trump has kept his word. With a power no president has ever known before, he has precisely spelled out how he plans to govern in the years to come - and that is by decree.
"Through his signature alone, Donald Trump has taken executive action that will worsen American lives and worsen America's standing in our world. Among his many despicable commands, he has resurrected old, failed policies like the Muslim Ban and Remain in Mexico, furthered current anti-DEI and anti-fairness practices, withdrew our nation from the Paris Climate Agreement and World Health Organization, and introduced disturbing new policies like his decree to end birthright citizenship as a constitutionally enshrined protection.
"I was born in Flatbush, Brooklyn 60 years ago to two Jamaican immigrants. My citizenship is my birthright. If Donald Trump wants to tell me, my family, my neighbors in Brooklyn and across New York and around the United States that our citizenship is illegitimate and we are not proper Americans, then he should expect to hear from the tens of millions of Americans he just disgraced. We are witnessing a shameless abuse of power, and I can say with certainty the immigrant community will not stand by as it progresses further. We will not yield to Mr. Trump's impropriety, illegality, and cruelty. He will not intimidate us."
***
Original text here: /
Copyright Targeted News Services
MSTRUCK-9008013 MSTRUCK

Load-Date: January 21, 2025


End of Document
