




MailOnline
January 24, 2025 Friday 2:07 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: COLLEGE FOOTBALL; Version:1
Length: 762 words
Byline: Oliver Salt
Body


READ MORE: Clay Travis calls iconic sportscaster 'd***head' for LA fire remarks
Outkick founder Clay Travis has tipped Donald Trump to appear on ESPN's College GameDay in 2025 after claiming the network is backtracking from its 'woke' agenda.
Travis, who is a contributor for rival college-football show Big Noon Kickoff on Fox Sports, was one of many to blast ESPN for not showing the national anthem and moment of silence in memory of New Orleans terror-attack victims on its main channel during this month's Sugar Bowl.
The broadcaster received heavy criticism online for only capturing The Star-Spangled Banner rendition and silence on its lesser-known SEC channel, which president of content Burke Magnus put down to 'human error'.
Over the past 18 months it has also been accused of firing two outspoken anchors - Sage Steele and Samantha Ponder - because of their views on controversial topics such as trans athletes in women's sports and the Covid-19 vaccine.
Yet despite being labeled as 'woke' by many, Travis - - the American writer and lawyer who founded conservative news site Outkick - believes ESPN now recognizes it went too far down the left wing 'slippery slope' after Trump's re-election as president this week.
As a result, he is predicting that the 78-year-old and vice-president JD Vance will feature on College GameDay at some point in the 2025 college-football season. 
After revealing his plans to pitch the idea for Big Noon, Travis said on his latest Outkick podcast: 'I'm gonna blow your mind with this one. I would not be stunned if GameDay lets Donald Trump or JD Vance come and be the guest pickers, because I think they are making a conscious decision at ESPN to recognize that they went too far down the far left wing, woke slippery slope.
'I think missing the anthem and missing the moment of silence [at the Sugar Bowl], that was a "holy crap" moment of the failure of the ESPN culture, and I think they are now going back and trying to redress and fix that error that they demonstrated when they made that choice.'
He then added: 'I think ESPN has basically waved a white flag. I think they are acknowledging that we've been right about a lot of things at Outkick.
'Heck, I think if Outkick were still independent ESPN might be trying to buy it because their brand is so on the ropes with sports fans.' 
College football fans reached boiling point with ESPN after labeling their national-anthem blunder earlier this month 'disgusting', while former anchor Steele accused her ex-employers of deliberately skipping it before Notre Dame faced Georgia at Caesars Superdome in New Orleans.
ESPN exec Magnus insisted the broadcaster feels 'terrible' about the incident and 'should be held to account' over it.
'There are a group of people in Bristol who just made an enormous mistake,' he told The Clay Travis & Buck Sexton Show. 
'It was a human error, it happens. I don't want to minimize it by any stretch but nothing was normal about that next day - including our programming lineup.'
Travis took to X at the time to claim rival networks were at a loss to explain ESPN's decision, saying: 'I've talked to sports execs and producers at every network this morning - CBS, NBC, and Fox - all of them are in complete disbelief ESPN didn't cover the national anthem and moment of silence for terror victims at the Sugar Bowl. 
'All say it's one of the most indefensible sports production errors they've ever seen. So far ESPN has blamed 'timing issues.' They need to fire people. 
'This is exactly what woke DEI (diversity, equality and inclusion) culture creates: hate for the country, a lack of understanding of basic sports fans, and, maybe worst of all, fear of speaking out on a bad decision from the non-woke employees. 
'A culture of rot creates this decision. This also exposes the 'sports media' who covers sports itself too. 
'These sites and individuals fall all over themselves to 'analyze Tom Brady or Tony Romo in the booth,' but don't cover the most indefensible production error/decision in years. In so doing, they expose themselves too.'
Steele, who filed a lawsuit against ESPN after her controversial firing in 2023, was in agreement with Travis.
'I've tried to ignore countless decisions my former employer has made, but this one is inexcusable. And further proof of how far this once great network has fallen,' she said.
'Crazy that even after all the cord cutting, the decreased ratings & the multiple PR debacles, the brass at ESPN and Disney still refuses to just do what's right from both a business perspective & a human perspective. So sad.'

Load-Date: January 24, 2025


End of Document
