




MailOnline
January 24, 2025 Friday 8:46 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: MEDIA; Version:1
Length: 595 words
Byline: Alex Hammer For Dailymail.Com
Body


                     CNN's resident data guru could not help but praise Donald Trump after observing a rise in his approval rating Friday - four days into his presidency.
Senior Political Data Reporter Harry Enten called the occurrence proof Americans were already 'lik[ing] what they're seeing', even after the president's plentiful pardons.
The polling from Reuters/Ipsos showed Trump ending the week with what's undoubtedly his highest rating ever - a net favorability of six points.
Eight years ago, the conservative had a rating of negative three points, leading Enten to marvel at the shift. 
'That's up nine points,' he said - before noting how polling also showed 47 percent of Americans approving of Trump, compared to just 41 percent who didn't.
'To borrow a Donald Trump phrase, this is big league!' he joked - seemingly with a hint of seriousness given the rise occurred within a matter of days.
'This is a sign that the American people - at least initially - like what they're seeing,' he reasoned. 'More Americans approve of Donald Trump's job than disapprove.'
He eventually pointed to a graphic that rightly stated how Trump is the 'only president ever' to sport a higher rating within a month of their second term than their first.
Trump issued a slew of bold executive orders in his first week. 
He has begun rounding up illegal migrants to deport, banned diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) policies in the federal government and sought to curtail the more extreme facets of transgender ideology.
All three of those positions are broadly supported by a majority of both Republicans and Democrats, recent polling shows. 
: 
 'You see right here, more Americans approve of Donald Trump's job than disapprove,' Enten told CNN News Central's Kate Bolduan, pointing to the statistics.
'So, Donald Trump isn't just in a better position than he was eight years ago at this point - he's in a better position than he was at any point during his entire first term,' the data scientists concluded.
'Things have very much turned around.'
He went on to proclaim that Americans were now looking at a 'very different Donald Trump', likely due to his outpouring of executive orders. 
'He's leading a very different administration the way he's attacking things,' Enten said, shortly after Trump pardoned a mix of January 6 participants, accused murderers, the founder of the Silk Road, and anti-abortion activists during his first days in office.
'And the American public is very much more in line with him than they were at any point during his entire first term,' Enten added.
At another point, he disclaimed, "This is Reuters/Ipsos, it's among adults. It was taken the first few days of this administration.'
He proceeded to point out how back in 2017, Trump was the only president 'in history' to start his presidency with a net negative approval rating.
The results came days after Enten couldn't help but express the exact opposite - dismay - while reading out Trump's predecessors historically-low approval ratings on the set of CNN Newsroom, conceding they were some of the worst he'd ever seen.
'My goodness gracious,' the 36-year-old said Sunday, in response to the shocking statistic surrounding Joe Biden.
Behind him was a graphic showing Biden's 25 percent rating compared to other presidents leaving office.
                     Obama in 2017 had 52 percent, he noted - and Trump had 36 percent, he said.
'Look at how low Joe Biden is,' said Enten, before letting out the exclamation.
So far, Trump has pardoned all involved with the insurrection with January 6, and dozens more. 

Load-Date: January 24, 2025


End of Document
