




MailOnline
February 8, 2025 Saturday 1:33 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: MEDIA; Version:1
Length: 652 words
Byline: Alyssa Guzman For Dailymail.Com
Body


Panelists on CNN got into a heated exchange about racism in government after a Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) staffer resigned over insensitive social media posts. 
Progressive writer Touré and Representative Ro Khanna joined CNN's NewsNight with Abby Phillip to discuss the resignation of Marko Elez, 25, after it was revealed he had posted comments saying he 'was racist before it was cool'.
Elez - who also advocated to 'normalize Indian hate' - was one of two employees at DOGE that was granted access to $5 trillion in the Treasury payment systems. 
But by Thursday afternoon, the 25-year-old trusted Elon Musk ally had resigned after The Wall Street Journal exposed him. 
Musk, who runs DOGE, as well as Vice President JD Vance - who is married to Indian American Usha Vance - defended Elez, with the VP saying he deserved to be rehired because a 'stupid social media activity should ruin a kid's life.' 
Touré, however, disagreed with Vance's comments, telling CNN: 'In a world where DEI and critical race theory and affirmative action are under attack, I feel like we're protecting white supremacists and racists and attacking black and brown people who want to be part of the fabric of the country. 
'And I'm curious how the vice president would explain to his Indian children why he stood up for somebody who said, "Normalize Indian hate." Like, what would he say? And that issue may not come up today.' 
Democratic Strategist, Jenna Arnold, believed Vance's comment was to let voters know that cancel culture was over and they would 'let things slide'.
'An apology would not suffice for me,' Arnold said of Elez. 'This is a moral character bedrock of somebody's perspective of the world... These are not the kinds of people who should be filtering the biggest decision in the design of this country.' 
This prompted Republican Strategist Lance Trover to question if Elez should be 'banished off into the desert for eternity'.
'Like wreck his life, wreck his career, send him off into...' 
He didn't get to complete his sentence as Touré interjected: 'So, you're OK with racism in your party?' 
The conversation turned heated, with Trover, who was sitting next to Touré, pointed at him and said: 'Hold on, man, let me finish! That is not what I said, so don't even go there.' 
Trover said he would accept an apology and encouraged Americans to be 'compassionate people'.
Trover admitted Elez's comments were racist and 'terrible.' 
The panelist agreed the 25-year-old should apologize for his comments, however, Arnold said the apology needed to be genuine. 
Khanna had called for an apology on X earlier, which led to a fiery exchange between him and Vance. 
Khanna, who is also Indian American, asked Vance if he was going to make Elez apologize before his rehire for the 'sake of both of our kids.' 
Vance, who does not take it lightly when his children are brought up, told the California Democrat: 'For the sake of both of our kids? Grow up. Racist trolls on the internet, while offensive, don't threaten my kids. 
'You know what does? A culture that denies grace to people who make mistakes. A culture that encourages congressmen to act like whiny children.' 
Khanna shot back that he also believed in giving people grace when they make mistakes, but didn't agree with rehiring a racist to represent America. 
'If you are going to rehire someone to represent you [and] the USA, why not insist he apologize for saying: "Normalize Indian hate?"' he wrote on X. 
Musk, Elez's boss, posted a poll on X hours after stepping down asking users to vote on whether or not the Gen-Z hire should be brought back on. 
Seventy-eight percent of 400,000 voters said Elez's position should be reinstated. 
When President Donald Trump was asked about the debacle, he said he didn't know 'about that particular thing'.
Musk said Elez will be rehired, writing on X: 'He will be brought back. To err is human, to forgive divine.' 

Load-Date: February 8, 2025


End of Document
