




MailOnline
February 6, 2025 Thursday 3:36 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: MEDIA; Version:2
Length: 581 words
Byline: Bethan Sexton For Dailymail.Com
Body


PODCAST: Listen to Welcome to MAGAland - our new podcast revealing all the latest politics news and gossip
A CNN panel about DEI descended into chaos after a guest claimed she is paid less than her white, male colleagues.
Former White House staffer Ashley Allison exploded at CNN's Scott Jennings and panel member Arthur Aidala, a lawyer for Harvey Weinstein, during the heated clash.
'I do not have the same opportunity as you, I know I don't,' Allison said. 'I have a law degree, a masters degree and two bachelors, probably more than all y'all added up together and I have always been the least paid person on payroll at every institution.'
She went on to confirm that this was the case, 'even at the White House'. 
Allison was an Obama-Biden and Biden-Harris campaign senior staffer who was National Coalitions Director for Biden-Harris 2020 presidential campaign.
The discussion began after anchor Abby Phillip asked whether it was fair to blame DEI initiatives for the Los Angeles wildfires and fatal plane crashes as conservatives have done of late.
'Do you think that all of America's ills [...] can be attributed to DEI for real?' Phillip asked. 
Critics of DEI have suggested that progressive hiring practices have seen unqualified people given roles in the name of inclusivity.
She went on to suggest that President Donald Trump could be accused of the same tactics in his cabinet appointments which have seen him pick allies over those with more experience.
The debate rumbled on until Allison said she wanted to broaden it out beyond Trump's cabinet picks and began discussing her experience in the world of work.
In response to her claims about being paid less Aidala shouted, 'whose fault was that? I don't think you worked for George W and Trump!'
The tirade silenced the panel except Aidala, who broke out into a sarcastic clap at the end as the other guests, including former White House staffer Alyssa Farah, grinned uncomfortably.
During the debate, host Cari Champion also pointed out that Elon Musk has been given a prominent role in the government despite no political experience.
Trump has also tapped vaccine sceptic Robert F Kennedy Jr. for health secretary, despite his history of pushing conspiracy theories.
Meanwhile, Pete Hegseth was recently confirmed as Defense Secretary despite concerns about his past behavior being at odds with a high ranking military official.
'Did he find the person with the best expertise to address those issues or did he just find people he liked?' Phillip asked. 
Jennings hit back and suggested that the only qualification needed by a political appointee is to carry out the president's agenda, making Trump's picks a good fit for their respective roles.
'Of course he believes they are competent, he wouldn't have picked them if he didn't think they were competent.'
Allison then interjected to state that she believes the premise that people who are given jobs due to DEI are unqualified, 'is a flawed premise'.
She went on to explain that there are still many prejudices and injustices in the US based on race, gender, class and 'who your daddy plays golf with'.
Aidala then butt in to point out that this is a fact across the world, stating it is 'human nature'.
'I agree with you,' Phillip added. 'It is true there have been preferences not for merit since the dawn of time and in this country right now the same people that are going after DEI which is about giving opportunity to marginalized people are just as willing to hire their friends.'

Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
