




MailOnline
February 6, 2025 Thursday 10:18 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: MEDIA; Version:4
Length: 711 words
Byline: Stephen M. Lepore For Dailymail.Com
Body


                     CNN 'black sheep' Scott Jennings reminded the network's stable of liberals why Elon Musk has been brought in to clean up the swamp for Donald Trump.
Musk has been a controversial figure since joining team Trump and being named the chairman of the Department of Government Efficiency, aka DOGE. 
Democrats have slammed Musk for attempting to shut down the U.S. Agency for International Development and other government programs. 
Jennings, the left-leaning network's most prominent conservative voice, defended Musk on Wednesday night, responding specifically to The View co-host and anti-Trump conservative Alyssa Farah Griffin. 
'The American people elected Donald Trump because they thought he was going to be a sledgehammer against this government and against the out-of-control bureaucracy,' Jennings said. 
DOGE has long been pitched as Musk's attempt to eliminate billions of dollars in excess Washington spending.
'Elon Musk is the instrument of the destruction,' Jennings added, describing Musk's efforts as 'radical transparency.' 
The Tesla, SpaceX and X CEO is an effort at making government transparent to taxpayers and therefor can't be faulted. 
'Did you know your money's going here? Did you know your money's going there?' Jennings said of what Musk is doing. 'It's all upside for Trump.'
Musk's role with the Department of Government Efficiency is primarily to reduce unnecessary government spending.
'DOGE is saving the Federal Government approx. $1 billion/day, mostly from stopping the hiring of people into unnecessary positions, deletion of DEI and stopping improper payments to foreign organizations, all consistent with the President's Executive Orders,' DOGE said in a statement.
'A good start, though this number needs to increase to > $3 billion/day.' 
Musk's DOGE has hit the ground running much like the rest of the Trump administration in the first week on the job.
Musk's officials are now proposing the deployment of artificial intelligence to upgrade government systems.
Josh Gruenbaum - head of the Federal Acquisition Service at the General Services Administration (GSA) - revealed how they're considering utilizing AI 'in our portfolios.'
That includes ways to cut down on staff around the country, he said. 
We'll be 'cutting redundant business functions and associated staffing,' Gruenbaum said, alluding to the potential of AI taking over already-established jobs.
Trump's DOGE is also offering cushy 'buyout' deals to federal employees in the hopes of cutting back between five and 10 percent of the workforce.
A White House official confirmed to DailyMail.com on Thursday that more than 40,000 federal workers had accepted the offer before the quickly-approaching midnight deadline. 
Additionally, DOGE has set to work removing the Chief Diversity Officers Executive Council website from the U.S. Office of Personnel Management. 
                     President Trump has been highly vocal about his intention to dismantle diversity, equity and inclusion offices across federal government, describing them as 'Marxist.' 
'I will end all of the Marxist diversity, equity and inclusion policies across the entire federal government immediately,' Trump said in December.
Prior to Trump reclaiming the White House, the website described its services as the 'principal interagency forum to implement and sustain a national strategy for DEIA across Federal government.'
But Musk's call to wipe the website from the personnel platform indicates the entire department will be - or has already been - shuttered.
The department is also looking into stopping production of the penny to save taxpayers money. 
In a post on X, the group pointed out that a penny now costs three cents to make - triple its value. 
That cost taxpayers a whopping $179 million in fiscal year 2023, the post said.
DOGE has been tasked with coming up with recommendations on how to cut federal spending. 
It's unclear if it would advise permanently killing off the penny, or just halting or trimming the penny's production. 
Musk's DOGE has been tasked with reducing government expenditure and improving productivity within the public service.
He claims it can save $1trillion - but that number has already been worked down from the initial $2trillion he promised recently.

Load-Date: February 7, 2025


End of Document
