




The Times (London)
January 22, 2025 Wednesday
Edition 1, Ireland


Copyright 2025 Times Newspapers Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Pg. 11
Length: 283 words
Byline: Alistair Dawber
Body


The head of the US coastguard was removed from her post, with a Trump administration official saying she had "leadership deficiencies".
Admiral Linda Fagan became the first female leader of any branch of the US armed forces when she was appointed in 2022.
However, she was abruptly dismissed yesterday by Benjamin Huffman, the acting secretary of homeland security, who did not provide a reason.
A senior Department of Homeland Security official told reporters Fagan had failed to address border security threats, mismanaged acquisitions including helicopters, and put "excessive focus" on diversity, equity and inclusion programmes. President Trump has vowed to end such programmes in federal government agencies.
There was also an "erosion of trust" in the organisation due to its handling of an inquiry into sexual assault allegations, the official was quoted as saying.
More than a dozen former US Coast Guard Academy students who say they were victims of sexual assault filed complaints last year seeking $130 million in damages, accusing the school of allowing sexual violence to go unchecked.
"The failure to adequately address the systemic issues exposed by this investigation has underscored a leadership culture unwilling to ensure accountability and transparency," the official added.
Elon Musk, a Trump ally who leads the new administration's effort to cut costs, alluded to the diversity drive in a post on X but did not explicitly confirm the sacking. "Undermining the US military and border security to spend money on racist/sexist DEI nonsense is no longer acceptable," he wrote.
Rick Larsen, a Democratic party Congressman, criticised the decision to remove Fagan, saying it was "misguided

Graphic

 
Linda Fagan 'put too much focus on DEI programmes'

Load-Date: January 22, 2025


End of Document
