




MailOnline
February 13, 2025 Thursday 5:13 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 468 words
Byline: Rachel Bowman For Dailymail.Com
Body


Coca-Cola is facing calls for a boycott after rumors spread online that the company reported its workers to immigration.
The 'Freeze Latino Movement' was launched as a response to President Donald Trump's executive orders targeting immigration and diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI).
The movement called on the United States Latino population to boycott spending money on products and companies that do not support DEI processes and are anti-immigration.
'Latinos and Latinas stop spending money. Hold the line. We can all collectively make a big impact by simply holding and not spending our money,' the movement website states.
Boycotters have honed in on Coca-Cola after rumors spread online that the beverage company fired factory workers and turned them over to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE).
In one of the many TikToks circulating the unverified claim, Texas-based lawyer Trang Tran alleged that Coca-Cola had laid off 'thousands of Latin American workers' at a bottling plant in Texas.
'What made it worse was that they turned over their own employees to ICE after terminating them,' he said.
However, a spokesperson for the Coca-Cola Co. denied the allegations in a statement to the fact-checking website Snopes.
'The accusation that The Coca-Cola Company called immigration authorities to assist in the separation of undocumented workers is unequivocally false,' the spokesperson said.
There have been no credible reports of ICE arresting Coca-Cola workers and the accusations online remain vague. 
'I heard the Latino community is boycotting Coca-Cola because Coca-Cola decided to call ICE on all of their immigrant workers,' one user said.
'So the workers all went to work like normal, next thing you know ICE is pulling up to the work site and taking all of the immigrant workers. And come to find out, it was the company who called ICE on their own employees.'
Another user claimed Coca-Cola 'funneled a whole lot of illegal immigrants... into a room a lied to them about how there was a meeting and then you had them all cornered by ICE.'
Despite no specific details about the claims or proof, users have flooded the comments in support of boycotting the company for the alleged stunt.
'What's so evil about Coca-Cola is that they didn't mind hiring these Latin American workers in the first place. I'm boycotting too!!' one person said.
Many people claimed they are giving up their beloved Coca-Cola products and joining 'Team Pepsi.'
'I have been a heavy Coke drinker my whole life. I just switched to Pepsi as of today. SO disappointed in this company,' said one person.
'Now I going have mix my whiskey with Pepsi now,' said another
'I just went to the store learned what Coca Cola did. I went straight to Pepsi. Always been a Coca Cola preference. I am now switching,' a third person said.

Load-Date: February 13, 2025


End of Document
