




Fox News THE FIVE 5:00 PM EST
January 27, 2025 Monday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 8184 words
Byline: Dana Perino, Jeanine Pirro, Jessica Tarlov, Jesse Watters, Greg Gutfeld
Body


WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: I like how your show -- I'm getting used to the mic. Great job. I knew you would, Mike, I knew you'd get used to it.
We love reading your thoughts, if you're feeling ambitious, record your voice or take a video and send it in. And maybe we'll play it right here on "THE WILL CAIN SHOW."
All right. I'll see you next time, it's time for THE FIVE.
DANA PERINO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Hello, everyone. I'm Dana Perino along with Judge Jeanine Pirro, Jessica Tarlov, Jesse Watters and Greg Gutfeld. It's 5:00 in New York City, and this is THE FIVE.
We've got a treat for you. At any moment, President Trump about to give a speech to House Republicans in Doral, Florida. This is as they try to unify behind his very ambitious second-term agenda, and it's an agenda that's already causing shock waves across the globe. Colombia's President Gustavo Petro quickly caving on his refusal to accept deportation flights from the United States after President Donald Trump threatened to slap a 25 percent tariff and other punitive measures.
But Democrats are not fans of the Trump for tat, AOC is warning on X, "To punish Colombia, Trump is about to make every American pay even more for coffee. Remember, we pay the tariffs, not Colombia."
And then, "The View's" Ana Navarro, well, she added her two cents with this, saying, most of the flowers imported into the U.S. come from Colombia. Happy Valentine's Day, America.
So, the media is also freaking out over Trump's tariff tango.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOE SCARBOROUGH, MSNBC HOST: We're going to see this with a lot more countries the use of tariffs as a "opening bid" in negotiation.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You can solve that easily with a phone call. You don't have to go up on Twitter and threaten, you know, 25 percent tariffs or 50 percent tariffs, or whatever it is. Everything he's doing is creating chaos, and it's making the United States weaker in the world without making us safer.
JUAN CARLOS LOPEZ, CNN CHIEF CORRESPONDENT: This type of action is not going to help them with countries like Cuba or Venezuela.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This isn't making us safer, but it is feeding red meat to Donald Trump's base.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERINO: Greg, watching this yesterday unfold, the news was over before it really even began. He caved so quickly that the headlines couldn't catch up.
GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: It was beautiful. This reminds me of every criminal on "Cops." You know, once the police officer breaks out the taser, the cocky bravado of the shirtless drunk suddenly turns to, I'm cooperating. I'm cooperating.
It works because no one can call Trump's bluff, because there are no bluffs given. You know, to paraphrase on that word.
I said this on social media that Hollywood has made a slew of T.V. shows and movies about presidents, and the presidents are always these touchy, feeling, feely things. That's the limit to their imagination. They never imagined this that, in fact, reality has trumped their fiction quite literally, he has shown you that you don't have to accept no or failure as an option.
I think for the last 10 years, we have been living under the idea that we just accept the fact that we're in decline, that we can't do anything about it, that no one takes us seriously. And then you have this guy walk in and kick the squatters out.
It's a bigger story, because he said in his campaign speeches, it doesn't have to be this way, and that is what this is about. It doesn't have to be this way. The threat of cancel culture is gone. There is no more retribution.
Now you can return to doing the right thing without being -- without the fear of the smear. And you -- of course, you're going to get this thing where the Democrats do this all the time. It's the usual trick. They focus on the rare exception, like, we can't have trans women in women's sports. Oh, but they will kill themselves. No. We need to deport illegals, but they're going to go to our grade schools. No, we're going to have the death penalty, but one could be innocent.
As adults, we see the right thing to do, and we do not look at these extreme cases as reasons not to do them. That is a child's logic.
As for AOC and Ana Navarro, they seem to care more about coffee and flowers than women getting raped. They are some -- where is the pro-women? They -- Ana Navarro thinks she's going to get flowers for Valentine's Day. I think not.
But the fact that, like, they are arresting rapists and they are worried -- I think women would pay 10 cents more for their coffee if they didn't have to worry about getting raped on the subway. You bozos.
PERINO: Judge, Joe Biden really sort of just went along with things, right?
So, what Greg was saying, and we had decided to accept that the spina -- the spina -- China's spy balloon was, it was OK. It was -- we'll just wait till it crashes into the ocean or it was acceptable that Europe is going to put all these demands on our energy companies or on our regulations on us, and we're just going to accept it.
Trump threatened the tariffs on Colombia that would wreck the Colombian economy, and we had a fix in 10 minutes.
JEANINE PIRRO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL LEGAL ANALYST: Yes. Look, America has had the power all along to fix things. And just like that, Donald Trump shows up and proves that we had that power all along, but Biden wouldn't use it, because America was not first in Biden's mind. Biden was a globalist. He wanted everything to satisfy his globalist friends, and he rejected America first.
Because you have to ask yourself, why did he let illegals into this country? Why did he not vet them? You know, why did he allow them to be exempted from America's civil and criminal laws in sanctuary cities and the civil laws by coming in illegally? He wasn't for America first. He was for America last.
All right, and I got to tell you, you know, the reports are that you say within 10 minutes, my understanding is that President Trump was on the golf course, and he was between the eighth and the ninth hole.
I mean, this is a guy who knows exactly what he's doing, knows exactly how to fix things, and everybody's like, all the tariffs are going to be so terrible. No, it's the leverage that the threat of tariffs brings.
And by the way, don't be so worried about Colombian coffee. Brazil is the number one importer of coffee in the United States. And, you know, and this president from Colombia, what an idiot. His citizens need to be treated with dignity, and they cannot be flown in on -- what was it, a C-130, or whatever that military plane was. Are you kidding me? You want them on a private, commercial, charter flight? What do you want? They're criminals. They're yours.
What does it say about you and your country, that you don't want your own people? And what does it say about you Colombia, that Americans, if we want to come to your country, we have to have a passport, we have to have a visa.
But all this is just Looney Tunes, and Donald Trump is about standing up and making us safe.
And, you know, AOC, she could care less about money, because if she did, she would have let Amazon build in in New York, in her district, remember the 25,000 jobs and all that money? She's not into the money. These people are haters, anything Donald Trump wants to do, oh, it's chaos. No, it isn't. We're getting rid of chaos in America.
PERINO: And how does that feel, Jessica, getting rid of chaos. Does it feel good?
JESSICA TARLOV, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: I've never felt this good, totally revived.
PERINO: But he did show that there's a way to use deterrence is in a peace through strength sort of way, using economic and diplomatic means.
TARLOV: Sure, but I'm not exactly sure what he was accomplishing that's any different from what had already gone on. So, according to the ICE statistics, 20,635 Colombians have left our country between 2021 and 2024. I don't see any reason besides a show of force that he wanted to switch to a military plane versus the charters they were already going in. And it's about three times more expensive. I think it can be up to $852,000 for a 12 hour flight, which what it should be about to get it back there.
Also concerned about the signal that this sends to the world vis-a-vis our allies. So, no one would dispute that Colombia has been a great ally to America. And when South American countries look around and we should keep in mind, of course, that China is their number two, biggest trading partner.
So, are we pushing these countries into the arms of our enemies? If they look at how we're treating Panama, Colombia, Mexico, are they going to turn around and say, hey, I'd like to be aligned with the ICE -- Jesse and Jeanine are writing, they obviously have something to say.
(CROSSTALK)
PERINO: I'm not picking up my pen.
TARLOV: No.
GUTFELD: I'm drawing.
TARLOV: That is really beautiful. Those are like in the doodle books.
Anyway, so, what I think Trump wants to create with this is a fiction about what was going on under the Biden administration, like they never deported anybody.
I woke up one day and I'm the first person to send a Colombian back. Now, I understand President Petro misplayed the hand on it, saying that they have to be returned with dignity, and he did offer his own plane. He said, I'll send the presidential plane to get them. And then online, there were all sorts of rumors. These people were shackled, etcetera. I have no idea the type of conditions within that military plane, but I do know that it's more expensive. I do know that we got out nearly 29,000 Colombians.
And I do know that we are saying to our allies that we're going to start needless fights with you. There's nothing that we wanted from them, any different than for them to continue accepting planes, which they had been under the Biden administration.
PERINO: Jesse.
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: We want them to stop sending criminals, Jessica. That's one thing.
Listen to who was on the plane. These are the people that you want. Gin and tonics for in first class, maybe a hot towel, OK? Because this guy, Andres Para (ph) arrested in San Francisco, convicted of sexual penetration with a foreign object on an unaware victim.
Or this guy, he was convicted of extortion, kidnapping trafficking, manufacturing and possession of narcotics, or this guy on the jet who you want special treatment for.
TARLOV: I don't, I want him to go on a normal plane.
WATTERS: A convicted murderer.
PIRRO: I don't give a damn what plane they go out on.
WATTERS: This guy was a convicted murderer in Colombia, Jessica, he comes to this country illegally. We're sending him back. And you want him treated like a VIP?
TARLOV: No, he's --
WATTERS: That's never going to happen. OK, we're not pushing anyone into China's arms. There's a little thing called the Monroe Doctrine that will never happen.
Also, Biden's favorite word, don't, did that work? No. Trump's favorite word, tariff. It's already working between holes on the golf course.
TARLOV: I thought it was return to office.
WATTERS: This coffee business, they're like the 29th largest trading partner, the Colombians. All right, so it's a little more expensive Colombian coffee. I think I'm going to go with French Roast today. Maybe some African beans, maybe some nice Guatemalan beans, Jessica.
We have options as consumers in this country. So, if the price of Colombian coffee goes up, we can choose another coffee.
WATTERS: That's a good campaign slogan.
WATTERS: So they have another choice? No, they don't have another choice, Jessica, we're like sending them commercial airliners. We're sending them airplane parts.
Imagine a 25 percent tariff on a commercial airliner, and they already have deals with the military down there that they can't get out of that would destroy their economy.
GUTFELD: Why don't we use catapults? Has anybody brought up the -- just the creativity of a good modern catapult.
PERINO: We should ask Elon.
GUTFELD: Yes, you put a parachute on the -- on the -- on the illegal, you put them in the catapult.
PIRRO: Air Drop him so you don't have to land the plane.
GUTFELD: Exactly.
TARLOV: Does anyone know how gross this sounds?
GUTFELD: It's called a joke. This is why you lost.
PIRRO: They are the worst of the worst. They are criminals, pedophiles, murderers, deportation orders. Well, you know what? They don't deserve any kind of first-class representation or anything else.
PERINO: Let's take a break before President Trump starts, he is about set to take the stage any moment in Florida.
Up next, where to start going first as President Trump cranks up the deportation machine in sanctuary cities. But it's got one Hollywood actress actually in tears.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GUTFELD: President Trump about to address the House GOP conference meeting in Doral, Florida.
But in the meantime, the party is over for illegals, literally, as ICE agents busted a Tren de Aragua, who knows, invite only party in Colorado, locking up nearly 50 people.
On Sunday alone, ICE nabbing nearly a thousand criminal illegals across multiple states, giving the boot to sex offenders and murderers. Yet, some folks are missing the point of targeted and criminal.
Actress Selena Gomez sobbing at the site of these bad hombres getting deported, posting and then deleting this video.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SELENA GOMEZ, ACTRESS AND SINGER: All my people are getting attacked, the children. I don't understand. I'm so sorry. I wish I could do something, but I can't. I don't know what to do. I'll try everything, I promise.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: You got a few mansions. Open them up. Gomez explaining her decision to delete her post in a now deleted post that says, apparently, it's not OK to show empathy for people.
You know, Jesse, you are considered one of the most empathetic people on the planet.
WATTERS: That's true, and that's why I'm not really upset with her, the Judge, and you are probably just going to lay into her, but that's not me, Greg.
GUTFELD: No, not at all.
WATTERS: She's honestly upset. Those were real tears, and she may feel this way. She's misinformed. She doesn't understand it's rapists and killers that are going out first. The worst are first.
I like that Trump has quotas for deportations. He denies that they have quotas, but I hope it's true, because without deadlines and targeted numbers, you're not going to accomplish anything in government. Biden had quotas for getting rid of whites in government. He has quotas for getting rid of illegals. That's what DEI was, Jessica. He's like a CEO. He's like home, and you got to hit your numbers by the end of the month. Let's go. No bonus.
I hate how Biden knew there was a murderous foreign gang bang nightclub in Denver and let him party. Imagine being a gang banger in Denver, where you're sex trafficking, gun trafficking, right out in the open. Imagine how comfortable you have to feel to be on foreign soil and operating like that. After four years, you're basically like, yes, they know we're here, and they don't care.
Brennan, who keeps arguing with J.D. Vance, for some reason, always takes the side of foreigners, whether it's the Ukrainians, whether it's the Chinese, whether it's the Afghans. She just needs to understand this is a country that she lives in. She doesn't live in a foreign country, and it puts it into perspective -- Miller was asked this question by one of these weepy reporters who did one of these Selena Gomez deals, where she tries to scare you with tears.
She said, why are you doing all these ICE raids at schools? And he goes, if we're doing an ICE raid at school, we're protecting the kids at the school. We're taking out a rapist from the cafeteria. That's how we have to look at this.
GUTFELD: Yes, speaking of which, Jessica, that obese monstrosity known as Pritzker actually said that they had gone to a school when in fact it was Secret Service who were out there trying to protect against a known threat. That must be embarrassing for you personally, as a fan of Governor Pritzker.
TARLOV: Actually, I called him and I said, JB, I think they're going to the school. And he was like, on it. That was an unfortunate consequence of people tweeting too fast, obviously not waiting for the facts of it. But also that I feel as though it is increasingly hard to tell what's true and not true.
GUTFELD: Welcome to the club.
TARLOV: I know, God, it was all a big hoax, huh? Quotas, so Biden was getting out, I think on average, like 308, 310 a day, Trump is now targeting, I think 1200 to 1500 which is obviously a huge jump.
Part of the concern is that there might be some people caught in those roundups who are not non-citizens, that there are people that we either are U.S. citizens or people who have, you know, been here for -- I hear you breathing heavily, Jeanine, you can go after. So that's something to pay attention to.
I saw as well, that they -- that Trump and co want all the ICE agents to be in their vests and for this to be good T.V. And like Nancy Mace tweeted asking where she can watch deportations on live stream. I get it. My sense of humor is not the same as the rest of the country. I don't know if live streaming deportations is going to be the selling point that Republicans think.
Also, Tom Homan was interviewed over the weekend and asked about the canceling of the CBP One app and all of those appointments. And the interviewer asked him, well, what should people do? Right?
And he said, well, go to ports of entry, but they are cutting down on a legal way to apply for asylum. That's what that app was doing. There are people waiting upwards of a year in Mexico for their appointment.
So, if we can't actually follow the asylum process, which no one would deny, is a legal right that they have, and then on top of it --
WATTERS: Jessica, we're full, the country is full.
TARLOV: So, you're admitting that they are cutting down on legal immigration.
WATTERS: Jessica, 20 million people came in here in the last four years. We're full.
GUTFELD: Though you did say something, and you kind of made light of this whole live-streaming thing. And Judge, I think the thing here is it's being done with full transparency right before your eyes. They're inviting you to look at this. It's not in the dead of the night.
And let's not forget, they weren't covering the immigration -- the media wasn't covering the immigration mess. The government didn't care. We were - - Melugin was at the border every day. They didn't care, and now they care.
PIRRO: They tried to stop the drones that we were using to identify what was going on.
First of all, the asylum process. If there's a problem with asylum, call the U.N. and get them involved. We are full. Jesse is right.
And by the way, I can't stand it. I just can't stand it. And you're right, I am breathing heavy right now, the classic left argument is always the same. They may get people who are not illegals, they may get people who are Americans. No, Donald Trump may be Hitler. It's never about the facts. It's always about what they see in their minds, which are all messed up, OK.
First of all, every person that I've seen is a single guy military age, which is exactly what we've been seeing in this country for the last four years, I don't see any women and children, and every one of those people has an order of deportation, is a criminal, a pedophile, a murderer, a dirt bag of some type.
Now, let's talk about the journalists. Let's talk about Martha Brennan, and let's talk about -- Margaret Brennan, Martha Raddatz. Martha Raddatz, I can't believe they're rounding up people. Why was she not shocked when people were coming in through the border, legally -- illegally, unvetted children. We didn't even get DNA from the children. We didn't even get pictures of the children. There's no shock that we lost 300,000 children. They're just shocked that we're following the law and that J.D. Vance has to stand up and say when she says that people are vetted, no, the guy was involved in material support to ISIS, which means your vetting is either not being done or you're too stupid to figure out whether or not the guy is telling the truth, and that's all I have to say. And I am very calm, but keep doing it.
GUTFELD: You know, Dana Trump is considering sending 90,000 IRS agents to the border, and so should sex traffickers keep the receipts?
PERINO: No tax on tips. We're going to find out.
For like on Selena Gomez on the others, I would check your compassionate privilege, because they never said anything about Laken Riley. You had to go the president, the former president, into actually saying Laken Riley's name or Rachel Morin's name. They couldn't get a call back from the White House. They ignored all of that.
So, where does the compassion for the illegal criminal immigrants end and your compassion for your American citizens begin? That's what I didn't understand about that whole thing.
And the other thing about the -- you mentioned that these raids are not happening in the dead of night, and that you get to see them, what was happening in the dead of night in the Biden administration, they were flying people in in the dead of night. And then putting them all around the country, and then lying and saying that they weren't doing it.
We would actually have a split-screen moment with the former White House Press Secretary saying, the border is closed. Secretary Mayorkas, the border is closed. Split screen, Fox News at the border, everybody coming across, and none of those reporters that we've mentioned so far were ever down there.
I used to ask Bill Melugin all the time, anybody else there? Nope. They were all by themselves. The story of a lifetime, and they missed it on purpose, and now they want to try to win a Pulitzer because of it.
GUTFELD: They missed many stories, but they sure got a hold of Trump's tweets. Good job, guys.
All right. At any moment, President Trump will speak to the House GOP in Doral, Florida. Doral? I don't know. I don't get out much.
But coming up, President Trump assist handed Karen her bass.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: President Trump is coming out at any second to address House Republican members in Florida. Speaker Johnson is at the mic right now. And this all comes as he delivers another masterclass on holding Liberal leaders accountable for their failures. 47 attending a roundtable with local California leaders on the L.A. wildfires, smacking some common sense into embattled L.A. mayor Karen Bass after she dragged her feet on letting residents return to their homes to rebuild. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KAREN BASS, MAYOR, LOS ANGELES: We could get people back building as fast as possible. And we're going to continue doing that.
TRUMP: The one thing is they are saying they will not be allowed to start for 18 months.
BASS: No, that will not be the case.
TRUMP: OK, I just hope you're right.
BASS: You can hold me to it.
TRUMP: Four groups said that.
BASS: No.
TRUMP: That would be it -- they should be able to do it. They should be able to start tonight.
You have emergency powers just like I do. And I'm exercising my emergency powers. You have to exercise them also.
BASS: I did exercise them.
TRUMP: Because I looked. I mean, you have a very powerful emergency power. And you can do everything within 24 hours.
BASS: Yes.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: And I believe Donald Trump is about to take the microphone at Doral, speaking to the House Republican leadership. Let's listen in.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
(God Bless the USA by Lee Greenwood playing in the background.)
TRUMP: Thank you very much everybody. I want to thank you all and congratulate you. I mean, this is very big congratulations to our reelected House Republican majority on your largest popular vote. Did you know that? Since 1928. That's a long time, Mike, right? That's a long time.
But I especially want to thank our outstanding leadership team. Speaker Mike Johnson, we all know so well, he's doing great. Majority Leader Steve Scalise has gone through so much. And he looks better today than he did 10 years ago. I don't know what's going on. Thank you very much, Steve. You look great.
Majority Whip Tom Emmer. Tom, thank you. Great job. And House Conference Chair Lisa McClain. Lisa, thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you.
Thanks, as well, to all of the incredible House members and staff for your tireless work on behalf of our country, along with Congressional Institute CEO, Kelle Strickland. Thank you very much. Thank you. Kelly, thank you very much.
So, we have Kellyanne Conway. Nobody knows Kellyanne? Does anybody know her? Where's Kellyanne? She's around. She's so good. She's a good person too. She's a good person too.
And the mayor of Hialeah, I love this guy because he said, sir, we want to name a major boulevard after you, and he did it. Anybody that names a boulevard after me, I like. I like them a lot. Esteban, Bovo. And Hialeah, the mayor of Hylie, thank you wherever you may be, Esteban, where are you? Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you.
Great honor, actually. A lot of people come back from Hialeah, they say they just named a route after you. I said, it's OK. It's a beginning, right? It's a start.
With the help of everyone in this room, we've just won the most epic consequential political victory in American history, according to a lot. One of the major fake newspapers -- so in this case it's not fake news, let's say, but they said it's the most consequential election victory in the last 129 years. I'm trying to figure out what that means, 120. Who was there 129 years ago? But it is -- it was a great one.
At the presidential level, we won the popular vote for the first time of any Republican in decades. We swept all seven swing states, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Michigan, Georgia, North Carolina, Arizona, and Nevada, by very, very big margins, record-setting. And for the first time ever, all 50 states -- did you know this -- shifted toward the Republican Party. We've never had that before. Nobody has that. It's never happened before. You must be doing a good job, fellas.
We won the largest number of African-American voters in Republican history, including 39 percent of Black men, a record by a lot. So that's really nice. Thank you. And we won more Hispanic-American votes than any Republican ever. It's never won any -- not even close. Look at that, Hispanic-American.
We made historic strides with youth, men, women, urban, suburban, and rural voters. And in a political earthquake -- yes, sit down. Just enjoy it. What the hell? We're going to be here for a little while. But in a political earthquake, we won a wave of support from labor unions, including massive numbers of auto workers, which gave us Michigan as an example.
Think of that. We won Michigan easily, and we did tremendous with the auto workers, and an overwhelming majority of the rank-and-file membership of the Teamsters. The Teamsters were great. They showed up in droves, and we won them by a lot. Together we're forging a new political majority that's shattering and replacing Franklin Roosevelt's New Deal coalition, which dominated American politics for over 100 years. That's what we're doing.
And what Mike said before, common sense, it is a little bit of common sense. Maybe it's a lot of common sense. Under our leadership, the Republican Party has become the proud voice of hardworking American citizens of every race, religion, color, and creed. We become the party of the American Dream, wealth, creations for everyone, not just the rich.
If we do our job over the next 21 months, not only will House Republicans be reelected and expand our majority in 2026, we will cement a national governing coalition that will preserve American freedom for generations to come. There has never been anything like what's happened in politics in the last few years. Never been anything like it. Everybody -- people of religion, everybody seems to be with us. I don't know how anybody could even vote for the other side. In many cases, they don't, but they do get credit for it. You'll have to think about that.
I've raised a lot of money for the next race that I assume I can't use for myself, but I'm not 100 percent sure because I don't know. I think I'm not allowed to run again. I'm not sure. Am I allowed to run again? Mike, I better not get you involved in that. Now we raised a lot of money, a tremendous amount. In our Tele-Town Halls, there's something -- it's very special that nobody else is able to even contemplate using. We've gotten a lot of people elected with those Tele-Town Halls. We get on. We have 25,000 people on just in a congressional area. They win easy.
It works for Elvis, the Beatles, and it doesn't work for anyone else, but it works for Trump. And we would have tremendous crowds on those calls. I think we have -- I'll bet we got 35, 40 people elected because of the Tele- Town Halls. But I did say to the man, I said, this is the greatest person that sort of has the rights to it. Then he happens to be a great Republican. I said, this is the greatest invention. This thing he's going to make a fortune. He said, no, it's not that good actually because it only works for you. He said, actually, sir, it only works for you because somebody else did not pick it up. So I'm honored to have that privilege.
And I used it carefully, but we've done a lot of the Tele-Town Halls for people. I don't think we've ever lost one. It's hard to lose one, even if you only get five or six thousand people on a congressional list. But we've done them for states, we've done them for governors, and we've done them for senators. We did a couple of country-wide. I did a couple for myself country-wide. They're absolutely amazing.
We got the message through that and lots of other means. We even got it out through TikTok. Has anyone ever heard of TikTok? I have a little bias toward TikTok right now. I have to tell you. So, we won youth by the largest margin. No Republican -- you know, we generally don't win youth. We won by 36 points. Can you imagine that? And I think TikTok had something to do so. Pardon me if I'm a little bit -- I became a little bit jaded toward TikTok, but we'll see what happens.
We're going to have a lot of people bidding on it. And if we can see all that voice and all the jobs, and China won't be involved. You don't want China involved, but we'll see what happens. We'll see what happens. But over the past seven days, my administration has been moving with urgency and historic speed to reverse every single disaster of the Biden administration.
By the way, the guy was a disaster, OK. You know, we want to be nice. And he's probably not listening right now because it's a little late. But you know, I don't want him to listen. I don't want to say it. I feel badly. I was, you know, making the inauguration speech and I'm saying all the bad things. And he's sitting right here, you know, I'm saying they were a horrible administration. They didn't know what they were doing. They were grossly incompetent. I got a guy sitting right next to me. It's not that easy to do, even though he didn't understand what I was saying. He really didn't.
And deliver on the mandate that we've been given by the American people in a single week. I've taken over 350 executive actions. We've signed 300 -- and whoever heard of that one? And as I said in my inaugural address, the American decline is over. It's over. The Golden Age of America has officially begun. And I think that's a good thing for us to talk about, The Golden Age and the American Dream. I think it's a good thing because people haven't been talking that way for a long period of time.
On day one, I directed every member of my cabinet to marshal all powers at their disposal to defeat inflation and bring down the cost of daily life. And we're going to do that. You're going to see it starting to happen when we get going with the energy. The energy is going to, you know, brought everything up. It's going to bring everything down. I impose the federal hiring freeze, the federal regulation freeze, a foreign aid freeze -- a foreign aid freeze, isn't that right? We get tired of giving massive amounts of money to countries that hate us, don't we?
And I created the new Department of Government Efficiency, and I think it's going to be very meaningful. I terminated the ridiculous and incredibly wasteful green new scam, one of the great scams in history. Actually, isn't it 12 years up? They gave us 12 years to live, right? I think that we passed it, right? We're still around. Can you believe it?
You know, the person that really came up with it is a person that never even took a course on the environment. It was a poor student, not a good student, didn't understand a lot. And she came up with this idea and everybody, all of a sudden, started going. And then mainstream, you know, important Democrat leaders were starting -- you know, they got sucked into it. And we've spent trillions of dollars on just like throwing it out the window. You could throw it out the window. You would have been better off.
I withdrew from the one-sided Paris Climate Accord, and I canceled. It was so one-sided, you know. We had obligations, but Russia didn't, China didn't, other countries didn't. We played everything. We were going to lose a trillion dollars over a short period of time on that. And we had to do everything. They didn't have to do anything. It's ridiculous.
And I canceled the insane and very costly electric vehicle mandate. So, you can buy a car of your choice. If you like gasoline, go have it. And if you like hybrids, hybrids are doing well, you can have it. Or you can buy an electric car. We like electric. We like everything, but you have to have a right to buy everything.
I withdrew from the World Health Organization, where we paid $500 million a year, and China paid just $39 million a year, despite a much larger population. How about that? So, we're paying $500 million a year, China's paying $39 million a year. They have 1.4 billion people. We have -- nobody knows what we have. So many people came across the border. Nobody has any idea.
I used to say, like, 325 but we really don't know. But we're going to know soon. We're going to know. And I tell you, our people are doing a -- Tom Homan and his staff are doing an incredible job getting the bad ones out.
I declared a national energy emergency to unlock the liquid gold that's right under our feet because we will drill, baby, drill. We're going to drill, baby, drill. It's going to bring down prices and your energy costs are going to go way down. And that'll happen, I think, relatively quickly.
I'm going to give fast environmental approval for anybody building a plant for electric generation and anybody that invests more than $1 billion will get super-rapid approval. Not that they have to wait for nine years, 14 years. Like, I approved LNG plants in Louisiana. They were waiting for so many years. It wasn't Louisiana's fault. It was some people, they just wouldn't get them done. You've got a snail here, a tiny tree here. And I got it done in a matter of a few days. 14 years I got it done in about three days.
The people, as we called them -- I'll never forget. I called them and I said, congratulations, you've got your permit. What? They were so -- they were so shell-shocked. They didn't know what the hell was happening. They're going to spend -- and they spent about $16 billion on each plant. And they've been roaring since then. But we got them done in a matter of a few days.
Over the past week, we've begun the largest deregulation campaign in history for exceeding even the record-setting efforts in my first time. That was record setting deregulation. That was just as big as tax cuts as far as business and jobs were concerned. I'll tell you.
I actually asked -- you know, it's interesting because I actually asked some of the biggest businessmen in the country. I said, let me ask you, would you -- if you had the choice between the big tax cuts -- you know, we cut it from 40 percent to 21 percent. We're going to cut it further. But we cut it down to 20 -- everybody said that would be impossible. The people on the state helped us with that one a lot. But I said, if you had your choice of that or the big deregulation cuts, what would you take?
These are the guys that run the big companies, the big oil companies, the big companies of every kind. I said, would you take the big tax cut or the big cut in regulations? And every -- I've never had anybody said they'll take the tax cut. They took the regulation cut. I'll bet I asked that question a hundred times still, a hundred of the biggest people. They always -- Tom, they always said, sir, we'll take the regulation cut. You opened us up. You let us create all these jobs that we've all seen happen. So, it was even bigger than the big tax cut.
I also signed an order to end the weaponization of our government against the American people and investigate all abuses of power. And I stopped government censorship once and for all. And we brought back Free Speech to America. That's what happened. We're going to bring it back. Because we didn't have Free Speech. We didn't have Free Speech.
I mean, I was investigated more than any human being in history. Alphonse Capone was a baby. Now, this was a serious killer of Scarface. You've all heard of Scarface. He had a scar for a reason. He didn't play games, but he was Scarface. Of course, nobody ever called him Scarface to his -- to his face. They said, Al, you look great today. I had a scar that was like two inches thick that ran from here to here. They say, Al, you look fantastic.
But Scarface was not investigated as much as your president was investigated. And it turned out to be a positive thing for me. Can you believe it? It turned out to be -- we got a lot of votes. I think we got a lot of votes because they saw it was weaponization. It was a fight against the political opponent.
I ordered the end to all of the lawless diversity, equity, and inclusion, nonsense policies across the government and all across the private sector and the military. We got it -- we're getting it out and we've gotten it out pretty much. We did that in one week. It wasn't that easy, but everybody wanted it.
People that were strongly in favor of it, I thought, call me and say, thank God, you got rid of that. That was so bad. It was so bad we hated it. We abolished 60 years of prejudice and hatred with the signing of one order, all approved by the Supreme Court of the United States. It was a big thing. And the United States has become a meritocracy again. We are a country that's based now on merit for success.
Merit, if you're good at what you do, you're going to go places. I made it the -- and who would have thought that was going to happen? We didn't even talk about that one because I figured that one was going to be toughest to get. And so, we are now -- if you do a meritorious job, if you do something where you've done just -- you're just outstanding, you advance. And that's what it's about. It's about competition and it's about a lot of things. And the other becomes a very dangerous -- very dangerous plateau. We were in that plateau too long. And it's one of the reasons that you saw very bad things happening with our country.
I made it the official policy of the United States government that there are only two genders, male and female. Gee, that was a tough one. That was a tough one. Some of these people say I like seven genders. I'm trying to say go and name them. They got some weird stuff going on. No, you have two genders.
I renamed the Gulf of Mexico, the Gulf of America. And we are restoring the name of a great president, William McKinley, to Mount McKinley in Alaska, in honor of the incredible people of the State of Ohio who love their governor and love the man that became president. He was the big tariff sheriff. They used to call him. And he made a lot of money. Our country became very rich. And when he was assassinated, Teddy Roosevelt became president. And he spent all of that money that was made from tariffs. The money was so enormous.
And they built the thing called the Panama Canal. You might have read about this lately. It's become a hot subject because China essentially has taken it over and we're not going to let that happen. We're not going to let that happen. It was the biggest investment to this day ever made by the country. In other words, if you bring it up to modern-day numbers, we spent money that we've never spent anything so much. We've never had so many people die.
Thirty-eight thousand people died building the Panama Canal 110 years ago. And they gave it away for one dollar. It's also one of the most profitable things ever built. You know, ships are lined up back to Florida trying to get through. We're going to -- we're not going to let that happen. It wasn't the deal. We didn't give it to China. We gave it to Panama sort of, I guess. But they haven't behaved properly.
Perhaps most importantly, I declared a national emergency to stop the invasion of our Southern Border. We're going to stop that invasion. We've already done it. And today in Tijuana, you probably saw the -- I got a call from Tom Homan and some of the people. They said, sir, it's unbelievable. There is nobody. You have this huge area. It's a gathering area. It's always been packed with these people. What they did to our country is so unbelievable. That they could do this to our country, it's so horrible.
But he said, there's nobody there. And then they actually put it on television. I got to see it. And it was -- there was literally not one person, this vast area where people stay there all day long and they just walk right into our country. They just unchecked. No way. No check-in for ideas like voter ID. They don't want voter ID because they want to cheat. They wanted these people to come in because they want to cheat too.
But who could allow this to happen? But there wasn't one person standing in this massive -- an area that's like five football fields that was packed for years under these horrible people that wanted to kill our country. We halted all illegal entry. We have successfully ended catch and release. And we are deporting -- we're deporting 100 percent of all new trespassers apprehended at the border.
And nobody's coming in, and nobody's coming now because they know they're not going to be able to come in. So, we've really stopped something that was very, very serious. But we have to get the bad ones out. We have many murderers, many very bad people in our country that they've allowed because of a ridiculous, actually stupid, open-border policy.
I've also deployed troops to the border. And for the first time in history, we're locating and loading illegal aliens into military aircraft and flying them back to the places from which they came. And very importantly, America is respected again. We're respected again, isn't that nice? We have the years of laughing at us like we're stupid people.
And as you saw yesterday, we've made it clear to every country that they will be taking back our people that we're sending out, the criminals, the illegal aliens coming from their countries, we're taking them back and they're going to take them back fast. And if they don't, they'll pay a very high economic price and we're going to immediately install massive tariffs. It will be placed on them and other sanctions. But the tariffs, I told you, most beautiful word in the dictionary.
I also told you that I said that the first time that I got just absolutely decimated by the fake news, you know. I said, the most beautiful word and the fake news said, what about religion? What about God? What about love? So, now I say it's the fourth most favorite word in the dictionary. It's God, love, it's all these other things. But I say number four, but God, love, religion, tariff, fourth.
Another couple of weeks, it'll be like 10. Hopefully it's going to stay in the top 10. But the fake news went after me Tom, because I didn't say the first three. And now they can -- now that I say it, immediately say it, I'm sure they're going to find some others.
Throughout the week, the heroes of ICE have been hunting down and arresting hundreds of illegal alien criminals per day, including those with charges and convictions for rape, child sexual assault, terrorism, and even murder. Many murderers and in the crowd and many, many of these murders have committed far more than one murder. This is not going to work out. And we're going to get them the hell out of here.
Members of the savage Venezuela prison gang known as Tren de Aragua and MS- 13, including 50 violent individuals who were rounded up in Aurora, Colorado, which the Venezuelan gang took over. The governor who's a radical left governor was -- he didn't know what to do. He said, no, it's not that bad. They've only taken over a couple of apartment houses. See, they went into the real estate business. They did it unconventionally. They did it with guns. We have to go out and borrow or use cash to buy. They just did it with guns. They took over. He said, no, it's not that bad. They only took over a couple of buildings.
We're tracking down the illegal alien criminals. We're detaining them and we are throwing them the hell out of our country. We have no apologies and we're moving forward very fast. They're very dangerous people. They're very dangerous people. They're violent people. I used to say these are more violent than our criminals. In fact, the best part about them is they make our criminals look quite nice actually by comparison. They have very violent people.
We also have many violent criminals in our country, however, that did not necessarily come here illegally, but have been arrested 30 times, 35 times, 41, 42 times in a couple of cases -- 25 times, 18 times, many for murder and other heinous charges such as pushing people into subways. As the train's coming along at 45 miles an hour, boom, you get pushed into the subway. They had it last week. Getting them in the head with baseball bats while they're not looking. Punching all ladies in the face, knocking them unconscious and stealing their purse.
They even break into apartments and rape elderly women and beat up elderly men, beat them to hell. And I don't want these violent repeat offenders in our country any more than I want illegal aliens from other countries who misbehave. And I say, and this is subject to getting it approved, but if they've been arrested many, many times, they're repeat offenders by many numbers, I want them out of our country.
I also will be seeking permission to do so. We're going to get approval, hopefully, to get them the hell out of our country along with others. Let them be brought to a foreign land and maintained by others where very small fee as supposed to be maintained in our jails for massive amounts of money, including the private prison companies that charges a fortune. You know, let them be brought out of our country and let them live there for a while. Let's see how they like it.
You'll see crime all over the country dry up essentially. That's what Venezuela and other countries are doing. They're getting rid of their criminals and putting them into the United States of America. And their crime is down by almost 80 percent.
We're going to restore law and order in America, and we want to bring back the death penalty for these horrible people that kill people. They kill people. It's always a tough thing to say it because I don't like it. Nobody likes it. But if you don't do it, we're just looking for trouble.
I spent a lot of time with President Xi, and I'll never forget in my first meeting, I said, you have a drug problem. No, no, no, we have no drug problem. Why is that? Quick trial. What is quick trial? We try the person that sells the drugs immediately, and at the end of the day, we execute that person if that person is guilty. We have no drug problem whatsoever. And that's the most severe case.
But wherever you have no drug problem, you have the death penalty. And drugs causes a lot of the crime. A lot of the crime in our country is caused by drugs. It's a terrible situation. It comes through the Southern Border. Most of it is sent to all coming in from China.
And you know, it was very interesting. China, when I was with President Xi, I had a deal worked out with him that they were going to give their maximum punishment, which is the death penalty -- anybody making fentanyl and sending it into the United States. And we had a very unusual result in an election. We had a rigged election. We had a very unusual result.
And that went nowhere. It was all set to be. He would have absolutely done it. He was ready. We shook hands on it. And then Biden, of course, didn't follow it up. He didn't follow anything up. But if that would have happened, you would have had a lot less fentanyl death, I can tell you. You would have had very little fentanyl coming into the Southern Border.
Last week I also signed an order that will designate the cartels as foreign terrorist organizations. That's a very big designation. And as we are fighting hard to get birthright --

Load-Date: January 28, 2025


End of Document
