




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 29, 2025 Wednesday 5:52 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 381 words
Byline: Andrew King
Body


January 29th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
Columbus officials and organizations face uncertainty about the potential impacts of   
Why it matters: The directive could freeze or eliminate funding to many Central Ohio nonprofits and government programs.
Catch up quick: Trump's memo seeks to pause federal grant, loan and financial assistance programs, particularly those that involve "DEI, woke gender ideology, and the green new deal."
It's created confusion across the country. A federal judge temporarily blocked the order with an administrative stay that expires next Monday.
Threat level: Hannah Halbert, executive director of progressive think tank Policy Matters Ohio, tells Axios the memo is a "debacle" that threatens programs that fund opioid recovery, unemployment and cancer patient support.
"The only thing certain about this memo is that it is causing a tremendous amount of uncertainty and panic."
Case in point: The nonprofit LifeCare Alliance runs Columbus' Meals-on-Wheels program. Its president and CEO, Charles Gehrig, tells us the organization was happy to hear the White House's  
However, he's still worried about funding for other LifeCare Alliance programs that support older adults and  
But, he emphasized: "Don't worry, your meal is coming tomorrow."
Behind the scenes: City Attorney Zach Klein's office is meeting to discuss next steps and begin identifying what may be at risk, per city spokesperson Melanie Crabill.
The city will flag any federal grant awards that could be affected, particularly those related to green and DEI initiatives.
What they're saying: Mayor Andrew Ginther, in his capacity as president of the U.S. Conference of Mayors, released a  
Other Democrats are  
Rep. Joyce Beatty (D-Columbus) called the move "thoughtless" and a "deliberate attack on our nation's democracy" in a  
What we're watching: A spokesperson for Klein tells Axios that "all options, including litigation, remain on the table as we navigate the impacts of this executive action."


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
