




Fox News FOX NEWS @ NIGHT 11:00 PM EST
January 27, 2025 Monday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Length: 7329 words
Byline: Trace Gallagher, Kevin Corke, Ashley Strohmier, Christina Coleman, Dr. Michael Baden
Guests: Elizabeth Pipko, Arynne Wexler, Emily Wilson, Tudor Dixon, Chris Rufo, Meagan McCarthy, Anthony Esposito, Michael Baden, Chris Feil, Mia Feil
Body


GALLAGHER: Joe Machi, Heather Zumarraga, Jeff Dye, Kat Timpf, our studio audience. "FOX NEWS @ NIGHT" is next. I'm Greg Gutfeld. I love you, America.
TRACE GALLAGHER, FOX NEWS CHANNEL ANCHOR: Good evening. I'm Trace Gallagher. It's 11:00 p.m. on the East Coast, 8:00 here in Los Angeles, and this is America's late news, FOX NEWS @ NIGHT.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
AMERICAN CROWD: USA! USA!
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: All right. All right --
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Breaking tonight, many call him the people's president, and he appears to be back with a vengeance, delivering campaign promises at breakneck speed, reviving the American standard of peace through strength, even handling a diplomatic crisis with Columbia from the golf course. Threatening to impose stiff tariffs on the third hole and watching Columbia cave by the eighth hole.
President Trump later posting on Truth Social, quoting "F around and find out."
Meantime, the legacy media in full meltdown over the deportation of criminal illegal immigrants.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SELENA GOMEZ, AMERICAN SINGER AND ACTRESS: All my people are getting attacked. I don't understand.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: "COMMON SENSE" has thoughts on that. Plus, this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: The permit is going to take them? Everybody said 18 months. You said 18 months. You said 18 months.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: And that was as of last night.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: That was last night.
TRUMP: And that was last night.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: 18 months to clear lots.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We can't even see our homes right now. We are blocked from entering our street!
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Right.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: As you hear, anger rising in Los Angeles as wildfire victims rage at Mayor Bass over the rebuilding process. And they are not alone.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: You have emergency powers, just like I do, and I'm exercising my emergency powers. You have to exercise them also.
KAREN BASS, MAYOR OF LOS ANGELS, CALIFORNIA: I did exercise them. I just signed an emergency declaration.
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: Because I looked, I mean, you have a very powerful emergency power.
BASS: Yes.
TRUMP: And you can do everything within 24 hours.
BASS: Yes.
And if individuals want to clear out their property, they can.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: But we can't even get to our house!
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Two Pacific Palisades residents who spoke their mind to the mayor will join us live on set in moments. But first, the senior national correspondent Kevin Corke is live in D.C. with more on Trump, tariffs, and tee shots. Kevin, good evening.
KEVIN CORKE, FOX NEWS CHANNEL SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: OK, I'll give in credit. Great writing as usual. Thank you, Trace. Good to be with you.
You know what began actually as an agreed upon arrangement devolved this weekend into a political tempest that culminated in Colombian capitulation.
Now, the two sides eventually hammered out the differences, but today, Trace visa appointments at the U.S. Embassy in Columbia were still canceled, affecting dozens trying to get here.
Now, this all began as you know, when President Trump ordered flights with criminal Colombian nationals to be sent back to their country, only to have their president refuse the flights.
Florida Congressman Byron Donalds seem to sum it up perfectly, posting on X. Here is of story in five parts: Columbia refuses repatriation flights of their own citizens. Trump counters with tariffs and sanctions. Trump dares Columbia to F around and find out. House and Senate legislation is drafted to sanction Columbia. And yes, Colombia agrees to all Trump's terms.
The F-A-F-O comment a reference to a post on X and Truth Social of the president sporting a 50-style fedora and an F-A-F-O warning.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: We were being scolded because we had them in shackles in an airplane. And he said, this is no way to treat people. Now he understand. These are murderers, drug lords, gang members, just the toughest people you've ever met or seen.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CORKE: You probably saw this. Democratic pundits and politicians like AOC, for example, claim the pressure campaign, Trace would force Americans to pay more for coffee and flowers, and just like they opined on November 5th, this time too, they were wrong. Back to you.
GALLAGHER: Wrong again. Kevin Corke, live for us in D.C. Kevin, thank you.
Let's bring in political commentator Arynne Wexler, and RNC national spokeswoman, Elizabeth Pipko. Thank you both for coming on.
The GOP conference chair, Lisa McClain said this about Trump and Columbia. Elizabeth Pipko, I want to get your response on the backside. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. LISA MCCLAIN (R-MI): President Trump, I don't even think had finished the front nine before he successfully forced the Colombian president to take back their illegal immigrants. The days of America being walked all over are long gone. Thanks to President Trump.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: I mean, it says a lot, Elizabeth about his, you know, so called F-A-F-O style.
ELIZABETH PIPKO, FOUNDER, LEST PEOPLE FORGET: It certainly does. And it's funny to me, but it's actually the truth, right? That is the reality. I've been around President Trump several times over the last eight years or so, and this is how he gets things done. He is not in it for the wrong reasons. He has no interest in, you know, the media that covers it. He has no interest in people telling him what to do, why, when, or how. His only interest is doing what he believes is right and doing it as soon as possible. Right?
As he says, ahead of schedule and under budget, that's where he ran his business, that's where he ran America, that's why he is reelected to be the president once again.
GALLAGHER: I want to play this Arynne, because it's a very instructive -- a flashback along with some current sound, and I'll play it, and we'll see what you think about it. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Why are you waiting to take executive action on the border?
JOE BIDEN, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Because we need more forces on the border. I don't have the authority to do that.
TRUMP: Perhaps, most importantly, I declared a national emergency to stop the invasion of our southern border. We're going to stop that invasion. We've already done it.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Arynne, at the height of the border crisis with Biden, there were 4,000 illegal immigrants crossing a day in Eagle Pass Texas alone. Today, there were 60.
ARYNNE WEXLER, POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Yes. Well, this is a great reminder from President Trump that when you remember that you're a superpower and you act like a superpower, the rest of the world will treat you like you're a superpower.
I'm old enough to remember when, just four years ago, we had a secure border, we had legal immigration, and it turns out that Donald Trump remembers that too.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Senate Majority Leader John Thune today was talking about the Obama standard for confirmations. He said the following.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. JOHN THUNE (R-SD): They were ahead of schedule. We -- we're going back to what is the Obama standard. Obama got 12 of his Cabinet nominees through in 15 days. It took Trump 43 days to get his first 12 through back in '26 and 2017.
So, we are pushing hard.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Yes. I mean, Elizabeth Pipko, they really are on a very fast pace here.
ELIZABETH PIPKO, FOUNDER, LEST PEOPLE FORGET: They are. Look, I just said it, right? Under budget, ahead of schedule, and I promise I didn't even know what you were asking next. This is what Donald Trump is known for. He has no interest in waiting around, in wasting time, and doing things the way they've been done time after time before him. He wants the job done ASAP. That's why the American people put him there. And he knows the faster, he moves on this. The more promises he can keep, the more promises he can make come true, because he knows he has only four years to fix this country.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Arynne, this week, RFK Junior, Tulsi Gabbard, their confirmation turns POLITICO rights the following, quoting here: "The obstacles facing RFK. Jr. and Gabbard are different rooted in their unorthodox views and non-traditional backgrounds. They are as exotic as any Cabinet level nominations in decades, which even in tribalized capital, makes Republicans uneasy."
Do they get in? Do they sneak in? What do you think?
WEXLER: I think they are going to pass, but I think it's going to be a tough battle. I think that, you know, these are not traditional conservatives. Tulsi Gabbard, as we know, is running for the Democratic nomination just a few years ago, but these are promises kept, and Trump is really delivering on that. And so, I am hopeful, but it's going to be a tough one.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Arynne, Elizabeth, thank you both.
WEXLER: Thanks so much.
GALLAGHER: Well, the FOX NEWS @ NIGHT "COMMON SENSE DEPARTMENT" remembers when Selena Gomez used to play a teenage wizard on the Disney Channel.
Gomez is now an adult, and has given up the magic, but is apparently holding on to the world of make believe. Posting a video to her 422 million followers, where she is crying, saying, "My people are getting attacked."
Turns out her people are the criminal illegal immigrants being arrested and deported by ICE.
Apparently, Laken Riley and Jocelyn Nungaray killed by illegal immigrants are not her people, and those who lost their lives to fentanyl, also not her people.
But the leaders of Chicago and Illinois could be her people. They, too, are lying about the ICE raids, claiming ICE agents came to a Chicago elementary school. The governor of Illinois, J.B. Pritzker repeated the very same lie, except it wasn't ICE agents at the school, it was Secret Service agents, investigating a threat.
So, while Chicago leaders are lying and saying ICE is terrifying children, ice is protecting children by arresting several illegal immigrants convicted of child sex offenses.
Is Selena Gomez, who used to entertain children, now siding with those who harm children? "COMMON SENSE" would remind everyone that Waverly Place and its wizards are made up criminal illegal immigrants and their victims are very, very real.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GOMEZ: All my people are getting attacked, the children. I don't understand. I'm so sorry, I wish I could do something, but I can't. I don't know what to do. I'll try everything I've --
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Well, there you see, Selena Gomez crying over the Trump administration's deportation of illegal immigrants, a post she removed after a lot of backlash on social media.
Let's bring in "Emily Saves America" podcast host, Emily Wilson and the "Tudor Dixon Podcast" host, former Michigan Republican gubernatorial candidate, Tudor Dixon. Thank you both for coming on.
Tutor to you first. I mean, you saw -- you saw the Selena Gomez video there. It doesn't seem like, I mean, she's got her facts correct. She is crying over something, but it's not factually correct what she's crying about.
TUDOR DIXON, FORMER GUBERNATORIAL CANDIDATE, MICHIGAN: Well, I'm sure she wouldn't invite these people into her house. These are not exactly the people that anybody in the United States would call their people. These are people who are criminals. They have committed crimes. Some of them horrendous crimes, and some of them have gone after women her age.
You showed Jocelyn Nungaray, you showed Laken Riley. I mean, how many young women have to die or be brutalized by illegal immigrants who are here to commit crimes.
Certainly, there are people that cross the border because they want to be in the United States. That is not who -- Tom Homan is going after right now at this moment.
(CROSSTALK)
GALLAGHER: Right.
DIXON: But let us be clear, anyone who has crossed the border illegally has committed a crime, and they do not just get to live in the United States of America.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Meantime, Emily, you have the media really wanting to focus on the cost of the deportations. Here is a little bit of this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JAKE TAPPER, CNN HOST: How much does it cost to deport people, let's say, a thousand people?
KATY TUR, MSNBC ANCHOR: Is there a cost if we are forcing countries to take back people who came here without the proper documentation, then committed crimes here?
MARIA CARDONA, DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST: The things that he has focused on will be things that will increase the prices of people's groceries, gas, and rent, like the mass deportation raids that we are now seeing.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: We certainly know what it costs to keep them. It's billions of dollars to maintain, to give them housing and food, et cetera.
EMILY WILSON, HOST, EMILY SAVES AMERICA PODCAST: Yes, that's the funniest part about the Democrats all along. So, I heard nothing over the past four years of the cost of getting them here. They were flying them in here.
GALLAGHER: Right.
WILSON: The cost of transportation, the food, the shelter, the housing, the health insurance, the transgender surgeries, apparently, we were giving them. So, complete silence on all of that. But then all of a sudden, money is an issue with them.
GALLAGHER: Yes, I want to play this, Tudor Dixon, because this is some of the back and forth from the media on President Trump and Columbia, and they had this to say. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. JOAQUIN CASTRO (D-TX): You can solve that easily with a phone call. You don't have to go up on Twitter and threaten, you know, 25 percent tariffs or 50 percent tariffs, or whatever it is.
Everything he's doing is creating chaos, and it's making the United States weaker in the world without making us safer.
JUSTIN CARLOS LOPEZ, ANCHOR, CNN: This type of action is not going to help them with countries like Cuba or Minnesota (PH).
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This isn't making us safer, but it is feeding red meat to Donald Trump's face.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Those three people, Tudor Dixon, could not be more wrong if they tried again and again and tried harder to be more wrong.
DIXON: Well, it just goes to show that Democrats have no idea the power of the United States of America or how to wield it. This is the exact thing Donald Trump should be doing.
In fact, my own congresswoman, Hillary Scholten, came out and said, because of what Trump -- Donald Trump is doing, we won't get our Valentine's Day flowers.
Boy, I bet Laken Riley would like to have some Valentine's Day flowers.
GALLAGHER: Yes.
DIXON: I bet Jocelyn Nungaray's mother would like to have Valentine's Day flowers for her daughter. This is ridiculous. It's completely insane to think that they have no idea what safe communities are worth in this country, and they really have nothing to go on right now.
(CROSSTALK)
GALLAGHER: Yes.
DIXON: So, you can see the desperation from Democrats trying to come up with a reason this is a bad thing, to show that America is strong.
GALLAGHER: Yes. And don't forget, Americans voted for this very thing. Emily, here is Democrat, Stephen A. Smith on how the networks go after President Trump.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
STEPHEN A. SMITH, AMERICAN SPORTS JOURNALIST: Do they want to sit up there and talk? You look at the networks right now, they are talking about, look at it, this is the latest. Look at him. Here he goes again. Well, you know what here he goes again means? He is doing what he said he was going to do. He promised you he was going to do these things. And he walked into office week one, and that's exactly what he's doing.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: And people are shocked that he is doing what he said. People are literally shocked. He ran on it. People voted for him on it, and he is doing it. And people like, what in the world?
WILSON: It's -- I think this just proves everything we said about the past four years, that they are so used to having someone who is not only on vacation, completely incompetent. When someone actually steps in and does what they said they are going to do, America is literally in shock. And they don't -- they're in shock. They don't even know what to do. They're like, wait, someone actually is doing what they said they were going to do. By the way, this is what we voted for. We wanted all this.
GALLAGHER: We wanted this.
Emily Wilson, Tudor Dixon, thank you both.
While the president -- yes, there is a sound. The president's aggressive reshaping of the federal government is continuing tonight. And moments ago, he signed multiple executive orders, meaning, major changes for the U.S. military.
Ashley Strohmier is live with the new information on this. Ashley, good evening.
ASHLEY STROHMIER, FOX NEWS CHANNEL ANCHOR: Hi, Trace.
In the latest strokes of his pen, President Trump signed executive orders getting rid of Diversity Equity and Inclusion or DEI programs in the military, and directing the Pentagon to make a policy around transgender service members.
He spoke about some of the big changes he is making to the U.S. military earlier this evening.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
TRUMP: We will get transgender ideology the hell out of our military.
In addition, we will stop our service members from being indoctrinated with radical left ideology such as critical race theory. We're going to stop it. It's already been stopped. It's already been halted. Totally halted.
STROHMIER (voice over): Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth, also voiced his support for Trump's agenda during his first day on the job. Watch.
PETE HEGSETH, UNITED STATES DEFENSE SECRETARY: The lawful orders of the president of the United States will be executed inside this defense department, swiftly and without excuse.
STROHMIER (voice over): Meantime, the president is getting pushed back for an order he already signed, requiring federal prisons to house inmates according to their biological sex.
One transgender inmate filed suit in a Boston Federal Court, arguing the order violates the Constitution and federal law.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
STROHMIER (on camera): And Trace, President Trump also signed orders reinstating service members discharged for not getting the COVID-19 vaccine with full back pay and benefits and beginning the creation of an Iron Dome like Israels, for the U.S. Back to you.
GALLAGHER: Ashley Strohmier, live for us in New York. Ashley, thank you.
Let's bring in Manhattan Institute senior fellow, Chris Rufo. Chris, great to have you on the show. You wrote an op-ed the New York Post called the left thugs failed to shut me up after years of torment.
It reads, in part, quoting here, "When I lived in Seattle, they put up posters around my neighborhood with my home address, telling insane lies about me, instructing activists to show up at my door. Later, they sent letters to a few 100 of my neighbors, claiming I was a Nazi, white supremacist. Death threats, references to my family, the whole deal."
Do you feel vindicated when you see what's happening right now, Chris?
CHRIS RUFO, SENIOR FELLOW, MANHATTAN INSTITUTE FOR POLICY RESEARCH: I absolutely do. Look, what President Trump is doing now is something that I've been arguing for and fighting for, for many years, and the price is very high. And I am just thrilled that the president is not just taking action, but taking decisive action, really, throughout the federal government, on critical race theory, on DEI, on trans ideology.
You know, there has been a war on the American people. Now, President Trump is launching a counter revolution against woke. And all those people who threatened and harassed me and my family are quiet tonight, because we are winning, and we are going to win decisively.
GALLAGHER: You talk about that counter revolution. Now, here is Pete Hegseth and what he said today.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
HEGSETH: And today, there are more executive orders coming that we fully support, on removing DEI inside the Pentagon, reinstating troops who are pushed out because of COVID mandates, Iron Dome for America. This is happening quickly.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: And Pete's right, it's happening quickly, but it took a while to get here. Chris.
RUFO: It did. But what's happened, and I know this from a lot of the reporting I've done, is that in the last four years, President Trump has had a shadow administration. An administration in waiting of many of the great people in the first administration. They have been planning, preparing, and what we're seeing now is execution.
This is a full blitz through the government. Pete Hegseth is ready. Donald Trump is ready, his Cabinet is ready. This is probably the most efficient and effective first week of the presidency, certainly in my lifetime, probably dating back many years before that.
And so, it is wonderful to see, and I think that we're only going to see the pace accelerate in the coming days and weeks.
GALLAGHER: Here is what some Democrats say. This is their opinion on this whole DEI rollback here. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. TIM KAINE (D-VA): There seems to be an element of glee and sort of traumatizing people. This DEI leave is just another example of kind of cruelty and pettiness.
REP. ILHAN OMAR (D-MN): We, as a country strive to create a more equitable space for everyone.
REP. HAKEEM JEFFRIES (D-NY): Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion are American values.
These are values that everybody in this country should embrace.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Chris, when you hear people say things like this is meant to traumatize people. What is your response?
RUFO: Yes, this is the type of language that's used to manipulate your emotions, to activate a guilt feeling, so that you're not sure of what you're doing. But the fact is very clear. DEI discriminates on the basis of race. It separates people into different buckets, and then punishes you and rewards you, not on your accomplishments, but on your ancestry. It's wrong, it's anti American, and we should have no shame, no guilt, and no hesitation in abolishing these discriminatory DEI bureaucracies.
And then, telling Democrats, if you want to restore discrimination and segregation, you have to win elections, and then, we're going to fight it out again. But right now, what's winning is equality, and that should be good news for everyone.
GALLAGHER: Chris Rufo, great to have you on the show. Thank you, sir. We appreciate it.
RUFO: Thank you.
GALLAGHER: Well, coming up, the Chinese A.I. company that is causing Wall Street and tech companies to panic. And what President Trump had to say about it? That's next.
And later in the "NIGHTCAP"
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: America is respected again. And as you saw yesterday, we've made it clear to every country that they will be taking back our people that we're sending out. The criminals, the illegal aliens, and if they don't, they'll pay a very high economic price.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Columbia President Gustavo Petro, quickly backtracked on his refusal to accept deportation flights from the U.S., after President Trump threatened steep tariffs and other measures.
Would President Biden have been this aggressive? If so, would Columbia have folded that early?
We want to know X and Instagram, @tracegallagher. We will read your responses coming up in the "NIGHTCAP". We're also coming right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GALLAGHER: Well, a shock to the system for tech stocks around the world today, following the news that China has developed its own artificial intelligence startup without using the bigtime chip makers, and still getting great results.
Christina Coleman is live with the full story on this. Christina, good evening.
CHRISTINA COLEMAN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Hi. Good evening, Trace.
Yes. Fortune reports that this artificial intelligence breakthrough is shaking the foundation of the West dominance in this technological arms race, and that Meta is reportedly scrambling war rooms of engineers to figure out how DeepSeek's A.I. is beating everyone else at a fraction of the price.
Today, at the House Republicans annual policy retreat, President Donald Trump voiced his confidence in our country's ability to compete with this technology.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: The release of DeepSeek A.I. from a Chinese company should be a wake-up call for our industries that we need to be laser focused on competing to win, because we have the greatest scientists in the world.
COLEMAN (voice over): Today, Trump also noted how he signed an executive order, Thursday that repealed Joe Biden's A.I. policies, which he says stifled private sector innovation and threatened American technological leadership.
TRUMP: Under the Trump administration, we're going to unleash our tech companies, and we're going to dominate the future like never before.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
COLEMAN (on camera): There you have it. The technological arms race is definitely on. Trace.
GALLAGHER: On it is. Christina, thank you.
Let's bring in former San Bernardino County Sheriff's deputy, Meagan McCarthy, Fox News contributor and forensic pathologist, Dr. Michael Baden, along with Island Capital investment CEO Anthony Esposito. Thank you all for coming on.
Doctor Biden -- Baden, to you first. You were chairman of the forensic pathology panel that investigated the JFK assassination. I want to -- I want to read this to you very quickly. This is the 1979 House Select Committee on Assassination.
DR. MICHAEL BADEN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: Go on.
GALLAGHER: They say, "the committee believes, on the basis of the evidence available to it, that President John F. Kennedy was probably assassinated as a result of a conspiracy. The committee is unable to identify the other gunman or the extent of the conspiracy."
Dr. Baden, what are we looking for? People want to kind of delve through these documents when they become available. What are the key things we're going after?
BADEN: Well, the reason why they arrived at that opinion, because the forensic pathology panel found no evidence of a conspiracy, just one shooter, Oswald. And they'll be looking for any evidence that Oswald was connected to another shooter, which we didn't find in the forensic panel.
And they'll be looking for evidence that, that is embarrassing to the intelligence agencies in the 70s that permitted the shooting.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Anthony Esposito, to you now, because we talked a lot today about this DeepSeek from China. The announcement was a bombshell. Fortune wrote the following headline, "Marc Andreessen warns Chinese ChatGPT rival DeepSeek is A.I.'s Sputnik moment."
It's a big statement. Does it make the chip makers? Does it make them less relevant? Anthony.
ANTHONY ESPOSITO, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, ISLAND CAPITAL INVESTMENTS: I don't think it makes them less relevant, but it does take into question the valuations and how our markets have moved based on A.I. solely for basically the last two years. And I think it was a well-timed informational bomb that China threw in today to see how we reacted. And we reacted by losing a trillion dollars in worth for this country and for our market.
So, chip makers still relevant, but there is -- there is a competitive world stage, and the last thing that the CCP wants to see is President Trump leading here.
GALLAGHER: It's amazing because we're kind of talking about this whole panel is about this, you know, it's, it's all about sunlight, right? They're just saying let's put everything out there, MLK and JFK, we want all the drones and stuff.
Meantime, the Chinese spy balloon, we still don't know anything about it Meagan McCarthy, and you have the CIA Director Ratcliffe on "SUNDAY MORNING FUTURES" take that back. The Daily Mail today said the following, put this up on the screen, reports have since suggested that U.S. intelligence may have been aware of this spy balloon that crossed the country from the moment it launched from Hainan Island in China, and nobody told us anything about it.
MEAGAN MCCARTHY, RETIRED POLICE OFFICER TURNED ADVOCATE: Well, you know what I find interesting is the American people voted for truth and honesty and transparency, and that's exactly what we got. And it makes you wonder, was the Biden administration so focused on DEI that they forgot about other important three-letter agencies like the FBI, the CIA?
If they knew this information, they had it deserved for the American people to know the truth, especially if it's up to our national security. That is exactly what these agencies are for, to investigate foreign adversaries and make sure that American citizens are safe.
GALLAGHER: Yes. And Dr. Baden, to you now, because speaking of lifting the veil, CIA Director Ratcliffe said the following about the Wuhan lab leak theory. Watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOHN RATCLIFFE, CIA DIRECTOR: The CIA has assessed that the most likely cause of this pandemic that has wrought so much devastation around the world was because of a lab-related incident in Wuhan.
(END VIDEO CLIP) GALLAGHER: I mean, I know, Dr. Baden, you've been following this in the medical community, but the evidence now is becoming overwhelming. Would you agree?
DR. MICHAEL BADEN, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Well, it's being interpreted differently. There's certainly been the question whether the wet the animal market, or that laboratory and the same evidence they're looking at and they, hopefully, they'll release. Now, the that feel of very, of CIA feels is more indicative of the laboratory leakage.
GALLAGHER: Yes, I think that's right too. Anthony, to you, do you think all this transparency is good? Is it a good thing to come out and say, listen this Chinese A.I. is made up of this and now we know it? Is it a good thing to say, here's all we know about JFK and MLK, and the drones, and so on and so forth?
ESPOSITO: I think it shows that I think it is good, and I think it shows that the current administration is transparent and is here working for the people. And I think that that's key and that's something we didn't have for the past four years.
GALLAGHER: Yes, Meagan McCarthy to you, finally Trump said this about the drone mystery that we have all been following for the past several months. We get sidetracked because of the inaugural, but here's what he said, watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, U.S. PRESIDENT: I can't imagine it's an enemy or there would have been you know people would have gotten blown up all over. Maybe they were testing things. I don't know why they wouldn't have said what it was. He had a lot of them flying over Bedminster, which is interesting.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Yes, he's talking about his golf club, but the truth is, is that all of this information was withheld from the American people. I mean, Biden wouldn't even talk to reporters, right? Much less give us information about the drones and what else they knew about these.
MCCARTHY: Well, thank goodness we finally have a commander in chief who is willing to be open and upfront and honest with the American people. Like I said earlier, that is what we voted for. He won the popular vote by a landslide because of this reason. People want transparency. And if there's information about these drones, the American people deserve to know what's in their backyards, flying over their homes. And to say he's not sure if it's an enemy, I'm not too comfortable with that. We need to make sure it's not.
GALLAGHER: Meagan McCarthy, Dr. Michael Baden, Anthony Esposito, thank you all.
Well, coming up, more and more Americans appearing to forget something the world vowed to never forget.
Plus, two victims of the L.A. wildfires who confronted Los Angeles Mayor Karen Bass about the painstaking process of clearing debris from his now burned-out lot. They will join us live on set, next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ISAAC HERZOG, ISRAELI PRESIDENT: 80 years ago today, on January 27, 1945, the gates of hell opened, collapsed. Auschwitz, the largest and most vicious death factory in human history, was liberated by the Soviet Union Red Army.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Israeli President Isaac Herzog marking the 80th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz concentration camp on this Holocaust Remembrance Day. Let's bring in RNC national spokeswoman and founder of the online Holocaust Museum, Lest People Forget, Elizabeth Pipko. Welcome back, Elizabeth.
I mean, you have, as we said, this online Holocaust Museum. It's called Lest People Forget. And again and again, you hear the mantra of never again and it seems like we have forgotten, Elizabeth, and it seems like it's happening again.
ELIZABETH PIPKO, LEST PEOPLE FORGET FOUNDER: No, you're 100 percent right. Look, for those that don't realize it, 2,500 victims of the Holocaust, right, those that actually witnessed the Holocaust and survived actually lived through October 7th as well. So, they not only had to live through hell one time and then hear claims of never again, year after year after year, they then had to wake up to that same hell on October 7th, 2023.
I think Elie Wiesel said it best. He said, I thought antisemitism died in Auschwitz. Its victims perished, but anti-Semitism did not. That is a fact, and we know that more than ever right now.
GALLAGHER: Yes, over the past 14, 15, 16 months, we have heard the word genocide, right, again and again, and again. And you wonder, Elizabeth, do they have any idea what they're talking about?
PIPKO: They don't. Look, for those that want to know about a genocide, you should look to the families of Jews like myself, right? Those that actually had to live through the Holocaust, those that lost countless numbers of their family to the Holocaust. For those that don't know, it was approximately 16.5 million Jews living worldwide before 1939. It's now 2025. We still are not back at that number when it comes to the Jewish population.
That is a genocide. We are victims of that genocide. We fight every single day to make it out alive after that, to repopulate, to come back, to show pride in our faith, in who we are, and to remember that the entire world might not stand with us if a God-forbid happens again, something we had to learn just about 15 months ago.
GALLAGHER: Yes, and we've talked about this before, but are you still just amazed at how many people can rationalize and reason this whole October 7th thing and put it in a different context.
PIPKO: Great, like you said, we heard never again for so many years. We heard the promise of never again is now and then October 7th happened. Not only was there a deafening silence worldwide, but there was actually support. There still is support for what happened on October 7th.
There's still people who deny the Holocaust ever happened and like that, there's people who deny that October 7th happened. It's absolutely terrifying and it's why we have a duty to remind everyone not only of what happened in World War II but of what happened and what is still going on. For those who don't know, a Holocaust survivor, Shlomo Mansour is still right now being held by Hamas.
GALLAGHER: Yes, Elizabeth Pipko, thank you for coming on, we appreciate it.
PIPKO: Thank you.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes, and we will clear the lots absolutely in the city and in the county. We are working together both levels of government are working in unity.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Well, we were told last night from the board of engineers that it would be eight months. Is it not 18 months? Is it, like, we -- that's the answer that we got and that's what we're all hanging on.
So, if you're telling us now faster, is it six months? Is it -- I mean all of our lives, rents, all this stuff, is, is weighing on this.
TRUMP: Six month is not good.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Yes, that is the man who's sitting to my right right now. Let's bring in Pacific Palisades resident who could no longer stay silent during that town hall, Chris Feil, joined by his wife here on set, Mia Feil. I mean, Chris, you say you're a reserved guy and then when you got to this town hall with Karen Bass, and a quote here is, "You lost it," right?
CHRIS FEIL, PACIFIC PALISADES RESIDENT: I did, I -- we were on a zoom the night before where Mayor Bass told us it was going to be the EPA for three to six months and then 18 months for the cleanup. And as soon as the president said that's too long, you know, not this 18 months, and she changed her tune, that's when I lost it.
Because there are so many people in the Palisades who we're in touch with. It's my hometown. We love the neighborhoods. We love all the people there. And we're all looking for answers, and we're not getting any.
GALLAGHER: Yes. And I think people don't realize, Chris, that you're a realtor. You guys are builders, right? You lost your business as well. But these people who are saying, oh, it's going to be here and here, you can't B.S. somebody who's in the industry and does this every single day.
C. FEIL: Exactly. And we know when you're trying to do something of this scale and the infrastructure that's needed, it's not just one home or two homes. It's we lost our library. We lost all of our schools.
We lost our rec centers. Those are the lifeblood of the community. And what we really need is we're trying to put a light on this, so the government gets involved and really steps up and helps us build that.
GALLAGHER: Yes, there was video of you talking to Melania, right? I'm not sure what language you were talking in, but you were talking to Melania. What was that like, and was she helpful, and do they get it? Do they understand what you're saying?
MIA FEIL, PACIFIC PALISADES RESIDENT: Oh, absolutely. It's so lovely, so lovely. You have to understand, we moved to Palisades to raise our kids and like most of the Palisades, were not -- everybody keeps talking about this ritzy neighborhood.
GALLAGHER: Yes.
M. FEIL: Were actually full of what really hard-working people who worked their butts off to be able to be in a neighborhood, to raise their kids, to go to the baseball fields, and the libraries, in the schools there and what not. And you know, we just want to go home. We just want to come back and be able to still raise our kids there.
GALLAGHER: Yes.
M. FEIL: We have two boys, I would like to go back and have my son go to school there and be with us in our home. She understood that, and President Trump understood that, and I hope that our local leaders also understand the importance and the urgency for us to go home.
GALLAGHER: But it's also important for them, Mia, to be honest.
M. FEIL: Yes.
GALLAGHER: To tell you what where you guys stand.
M. FEIL: Yes.
GALLAGHER: And what the process is going to be. Have you given, have you kind of, have you kind of rationalized the timeline here?
M. FEIL: We've tried to go, we've gone to all the town halls, we've been you know at it and it's there. No answers, vague answers, moving ball answers. It's just it's just not consistent and that doesn't seem to be a leader and we really need it. We need somebody to steer the ship, and you know get us all home.
GALLAGHER: Yes, you talk about the hazardous material, you know, you look into this thing and there's all kinds of different schools of thought about how long it takes to test this, how long it takes to remove it? I mean, there's just a million different things going on here, Chris.
C. FEIL: Yes, I mean, I think most of the people feel, and all my friends and neighbors feel that, let's just chalk it up as the toxic materials everywhere. So, let's just dig it all up at the same time, you know, just clear all the lots and move forward.
Because they want to do this testing, and we're getting different timeframes, and it's all going to happen at different times, and you have to get the whole block on board for them to start. And there's just so many unanswered questions. And we're just, I mean, this is just the beginning of a long, long process.
GALLAGHER: Long, long, very painful process. What's the worst part about it, Mia?
M. FEIL: The memories and the community. You know, there are several schools in the neighborhood. We have friends at every school. Our kids were able to go on their bike and go and play their sporting event games. And there was a mom there that looked out for your kid.
You know, the Fourth of July parade, fireworks. We were a small town in Los Angeles. Los Angeles is big. We were the small town. And that's what we all wanted. We wanted to be there. We want to go back, because we wanted to raise our kids there, and that's the hardest part.
And the fact that it's all gone. The entire neighborhood, the community, the community is gone.
GALLAGHER: Heartbreaking. It really is heartbreaking. Mia, Chris, best of luck to you and your family. I know you had four homes in your families that you lost, but come back, give us updates, and best of luck to both of you.
C. FEIL: Thank you so much for having us.
GALLAGHER: Thank you. In the meantime, we have some breaking news. Fox News now learning that Border Patrol agents in Texas have been fired on from Mexico by suspected cartel gunmen.
Now the incident in the Rio Grande Valley was captured on camera by a Texas DPS drone. As the shooters were attempting to bring a group of illegal immigrants across the river, border patrol agents reportedly returned fire.
Looks like nobody on either side was hit, at least this time, and the migrants did not make it across the border. We're going to get more video in, and as we do, we will bring it to you right here on FOX NEWS @ NIGHT.
Meantime, Columbia President Gustavo Petro quickly backtracked on his refusal to accept deportation flights from the U.S. after President Trump ratcheted up the pressure and threatened tariffs, steep tariffs.
Would President Biden have done the same? Would Columbia have folded that early? Let us know, X and Instagram, @TraceGallagher. We're back with the "NIGHTCAP" crew, which includes you next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GALLAGHER: We're back with the Rapid Fire "NIGHTCAP" crew: Kevin Corke, Ashley Strohmier, Christina Coleman, Meagan McCarthy, Elizabeth Pipko, and Emily Wilson. Tonight's topic, FAFO diplomacy.
Colombian President Gustavo quickly backtracking on his refusal to accept deportation flights after Trump threatened steep tariffs. Would Biden have done this? Would Colombia have folded that early, Ashley Strohmier?
STROHMIER: Absolutely not, and no to the second question too.
GALLAGHER: That's a no and a no, Kevin Corke.
CORKE: No and hell no.
GALLAGHER: Christina.
COLEMAN: I don't think they would have believed that Biden was serious. I don't think so.
GALLAGHER: Really?
COLEMAN: Right. Yes, I don't think so.
GALLAGHER: OK, Elizabeth Pipko, what do you think about this?
PIPKO: So, no, I think absolutely not. Joe Biden could not even handle the problems we're having with Columbia University. How on earth could he fix the problems with Columbia, the nation?
GALLAGHER: Emily.
WILSON: First, we would have to explain to him what Columbia is and then what's happening there.
GALLAGHER: Yes.
WILSON: So, no.
GALLAGHER: Meagan McCarthy.
MCCARTHY: Well, I don't think the flights would have ever started so he wouldn't have had to worry about it. So, I don't think it would have been an issue for him.
GALLAGHER: It's interesting because some people agree with you. We asked the audience, and Dandelion said, "It wouldn't have happened under Biden because there wouldn't have been deportation flights under Biden."
Joy says, "No. He would have said don't, then the plane would have returned here."
Trizity says, "Sleepy Joe would have asked them to send more illegals this way."
Cheryl says, "No, Biden wouldn't have done this. We are seeing the differences between weak and strong presidents."
Paul says, "No, because Biden would have sent them to the wrong country." Don't you know?
Inez says, "Biden would never and could never."
Gabe says, "Biden allowed the border to be wide open, but with Trump, he works with us, or actually he works for us."
And Betty says, "There is no way. Trump means business and they know it."
I have a tendency to think that some of these people know what they're talking about. Thank you all for coming on to the "NIGHTCAP." Thank you for watching America's late news, FOX NEWS @ NIGHT. I'm Trace Gallagher in Los Angeles. We will see you right back here again tomorrow night.

Load-Date: January 28, 2025


End of Document
