




The Daily Athenaeum: West Virginia University
February 6, 2025 Thursday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 575 words
Body


Students, staff and community members gathered outside the Mountainlair Wednesday for a "Defend Democracy" protest in opposition to LGBTQ+ erasure, DEI bans and defunding, ICE raids and deportation and other human rights legislation.
The protest was held as part of the 50501 Movement, according to protest organizer Christopher Reed. The movement stands for 50 protests, 50 states, one day, with demonstrations across the U.S. speaking out against the Trump administration's early actions and legislation, according to the Associated Press. 
Reed said he organized the protest to give Morgantown residents the opportunity to participate in the movement. 
"We're constantly inundated with all these negative things that hit our feed about what is happening and new rights that are potentially being taken away. I decided I wanted to do something about it, and I wanted to see who else would."
Reed said the protest was meant to bring people together and "revel in love" while acting as a response to the University's recent closure of its Division of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion due to federal and state bans.
"I hope a lot of other people, [transgender] people specifically, and people who weren't able or willing to come because of fear, I hope they see especially that WVU isn't going to lay down and they're not going to abandon our people. And that all means y'all."
Sam Green, founder of the West Virginia Trans Coalition and Trans Justice organizer for the American Civil Liberties Union of West Virginia (ACLU-WV), spoke to the crowd in regard to Gov. Patrick Morrisey's 10 executive orders enacted from Jan. 14-30. 
Green said the orders attack multiple communities, including immigrants and transgender people, and pose threats to education in the U.S.
"We watched our new Governor Pat Morrisey introduce 10 executive orders where he was attacking [transgender] people, he was attacking education, he was attacking immigrants," he said. 
Community members in attendance hoisted signs that read "We will always exist," "Build loving communities" and "If you're not angry, you're not paying attention."
Unique Means, a freshman biology pre-medical major, attended the protest while holding a sign that read "Equality means equal for all."  
"We're all here, we all deserve equal rights," Means said. "We're people and we want to be listened to, we want to be heard. We want everyone to be equal. We've spent a long time trying to be heard and I feel like we're moving backwards."
Morgantown community member Virginia Aultman-Moore said she attended the protest to speak out against Trump and Morrisey's orders and support affected communities. 
"I am hoping to just show some resistance to what's happening and to also affirm the communities that are feeling in danger and estranged right now," she said.
Aultman-Moore encouraged others to organize and speak out to "defend American freedoms."
Ashley Stewart, a program director at the University, attended the protest to encourage civic engagement across the state.
"A lot of people are saying acts like this in the state of West Virginia are null and void because we are such a predominately red state ... which I mean that is a fact, but we live here, we have a voice, it's a democracy."
Stewart said she hopes the protest inspires others to organize and engage with members of their local communities. 
"I hope it continues to give people hope that you can have a voice, you should have a voice," she said.

Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
