




Targeted News Service
February 3, 2025 Monday 9:47 PM  EST


Copyright 2025 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved


Length: 1003 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: CANTON, Ohio 
Body


[Category: Sports] -- The National Football League posted the following news:
* * *
Commissioner Roger Goodell talks DEI efforts, officiating, 18-game schedule, Justin Tucker ahead of Super Bowl LIX
NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell addressed a number of league topics on Monday -- including its diversity, equity and inclusion programs, the state of officiating, a potential 18-game schedule and recent allegations of improper conduct against Ravens kicker Justin Tucker \-- during his news conference ahead of Super Bowl LIX Opening Night in New Orleans.
Goodell said he doesn't believe the NFL's policies to promote diversity are in conflict with President Donald Trump's administration's efforts to ban diversity, equity and inclusion programs in the federal government.
The NFL has rules in place that require teams to interview diverse candidates for key coaching and front office positions as part of the Rooney Rule that has been in place for more than two decades.
"Our policies have been designed to be well within the law, well within the practice," Goodell said on Monday. "There are no quotas in our system. This is about opening that funnel and bringing the best talent into the NFL.
"We also believe we are doing the right thing for the NFL and our policies are consistent with the current administration as well as the last administration."
Goodell said that the league's diversity efforts have made the NFL better and has "attracted better talent."
"We think we're better when we get different perspectives, people with different backgrounds, whether they're women or men or people of color, we make ourselves stronger and we make ourselves better when we have that," Goodell said. "It's something that I think it will have a tremendous impact on this lead for many, many years. We win on the field with the best talent and the best coaching, and I think the same's true off the field.
"We got into diversity efforts because we felt it was the right thing for the National Football League, and we're going to continue those efforts because we've not only convinced ourselves, I think we've proven ourselves that it does make the NFL better. So, we're not in this because it's a trend to get in or a trend to get out of it, our efforts are fundamental in trying to attract the best possible talent into the National Football League, both on and off the field, as I said previously. And we see that. We see how it's benefited the National Football League. And so, I think we'll continue those efforts. I think it's also clearly a reflection of our fan base and our communities and our players."
Goodell also fielded a number of questions on officiating ahead of Sunday's Super Bowl between the Philadelphia Eagles and Kanas City Chiefs.
Goodell was asked about the perception that the Chiefs have benefited from a bias in officiating this past season.
Goodell said that the notion reminded him of the past internet conspiracy theory that the NFL was "scripted."
"I think a lot of those theories are things that happen in social media and they get a new life," he said. "As you say, it's not your theory, but it's out there. Nobody wants it to be their theory. I understand it. I think it reflects a lot of the fans' passion.
"I think it also is a reminder of how important officiating is. I think the men and women that officiating in the NFL are outstanding. They have the highest possible standards. That's a ridiculous theory for anyone who might take it seriously. But at the end of the day, it's something we always have to continue to work on. How do we make our game better at all times?"
Goodell told reporters that the league's officials are evaluated in several ways that go beyond their performance on the field.
"These officials are outstanding people," Goodell said. "They go through a lot to become officials. It's a tough job. A really hard job. Half the group sees it one way, and half sees it the other way, and they understand that coming into it. I've never seen a more dedicated group of people than our NFL officials to getting it right, to doing the best job they possibly can, and I'm proud of the work they do."
Goodell added on Monday that the league wants "to use technology to supplement and to assist and support" its officials. Goodell cited the use of replay assist as a "big step forward," adding that areas such as facemask penalties could be added to replay assist in the future.
Regarding a potential expansion to an 18-game regular-season schedule, Goodell said that there's "a lot of work to be done."
Goodell said the league hasn't had formal negotiations with the union about adding a game to the season but that he has had informal discussions with NFL Players Association executive director Lloyd Howell Jr. The NFL added a 17th game and cut the preseason from four games to three before the 2021 season and Goodell has indicated an interest in eventually adding another regular-season game.
"If we do, 18 and two might be a possibility," he said. "We know fans love football and they want more football. But we have to be incredibly sensitive and smart with the balance and how we deal with that."
Goodell said changes the league has made in terms of equipment, and training in the offseason and preseason have helped reduce the number of concussions and other injuries, making adding an additional game more palatable.
Goodell also said NFL will look into the "serious" allegations that Tucker behaved inappropriately during massage sessions from 2012-16 in the Baltimore area.
Tucker said in a statement last week that he has never received any complaints from a massage therapist or been told he was not welcome at a spa or other place of business.
"They are obviously serious issues and he is taking that seriously as are we," Goodell said.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
***
Original text here: 
Copyright Targeted News Services
MSTRUCK-9032103 MSTRUCK

Load-Date: February 3, 2025


End of Document
