




Fox News FOX NEWS @ NIGHT 11:00 PM EST
February 14, 2025 Friday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7136 words
Byline: Trace Gallagher, Kevin Corke, Steve Hilton, Chanley Painter
Guests: Christina Pascucci, Aaron Cohen, Eric Stakelbeck, Izzy Ezagui, Craig Keshishian, Alex Clark, Caroline Downey, Neama Rahmani
Body


GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS HOST: "FOX NEWS @ NIGHT" is next. I'm Greg Gutfeld. I love you America.
TRACE GALLAGHER, FOX NEWS HOST: Good evening. I'm Trace Gallagher, it's 11:00 p.m. on the East Coast, 8:00 here in Los Angeles, and this is America's late News, FOX NEWS @ NIGHT.
And breaking tonight, Vice President J.D. Vance delivering a vital dose of common sense to the European Union.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
J.D. VANCE, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: It's important in the coming years for Europe to step up in a big way to provide for its own defense. No voter on this continent went to the ballot box to open the floodgates to millions of unvetted immigrants. And speaking up and expressing opinions isn't election interference.
GALLAGHER: Vance offering a scathing critique of the E.U. and putting every single nation on notice.
VANCE: And Britain and across Europe, free speech, I fear, is in retreat. I look to Brussels, where E.U. commissars warned citizens that they intend to shut down social media during times of civil unrest.
The United Kingdom, Sweden, the Scottish government began distributing letters to citizens whose houses lay within so called safe access zones.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Meantime, a new poll showing for the first time in 20 years, a plurality of voters believe the country is headed in the right direction.
Plus, Hamas apparently back on board with tomorrow's hostage release after a warning from President Trump.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Saturday at 12:00, and after that, I would say, all hell is going to break out.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: And spotted just outside the Oval Office alongside historic portraits and pictures of very familiar mug shots. Is Trump trolling the trolls?
But we begin with the Senior National Correspondent Kevin Corke live in D.C., with more on the woes of Trump foes. Kevin, good evening.
KEVIN CORKE, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: He just may be, I'm not sure, but I kind of got that feeling. Good evening to you, my friend.
Listen, what a difference, Trace, a few months can make. Just consider how the world, broadly speaking, viewed then President Biden. You know, a man with decades of dedicated public service, but obviously felled by, you know, father time.
And yet, by staying on the job as long as he did, some have argued that Biden made the country less stable on the global stage, endangering the West in general and the U.S. in particular.
Now, compare and contrast that to an active President Trump, who, despite his age, has shown incredible vigor and a striking amount of policy focus that really seems to be reshaping the world's geopolitical balance.
Also consider this, just since reclaiming office, Trump's managed to get Canada and Mexico to make tariff concessions, put lots of people on the border. He's gotten Colombia to accept its own criminal aliens. It's also been possible for the president to help this administration recover hostages from Hamas, Russia, Belarus, even Venezuela.
He's also managed to get the E.U. to offer drastically lower U.S. auto tariffs, and got New York City to open up Rikers Island to ICE agents, who knew?
What's more, with arrests up and deportations up and border crossings down along the southern border, at least, to say nothing of a 16 for 16 record on cabinet confirmations, you do get the distinct sense, Trace, that the proverbial barrage of punches being thrown by the president this part of his second time in office, though, frankly, they appear to be landing, you know, notwithstanding a blizzard of legal filings by his opponents.
All of which has many of his opponents and other global leaders asking a simple question, what's he going to do next?
GALLAGHER: Very good question. Kevin Corke live for us in D.C. Kevin, thank you.
Well, the FOX NEWS @ NIGHT Common Sense Department has noticed the left is melting down in the wake of New York City Mayor Eric Adams allowing immigration agents ICE to resume operations on Rikers Island, home to the biggest jail in New York City.
The move comes on the heels of President Trump's DOJ ordering federal prosecutors to drop the corruption charges against Mayor Adams, and of course, the left is alleging that Adams is now beholden to Trump.
Common Sense wonders if maybe, just maybe, the mayor is actually in favor of criminal illegal immigrants being deported. Adams is a former cop, by the way, who ran on lowering crime, and in the three plus weeks that Trump has been in office, some 9000 illegal immigrants with criminal histories have been arrested. That's up 100 percent from last year.
Yet, for some reason, Democrat politicians want to protect the worst of the worst. Why? Does an increase in crime and criminals benefit their constituents?
Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is actually offering advice on how illegal immigrants can avoid deportation. Why? How would she explain that to Laken Riley's family? Think about it.
In recent years, the left has ignored riots, protected criminals, protested police, Common Sense wonders, what's next? Will they stand and applaud when the locusts finally show up?
Now, to add a bit more context to that conversation, arrests of aliens with criminal histories up 100 percent. We notice from just over 4,500 in 2024 to nearly 9,000 in the same period this year under Trump, there were nearly 12,000 interior arrests from January 20 to February 8, compared to about 5,000 during the same period in 2024, that is 137 percent increase.
Let's bring in Fox News contributor Steve Hilton and political and media strategist Christina Pascucci, thank you both for coming on. I want to play just one quick sound bite. This is Eric Adams this morning on "FOX & FRIENDS," watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ERIC ADAMS, MAYOR OF NEW YORK CITY: I don't agree with myself 100 percent of time, but when Tom and I in a room, we're both saying one thing, no matter who you are, if you're hurting innocent people in this city and in this country, you don't have a right to be in our country.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: And yet, Steve Hilton, the left, is obsessed with protecting these criminal illegal immigrants, and we don't know why, because they don't give us an answer.
STEVE HILTON, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: It's absolutely incredible. I mean, they have, after an election which they lost, everyone agrees, because they went too far left.
Now, they've decided to make their stand protecting violent criminals who shouldn't even be in the country.
Here in California, you have the legislature, the state legislature passing a bill that would even protect criminal illegal immigrants who are in the jails already from deportation. It is absolutely astonishing they are doubling down on the very worst ideological madness.
GALLAGHER: Yes, they're going, we're picking like 10 percent the worst issues and jumping on board with those. Let's play some sound. This is of the DOGE protest. Watch a little bit of this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Here at HHS, we're going to let it shine.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: These folks want to institute a Jim Crow 2.0 and a neo- confederate government. Honestly, one of them just needs to get beat up. I'm saying that, and that's not me, you know, I'm not speaking about anybody. But you know these freaks, they're just little kids, man.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: That doesn't jive with this. Axios writes the following, quoting here, Arizona swing voters to Trump, Musk: Keep it coming. Every Arizona swing voter in our latest Engagious/Sago focus group said they approve of President Trump's actions since taking office, and most also support Elon Musk's efforts to slash the government. Not only did they vote for it, they appear to like it, Christina.
CHRISTINA PASCUCCI, POLITICAL AND MEDIA STRATEGIST: I think the American people are so sick of hearing complaints and no action, and they're finally seeing some action.
When you see those people outside who are protesting, who are complaining, it seems like selective outrage. These are the same people who were screaming about RFK right outside the same people who you just heard singing.
And yet, while, for years, America became the sickest nation, said nothing. While half of our kids developed chronic disease, said nothing.
So, it's selective outrage, and I really think the Democratic Party needs to inspire with a new vision, maybe new leadership, but instead, they keep digging a deeper hole.
GALLAGHER: Yes, I think that's correct. Meantime, this is perfect for you, Steve, J.D. Vance took a swipe at European governments limiting free speech. He said the following here, watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
VANCE: And speaking up and expressing opinions isn't election interference, even when people express views outside your own country, and even when those people are very influential.
And trust me, I say this with all humor, if American democracy can survive 10 years of Greta Thunberg scolding, you guys can survive a few months of Elon Musk.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: I mean, Matt Taibbi wrote a good piece on this. It really is like this European disinformation governance board that we had in here in this country for a few months.
HILTON: I've got to say that speech by J.D. Vance was just thrilling. It was thrilling to see someone just tell the truth so clearly and say what they think after all these years of politicians sort of B.S. in all over the place, and he told them the truth to their face.
And he's absolutely right, and that's why they can't stand it, because they know it's true, and it's true on every single front.
And the really deep point he made was that the VAT (ph) and it's a security conference, and he's making the point that here in Europe, you fought for freedom against the bad guys. Yet, what are you now? What are you actually defending? The values that you fought for are disappearing, and it's absolutely true.
And by the way, one last story here in Los Angeles today, I met someone, a business guy, who moved here from London. He said, how bad does it have to be that I move to California of all places with all the taxes regulation and nonsense, because the U.K. is so bad.
GALLAGHER: Yes, Maslansky and Partners did a dial test. Turns out voters don't like these democratic antics. Watch this sound. Watch the line. It's yellow.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): We will win, we will win. We will win. We will win.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I don't swear in public very well, but we have to (EXPLETIVE DELETED) Trump.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: The country is one big dropping yellow line, Christina. PASCUCCI: Well, look, as I noted before, if you don't offer a solution to the -- they're just complaining. Offer a solution if you don't like what's happening with DOGE, proposed legislation to cut the fraud, to cut the waste that we see everyone sees so clearly is a real problem in this country.
And also, take accountability. Admit maybe we really didn't need to send all that money to Burma for sex change operations or whatever it is, you know, and that's problem. They're not taking accountability and they're not offering solutions. It's a very simple formula.
GALLAGHER: 32,000 bucks for a comic book is just too much. Christina, Steve, thank you both.
Hamas appears to be backing down now, planning to release at least some hostages by the weekend, after President Trump threatened all hell would break out if they did not free them by Saturday at noon.
Chanley Painter live with the very latest on what remains a very tenuous situation. Chanley, good evening.
CHANLEY PAINTER, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Hi, good evening, Trace. So, those threats by President Trump coming after shocking footage of the three hostage survivors last week looking emaciated and suffering from serious health issues made headlines. Israeli leadership immediately expressing outrage along with Trump.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: But you have to see this started by them saying, we're not going to release the hostages, as we said we were. I said, good, you have until 12 o'clock on Saturday, which is tomorrow, at 12:00 to do it.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PAINTER: Hamas now confirming three Israeli hostages will be released Saturday, as originally agreed to under the cease fire.
Yet, earlier in the week, the militant group hurled threats of its own, accusing Israel of failing to meet aid obligations. Israel, in turn, moved to resume the war, calling up its reservist if more hostages were not handed over.
Mediators from Egypt and Qatar also stepped in to help avert the standoff, while timing of this hostage release is unclear as of now, for tomorrow, this all means that Israel will free more than 360 Palestinian prisoners in exchange, and this will be the sixth exchange in the first phase of the truce.
And of course, adding uncertainty to the fragile situation calls from President Trump for the U.S. to take over the Gaza Strip. But as of now, things seem back on track, Trace. We'll see.
GALLAGHER: Chanley Painter back to you in moments. Thank you.
Let's bring in Israeli Special Ops veteran Aaron Cohen, IDF first sergeant, Izzy Ezagui and Stakelbeck host Eric Stakelbeck at "Stakelbeck Tonight". Eric, thank you very much. Aaron, to you, here's Trump on hostages and Hamas, play this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: I don't know what's going to happen tomorrow at 12:00 o'clock. If it was up to me, I'd take a very hard stance. Hamas has totally changed. You want to release hostages now again, but you have to see this started by them saying, we're not going to release the hostages as we said we were. I said, good. You have till 12:00 on Saturday.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Trump wants a tougher stance. Israel seems to be willing to cooperate, at least for now, Aaron.
AARON COHEN, ISRAELI SPECIAL OPS VETERAN: So, here's what I'm hearing, the hostages, getting them back alive is a major priority right now, and that could mean rescue operations if they don't get them all back, like Trump initially stated.
So, what I think -- what I think is happening is that Trump kind of pushed that wave with that aggressive statement that he made last week, some more hostages are getting -- are getting delivered back to Israel. But I think that there's, you know, again, this is going to be this trickle thing, Trace. Then I think is going to be a stall again, because Hamas will say, lose all those hostages. There's zero leverage moving forward. GALLAGHER: Yes. Meantime, Izzy Ezagui, former hostage Keith Siegel said the following. He released this on February 1st. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KEITH SIEGEL, RELEASED HOSTAGE: President Trump, you are the reason I am home alive. You are the reason I was reunited with my beloved wife, four children and five grandchildren. Thank you for your continued fight against terror and for your bold leadership that has brought me and many others back home to our families, to safety and to security.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: He was released on February 1st. The video was released today. What do you think of the slow release of hostages from Hamas?
IZZY EZAGUI, IDF FIRST SERGEANT: Well, first, he's absolutely right. I think it's amazing to actually have leadership in the Oval Office again, a president with a backbone. And I happen to know one of the hostages that was released about -- sorry, not released, saved, rescued after 300 days, Andrey Kozlov and we were both inside Gaza at the same time fighting our respective wars. He was fighting the psychological war. I was fighting the actual war. Who knows, maybe I passed under his window.
It's not difficult for me to imagine how much worse off he would be if he was still inside today. So, I'm glad he's out. I think time is of the essence, and Trump is showing tremendous strength, not only saying that hell should break loose, but giving Israel the latitude to take its own course.
GALLAGHER: Eric Stakelbeck, Newsweek writes the following, but even amid the conflict that has already brought historic upheaval to the Middle East, observers fiercely debate over whether the deep rooted Islamist group that emerged four decades ago and came to dominate the Palestinian armed struggle can be decisively defeated. Most agree that a moment of truth is approaching. And it is, Eric, a moment of truth.
ERIC STAKELBECK, "STAKELBECK TONIGHT" HOST: Yes, it's a moment of reckoning without a doubt, Trace. And however this pans out, Hamas cannot remain in power in Gaza. Obviously, Hamas cannot remain in Gaza, and that's why the Trump Effect is so important here. President Trump's relocation plan, Trace, to take the Palestinians, including Hamas, out of Gaza, rebuild the Strip, make it into a tourist destination and economic empowerment zone. This is the first outside the box idea we've heard here in decades, and now the two state solution, which is really a two state illusion, that's out the window.
President Trump has smashed the entire paradigm here, and after Hamas is crushed, and they will be crushed, eventually, it could be a new day, thanks to Trump's plan and his vision here.
GALLAGHER: Yes, stand by, Eric. I want to go back in reverse order here. Zelenskyy, the AP says the following here, the roughly 40 minute meeting between Vance and Zelenskyy produced no major announcements detailing the way out of the deadliest war in Europe since World War II. Zelenskyy made a plaintive statement about the state of play. We want peace very much, Zelenskyy said. But we need real security guarantees. Can there be security guarantees, Eric Stakelbeck?
STAKELBECK: Tough to say right now, Trace. I mean, I think President Trump, if anyone can get them, President Trump will. And it seems Vladimir Putin look 90 minute conversation with President Trump earlier this week. So the ball seems to be moving.
One guarantee that won't happen is Ukraine will not join NATO. That's been made pretty clear. But I think everything's on the table right now, and it seems now that President Trump's in office, he's a deal maker. He's got both sides at the table, but security guarantees at the end of the day, both sides will want them. It's going to be necessary. Not clear what it will be, though, yet.
GALLAGHER: I'm wondering what you think about Izzy, when you look at this war in Ukraine. I mean, you have fought, you know what it's like there. Condoleezza Rice says today, when she looks at these negotiations, she sees positive things. As you look at the chess board here, do you see positive things?
EZAGUI: Absolutely, across the board, internationally, domestically, it's for the first time in many years, I'm going to sleep with a smile on my face again, good to have leadership in the Oval Office again.
GALLAGHER: Yes, it's interesting. Aaron Cohen, to you. AP, the write up on this because it happened in Germany. The suspect in the car ramming attack in Munich that injured 39 people appears to have had an Islamic extremist motive, but there's no evidence that he was involved with any radical network. No radical network?
COHEN: Well, first of all, it's the AP. Let's remember who we're talking about here. I believe there may be some connection with the AP and USAID and some of that money that we were funding to some of that mainstream liberal media, but never will push that aside for a second.
From what I understand, there were posts that were made online regarding this 24-year-old. I believe his name was Farhad, last initial N and unconfirmed, but I understood that there were some religious statements that were being made while he was being restrained.
Look, he was a failed asylum seeker, Trace. He should have been exiled from the country. He never failed. He never got his asylum papers, and he was on the radar from what I'm hearing and that is enough for me to go Germany has lost again.
GALLAGHER: Aaron, Izzy, thank you very much. Eric, we appreciate it.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
LETITIA JAMES, NEW YORK ATTORNEY GENERAL: So, it's important that attorneys general representing our respective States stand up and enforce the rule of law because Elon Musk, individuals at the Treasury and the president of these United States is not above the law.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You're going to hear the dog whistle that Trump and musk like to say, we're reading out fraud, waste and abuse. We're looking at efficiency. That's a dog whistle.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: It appears the tide is shifting when it comes to how Americans feel about the state of the country, with more and more saying the U.S. is on the right track. Let's bring in pollster Craig Keshishian. Craig, is great to have you on here.
It's amazing here because you have this Newsweek. Here's the article. Put this up, Americans who think the country on the right track breaks 20 year trend and the numbers are simple, 47 percent of Americans believe we're on the right track.
And last year, at this time, it was 29 percent of Americans, that's a significant shift. You're a pollster, you know the numbers. What's your take on that?
CRAIG KESHISHIAN, POLLSTER: It is significant, Trace. And thank you for having me back on.
Effectively, what we are seeing is a strong, bold executive in President Trump, and the American people are now resonating with their high approval ratings of him. He's north of 50 percent across four polls and right track, wrong track metrics, mere presidential approval.
So, what we have are great optics for President Trump, married to bold action. And Americans love a vigor in their chief executive, and we're seeing that now.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Rasmussen poll, getting some notice. Newsmax writes the following. It says Independent voters agree with Trump on transgender policies, focus groups say after Trump referred to two genders and his action to strip federal funding for transgender surgeries, Democratic voter's approval remains steady, but Republican and independent voter's approval steadily climbed. Elon has support and winded his back. It just seems like that things are kind of going the right direction for the administration.
KESHISHIAN: That's absolutely on point, and I'll tell you why. First, Elon Musk is viewed as our version of Benjamin Franklin. He's the Benjamin Franklin Thomas Edison of the day. Americans love entrepreneurs like that, so he is garnering support just on that basis alone.
Then secondly, with President Trump and the transgender issue most carefully. That's why Latinos and African Americans gravitated toward Trump in this last election cycle. They took repulsive view toward all this DEI and transgender stuff, and that's why we saw Trump being the beneficiary of all that.
GALLAGHER: Meantime, Fox News digital conducted by Lee Carter Maslansky and Partners. People believe -- quoting here. People believe a few things. One, children need to be children. If you are too young to have a beer or get a tattoo, you are too young to make this decision, common sense needs to prevail. Our tax money should not fund this.
I mean, she's right, right? She thinks people are behind Elon Musk, and they're behind the things that are that are common. I've got about 15 seconds.
KESHISHIAN: Absolutely. This is a society in which liberals to conservatives run businesses and they understand bottom line principles, and they see Musk and President Trump pursuing those bottom line fiscal policies. That's why the approval ratings reflect that.
GALLAGHER: Craig, great to have you on as always. Thank you.
KESHISHIAN: Thank you.
GALLAGHER: Coming up, reporters in the Oval Office laugh as President Trump roasts Kaitlan Collins from CNN saying nobody watches her network.
And later, the Nightcap, a new survey showing a plurality of Americans finally believe the country is on the right track for the first time in 20 years. We want to conduct our own survey with a bigger sample size, what do you think? Are we heading in the right direction or the wrong track? Let us know, X and Instagram, @TraceGallagher, we'll read your responses coming up in the Nightcap. Nightcap minutes, ask FNN Friday. Post a question or comment about Fox News on my socials, Trace Gallagher the hashtag. We'll answer them later in the show.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN CHIEF WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Mr. President, you've won the White House in part because of high inflation. If your tariffs make prices --
TRUMP: We haven't asked you to speak yet, please, right?
This should have never been allowed to happen. I know he's a friend of yours.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: But couldn't Putin just withdraw his troops today?
TRUMP: He's a friend of CNN. That's why nobody watches CNN anymore, because they have no credibility.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: President Trump had no problem calling out CNN's Kaitlan Collins in the Oval Office. Let's bring in Turning Point USA contributor Alex Clark and National Review Staff Writer Caroline Downey. Thank you both for coming on.
Alex, to you first. I mean, CNN really is kind of sticking to the same plan, same plan as they did the last Trump administration, which is, you know, instead of the country is excited and they're playing the resistance after offering zero resistance against the Biden administration.
ALEX CLARK, TURNING POINT USA CONTRIBUTOR: Well, CNN should be kissing President Trump's feet. This is their dream come true. Nothing could resuscitate the flailing ratings of CNN like another Trump presidency. This is really the best thing that could happen for them.
So, as much as they like to pretend that they can stand President Trump, they actually love him. This is the only thing that gets them clicks in ratings, is when they have these little spats like this with him.
So, hopefully, this can just keep up, and this will keep them alive for maybe another four years. Then after President Trump, I'm not so sure.
GALLAGHER: Caroline, I was -- I was kind of fascinated by this. This is Jamie Dimon, right? He was saying that about hybrid work. He said, forget your petitions. I don't want you to sign your petitions. It's not going to work. He does not support hybrid work, and he made it very clear when he said the following here. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JAMIE DIMON, CEO OF JPMORGAN CHASE: A lot of you on the (BLEEP) Zoom, and you were doing the following. OK, you know, looking at mail, sending text to each other about what an (BLEEP) the other person is, OK. Not paying attention. Not reading your stuff, you know. And if you don't think that slows down efficiency, creativity, creates rudeness, it does, OK? And when I found out that people are doing that, you don't do that in meetings.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: I mean, and Jamie Dimon has kind of tapped in, Caroline, to what the country is kind of tapping into, which is fed up. They're kind of fed up, COVID's over, and people are still kind of at home, right? And he wants everybody back, even on Fridays.
CAROLINE DOWNEY, NATIONAL REVIEW STAFF WRITER: Precisely, the remote revolution is over. And, Trace, I think this example is actually very instructive because it shows how the private sector goes through these productivity and efficiency checks on employees because it's promoting the bottom line for shareholders. Notice how the government doesn't work like that, but it should.
Apparently, there's a lot of bureaucrats in Washington, D.C., right now that think they should get paid by the taxpayer while working at home and maybe having a couple side hustles as well. They think the government gravy train is permanent and their agencies will never get a shakeup and that's why it's so important that DOGE and Elon Musk are trying to change that.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Meantime, you have Joe Rogan because he's, he's responding to the Harris campaign back on the campaign trail saying that Joe Rogan interview was scrap because they couldn't figure that. It didn't do it. Joe Rogan responded to that Alex, and I'll get your comment.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JOE ROGAN, THE JOE ROGAN EXPERIENCE HOST: It's just normal political (BLEEP). They just lie. Cover their (BLEEP) and they lie. I would've been very happy to have her on. And like I said, the goal was to release both of them the same day.
They just got scared. They could've, they could put her in. I would have held her hand. I would've, we would have a conversation. I'm not going to be antagonistic. I'm not going to be (BLEE). I'm not going to be -- I have no desire to turn this into a viral clip thing.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: I mean, what he's saying, Alex, is they blew it. I mean, they were given the invitation, and they blew it.
ALEX CLARK, TPUSA CONTRIBUTOR: Yes, the Harris campaign was given a lot of invitations and yet they still were relying on some coconut tree meme to help keep their campaign alive for far too long. But what Joe Rogan is saying is correct. Obviously, everybody knows that Kamala Harris was way too scared to be unedited for three hours straight.
She was not going to be able to keep that going, but it was a huge mistake as well as refusing to take meetings with anyone in the Maha coalition, which I'm a part of. She didn't want to have any conversations with RFK Jr. She didn't want to go on Joe Rogan and reach a male voter base.
They relied on her soy boy vice president to pose in front of an open, in front of an open engine or whatever, and they thought that was going to get male voters. So, it was just another failure from the Harris campaign.
GALLAGHER: And she wouldn't go to the Al Smith dinner, and a lot of people thought, well, it's just kind of poor sport. It's just good fun. Go to the dinner and have some fun. Meantime, Jon Stewart on the progressive strategy, Caroline.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JON STEWART, COMEDIAN: I mean, I watch these shows all the time. I find them to be like wildly redundant. Four hours of Joe Scarborough shouldn't be allowed in this country.
And then, like Rachel Maddow, it's schizophrenic at times. Look, they're kicking progressive ass right now. And if progressives don't organize their media, their think tanks and all that, it's going to continue to happen. It's chaos.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: But, but progressives are dug in, Caroline.
DOWNEY: Yes, they're doubling down, they're digging their heels in. I think there's still a lack of self-reflection from legacy media largely, Trace, about what happened in 2024.
And that's a wild admission from a late-night comedian that a major network like MSNBC is now humdrum and actually like annoying to the majority of the public. Yikes!
I mean, that's a call for help, frankly. And I think if they don't course correct soon, then they will continue to lose. And it's about not just the substance, but the tone.
Don't lecture Americans that -- and don't gaslight them that they're crazy for prioritizing the border and the economy. And also, focus on the kitchen table.
GALLAGHER: Yes, Caroline Downey, Alex Clark, thank you both.
Well, the mugshot heard round the world. Donald Trump in 2023, and now he proudly displays that mugshot outside the Oval Office. And after just three weeks in office, his administration already facing a laundry list of legal battles.
We will talk about them and the possibility We will talk about them and the possibility of their winning or losing them next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GALLAGHER: Well, the slew of executive actions from the Oval Office has led to a growing number of judicial reactions trying to slow down a very fast- acting Trump administration. Correspondent and Attorney Chanley Painter is live with a rundown on the key court cases. Chanley, good evening.
CHANLEY PAINTER, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Hey, good evening, Trace. So, how much time do you have in your show? We could take up the entire time discussing the dozens of lawsuits being lodged across the United States right now, all in reaction to President Trump's some 65 executive orders he assigned so far in just three and a half weeks in office.
Here's a look at the big picture, though. As of tonight, there is a total of 64 legal challenges pending in federal courts. 17 of those are targeting immigration and citizenship issues like Trump's executive order banning birth rights citizenship. 27 cases are dealing with the structure of government and personnel issues including several challenges to the creation and operation of DOGE, the Department of Government Efficiency, and Elon Musk power over the agency.
Also pending are five cases revolving around government grants, loans, and assistance, while 11 are focused on civil liberties and rights, and finally about four cases so far are challenging orders on diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility.
This onslaught of legal action being brought by a myriad of activists and legal groups, elected officials, local jurisdictions, and individuals. Many judges, though, already blocking enforcement of Trump's executive orders while litigation is pending, which, as you know, Trace, could take years to resolve, with some likely reaching the Supreme Court before final resolution. Trace?
GALLAGHER: Yes, Chanley, stand by, if you will. Let's bring in former federal prosecutor, Neama Rahmani. Neama, great to have you. Chandley's also going to join us. So, I want to put this up on the scene. 19 states challenging Musk and DOGE. These are all, of course, Democratic-led states, and there they are.
But the interesting question in all of this is, will they be successful? I mean, do they have any standing? Is there a chance that some of these can actually, kind of, stop this whole thing in its tracks.
NEAMA RAHMANI, AUTHOR: They have a chance, but not a good one, and this is why it really depends on what is Musk's position. And we saw some of this with Jack Smith. Is he someone that is an officer of the United States? Should he have been appointed by the president, confirmed by the Senate? We remember that argument.
I think the better argument they have is respect to funding. And this isn't a liberal or conservative issue. This is a separation of powers issue. If Congress lawfully appropriates funds, they of course have the power of the purse.
So, it's difficult for the President or Elon Musk to impound or not pay those funds. That would potentially be an unlawful impoundment in violation of the 1974 Impoundment Act.
GALLAGHER: Interesting. And the other question, Chanley, to you is, does Elon Musk have authority to do what he's doing? Jonathan Turley said the following, watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JONATHAN TURLEY, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: This dog won't hunt. I mean, the fact is that he is allowed to have Musk working through the White House. They have Treasury people and other officials now part of DOGE. Congress has a parallel DOGE committee. The I.G.s are doing their own investigation along the same lines. All of that is permissible.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Agree or disagree, Chanley?
PAINTER: How could you disagree with Professor Turley there, Trace?
GALLAGHER: Neama's like, well, maybe.
PAINTER: Oh, maybe. Yes, Neama's excellent. Hey, Neama, we go way back. Great to see you, my friend. So, yes, now this lawsuit being brought challenging Elon Musk, "unprecedented power," they say. They say he's not an elected official and that he should go through a nomination and Senate confirmation process if he's going to wield that much power over government efficiency and where money is going.
We'll see what the courts do, but again as Professor Turley said, this is a Trump team that knows how to make sure they are following the law.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Meantime, Axios writes the following here, three big pieces of Trump's agenda, immigration, trans-rights, and slashing the federal bureaucracy seem particularly likely to make it to the high court, which last summer granted presidents broad immunity for official acts they carry out. If they get to the high court, odds of these things winning, losing, what are your thoughts?
RAHMANI: I think immigration is a clear winner. Even Biden had some wins because it's pretty clear that immigration is exclusively a federal issue, right? You have states that try to speed up or slow down immigration enforcement. Can't happen. And of course, under the supremacy clause, we know that federal law trumps.
Transgender rights, a little bit more difficult. High court hasn't weighed in as much they did with the employment context and said that under the Civil Rights Act. There are transgender rights, but they haven't addressed it with respect to sports schools and hospitals and other medical, so it's going to be interesting to see what the justices do there.
GALLAGHER: Yes, it really will be. Meantime, attorney general in New York, Letitia James, said the following today about Elon Musk. She, of course, went after Trump, now she's going after Musk, and here's her reasoning.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) LETITIA JAMES, NEW YORK ATTORNEY GENERAL: No one elected Elon Musk, and his minions. And no one has allowed him to have access to this information. This is a violation of the separation of powers.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Is it a separation of powers violation, Chanley?
PAINTER: Well, that's what they're going to argue. And remember, Attorney General Letitia James, right after President Trump was taking office, was gearing up to attack Trump every step of the way. That is what she's doing.
New York Governor Hochul also doing the same thing. So, we will continue to see this. And I don't know about Neama, but I'm kind of excited as a legal nerd to watch this all unfold, because again, this is kind of like a constitutional stress test and we will be learning precedent that will define what we can do from here on out.
So, I'm looking forward to watching this all unfold.
GALLAGHER: Yes, 10 seconds. Is it a separation of powers thing?
RAHMANI: It is. And I love Chanley and I'm also a legal nerd this goes back to law school. I think Congress is going to win some of this. Trump is going to win a lot especially what's generally the executive branches authority.
GALLAGHER: Neama, Chanley, thank you both. Well, a new survey showing a plurality of Americans finally believe the country is on the right track for the first time in 20 years. We want to conduct our own FOX NEWS @ NIGHT survey. What do you think? Are we heading in the right direction, wrong track, and why. Let us know, X and Instagram, @TraceGallagher. We're back with the "NIGHTCAP" crew, which includes you.
But first, it is time for our Friday Q&A. Here we go, here we go.
Joy says the following, "When there's breaking news, who decides what segments will stay and which will go?" That's our executive producer. She decides the tie color. I mean, you can't do anything without her, OK. Actually, if there is breaking news, pretty much everything goes. When breaking news happens, it changes everything and everything pretty much goes out the window.
C. Sperling, "How is FNN staff dealing with the wildfires in L.A.? Did any of their houses burn?" It's a great question. Thank you for asking. We were fortunate. A lot of our guests, a lot of people that we work with on a nightly basis did lose their homes. None of our staff lost their homes. Some were evacuated, but that's a great question.
Kay Bedraza, "I mean, Trace, does this face not say it all? Some people need to get with the program and have a cup of common sense." You got to have a cup of common sense, and if you can't carry the cup, you get a t- shirt or you get a hat for common sense.
And finally, Miss Gen X, "Has show prep changed since January 20, 2025?" No, it hasn't changed at all. It's just that every 15 minutes, we blow up the rundown and start over because the news has changed that fast. The cycle that we have never seen.
We will be right back with the "NIGHTCAP."
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GALLAGHER: Back with the "NIGHTCAP" crew: Kevin Corke, Chanley Painter, Craig Keshishian, Aaron Cohen, Steve Hilton and Caroline Downey. Tonight's topic, Fork in the Road.
A recent survey shows a plurality of Americans believe the country is on the right track for the first time in 20 years. What do you think? Are we heading in the right direction, Caroline Downey?
DOWNEY: I think the fact that Elon Musk and DOGE, very new ideas for this government are taking a wrecking ball to waste is very popular, we know that actually. There was a Reuters survey of a bunch of Trump executive orders. The most popular one? Downsizing the federal government.
GALLAGHER: Yes. I mean, it really is true, Steve Hilton. Elon Musk has the wind at his back, and you know, you -- all these Democratic policies are facing headwinds from five compass directions. It's just they can't find their way.
HILTON: Because they've been rejected, and they've failed, and everyone can see. And it's not just the right direction, I think for me the exciting thing is the speed and the energy. That's what's really exciting. I don't think we've seen anything like this before from the president, than what we're seeing now from President Trump. He likes to say nobody's ever seen anything like this. I think it's really true.
GALLAGHER: So far, it is true. The question is can they keep up that pace because it's at breakneck pace, Aaron Cohen.
COHEN: Look, no more Bidenomics. Our enemies are on the run. The borders are now getting closed. I think we're definitely on our way back, there's no doubt about it. America's coming back and everybody can feel it.
GALLAGHER: Yes, Chanley Painter.
PAINTER: Well, right track, wrong track, I'm on the train. Ed, really, you have to respect the hustle. That poll doesn't surprise me because we're seeing campaign promise after campaign promise fulfilled here after the American people spoke clearly last November.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Kevin Corke.
CORKE: Chanley nailed it. Do what you say you're going to do. Gordon Gekko said greed, for lack of a better word, is good. Change, for lack of a better word, in this case, has been very good.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Craig Keshishian.
KESHISHIAN: The president is making bold moves. His approval rating is north of 50 percent from every poll I've seen from Trafalgar, Insider, to Reuters. He's doing the right thing and Americans are resonating. They approve of what he is doing.
GALLAGHER: We asked our audience because we needed a better sample. It was 99.4 percent to 99.6 percent. How about that?
Gigi says, "Don't think it gets much clearer or more convincing than that."
Maryland Born Ohio Proud, "I've waited my entire adult life for the reckoning to take place and I'm cheering every minute of it."
Riley, "It felt like Christmas morning every day since January 20th. Blessed and unstoppable. The Trump administration is performing way above expectations."
Walker, "Keep looking and never stop. In every nook and cranny is not swept, the swamp creatures will come back." If.
Amy, "This is exactly what we voted for, an equidistant makes the former status quo look like sus now, doesn't it?"
Thanks for watching America's late news, FOX NEWS @ NIGHT. I'm Trace Gallagher. See you Monday.

Load-Date: February 15, 2025


End of Document
