




Daily Californian: University of California - Berkeley
January 30, 2025 Thursday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 516 words
Body


On Tuesday, President Donald Trump published a now-rescinded memo announcing a freeze on federal grant and loan disbursement, inciting confusion and concern over funding for the institutions that rely upon it. This potentially could have included grant funding for research by the University of California.
Later that day, a federal judge blocked this pause in funding. Trump has since rescinded the pause.
"The use of Federal resources to advance Marxist equity, transgenderism and green new deal social engineering policies is a waste of taxpayer dollars that does not improve the day-to-day lives of those we serve," said Matthew J. Vaeth, acting director of the Office of Management and Budget, or OMB, in the memo.
In the last fiscal year, UC Berkeley received around $800 million in external grant funding, according to the Sponsored Project Office. Half of this was federal funding which was "by far the single largest source of grant money," campus sociology lecturer Linus Huang said.
A statement from UC President Michael V. Drake, published before the memo was rescinded, explained the impact of the executive order is uncertain. He added that the memo directs agencies to keep their grants and loan programs in line with the executive orders by Trump.
Drake said UC Legal and the University's federal government relations teams were trying to understand the impact of the OMB's memo. He added that they were "evaluating what actions (they) are able to take" while staying in contact with policymakers and other higher education institutions.
"Competitive research grants are a key way the federal government turns taxpayer money into something of benefit to American citizens," Huang said in an email.
These research grants help Americans by identifying issues including scientific problems in medicine and engineering as well as social issues like houselessness, according to Huang. Recipients receive money if they "demonstrate a high likelihood of being able to understand and solve them," he said. Huang added that campus faculty are well known for their ability to prove that they will be able to use financial funding effectively.
Huang added that he believes the main motivation for this funding freeze was Trump's recent pushback against diversity, equity and inclusion, or DEI, initiatives. He has done so thus far via a flurry of executive orders, including one on Jan. 20 titled, "Ending Radical and Wasteful Government DEI Programs and Preferencing."
Despite rescinding the memo, confusion persists. White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt said that Trump's executive orders regarding funding review "remain in full force," according to the Associated Press.
On Wednesday, the U.S. National Science Foundation published a press release saying they are focusing on resuming funding and services for researchers, adding that they are "working expeditiously" to review projects, activities and programs to assure compliance with current executive orders.
"Who knows what other things the administration is going to give a hard time (in) the next four years," Huang said in an email.

Load-Date: January 30, 2025


End of Document
