




Targeted News Service
January 23, 2025 Thursday 9:40 AM  EST


Copyright 2025 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved


Length: 359 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


The Congressional Black Caucus issued the following statement on Jan. 22, 2025:
* * *
Today, Congressional Black Caucus Chair Yvette D. Clarke (NY-09) and members of the Congressional Black Caucus issued the following statement on President Trump's executive actions on diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI):
"President Trump promised to work to lower costs and spur economic growth for all American communities. Instead of working to create economic opportunities that will allow Americans to get ahead, build generational wealth, and achieve the American dream, President Trump on day one of his administration signed an executive order to systematically dismantle all diversity, equity, and inclusion initiatives within the federal government.
"Since the conservative supermajority on the U.S. Supreme Court ruled to rollback 60 years of precedent and end race-conscious admission programs on college campuses, MAGA Republicans have set their sights on cutting off access to economic opportunity for Black and minority communities in the federal government, on college campuses, and in corporate America. This executive order is nothing short of an attempt to take our country backward and does nothing to help our communities grow economically or address the costs of living for hardworking American families.
"This executive order is not only a broken economic promise, it stands in opposition to evidence which shows that diversity initiatives improve the government's ability to better serve our communities.
"Under the Biden Administration, Democrats worked to prioritize racial equity with a whole of government approach. President Trump's executive actions undermine that progress and will only make our country less prosperous.
"The CBC and House Democrats are unified in our mission to create solutions that lower cost and create pathways for greater economic opportunities for our communities, and we strongly urge Republicans to join us rather than working to take away opportunities for our communities."
* * *
Original text here: 
Copyright Targeted News Services
MSTRUCK-9011407 MSTRUCK

Load-Date: January 23, 2025


End of Document
