




telegraph.co.uk
February 7, 2025 Friday 9:02 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: BUSINESS; Version:1
Length: 423 words
Byline: By Alex Singleton, Business Reporter
Highlight: Accenture tells staff it is a ‘meritocracy’ amid corporate America’s breakaway from DEI
Body


Accenture, the consultancy giant which employs nearly 800,000 staff worldwide, has scrapped its diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) goals after . 
Julie Sweet, Accenture’s chief executive, told staff that the consulting firm was a “meritocracy” and that it would start “sun-setting” the diversity goals it originally introduced in 2017.
The company admitted making the change as a result of the changing political climate in the US.
Accenture is the latest US company to abandon diversity goals after Meta, Google-owner Alphabet and Amazon   since Mr Trump entered the White House.
Two weeks ago, Mr Trump ordered the federal government to “take strong action to end private sector DEI discrimination” such as by launching investigations into government suppliers that promote diversity policies.
The move puts lucrative government contracts at risk for professional services and IT companies that fail to comply. Last October, Accenture won a five-year IT contract from the US Air Force worth $1.6bn (£1.3bn).
Ms Sweet said Accenture’s policy change,  , followed an “evaluation of our internal policies and practices and the evolving landscape in the United States, including recent executive orders with which we must comply”.
Along with rolling back Accenture’s DEI targets – which Ms Sweet said would no longer be used to measure staff performance – the company said it would pause submitting data to external diversity benchmarking surveys.
It said it would abandon its career development programmes for “people of specific demographic groups”.
The move is a major about-turn for Accenture. Five years ago, Ms Sweet said that it was vital that DEI was backed by “commitment from the top, setting clear goals, holding leaders accountable and being very clear that our commitment to diversity and to a culture of equality are a business priority, just like our other business priorities.”
Despite the reversal, on Friday its website still said: “Our unwavering commitment to inclusion and diversity unleashes innovation and creates a culture where everyone feels they have equal opportunity.”
In line with DEI goals set in 2017 and 2020, women make up 48pc of Accenture’s workforce and 30pc of managing director roles, according to its latest annual report.
The company, which hires extensively from India, had also announced race and ethnicity goals for the US and the UK in 2020.
Accenture was approached for comment.

Load-Date: February 7, 2025


End of Document
