




USA Today
February 3, 2025 Monday
1 Edition


Copyright 2025 USA Today All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. A1
Length: 1165 words
Byline: By, John Bacon , and Cybele Mayes-Osterman, USA TODAY
Body


Air traffic control staffing in Washington "wasn't normal" Wednesday night at the time of the collision between a passenger jet and an Army Black Hawk helicopter that left 67 people dead, Transportation Secretary Sean Duffy confirmed Sunday.
"We have to look, and there's a consolidation of air traffic controllers an hour before it was supposed to happen during the time of this crash," Duffy said. "What was the appropriateness of that?"
Duffy added that the U.S. hasn't had enough air traffic controllers in America "for a very long time."
On Saturday, the U.S. Army identified the third pilot of the helicopter involved in the crash as Capt. Rebecca Lobach, 28, of Durham, North Carolina. She was one of three soldiers aboard the helicopter, the Army announced alongside a statement from Lobach's family on Saturday evening.
The Army had already identified the other two soldiers as Staff Sgt. Ryan Austin O'Hara, 28, of Lilburn, Georgia, and Andrew Loyd Eaves, a 39-year-old chief warrant officer 2 from Great Mills, Maryland.
For the people who loved Lobach, it left a gripping sorrow and the memories of a brilliant mind, dedicated service member and a loving friend.
Lobach, an aviation officer assigned to the 12th Aviation Battalion, was the only female pilot on the flight. In an unusual move, the Army granted her family's request to hold her name before it was released on Saturday evening. It came after President Donald Trump, with little explanation, pointed the finger at diversity, equity and inclusion - shortened as DEI - practices as a factor behind the crash.
"Not only did she deserve what she achieved, but she was overqualified most of the time for what she was able to accomplish," said Capt. Bilal Kordab, who recruited Lobach to the North Carolina National Guard. "Nothing was just handed to her."
Lobach's friends say excellence was her natural state of being.
A native of Durham, North Carolina, Lobach enlisted in the state's Army National Guard in December 2018.
She was commissioned as an active duty aviation officer months later. She quickly skyrocketed through the ranks, and latched onto piloting like a bird to air.
Lobach graduated from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill with a degree in biology in 2019. A distinguished military graduate, she was in the top 20% of cadets in the nation, according to the Army.
Lt. Samantha Brown, a friend of Lobach since college, said she devoured books and churned out recommendations for her friends, sometimes offering unprompted to buy them a copy.
Lobach previously played on the basketball team of Sewanee, the University of the South, in Tennessee, and she never let her physical strength slide. And serving her country came naturally to her. She had more than 450 hours of flying under her belt, according to the Army.
"She was just so jazzed" to pick up the title of captain a year ago, said Brown. "She was so proud to be piloting command."
And Lobach's service extended beyond the military - she was a certified victim advocate with SHARP, the Army's Sexual Harassment/Assault Response and Prevention program, and a White House military social aide.
"Rebecca was a patriot. She was a daughter, a sister, a friend," Brown said. "I'm going to miss her for the rest of my life."
The crash, the deadliest U.S. air disaster in more than 20 years,  left no survivors.
The Black Hawk helicopter was on a training flight for a military mission to evacuate senior officials should the U.S. come under attack, authorities say. The military mission, known as "continuity of government" and "continuity of operations," is meant to preserve the ability of the U.S. government to operate.
Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth had described the flight as "a routine, annual re-training of night flights on a standard corridor for a continuity of government mission" but provided no details on the mission. The crew had night vision goggles on board for the training mission along the Potomac River on a path known as Route 4.
"Some of their mission is to support the Department of Defense if something really bad happens in this area, and we need to move our senior leaders," said Jonathan Koziol, the chief of staff of the Army's Aviation Directorate.
The National Transportation Safety Board said there were five people in the air traffic control tower at Reagan Washington National Airport on Wednesday night when the helicopter collided with American Airlines Flight 5342 just minutes from touching down at Reagan after taking off from Wichita, Kansas.
All 400 NTSB staffers received the email titled "Fork in the Road" that effectively offered a buyout from the federal government, CNN reported citing multiple sources. Federal employees on Tuesday received the offer from the Trump administration to resign and be paid through September. The crash over the Potomac occurred the next day.
An internal NTSB memo informed employees Friday that they would not be eligible for the program, CNN reported.
Breaking down the audio communications currently available, lead investigator Brice Banning said Saturday that after the air traffic control tower directed the helicopter to pass behind the plane at about 8:47 p.m. Wednesday, seconds later there was a "verbal reaction" from the plane crew and flight data showed the plane begin to increase in pitch just before sounds of impact.
At a briefing late Saturday, NTSB member Todd Inman said the five personnel in the air traffic control tower included an operations supervisor with oversight of the tower and an operations supervisor in training.
And authorities said the helicopter may have been flying higher than the maximum altitude for its training mission.
NTSB investigators have determined the CRJ700 airplane was at 325 feet, plus or minus 25 feet, at the time of impact, officials said. The information was based on data recovered from the jet's flight data recorder that tracks the aircraft's movements, speed and other technical information.
One second before impact, the crew aboard the American flight had a "verbal reaction," according to the plane's cockpit voice recorder, and flight data shows the plane's nose began to rise, officials said.
The plane's altitude suggests the Army helicopter was flying above 200 feet   the maximum altitude for the route it was using. Yet the control tower's radar apparently showed the helicopter at 200 feet at the time of the accident, though that information has not been confirmed.
"That's what our job is, to figure that out," Inman said.
Contributing: Reuters; Mike Snyder, USA TODAY
Search continues for black box in Philadelphia
Death toll may rise after air ambulance crashed into neighborhood. 3A
Victims mourned
Wednesday's crash between American Airlines Flight 5342 and a U.S. Army Black Hawk helicopter in Washington, D.C., is believed to have spared no one on board both aircraft when they collided. The victims were parents, coaches, professionals, teenage athletes, soldiers and children. Scan the QR code to read their stories.

Load-Date: February 3, 2025


End of Document
