




The Times (London)
February 17, 2025 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition


Copyright 2025 Times Newspapers Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Pg. 16
Length: 1274 words
Byline: Tom Witherow
Body


CORRECTION: The annual budget for equality, diversion and inclusion staff at Oxford Brookes university is less than £200,000, not £1.3 million as we wrongly said (News, Feb 17).
Spending on equality, diversity and inclusion salaries at British universities has risen sharply in the past three years and is now about £28 million a year.
Several staff are paid more than senior academics, and the highest paid diversity boss is on a basic pro rata salary of up to £119,274.
Oxford leads the field with 59 staff in 2023-24 at a cost of £2.5 million, before pensions and other benefits.
The research, by the Taxpayers' Alliance, found that the cost of EDI teams at universities rose by 125 per cent to £168,000 on average per institution between 2022 and 2024.
The number of EDI staff employed by the universities also swelled by a fifth, according to data provided under freedom of information (FOI) laws.
President Trump has cut diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) schemes across the US, prompting companies including BT, Accenture, Amazon and Meta, which owns Facebook, to ditch their own diversity targets.
The research found that education institutions spent tens of millions of pounds last year employing hundreds of staff on jobs that critics say are "pointless", despite a funding crisis in the sector.
Each university employed an average of 6.9 staff in EDI roles, suggesting there were more than 1,000 employed in the university sector as a whole, with an annual spend of about £28 million.
The 110 universities which responded to the FOI requests employed 761 people in EDI roles in 2023-24, at a cost of £18.5 million, or an average of £168,267 per university. This marks a big increase on 2021-22, when universities spent an average of £75,000 each employing EDI staff.
Oxford spent the most, followed by Oxford Brookes, which spent £1.3 million in 2023-24. Edge Hill, in Ormskirk, Lancashire, spent £1.2 million in the same year, and the University for the Creative Arts, in Farnham, Surrey, spent £1 million. Nineteen universities, of the 110 that responded, did not employ any EDI staff over the three years.
Among the highest-paid EDI staff in the responses was the "EDI strategic lead" at Coventry, who earned between £83,872 and £119,274 pro rata.
Warwick's social inclusion director was paid a salary of between £71,900 and £123,900, and the University of Portsmouth's director of student racial equity was paid £89,432.
The study forms part of a series of stories in this newspaper about the EDI industry across the public sector.
Research by the Conservative Way Forward, a think tank, from 2022 found that there were 10,000 EDI roles in the public sector, costing the taxpayer £427 million a year.
Many universities are already making redundancies and shelving projects because of a crisis in funding. The Office for Students estimated that 72 per cent of universities could be in deficit by the next academic year.
On Friday The Times reported that EDI staff in the
NHS were pushing controversial theories about race and gender in training packs for staff. A search of university websites finds similar material. Edinburgh University, which did not provide data to an FOI request, has a guide to "microaggressions, microinsults and microinvalidations". The video "resource" explains that microaggressions "are like mosquito bites", and gives as an example a white person saying: "Your colour doesn't matter to me, everyone's human", or: "Anyone can succeed if they work hard enough."
Imperial College London, which also did not provide data, has a guide on its website on "how to be a white ally", in which students are told that "racial inequality permeates Britain" and to "understand that you have white privilege".
One advice video says that "it's not about your intent, it's about your impact, so when you're called out make sure you listen, apologise, commit to changing your behaviour and move forward".
Hull University, which has 13 EDI staff, says that its diversity strategy "takes us beyond what is required under the Equality Act 2010", and aims to address "additional characteristics which are not currently protected under UK law", including gender identity.
A search of job adverts shows universities hiring EDI staff on higher salaries than lecturers.
The University of Manchester is hiring a lead EDI business partner on up to £69,757. The university has made it an operational objective to offer "active bystander" and unconscious bias training to all staff. An active bystander is someone who intervenes to challenge unacceptable behaviour.
St Andrews is hiring a deputy head of equality, diversity and inclusion on a salary of up to £57,422.
Last year a Cambridge professor said that universities were being destroyed from within by lecturers policing one another with EDI ideology he believed to be sinister. Professor John Marenbon, a fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge and the British Academy, said that EDI agendas harmed free speech by creating an atmosphere of fear and conformity, and that those who question diversity schemes are rarely promoted or appointed, and some have been forced out of their jobs.
Joanna Marchong, of the Taxpayers' Alliance, said: "Taxpayers are starting to see just how deeply the public sector is plagued by costly EDI roles. These positions are draining millions from hardworking Brits despite clear evidence of their ineffectiveness, and their numbers keep growing. Public bodies must get their priorities straight and stop wasting money on expensive, pointless non-jobs."
The University for the Creative Arts said more than half of its 30 roles were inclusion assistants, supporting disabled and neurodiverse students.
Professor Duncan Ivison, president and vice-chancellor of the University of Manchester, said: "Our EDI roles help make our university operate more fairly for everyone. There are still significant attainment gaps between different groups of students that we need to close and we want our academic and professional staff workforce to better reflect the communities we serve.
"But also, and importantly, inclusive universities do better research and teach more effectively. It's a crucial element of genuine academic excellence."
A University of Edinburgh spokeswoman said: "The university promotes a positive culture for working and studying, one which celebrates difference, challenges prejudice and ensures fairness. Our commitment and investment in services to support equality, diversity and inclusion enables us to provide an environment where our staff, students and graduates can meet their full potential and are treated with dignity and respect."
The University of Warwick said it "is committed to its strategy which aims to achieve a diverse workforce by 2030. We are determined to create an environment in which all individuals can excel and where we progressively remove the barriers that hold people from realising their full potential". Hostile activists never learnt art of persuasion, Tomiwa Owolade, page 20
Big spenders Universities that spent the most on EDI salaries (2023-24)* Oxford £2.5 million, 58 roles Edinburgh Napier Cost not disclosed, 53 roles.
Oxford Brookes £1.3 million, 24 roles Edge Hill, Lancashire £1.2 million, 39 roles
University for the Creative Arts £1 million, 30 roles
Highest-paid EDI roles (2023-24)* EDI strategic lead at Coventry University Between £83,872 and £119,274 pro rata Kulbir Shergill, social inclusion director at the University of Warwick £71,900 to £123,900 (grade 9 pay) Yvonne Howard, director of student racial equality at the University of Portsmouth £89,432 * Of the 110 universities that supplied data to researchers

Graphic

 
Oxford University spent ?2.5 million on EDI staff

Load-Date: February 18, 2025


End of Document
