




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 23, 2025 Thursday 11:02 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 300 words
Byline: Kelly Tyko
Body


January 23rd, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
More than 98% of Costco shareholders voted down an  
Why it matters: Diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) efforts are falling out of favor and coming under legal scrutiny with  

State of play: The anti-DEI proposal was filed by the National Center for Public Policy Research, a conservative think tank.
Costco grabbed headlines over the holidays when its board of directors put out a  
The board had voted unanimously to ask shareholders to reject the motion.
Zoom out: Trump issued a  
What they're saying: "The fact that 98% of investors voted against the proposal shows that almost all investors are not buying what the anti-ESG and anti-DEI organizations are selling," Jonas Kron, Trillium Asset Management's chief advocacy officer, said in a statement to Axios.
"It's also a strong indication that all the media reports of the death of DEI and ESG are way overblown," Kron said. "The investing community clearly understands the importance and value of these ESG and DEI approaches and are ready to express that through their votes."
Editor's note: This story has been updated with additional information.
More from Axios:





Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 24, 2025


End of Document
