




The Daily Caller
January 28, 2025 Tuesday 03:40 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS; daily-caller-news-foundation
Length: 476 words
Byline: Ireland Owens, Contributor, 
Body



Over a dozen Republican attorneys general are calling on Costco to ditch its diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) policies.
The effort, spearheaded by 19 attorneys general, demands Costco “follow the law and end its woke DEI policies,”  to a Monday press release. The  follows  of Costco shareholders  a proposal to evaluate any risks associated with keeping its DEI policies in place.
The letter was signed by Iowa Attorney General Brenna Bird, Kansas Attorney General Kris Kobach, Alabama Attorney General Steve Marshall and Ohio Attorney General Dave Yost, among other attorneys general. 
“It's time to ditch DEI,” Bird said in a statement shared with the Daily Caller News Foundation. “While other companies right the ship and abandon their illegal, woke policies, Costco has doubled down. I'm putting Costco on notice to do the right thing and eliminate discriminatory DEI. No American should be denied an opportunity because they don't fit the woke mold.”

(Photo by Scott Olson/Getty Images)
A slew of American  have moved to  their DEI-related policies amid  and mounting  from consumers and conservative groups. ,  and  are among the firms to throw the policies overboard.
“Just as President Trump is thankfully putting an end to odious DEI policies in government, it is important that the public sector follow suit and put an end to these discriminatory practices,” Oklahoma Attorney General Gentner Drummond said in a statement shared with the DCNF. “Costco should live up to its motto and 'do the right thing' by doing away with race-based preferences.”
President Donald Trump has been an outspoken  of DEI initiatives and “woke” ideology. Shortly after returning to the Oval Office on Jan. 20, Trump issued an  aimed at overturning DEI policies in the government, calling them “radical and wasteful.”
“Although Costco's motto is 'do the right thing,' it appears that the company is doing the wrong thing - clinging to DEI policies that courts and businesses have rejected as illegal,” the letter says. “Costco should treat every person equally and based on their merit, rather than based on divisive and discriminatory DEI practices.”
Costco did not immediately respond to a request for comment from the DCNF.
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Graphic

 
(Photo by Tim Boyle/Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
