




USA Today Online
January 26, 2025 11:02 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Length: 378 words
Body


In a reversal of the cliché,  announced that soon it will no longer serve Pepsi products at its food court, so hopefully Coke is okay.
Ron Vachris, CEO of the warehouse retail giant, announced that Costco would be switching its food court fountains to Coca-Cola products during the 
The announcement came after a shareholder asked a question about the change, 
"This summer we will be converting our food court fountain business back over to Coca-Cola," Vachris said.
The company switched from Coca-Cola to Pepsi products in its food courts in 2013 to maintain the price of its tentpole $1.50 hot dog combo, .
Costco CFO  said in 2024 that, ""
Coca-Cola announcement comes as Costco shareholders deny DEI rollback
The Coca-Cola announcement came in the same shareholder meeting that saw .
Over 98% of shares voted against the proposal, according to preliminary results announced by Costco chairman Hamilton James. He and other board members had asked shareholders to reject the proposal involving the company's diversity, equity and inclusion policies ahead of Thursday's annual meeting.
"We owe our success to the more than 300,000 employees who serve our members every day. It is important that they all feel included and appreciated and that they transmit these values to our customers," James said.
The decision was praised by supporters of diversity, equity and inclusion policies that have seen  in the  second term.
The Rev. Al Sharpton led a  to show that supporters would support businesses that maintained DEI practices as calls for  around companies who have stopped practices 
"Costco has stood firm, proving that doing the right thing is also smart business," Sharpton said in a post on X, formerly Twitter. "We will boycott those who abandon DEI, but we will also uplift and support the companies that stand with us." 
Contributing: Jessica Guynn, Bailey Schulz
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: January 27, 2025


End of Document
