




MailOnline
January 27, 2025 Monday 8:43 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: CONSUMER; Version:1
Length: 581 words
Byline: Tilly Armstrong Deputy Consumer Editor For Dailymail.Com
Body


READ MORE: Costco boldly defies Donald Trump's executive order
Costco has confirmed that it will be swapping Pepsi for Coca Cola at all its food courts starting this summer. 
CEO Ron Vachris confirmed the change at the retailer's shareholder meeting earlier this month. 
A shareholder asked a question about the change, as rumors had been swirling that Costco was planning to drop Pepsi beverages. 
'This summer we will be converting our food court fountain business back over to Coca Cola,' Vachris said. 
The wholesale retailer switched from Coca Cola to Pepsi products in 2013, according to CNN, in order to maintain the price of its famous $1.50 soda and hot dog deal. 
The price has remained the same since 1985, and the chain sold around 150 million of the combos to members last year alone. 
Last year, chief financial officer Gary Millerchip confirmed that despite losing the company money, the combo deal was 'safe.' 
Retailers like Costco can only serve Pepsi or Coca Cola products - they are not able to distribute both at the same time due to product contracts.
The beverage companies bid on contracts to supply their products to such chains, and often the lowest cost bid for the retailer will win.
Pepsi and Coca Cola have been rivals for decades, but the last time they came close in market share was the 1980's.
Since then Coca Cola has pulled ahead to become the undisputed king of the $97 billion US soda industry, with more than double the market share of any of its rivals at 19.18 percent.
The brand has worked hard to not only promote its original and diet products but also to appeal to new customers with novel and nostalgic flavors, such as the upcoming Coca-Cola Orange Cream.
Pepsi's market share is 8.31 percent, and Dr Pepper now 8.34 percent.
Costco fans took to social media to express their excitement at the change. 
'Hell yeah! Sorry but I'm not a Pepsi fan, and can't wait to get that sweet Diet Coke at the fountains again,' one user wrote on Reddit. 
'It'll be nice to see Coca-Cola for the first time in my local Costco considering it's always been Pepsi,' another wrote. 
Some users were disappointed at the change, however, with one writing: 'Guess I am the only Pepsi fan. No more food court drinks for me.'
It comes after Costco and its shareholders have defied President Donald Trump and conservative activists by sticking to their DEI policies.
At the company's annual meeting, they voted strongly against a proposal from a conservative activist group that challenged diversity, equity and inclusion policies at the company.
The vote was seen as an early test of investor views about the value of corporate DEI programs, which many companies added or beefed up starting in 2020 amid the Black Lives Matter movement. 
President Trump has already introduced anti-DEI initiatives, claiming they are unfair and distracting. Ahead of him being voted in, companies like Ford and John Deere had already rowed back on DEI policies. 
Costco, however, is standing its ground. 
The company's board had urged investors to reject an investigation into whether DEI policies harmed the retailer, for example by forcing it to overlook the best candidates.
More than 98 percent of the shareholders voted against it last week. 
Costco's directors argued that DEI policies are an asset, not a liability.
Executives emphasized that a diverse workforce and supplier base help attract top talent, foster innovation, and enhance the 'treasure hunt' shopping experience that customers value. 

Load-Date: January 28, 2025


End of Document
