




The Famuan: Florida Agricultural and Mechanical University
February 16, 2025 Sunday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 556 words
Body


Photo credit: FAMU
On Jan. 20, President Trump signed executive orders eliminating DEI programs within the federal government, stating in his inauguration speech that the move would end efforts to socially engineer race and gender into every aspect of public and private life. The policy shift was immediate, with the Office of Personnel Management ordering agencies to place all DEI staff on paid leave by Jan. 22, remove DEI websites, and cancel all related training and contracts. 
The decision has sparked concerns among FAMU students. Organizations that sponsor and employ HBCUs, particularly those in broadcast journalism and graphic communication, question how it may affect their career prospects. Still, many remain confident in the university's resilience.
"We should be worried, but I feel like the history of FAMU and the background, in what we stand for, I feel like we don't have to worry that FAMU is gonna come to end...we're gonna make it. We're gonna be fine," said Antoinette Mason, a broadcast journalism and graphic communication student. 
The Disney Storytellers Fund at FAMU, launched in 2022, continues to support diverse voices in media and entertainment by providing scholarships, mentorship, and professional development to SJGC students. The program offers access to industry professionals, hands-on training, and career-building experiences to help students refine their storytelling skills. 
Although FAMU alum Kim Godwin is no longer president of ABC News, she remains an active university supporter.
"As the President of the SJGC Board of Visitors, she maintains a direct and influential connection to the school," Dean Mira Lowe said through an email statement to the famuan.
Despite companies like Target, Meta, and McDonald's scaling back DEI initiatives, FAMU's SJGC is forging new partnerships to ensure student success. 
"We continually cultivate relationships with companies and organizations to support student success and professional development. This year, we are excited to welcome new partnerships with FOX TV Network, Estee Lauder, and Eli Lilly," Lowe said. 
FAMU's Career & Professional Department Center equips students with resources to ensure they are workforce-ready upon graduation. All first-time enrolled students must complete a career assessment before orientation starts next year. 
Upon arrival, they will review their results with advisors, connecting their strengths to potential majors and career paths. Students can strengthen their skills and remain competitive through career assessments, mentorship, career expos, and other networking opportunities. 
Research from the Alumni Career Leadership Collective shows that students who engage in career services are well-positioned for success, regardless of DEI policy changes. 
"We are not going to baby you, but we're going to get you started. We are going to give you direction and because your rattlers we know you can take it from there..." Tamara Taylor, director of the CPDC said. "But we want to be a part of your journey because there are things that we know that you just don't know yet because you've not been in the workforce." 
Although these concerns from the students are still valid, the Career and Development Department along with the Dean of SJGC remain confident in the resources and professional relationships available.

Load-Date: February 18, 2025


End of Document
