




USA Today Online
February 5, 2025 10:40 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Section: KANSAS CITY NEWS, KANSAS CITY NEWS, KANSAS CITY NEWS, KANSAS CITY NEWS & MIDDLE EAST NEWS
Length: 849 words
Byline: Rebecca Morin, USA TODAY
Body


President Donald Trump's plan to take over the Gaza Strip. Taylor Swift's impact on the NFL's female fanbase. And how Meghan, the Duchess of Sussex and Billie Eilish came together for one teenager.
Hi there!  here. You want the news? I got Wednesday's news here for ya. 
But first: This heist is no yolk.  In Pennsylvania, someone stole 100,000 eggs, 
Trump floats a US takeover of Gaza
Upending decades of the United States’ Middle East policies, President Donald Trump on Tuesday called for the U.S. to take over the Gaza Strip and relocate roughly 2 million Palestinians to neighboring Arab countries. His goal: to see the Gaza Strip become the "Riviera of the Middle East.”
Trump’s proposal: Trump said the United States would “own” Gaza and lead its reconstruction for the "long term,” but did not expand on how that would happen, who would pay for it, or whether it would be legal. He suggested the 1.8 million Palestinians who still live in Gaza should move to neighboring countries, such as Jordan and Egypt. The idea appears to completely run counter to a "two-state solution," the longtime U.S. and the internationally-backed formula for peace between Israel and the Palestinians.
Worldwide backlash: Trump’s proposal was widely condemned from Jordan and Egypt, who said they opposed the plan, to China and Russia, who called it an unworkable idea. Amnesty International Executive Director Paul O'Brien said removing all Palestinians from Gaza is "tantamount to destroying them as a people."  
Analysis: Trump moves with stunning speed to .
What led up to Trump's call for .
Gaza Strip in photos: .

Anti-Trump protests across all 50 states
Following Trump’s flurry of executive actions to roll back diversity programs and slash the federal workforce, some Americans have had enough. Protesters rallied in all 50 states, as well as Washington, D.C., to call on lawmakers to try and take a stand against the Trump administration’s recent actions.
'People are feeling galvanized': Several hundred protesters gathered outside the U.S. Capitol to demonstrate. While some Democratic lawmakers spoke at the rally, protestors called on lawmakers to “do your job.”  .
Trump signs executive order targeting .
Trump is rallying against DEI. 
Photos from the protests: .

Real quick
Hoda Kotb teases post-'Today' project with 
From Bowen Yang to Molly Ringwald: .
A 'quademic'? What to know about .
Watch some of the viral reactions .
This beer company is going all-in on .
Support the Short List and 
The Taylor Swift effect is real for the NFL
Sunday's Super Bowl showdown between the Philadelphia Eagles and Kansas City Chiefs isn’t just for the guys. Football is the No. 1 sport among women, according to the NFL, and music superstar Taylor Swift has helped to bring more of them into the fold.
Growing NFL’s audience: Nearly half – 47% – of the NFL audience are women, said Marissa Solis, the league's senior vice president of global brand and consumer marketing. Solis said there have been investments to expand the league’s fandom by collaborating with the wives and girlfriends (WAGs) of the players and launching partnerships with women-focused websites. Swift – who is often seen at the games excitedly cheering on her boyfriend, Chiefs tight end Travis Kelce – also helped boost the audience.  
Travis Kelce: 'Pretty cool' Trump going to Super Bowl .
Watch the Eagles surprise New Orleans terror attack victim .
How did Chiefs become villains? 

Billie Eilish feat. the Duchess of Sussex
One teenage girl lost everything when the Los Angeles wildfires burned down her home – including her brand-new shirt from Billie Eilish’s latest tour. Then the Duchess of Sussex stepped in. Meghan met the 15-year-old and her mother when she visited Altadena, California, in the wake of the fires. While Meghan didn’t know Eilish personally, she enlisted the help of some friends to try a new shirt for the teenager. Eilish got the message and responded with the shirt – and more. ⭐️ 
A break from the news
A perfect match: Shop Hanna Andersson .
‍♀️ Women athletes make their mark on .
Meet Bakso, the cutest new addition to .
Rebecca Morin is a senior national news reporter at USA TODAY. Got any thoughts or feedback? Reach out to her at .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: February 5, 2025


End of Document
