




Targeted News Service
February 24, 2025 Monday 7:30 AM  EST


Copyright 2025 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved


Length: 733 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


The National Association of College and University Business Officers issued the following news:
* * *
Courts Temporarily Rule Against White House Policies
Three court rulings have delayed implementation of several new Trump administration policies with major implications for colleges and universities and the students they serve.
NIH Facilities and Administrative Rate
Supplemental guidance issued February 7 by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) announced the elimination of negotiated indirect cost rates and established a new standard indirect cost rate of 15 percent, dramatically lowering the reimbursement of the facilities and administrative costs of conducting federal research.
While a temporary block was put in place shortly after the announcement, U.S. District Judge Angel Kelley last week further extended the temporary restraining order preventing the new standard indirect cost rate from going into effect until she decides whether to issue an injunction.
NACUBO President and CEO Kara D. Freeman called on the Trump administration to rescind this misguided policy.
Funding Freeze
Also last week, U.S. District Judge Loren L. AliKhan announced that a temporary restraining order will remain in effect until she issues a ruling on a preliminary injunction on the sweeping federal funding freeze issued by the Office of Management and Budget on January 27.
Freeman also called on the White House to reconsider the freeze.
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
According to a Department of Education Dear Colleague Letter (DCL), all federally funded educational institutions must eliminate race as a factor in wide-ranging decisions by February 28.
Notably--
* Positions expressed in the DCL are inconsistent with the Supreme Court decision in Students for Fair Admissions v. Harvard and existing statutes.
* NACUBO has joined the American Council on Education and numerous other higher education associations to request that the Department rescind the guidance.
* A memo written by law professors and other lawyers highlights common diversity, equity, and inclusion initiatives that remain legally defensible.
* A judge has temporarily blocked other White House DEI orders, which may have implications for the February 14 ED DCL.
Next Steps
NACUBO and other higher education associations continue to closely monitor developments and engage in advocacy efforts to ensure minimal disruption to students and institutions.
Colleges and universities should be prepared for the Trump administration to object to the court rulings and to continue to work with federal agencies to seek alternative routes to implement its efforts to eliminate diversity, equity, and inclusion and to seek deep austerity across the federal government.
Attention also remains on Congress, with whom President Trump is likely to seek rescissions and reprogramming of funds. Work on the federal fiscal year 2025 budget is incomplete and, without agreement before March 14, a federal government shutdown remains possible.
The legal process may take time. District court actions are the starting point for many legal cases, but cases could then go to the U.S. Court of Appeals. Cases that touch on constitutional issues may be also appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court and could take months--or years--for rulings.
What Institutions Should Do Now
Higher education institutions should take the following steps to mitigate potential risks:
* Engage legal and compliance teams: Work closely with general counsel and financial compliance officers to consider if there is a need to align policies with federal regulations.
* Review ongoing and pending federal grants and institutional programs and policies to assess exposure to White House goals.
* Engage with federal agency contacts to clarify the status of grants.
* Expedite the obligation and disbursement process where possible.
Understand the Scope and Limitation of Executive Orders
Executive orders from the White House set the "tone at the top," but they also have limitations. This easy-to-understand Executive Orders 101 explainer details the process for issuing them and what they are able and not able to do.
Contact
Liz Clark
Vice President, Policy and Research
202/861-2553
* * *
Original text and links presented by source here: 
[Category: Education]
Copyright Targeted News Services
MSTRUCK-9072308 MSTRUCK

Load-Date: February 25, 2025


End of Document
