




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 7, 2025 Friday 4:28 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 337 words
Byline: Ben Geman
Body


February 7th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
Trump officials are moving fast to halt Biden-era programs on environmental justice - that is, addressing higher pollution burdens that poor people and communities of color often face.
Why it matters: EJ was a priority for Biden's team, which crafted policies like "Justice40" to steer 40% of certain climate and environmental funds to disadvantaged communities.
But Trump deputies call it part of DEI, inappropriate racially based policymaking, or both.
Driving the news: EPA is placing 168 workers from EPA's Office of Environmental Justice and External Civil Rights on leave, said Molly Vaseliou, an EPA spokeswoman.
She cited President Trump's executive order to end "radical and wasteful" DEI programs and "preferencing," and other memos.
People placed on leave don't have "statutory duties or core mission functions," she said.
Separately, new AG Pam Bondi is ordering Justice Department divisions to ID and end environmental justice programs.
It's part of a  
And  
The other side: Environmental groups bashed the moves.
The EJ reversal is "in line with this administration's reckless strategy to tear down our basic health protections and make it easier for polluters to profit," Margot Brown, the Environmental Defense Fund's senior VP for justice and equity, said in a statement.
Catch up quick: While it got more focus under Biden, EJ work has been around for  
For instance, President George H.W. Bush created an equity office at EPA in 1992, and President Clinton issued an EJ  
What we're watching: The courts.
Kiern Suckling, executive director of the Center for Biological Diversity, said the group will sue EPA because EJ is an "express part of its mission."


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 7, 2025


End of Document
