



Fox News INGRAHAM ANGLE 7:00 PM EST
February 19, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6652 words
Byline: Bret Baier, Laura Ingraham, Raymond Arroyo
Guests: Bahig Saliba; Ted Cruz, Kevin McCarthy, Dan Patrick, Laurel Libby
Body


BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS HOST: I'm Bret Baier. Fair, balanced and still unafraid. The Ingraham Angle starts now.
LAURA INGRAHAM, FOX NEWS HOST: Good evening, everyone. I'm Laura Ingraham. This is The Ingraham Angle from Washington. Thank you, as always, for joining us. All right, tonight, the airline industry is under fire. Are the skies really that friendly if we don't have confidence that the people hired to keep us safe are the best and the brightest.
(VIDEO PLAYING)
INGRAHAM: Delta uses this airline to operate some of its regional jets, and that gets us to flight risk. That's the focus of tonight's Angle.
It keeps happening.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Two people dead after the FAA said this occurred in a mid-air collision right here at the Marana airport.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: That was this morning, right outside of Tucson. And that made it five crashes in one month. Now, late January, of course, here in D.C., we saw the worst American aviation disaster in over 23 years, an army helicopter collided with an American Airlines jet, 67 people dead. Only a day later, in Philly, a medevac plane came down from the sky like a missile, seven dead, 19 injured. Then last week in Scottsdale, one pilot on a private plane is dead after they veered off the runway and crashed into a business jet.
(VIDEO PLAYING)
INGRAHAM: And on Monday night in Toronto, that terrifying video of a Delta jet that flipped over at landing. Now, miraculously, no one died, but questions are swirling about how this could have happened. So what on earth is going on? Americans are worried, understandably so, especially when we seem to get information in dribs and drabs about how this is happening. To restore trust in our aviation system, we need total transparency.
Now, last week regarding that horrific D.C. crash, the NTSB offered only a preliminary finding.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: CVR data from the Black Hawk indicated that the portion of the transmission stating the CRJ was circling may not have been received by the Black Hawk crew.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: OK. How do they not know if this is a problem at this point in the tower, or was it in the cockpit? We don't know, but we do know that we need to get a handle on this and fast, because the flying public must be reassured. And who can blame them? Because under Biden, the FAA, the U.S. military and Corporate America elevated DEI, diversity, equity, inclusion to deity status. And by the way, that included Delta Air Lines.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I went into a meeting, and I was the junior, most junior person there, and I looked around the table and it was full of women. And that's when I really realized this is an agency that can empower women and grow them and make them and have them become leaders.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: How reassuring, and we certainly know that under Biden and Harris, DEI was enshrined at every level of government, that was a top priority for them.
Now recall the rampant speculation when there was a delay in announcing the name of that female Black Hawk pilot who was one of the three crew members tragically lost on that helicopter when it collided with the American regional jet. Meanwhile, the two male pilots names were released within just hours of the crash.
Now most of the female pilot social media had been scrubbed, we learned out, learned about in the interim, which, of course, just led to more speculation. Again, whatever the truth is, the public has a right to know. So is this series of aviation nightmares? Is it all just really a coincidence, or have we lowered standards because we lost pilots during COVID. Remember the vaxx mandate? Or did we somehow lose pilots to meet DEI goals? Again, we need answers.
But my favorite moment of the day came early this morning on CBS when Gayle King, in an interview with the Delta CEO, tried to blame Trump's FAA staffing cuts on this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GAYLE KING, CBS NEWS ANCHOR: After looking at all these mishaps, a lot of people are very nervous. Do these cuts affect you?
ED BASTIAN, CEO, DELTA AIR LINES: The cuts do not affect our scale. The reality is, there is over 50,000 people that work at the FAA, and the cuts, I understand, were 300 people, and they were in non-critical safety functions.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Next time buy a vowel or call Oprah. Now we shouldn't be surprised, though, because when Gayle show prep is always the anti-Trump echo chamber. Of course, that's what she's going to say.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is going to yet again raise the concern about FAA staffing, air traffic control staffing.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Hundreds of FAA employees have been laid off as part of Elon Musk going through all the federal agencies.
WHOOPI GOLDBERG, THE VIEW CO-HOST: I have been panicking over all this insanity with these planes. Let's start with the string of mass firings by Elon Musk's DOGE.
JOY BEHAR, THE VIEW CO-HOST: I feel like we're living in some kind of chaos right now.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Totally, Joy. Well, they're just taking again their cues from their unofficial bosses.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): The FAA, the more Donald Trump and DOGE indiscriminately hack away at public agencies, the greater harm to Americans well-being and even their safety.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Of course, even before that Toronto crash, Eric Swalwell said that all the crashes are Trump's fault. But all this does beg the question, is there something we are doing with these critical positions that is making the skies more dangerous? How could that Toronto scene have unfolded the way it did? Matthew Buckley was an F-18 and a commercial airline pilot; he says the pilot should have been able to slow that aircraft down.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You've ever seen a crash like this on a regular runway with no snow, that fireball eventually catches up to the airplane as it stops and fuels all over the place. This could have been a hell of a lot worse, but thank God it actually rolls in the snow, you can actually see the fire more or less go out. So in this case, the snow actually saved a lot of lives.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Would the pilots have enough warning if they were coming into contact with the ground too quickly?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Absolutely, Bill.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Oh, and what do we know about the pilots in the cockpit that day, we'll find out. The bottom-line is, we should never have to even discuss whether diversity, equity, inclusion was a factor in any critical role, but especially in the cockpit. If the best pilots are indeed women or they're minorities, great, whatever. That's fantastic, but job placement should be based on merit. Period. Same with fellowships and medical school or in any other area of life where life and death literally is on the line.
Now, Donald Trump is committed to eradicating DEI and government hiring, and of course, through our educational system, where any federal funds are involved. Good. It's not a moment too soon. Objective measures of skill, excellence and performance that should always be our guide, not skin color, not sexual preference, not gender, and yes, our lives depend on it. And that's the Angle.
Joining me now is Bahig Saliba, who is a former American Airlines captain. Captain Saliba, good to talk to you tonight. Let's start with the Toronto crash, because the CEO of Delta was asked about the experience of the pilots on board. This is what he said.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BASTIAN: It was an experienced crew. There's one level of safety at Delta, Chris, between our main line and our regional jets, all these pilots train for these conditions. They fly under all kinds of conditions at all the airports in which we operate. So there's nothing specific with respect to experience that I'd love to.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Captain, what are your thoughts after watching that Toronto video?
BAHIG SALIBA, FORMER AMERICAN AIRLINES CAPTAIN: Laura, thank you for having me on your show tonight. I have a very defined view of everything that we are experiencing here, and that is everything, all the lapses that are emanating from the FAA. So we can start with the FAA. And back to the DEI problem that we have in the country. And I 100 percent support President Trump in eliminating DEI, beginning with the FAA and the law supports not including DEI in safety sensitive positions.
As a matter of fact, the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, Title 6, Section 601(b) states that the Federal Aviation administrator must perform his duties and powers in a manner as best eliminates or reduces accidents or the recurrence of accidents near transportation. Nowhere in the Act does it say that the administrator has any authority to introduce a threat, which necessarily means that anybody in those positions must be qualified.
So then --
INGRAHAM: Just to interrupt for one moment, the Delta CEO indicated that there was no issue with the pilots at all that he knew about. But many people watching back to that video, because remember, we were in Toronto. We weren't -- we weren't in the United States for that one. So the weather might not be to blame for the crash. Watch this.
SALIBA: That that I concur --
INGRAHAM: Wait, we're going to watch the video.
SALIBA: But let me --
INGRAHAM: Hold on a second. We're watching the video now.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BASTIAN: The conditions were challenging, but nothing more than professional pilots can handle. The airplanes designed for it. The pilots are trained for it.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Yes, so Captain, in your experience, should there have been a successful landing in those weather conditions? Yes or no.
SALIBA: It could have been, yes. There could have been a successful landing. And I don't see -- the weather was good. I think they misjudged their height and did not flare in time to make a safe landing.
INGRAHAM: Well, very quickly Captain Saliba --
SALIBA: That's my judgment.
INGRAHAM: -- your estimation is DEI right now still endangering the public, the flying public, given what we've seen with again, five crashes in one month.
SALIBA: Yes, and I believe so. And I was just going to make that link between the FAA and the airlines, the airlines receive a certificate of public convenience and necessity. And by design, they are -- they must follow the rules and regulations that the FAA promulgate. So if the FAA does not have the authority to introduce a threat into aviation, where do the airlines receive that authority? Where do they get that authority? Like I said, eliminating the threat of accidents or incidents necessarily means that you must be qualified. So where do the airlines get that leeway where they can create the DEI --
INGRAHAM: Well, they took leeway. I mean, they've just took -- they're fanatics obviously. I mean they become fanatics for DEI. Captain Saliba, we appreciate it. Thank you very much. Now, on another topic, the usual false tropes about Trump are circulating again.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOY REID, MSNBC ANCHOR: That definitely is clear is that the United States is now the little buddy of Vladimir Putin. Putin runs Trump.
REP. TED LIEU (D-CA): Donald Trump acts like he is scared of Vladimir Putin.
SCHUMER: It's shameful to hear the president repeat Putin's propaganda.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Now, does that sound familiar, because they said the same thing about him in 2018 and in 2019 and now the warmongers are back making the same old stupid arguments because they don't want to admit that they took the richest and most powerful country in the world and ran it into the ground. Remember, they threw everything they could at Russia. They threw sanctions. $200 billion aid and weapons to Ukraine. Lapel pins were everywhere. Members of Congress are wearing them.
They told us in the summer of 2023 that that summer offensive was going to run Putin out of Ukraine. Well, of course, that didn't happen. They told us that sanctions would cripple the Russian economy, and they were also wrong about that. But the Angle told you from the beginning that there was no way Ukraine would win, sadly, as long as Putin was supported by China, and of course, didn't take a rocket science -- scientist to know that we were right.
So it is extremely sad that this has all happened, but now Trump has to get the best deal that he can and that won't happen if he does what Biden did and just insults Russia and keeps funding failure. The truth is, we're broke. Period. We don't have the resources, we don't have the equipment to keep funding these forever wars and the American people, they don't want to flush their money down the drain again.
And Trump is almost -- at this point, he's almost like a guy who comes in and he takes over a bankrupt business. He has to track down where the money went, and then he has to try to get the business back on its feet. But thanks to DOGE, every single government expenditure is now coming under the magnifying glass, and every outlay, that's our money has to be justified, makes sense, right?
So everyone is looking at cuts. Every agency is looking to be cut. Every program is going to be scrutinized. And Ukraine, it's no different. It's been what, 200 billion, 250 billion, who knows. Zelenskyy can't even say for sure how much money they've gotten or where the money went, but I understand the old neocon crowd and some folks even at The Wall Street Journal are angry at Trump for hitting Zelenskyy. But they should really be angry at the Bush's, Clinton, Obama and Biden for squandering our immense wealth and our immense power over decades. It was all predictable. They destroyed our industrial base, they opened our borders to millions of illegals, they expanded the welfare state, they accused us of systemic racism, and then after all that, they expect the voters to agree to propping up the rest of the world, I guess on a permanent basis.
Now, just as we felt terrible for the Vietnamese that were left behind after the war and for the Afghan people when we pulled out of there. We all feel horrible about the tragedy that has unfolded in Ukraine, but this wasn't Trump's doing. Blaming him is like blaming the bank when you can't pay your bills.
Joining me now is Texas Senator Ted Cruz. Senator, thanks for joining us tonight. Why weren't we able to track the billions and billions of dollars that we sent to Ukraine, which ended up obviously being in a stalemate?
SEN. TED CRUZ (R-TX): Well, look, because the Biden administration didn't want to. They didn't care about tracking it. They were just shoveling cash out the door. And the irony is, Joe Biden caused this war in the first place. If Donald Trump had been in the Oval Office, there would be no war in Ukraine. And I'll tell you what, what the precipitating cause of this war was, is Biden waived the sanctions on Nord Stream 2, the pipeline from Russia to Germany that I authored into law.
I wrote those sanctions into law. Putin was building that pipeline, and Putin stopped building that pipeline, literally the day President Trump signed my sanctions legislation into law. That had prevented the war, and when Biden came in, he waived those sanctions, and that led directly to the war in Ukraine. Biden's weakness got Ukraine and got America into this mess.
INGRAHAM: Well, today, the panoply of voices, the usual forever war crowd saying Trump's a poodle of Putin, Trump's echoing Kremlin talking points and your response?
CRUZ: Well, listen, President Trump campaigned very clearly last year, and it was clear he was going to end this war, and he's going to end this war, I think, in the first half of this year. Now, I hope he ends it in a way that is a clear and obvious loss for Putin. I think that's good for America, but Trump has no interest in just pouring billions and billions of dollars into this war forever. And I've got to say, whoever is advising Zelenskyy, he's getting terrible advice, because he's turning around and running to the European press and attacking President Trump.
And you and I both know the President very well. It is hard to find a strategy that is more likely to produce the opposite of what Zelenskyy wants and what he doing right now, which is just insulting Trump.
INGRAHAM: And Donald Trump just spoke about Ukraine, Senator. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I love Ukraine, but Zelenskyy has done a terrible job. His country is shattered, and millions and millions of people have unnecessarily died. And you can't bring a war to an end if you don't talk to both sides, you've got to talk. They haven't been talking for three years. So we hope to see a ceasefire soon and to reestablish stability in Europe and --
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Well, he wants America to be in some way repaid for the money that we've blown over there. It's like $250 billion in the end, that's probably how much it will be. And it might be through mineral rights. It might be through some energy deal where every country participates. Would that, in your mind, be giving too much to Vladimir Putin?
CRUZ: Look, I think it would make an enormous amount of sense for America to be repaid. Ukraine has vast resources, and that makes a lot of sense, but we don't want -- listen, Putin has been explicit. He says that he considers the greatest geopolitical disaster of the 20th century to be the dissolution of the Soviet Union, and he wants to reassemble the Soviet Union. It's not in America's interest for him to do that.
INGRAHAM: He has economy of the size of France, Senator.
CRUZ: Well, he does, but he also has, he also has a massive nuclear weapons arsenal, and he has delusions --
INGRAHAM: Why is Europe not paying for their own defense then? If this is an existential threat to Europe, why have the American taxpayers been on the hook for 80 years?
CRUZ: OK, Laura, to be clear, we should have prevented this war, and I wrote the legislation that killed the Nord Stream pipeline that President Trump signed --
INGRAHAM: That's over. So now the question is, should America still be on the hook for defending Europe when Europe is apparently against free speech, doesn't believe in a Second Amendment, doesn't believe in any rights, has a massive refugee crisis, and apparently, doesn't think Putin is a big enough threat to pay for its own defense.
CRUZ: Look, there's no doubt --
INGRAHAM: That's Trump's point.
CRUZ: -- Europe contributing and contributing more, but Europe are also strong allies, and so I don't think the right lesson to take from this is that we should just run away from Europe --
INGRAHAM: We can work with them. But should they be carrying the lion's share of the defense burden?
CRUZ: I agree that the Biden administration was happy just to write checks from the American taxpayers and not to have Europe carry a heavier load. That was a serious mistake, but the even bigger mistake was causing the war. Look, this war was caused by Joe Biden's weakness as commander-in- chief, and the biggest difference in the last month in terms of foreign policy is our enemies are terrified of Donald Trump. That is good when our enemies are afraid of the President, when they view him as weak and ineffective, which Biden was. It encourages the bad guys to be more aggressive.
INGRAHAM: We didn't even have time to get to the independent agencies that are all unconstitutional. But do you think that actually will be an issue that Trump will be able to win on.
CRUZ: Look, I hope so. I think it's great that he's asserting the President's authority over so-called independent agencies. It is to tee up a Supreme Court case to overturn a case both you and I are familiar with Humphreys executor that that upheld the idea that part of the executive branch could be separate of the President. That's directly contrary to Article II of the Constitution. I'm glad President Trump is standing up and reasserting the president's --
INGRAHAM: Everyone gets, you know, continuing legal education credit for what Ted Cruz just said, Senator, great to see you as always. Thanks so much for coming in. All right, and Democrats are losing their grip on the media and reality, next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
INGRAHAM: Every day is like Christmas morning, and the Democrats meltdown continues because they're still apparently tone deaf about what the public wants and what they believe. The new Chair of the DNC flummoxed when confronted about the overwhelming support Americans still have for traditional values.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Mr. Chairman, I don't know if it's that you don't want to talk about the cultural issues that are in that poll, but 63 percent of Americans think that is right, that the government policy should be there just to have two sexes. Do you think U.S. government policy should be that there are just two sexes in the country?
KEN MARTIN, DNC CHAIR: It's not up to me to decide what U.S. policy should be.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Still can't say it. And the big wigs in the Democrat Party are getting very upset. According to The New York Times, some of the country's biggest liberal donors have paused giving, frustrated with what they see as Democrats lack of vision and worried about retaliation from a vengeful president. Some Democrats say a few of their reliable donors are now openly supporting Mr. Trump, or at least looking to curry favor with.
Joining us now, former Speaker of the House Kevin McCarthy. Kevin, we've seen this all before, but how do you see the Democrats calm strategy proceeding.
KEVIN MCCARTHY (R), FORMER SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE: It's failing. What do they do? They double down. Tim Walz just lost for vice president. So where did they go? They went and picked their new party chair from the land of Tim Walz and Ilhan Omar. And if you look at the latest polling, more people identify as Republican than Democrat. This is unheard of.
Trump had not only now won the popular vote, he's now increased the size of the Republican Party, and even the Democratic donors now want to join the President. Why? Because his policies and everything the President is taking on has more than a 60 percent approval, and more the Democrats fight it, the more they will lose.
INGRAHAM: Well, it turns out that cutting government waste is actually pretty popular, and the Democrats are now in the unenviable position of defending the bloat of this city, which is worse, by the way, I was talking to a cabinet secretary last night, he said it is worse than he ever imagined. That's a direct quote.
MCCARTHY: There are things we have never been able to find. I get so excited when I see what DOGE is doing. I mean, this is something that everyone has always talked about, but the bureaucracy is so big that would stop you, right? There was always a hurdle. This is the difference. President Trump will not stop, and Elon is brilliant. That combination, when you watch the two of them, the will to get it done. And every time they fight and get the answers, it only awakens America more to the waste that's going on. And every time the Democrats defend that waste, they will lose --
INGRAHAM: They're already worried, by the way, about Musk going into Wisconsin, where there's that really important Supreme Court race that could determine the electoral future of that state --
MCCARTHY: Determine in Congress, because they want to win the Supreme Court not for the constitutional judgment, so they could redraw the lines of Congress. This is how they protect, and this is what they tried to do in New York last time, remember. This is exactly why they want the Supreme Court Wisconsin to redraw the lines so they can win the majority, not fairly, but try to being a crooked play.
INGRAHAM: Mayor Pete, don't we miss him at DOT. He thinks that he has the solution for Democrats problems on social media. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PETE BUTTIGIEG (D), FORMER SECRETARY OF TRANSPORTATION: Lot of folks aren't, aren't looking for political -- but it's finding them, and it's finding them wrapped up in a lot of cultural stuff. You could be on parenting Instagram, and you're getting this trad wife stuff with a little politics inflected into it, rogue (ph) and the rest of it. And I think we have -- we really need to be much smarter about taking this conversation to places where it's not reaching folks.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Because when I think of traditional wives, he just said the trad wife crowd, I think of Pete Buttigieg.
MCCARTHY: Yes, yes.
INGRAHAM: You can't make this up. This is a level of stupidity that you can't make up.
MCCARTHY: They have not learned anything. And they think this is the solution. This just shows they won't listen to the voters. President Trump is not only listening to the voters, he's showing action every single day. Compare that to Biden. But also, there is no leader on the Democratic side. That same action that you have --
INGRAHAM: You notice they haven't seen Obama? Where's Obama? They're hiding out in Hawaii. I don't know what they're -- he's like, what party is this? I don't even recognize it anymore. He doesn't want to -- he's running for the hills. You don't even want -- I don't think he'll ever appear again.
MCCARTHY: No, there's no leader standing up, and when they talk about it, they know where to go. And disarray. And if President Trump keeps going at 60 percent approval issues, it's only going to grow and get stronger.
INGRAHAM: If he stays popular, they'll win the midterms and they'll expand the movement into the cities. The cities next. That's why I'm going to take these cities back.
MCCARTHY: We can win Los Angeles now --
INGRAHAM: All right, well, we're getting into that in a little bit. Great to see you, Mr. Speaker. Thank you so much. All right, speaking of, Karen Bass, the mayor of L.A., has a new excuse about the botched response to the wildfires. We're going to expose her in that next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
INGRAHAM: Texas is teeming with illegals, despite Governor Greg Abbott's best efforts to export them to blue states or to work with the Trump administration to deport them out of the country altogether. But despite the massive drain on public resources, of course, public schools, health care, there are still some Texas officials who apparently believe the more the merrier. Bring more in.
Meet Dallas Police Interim Chief Michael Igo, who says he will openly defy federal immigration law.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MICHAEL IGO, DALLAS INTERIM CHIEF OF POLICE: The Dallas Police Department is not assisting any federal agency on some kind on detaining people that are either documented or undocumented in the city of Dallas.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: What a nightmare he is. And he's not just terrible on immigration. The man who was elected to keep Dallas safe, who is interim, of course, though, he's there to keep Dallas safe from criminals, instead focuses on keeping it safe for DEI radicals.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
IGO: Dallas diversity is our strength and contributes to the economic and cultural vibrancy of our community. The federal government is primarily responsible for enforcing immigration laws. DPD and other departments are guided by the Dallas Welcoming Strategic Plan, which seeks to serve as a plan for civic, economic, and linguistic social integration and inclusion for the Dallas diverse communities.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: That was like a hostage tape. What a disgrace. Joining us now, Texas Lieutenant Governor, fabulous on immigration, Dan Patrick. Dan, we're going to get to the DEI part of this in a moment, but what measures do you propose the Trump administration take to get that interim chief, IGO, to help process these criminal aliens out of the state and out of the country?
DAN PATRICK (R), TEXAS LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR: Well, the first thing we're going to do is pass Senate Bill 8, one of my priority bills, so that everyone in Texas has to conform with 287-G program, so that they're trained, their jailers are trained, their jailers have a database so they can turn people over to ICE that are on a detainer. Now this chief may track down people with warrants not knowing if they're legal or illegal.
The problem here is that you have a liberal city council, and some cities in Texas have a strong mayor form and others have a city manager and the council runs it. And so, this city manager and this council, they're a woke leftist far-left council and they've told this chief do not participate with ICE and the roundups of illegal immigrants. And he's an interim chief, he wants the job, so he's kind of under the thumb.
And the problem is, they say, well, you know, you can round up the bad guys, but don't help ICE when they round up everyone else. Well, in the group of people they round up, maybe some very dangerous people, and that's the problem with the city council and what the chief is doing in Dallas.
INGRAHAM: I know. He's a complete nightmare. He should stand up and say I'm not going to take part in this because it's going to endanger the people of Dallas. But the left, Dan, is freaking out about Trump firing now immigration judges. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNKNOWN: Immigration right now, due process and humanities under attack, and what we're doing is not sort of meeting the needs of the people by saying we want more judges, we're going to fire these judges, because now I don't know anyone wants to be an Article Two judge because you can be removed by the legislature.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Well, Dan, first of all, a lot of these judges were just rubber stamps for, you know, permanent stays in the U.S.
PATRICK: Yeah, you know, Laura, we knew that the Biden-Kamala Harris regime was a nightmare, but everything that has been exposed, whether through the president, through Elon Musk, through looking at the disgrace of how this past regime was undermining America, I mean attacking America from the inside, now that we've seen it out in the open, it was far worse than I think anyone imagined.
And President Trump is doing everything right. You know, I talk to people every day, Laura, they get up and say they can't wait till the next day. What is Donald Trump going to do as president? And he's turning government upside down and they hate it. And everything he's doing the American people are with him on.
INGRAHAM: Put it under the microscope. Dan, as always, great to see you. Thanks so much.
PATRICK: Thank you.
INGRAHAM: All right, coming up, another title stolen, a boy just won a girl's pole-vaulting championship up in Maine. State Rep, who exposed it, joins us.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
INGRAHAM: All right, Trump may be president, but that doesn't mean that trans insanity is finished. In fact, it's still destroying women's sports, this time in Maine. In the town of Cumberland Center, a boy who proclaimed that he's transgender won a girl's state high school pole vault championship. He jumped, wait for it, eight inches higher than the second- place winner.
Now this same boy who now calls himself Katie competed in the boys' pole vault a year ago, competed against boys, but when he competed against boys he tied for fifth place. No ribbon.
Joining us now, the woman who exposed all of this, Maine State Rep, Laurel Libby. Madam Representative, the Maine Department of Education is defying President Trump's executive order to keep men or boys out of girls or women's sports, so what needs to happen now to protect girls' sports in Maine?
LAUREL LIBBY (R), MAINE STATE REPRESENTATIVE: Yeah, absolutely. Just shortly after President Trump issued his executive order, the Maine Principals Association came out and said that they were going to continue to allow boys to compete in girls' sports here in Maine.
I can't imagine that anything is going to change either the MPA's minds or Democrat legislators on this policy except for President Trump's administration taking action and defunding Maine schools until they comply.
INGRAHAM: Now I had friends in Maine alert me to this story. I have a lot of relatives in Maine, a lot of friends in Maine, and they were horrified by this. I mean, these are great people. They love all people. You know, not particularly political. But we're watching the, we think screenshot now of the pole vaulter, eight inches higher than the second-place finisher. Reminds me of all the state track championships lost to trans-athletes, girls losing titles.
But, you know, I know that Maine is kind of a unusual state, unusual politics. But from what you understand, the constituents support this.
LIBBY: Yeah, you know, Mainers are independent minded and they are common sensical. And this defies common sense. You know, I think Mainers fall pretty along the lines with recent polling that shows that 79 percent of Americans do not support boys participating in girls' sports. And I think that falls pretty similarly here in Maine.
It does not follow common sense to allow boys to participate in girls' sports. It is absolutely unfair. And I think that folks understand, when we're talking about in Maine or across the country, folks understand that it is absolutely unfair to let boys compete against girls. They have a natural biological advantage.
And these girls have worked so hard. They've work for years and years to excel in their field, and then this happens.
INGRAHAM: Well, here's what's going to happen. I hate to break it all the people of Maine. But this school -- Cumberland Falls, they're going to lose their federal funding, then I guess they're going to have to explain that to the voters of Maine. Outrageous. You vote for it, you get it though. Representative, thank you very much for joining us.
All right, when we come back, Kamala Harris is ready for her close-up, and the Hollywood Bowl mounts a new production where Jesus will be played by a woman. Seen and Unseen with Raymond Arroyo is next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
INGRAHAM: It's time for Seen and Unseen, where we reveal the stories behind the headlines. For that, we turn to Fox News contributor Raymond Arroyo. All right, Raymond, it looks like Kamala, wondering what she's been doing, is going to Hollywood?
RAYMOND ARROYO, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Yeah, look, just in time for awards season, Laura. Kamala Harris is signed with the Hollywood talent agency CAA, which makes a lot of sense when you think about it. I mean, when you're dealing with a major talent like Kamala Harris, you have to find the right opportunities, the right venues. This week she visited a Broadway show, Laura, and then she herself took to the boards. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KAMALA HARRIS, FORMER U.S. VICE PRESIDENT: And the way that I see it, also is that, when we think about like these moments where we see things that are being taken. But also, let's see it as a, you know, nature abhors a vacuum. So, where there's a vacancy, then let's fill it. Right? We're seeing a U-turn right now. But we have to keep fighting for those rights to be maintained, which means we have to be vigilant. And it's just the nature of it.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: What?
ARROYO: It's just the nature of it, Laura. Look, with that delivery I see a Veep reboot starring Kamala Harris coming any day now. She doesn't need a talent agent. She needs a thought coach. I mean, the idea -- none of it made sense. I tried to --
INGRAHAM: Think about that woman across the table from Vladimir Putin or Xi negotiating end of a war or trade deal. With that intellect she could just get us the best deal out there, right? I mean, she's so talented. It's embarrassing.
ARROYO: On the exact side of this, both Kamala Harris and Joe Biden are now at their agency, their shared agency, a CAA. Maybe they can broker. She and Joe can reunite in their own reality show, something like Suck Dynasty. This would be perfect for them. I see it. It's going to be a hit, Laura.
INGRAHAM: Oh, those two.
ARROYO: Kamala is not the only show that may be closing out of town. The Hollywood Bowl has announced, Laura, that they're premiering a new edition of Jesus Christ Superstar with Wicked Cynthia Erivo playing Jesus.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNKNOWN: As a black woman who is queer --
UNKNOWN: No, no.
UNKNOWN: -- who shows up in like this way, that innately, immediately makes me completely different.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
ARROYO: But is that difference what the role of Jesus requires, Laura? I mean, look, Erivo's a very talented woman, great voice, but just so everybody understands, back in 2018, John Legend won an Emmy for a successful TV mounting of Jesus Christ Superstar. So, you can make this work with non-traditional casting.
But we're talking about gender bending here. Casting a woman in the role of the Messiah, I'll bet there's a sizable chunk of Christians and Catholics that will take deep offense at this. Jesus, historically, was a man. And Hollywood bull casting with Erivo's words of a queer woman in the role -- I'd guess -- I guess we should await her return in the -- superstar, the Mohammed musical. I'm holding my breath to see that one.
INGRAHAM: I will absolutely bet would never get made. But, you know, we Christians have been through a lot before, I think will survive this, but it doesn't surprise me at all. Not at all.
ARROYO: Yeah. And Laura, the Hollywood Bowl is not the only nexus of controversy in L.A. Mayor Karen Bass, in her first post-fire interview, is facing questions about her trip to Ghana when the blazes broke out despite warnings. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNKNOWN: So, it didn't reach that level to me to say something terrible could happen, and maybe you shouldn't have gone on the trip.
UNKNOWN: Why didn't it happen?
UNKNOWN: But to me, I don't know. I mean, I think that that's one of the things we need to look at. So, two investigations are taking place. One internal to the city and that's the fire commission. Also, the governor has contracted with the fire safety research institute.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Oh, a research institute. We need a research institute to tell us why she shouldn't have gone to Ghana? Is that what she said?
ARROYO: Laura, we could do the investigation right here. Karen Bass made the decision to go to Ghana because the Biden administration wanted her to go to the inauguration of the president there. That's why she went. She did it. Investigation closed.
There are 16,000 homes that have been burned, 57,000 acres, and the PCH is still closed.
INGRAHAM: Most of that is not going to get rebuilt.
ARROYO: Karen Bass needs an investigation about her trip. Los Angelenos should be furious over that. And you've seen the come apart over those DOGE cuts, Laura. Well, now JFK's grandson, Jack Schlossberg, has a new complaint.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNKNOWN: DOGE and the White House shut down the JFK Library. JFK sent a man to the moon. But you'd never know it if the JFK Library wasn't open and no one was allowed to talk about it. It's time to speak out and resist what's happening.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: OK. Why does he talk like this? Time to get -- wear of a ski cap and everyone will think I'm really smart or just cool or just that whole -- have we not retired the dirty ski cap look? Is that still something? I thought that and the man bun were out, but apparently not.
ARROYO: Well, apparently, in some sectors they're still in. But here's the kicker. The library is back open. It was closed for exactly one day because you'd never know JFK sent a man to the moon, forget the 40 thousand published book about the Kennedys.
But it turns out, five employees were laid off, all probationary, Laura, and the library was fully operational today.
INGRAHAM: Yeah, all the waste, fraud and abuse. All the waste, fraud and abuse is going to be mistakes. Little hiccups along the way, but a lot of waste. Raymond, as always, thank you.
All right, everyone, make sure to follow me on social media. I do have a hilarious post that we just put up, and yes, it involves Zoe. The dog will not let me work. Speaking of DOGE, this is a dog problem. Jesse Watters has a great lineup tonight, and he takes it all from here, so stay tuned.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: SHOW

Publication-Type: Transcript

Transcript: 021901cb.257

Subject: AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (90%); MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN MOVEMENT (90%); DIVERSITY & INCLUSION (89%); SAFETY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUSINESS TRAVEL (78%); PRESIDENTIAL LIBRARIES (78%); NEGATIVE NEWS (76%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); RELIGION (71%); FORTUNE 500 COMPANIES (66%); Delta (%); Airline (%); FAA (%); Donald Trump: Putin (%); Zelenskyy (%); Ukraine (%); Politics (%); Government (%); Women (%); Sports (%); Homosexuality (%); Entertainment (%)

Company:  FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (93%);  DELTA AIR LINES INC (73%);  AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%)

Ticker: DAL (NYSE) (73%)

Industry: NAICS516120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (73%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); AVIATION INDUSTRY (78%); BUSINESS TRAVEL (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); EMERGENCY VEHICLES (76%); HELICOPTERS (73%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (71%)

Person: DONALD TRUMP (90%); CYNTHIA ERIVO (73%); JOHN F KENNEDY (52%)

Geographic: TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%); WASHINGTON DC, USA (92%); UNITED STATES (95%); UKRAINE (73%)

Load-Date: February 20, 2025


End of Document
