




Fox News FOX NEWS @ NIGHT 11:00 PM EST
January 30, 2025 Thursday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Length: 7295 words
Byline: Trace Gallagher, Griff Jenkins, Christina Coleman, Steve Hilton, Kevin Corke, Nicole Parker
Guests: Arthur Rosenberg, Timothy Loranger, Lt. Col. Darin Gaub, Robert Bukowiec, Christina Pascucci, Jason Rantz, Alex Gray, Gina Nick, Caroline Carralero
Body


(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Jamie, Dr. Drew, Timpf, Tyrus, studio audience. "FOX NEWS @ NIGHT" is next. I'm Greg Gutfeld. I love you, America. I do.
TRACE GALLAGHER, FOX NEWS CHANNEL ANCHOR: Good evening. I'm Trace Gallagher. It's 11:00 p.m. on the East Coast, 8:00 here in Los Angeles, and this is America's late news, FOX NEWS @ NIGHT.
And breaking tonight, the NTSB now recovering the so-called black boxes from the wreckage of last night's midair collision, and those voice recorders and flight data recorders could hold key information on the final seconds before the crash. The nation's deadliest plane crash now in almost 25 years.
All 67 people on board the two aircraft feared dead as search and rescue become search and recovery.
Plus, did you hear what RFK Junior said? No? Maybe that's because Democratic senators had no intention of listening to him.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. ELIZABETH WARREN (D-MA): Something a jury might be impressed by. You can appoint people to please see vaccine panel --
(CROSSTALK)
ROBERT F. KENNEDY, JR., UNITED STATES SECRETARY OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES NOMINEE: I don't understand that.
WARREN: -- who share your anti-vax views and let them do your dirty work.
So that what you do as Secretary will also benefit you financially down the line.
KENNEDY: I will comply with all the ethical guidelines.
WARREN: That's not the question.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You're just a rubber stamp for the -- in this position. So, anybody --
KENNEDY: President Trump --
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: So --
If it really is fundamental to what you believe, how do you live with that?
KENNEDY: President Trump --
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: How do you -- how do you address those issues as you're moving forward knowing that it's going to harm Americans?
(CROSSTALK)
KENNEDY: You want me to answer the questions, Senator?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes.
KENNEDY: Do you want me to answer the question?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Regardless, the so-called MAHA movement is strong, dozens of moms, kids, doctors, and nurses traveling to D.C. this week to show their support. And they are passionate.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Why are you so passionate about RFK?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I want to watch my child grow up healthy. There is no greater tragedy than watching your child suffer than having to bury your own child. I've heard from hundreds of thousands of these parents across America. It has to stop.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: And we'll have two proud supporters on set in moments, and President Trump's picks for FBI Director and Director of National Intelligence, also on Capitol Hill. We'll tell you where things stand for all the nominees.
But first, to our top story. The national correspondent Griff Jenkins, live at Reagan National Airport with the latest on what investigators are saying tonight. Griff, good evening.
GRIFF JENKINS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Good evening, Trace.
And just moments ago, the NTSB releasing those photos of the cockpit voice recorder and flight data recorder recovered from American Airlines' Bombardier CRJ-700 airplane. You can see they've taken it back to the NTSB lab under evaluation.
No word yet on the Black Hawk helicopter recorders. And officials are asking, Trace, the public for patience, because it's going to take time to determine the cause of the crash.
Here is what we know, as you mentioned, 67 lives total, 64 on the airplane, three on the helicopter, believed to have been lost. First responders are still actively in that recovery mode as officials work to determine how and why this happened.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
TODD INMAN, 48TH MEMBER, NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD: Right now, we're going through the debris fields. Nothing we've seen would indicate that maybe slides or shoots were deployed, there is a very quick, rapid impact.
JENKINS (voice over): This all began shortly before 9:00 last night, as American Airlines Flight 5432, was in the final approach to Runway 33 here, when suddenly it collided with the Black Hawk helicopter on a routine training run.
Earlier today, President Trump questioning the altitude and proximity of the two aircraft at the time of the crash.
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: The helicopter should have been a thousand feet or 500 feet above it, or something below it. The plane was at 300 to 400 feet, or the plane should have been stopped, because the helicopter could have stopped. The plane can't be stopped.
JENKINS (voice over): And it's been a long day for newly confirmed Transportation Secretary Sean Duffy, who is now demanding answers. Listen.
SEAN DUFFY, UNITED STATES TRANSPORTATION SECRETARY: What happened yesterday, shouldn't have happened. It should not have happened. And when Americans take off in airplanes, they should expect to land at their destination.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
JENKINS: And we're learning tonight, Trace, the Washington Post reporting that just 24 hours prior to this crash, another airplane had to abort its first landing run, because of a helicopter in the area. We hope to get more answers when NTSB officials come back here to the airport tomorrow and give us more details. Trace?
GALLAGHER: Yes. We're going to talk about that. Griff Jenkins live for us at Reagan National. Griff, thank you.
Let's bring in aviation attorney Timothy Loranger; aerospace engineer and former pilot, Arthur Rosenberg; former Black Hawk helicopter pilot, retirement -- retired Army Lieutenant Colonel Darin Gaub; and former pilot, Robert Bukowiec. Thank you all for coming on. We appreciate this.
Arthur, to you first. The New York Times says the following. They said that Reagan Airport in the tower, it was under staff. The Associated Press says that it was staff fine, but both of them agree on the following point, quoting, "The controller who was handling helicopters in the airport's vicinity Wednesday night was also instructing planes that were landing and departing from runways. Those jobs typically are assigned to two controllers, rather than one."
Should one controller being be -- doing both of these jobs, Arthur?
ARTHUR ROSENBERG, AVIATION ATTORNEY: Yes. So, first of all, Runway 33 at Washington National is one of the busiest runways in the United States of America. This controller was concerned about getting flights off.
He was also assigned the duty of watching out for the military aircraft. This whole scenario started when the American Airlines flight was asked if they would give up Runway one to land go to Runway 33, which moved them closer into the path of the helicopter.
The controller, in my view, was probably overworked and distracted, concentrating on the departing and arriving flights on Runway One, on Runway 33 -- on Runway One, and was not paying attention to what was going on with the military helicopter.
GALLAGHER: Yes.
ROSENBERG: In fact, when he queried the military helicopter, he said, basically, look out for the commercial plane. Do you see it? Do you see it?
GALLAGHER: Right.
ROSENBERG: The pilot of the -- of the black hawk responded quickly, yes, requesting visual separation.
In that -- in that instant of time, things were lost by the controller.
GALLAGHER: Yes. And meantime, Colonel Darin Gaub, I want to bring you into this, because I want to read you the conversation. We also have sound, but I want to read it to you just so we can get specific. This is the conversation between ATC and the Black Hawk helicopter. Quoting here, "PAT 2-5, do you have the CRJ in sight? PAT 2-5 pass behind the CRJ."
The helicopter pilot responds: "2-5 has aircraft in sight, request visual separation."
And then, the ATC says, "Separation. American 472 Washington Tower." And then, the collision happens less than two seconds later.
What do you think of that? Should the tower be more specific, giving the instructions there, saying, 12:00, 11:00, 9:00 at your right, left. What do you think, Colonel?
LT. COL. DARIN GAUB (RET), ARMY VETERAN: Well, for my 22 years of flying Black Hawks, that's what I'm used to. When I talk to a tower and they are trying to give me traffic advisories, they are telling me that there is an aircraft at 10:00, five miles at my altitude or higher, traveling left to right, something like that.
I know exactly where to look. I know exactly what aircraft they are seeking that I identify and avoid or sequence in, depending on what they trying to get done.
This was made very confusing when you see it after the fact now, and you can only imagine it was confusing in the cockpit too, because when they were told, do you see this aircraft? And they said, yes, and they were given the instructions they were given. There was one aircraft taken off and one aircraft landing.
Clearly, they never saw the aircraft they hit. They -- one has to for now conclude that they must have thought that they were cleared to go behind the aircraft that was taking off.
GALLAGHER: Yes, it seems rational, right? I want to play now the conversation, the actual audio tape conversation of this for you, Robert, and see what you think.
Air traffic control talking to the helicopter, and then, the conversation that followed the collision. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (via telephone): PAT 2-5 do you have the CRJ in sight? PAT 2-5 pass behind the CRJ.
I don't know if you caught earlier what happened, but there was a collision on the approach end of 3-3. We are going to be shutting down operations for the indefinite future. If you want to go back to the gate, I would suggest you guys coordinate with company. Let me know what you want to do.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: I mean, clearly, what we've got here is, you look at this, Robert, and you see the plane clearly saw the wrong plane. They saw the wrong plane, and the helicopter was heading right at the -- at the target.
ROBERT BUKOWIEC, FORMER PILOT: I agree with you, Trace. Thank you for having me.
It's common, and especially during daylight hours, the controller may actually identify the aircraft based on the colors, or identified as an American regional jet, and during daylight hours, that would help you to assist and actually identifying the aircraft that you're talking about, so, there would be no confusion about the actual aircraft.
It's happened to me in the past in busy air spaces like Atlanta, where there is multiple aircraft in the air at one time, sometimes maybe four or five that are around you, maneuvering for landing.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Meantime, Pete Hegseth, to you, Timothy, the -- said this. The defense secretary, he said this about elevations today. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PETE HEGSETH, UNITED STATES DEFENSE SECRETARY: Tragically last night, a mistake was made. And I think the president is right. There was some sort of an elevation issue that we have immediately begun investigating at the DOD and army level.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: He says, some sort of an elevation issue, Tim. But we know that the max ceiling is 200 feet for the helicopters. The crash happened somewhere between 350 and 400 feet. Right there, the helicopter is wrong, and then it goes downhill from there.
TIMOTHY LORANGER, AVIATION ATTORNEY, WISNER BAUM: Absolutely. And that, interestingly, calls in questions again about the air traffic controller, who may have been overwhelmed.
He has information on his scope that tells him what elevation the aircraft is flying at. If he sees that it's above the 200-foot ceiling, instructions to descend should have been given. Those are all questions that need to be answered.
If I could, it's very interesting, I'd like to know what happened in the conversation before the question about whether the aircraft had -- they were seeing the CRJ.
GALLAGHER: Yes.
LORANGER: Was there any communication before that?
GALLAGHER: Yes. It's a very good question.
Meantime, the Associated Press writes the following here. Arthur, to you. "Just over 24 hours before Wednesday's fatal midair collision, a different regional jet executed a go-around maneuver when descending to land at Reagan Airport due to a military helicopter in the same area."
It seems like this was an issue. Arthur.
ROSENBERG: Yes, absolutely clearly. And in -- on this particular case, the New York Times reported tonight that they found that this plane was around -- the helicopter is around 300 feet and a half a mile outside the corridor that they were supposed to be in, which would put them right in the -- in the flight path of the oncoming American plane.
The prior incidents were very similar in construct, and it should have put the air traffic control people on notice that they needed more vigilance in watching what was going on, putting this one controller on last night in a situation where they were very busy on the main runway, diverting traffic was a recipe for disaster.
GALLAGHER: Yes, it really was.
Colonel Gaub, to you now. A former helicopter pilot that I spoke with today was talking about the night vision goggles that may or may not have been used. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
CAPT. BRANDT ANDERSON (RET), FORMER ARMY HELICOPTER PILOT: One of the problems that can rise with night vision goggles is folks can get fixated.
GALLAGHER: Yes.
ANDERSON: They can fixate on one thing, and all of a sudden, miss something that's happening right out their left door, or right out their right door.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: It was a night vision goggle training mission. Would all three be wearing it? And would, in your assessment, they be wearing these at the time of the crash?
GAUB: If they were wearing them at the time of the crash, they shouldn't have been, because that's a really bad place to do it. Lighted cities, urban areas tend to wash out goggles. They actually make you more blind than if you didn't have them on in the first place.
Now, to your first question, of course, all three have to be goggled, or all three have to be have their goggles off? That's standard practice, army wide, because you want to have everybody seeing the same thing the same way as much as possible.
Of note, though, there were three crewmen instead of four, which means there was one less crew chief in the back.
Those crew chiefs face from the -- to the -- from the inside to the outlook and outside. And they actually increase your range of vision and view for obstacle avoidance and for identifying other aircraft significantly.
They are -- they are critical to the safety, safe operation of the Black Hawk helicopter.
GALLAGHER: Yes.
GAUB: Flying with three is not abnormal. It's very routine, but that could be a factor that they identify in the investigation, where that black of that one person may have impacted their ability to identify an aircraft.
GALLAGHER: Very quickly on this, Robert. The regional jet was told to switch from Runway One to runway 3-3. It means a left turn. Does that play a role in this crash, in your opinion?
BUKOWEIC: Absolutely, in most circumstances, with the complexity of the airspace in that area. And operating at night, it would generally be a recommendation to stay on the runway that you were assigned, and back that up with some sort of electronic guidance data just to make sure that you are operating correctly and landing on that runway. And it's common in less busy airspace, or if it works out better for spacing, or helps the controller let another aircraft depart to switch the runway.
But in this situation, it definitely played a factor. And personally, I probably would have declined the request from the controller.
GALLAGHER: Yes. What's your big question you have, Tim, on this whole thing? You look at this, you're an aviation attorney, you know this inside and out. What's your big question?
LORANGER: My big question has a lot to do with the communications that were happening with the Black Hawk. We don't know what they were told before they were asked, do you see the aircraft? Were they given the directions that you indicated? Where is the aircraft that they are looking for?
Also, this question about night vision goggles, it seems like a nothing, because they wouldn't have been flying with those on in this airspace.
GALLAGHER: OK. Interesting. Tim, Colonel, Robert, Arthur, gentlemen, thank you. Great insight.
Meantime, we are also learning more about the 67 victims presumed dead in last night's midair collision in D.C.
Christina Coleman is live with that heart rending side of the story tonight. Christina, good evening.
CHRISTINA COLEMAN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Hi. Good evening, Trace.
Yes, the families of these victims now coming to terms with the tragic loss of their loved ones in last night's deadly collision.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
COLEMAN (voice over): The victims in this horrific crash include six ice skaters and two coaches from the Boston skating club. Olympic gold medalist Nancy Kerrigan is a former member of this group.
NANCY KERRIGAN, TWO-TIME OLYMPIC MEDALIST: Though they are like always welcoming and happy to see one another and like sort of just -- to think to walk in here and not see that is, I think, would be very strange for everybody that comes here, especially those that are here day in and day out.
COLEMAN (voice over): 14 U.S. figure skating members were on board the plane, including two coaches. The 1994 Paris World Champions, Evgenia Shishkova and Vadim Naumov.
The married couple represented their native Russia in two Olympics. They've been training young skaters in the U.S. for years.
DOUG ZEGHIBE, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, SKATING CLUB OF BOSTON: This will have long reaching impacts for our skating community. When you lose coaches like this, you lose the future of the sport.
COLEMAN (voice over): Today, Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth provided details about the training mission involving those on the Black Hawk helicopter.
HEGSETH: Three soldiers, young captain, staff sergeant, and CW2 Chief Warrant Officer. Routine annual retraining of night flights on a standard corridor for a continuity of government mission.
COLEMAN (voice over): The Black Hawk's crew chief, Cadet Ryan O'Hara leaves behind his wife and a 1-year-old son.
Also on board, Chief Warrant Officer Andrew Eaves. His wife, asked for prayers for their family and friends and the other family suffering today.
And as for those on the plane, Sam Lilley was the flight's first officer and the son of an Army veteran. Montreal native and flight attendant. Ian Epstein was a father, step father, and husband. His family says he died doing what he loved.
Wendy Shaffer was a passenger on the plane and a mother, who leaves behind two young children. Her husband described her as, "a truly amazing woman through and through." He says she was the best wife, mother and friend that anyone could ever hope for.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
COLEMAN (on camera): All of this is just so sad. We're waiting for more names to be released. Many of the victims were from Virginia. Trace.
GALLAGHER: Yes. It is very sad. Christina, thank you.
Coming up, Kash. Patel, Tulsi Gabbard, and RFK Junior held their own against an onslaught from Democrats. Did they do enough to push themselves into the president's new Cabinet?
And later in the "NIGHTCAP", last night, the Trump administration took mere minutes to respond to the deadly midair plane crash and hours to respond to questions.
The Biden administration took hours to respond to the New Orleans terrorist attack earlier this month and several days to answer questions.
In fact, we went back and looked, KJP, waited a full 62 hours before holding a briefing, and it appears Biden never answered a single question from the news media, except for this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Do you understand if the person crossed the border?
JOE BIDEN, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I'm not going to comment in any specific yet at all.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Can you say foreigner or if he was a domestic?
BIDEN: I am not going to say anything. Again, I'm not going to comment --
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Are you surprised by the contrast? Is it essential that our elected leaders respond quickly to major national events? Let us know. X and Instagram, @tracegallagher, we'll read your responses coming up in the "NIGHTCAP".
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GALLAGHER: Well, the FOX NEWS @ NIGHT "COMMON SENSE DEPARTMENT" is pretty sure you can't just say whatever you want to say without some accountability, right?
Because Hawaii Democratic Senator Brian Schatz said that Robert F. Kennedy Jr. wants to conduct the Tuskegee experiment on all Americans.
Now, for context, Tuskegee was a study involving black men over four decades, leaving men with syphilis untreated to see how the disease would progress.
Hundreds of these black men died. The experiment was condemned. And RFK Jr. has never indicated or intimated that he would recommend anything that even resembles Tuskegee.
And yet, Senator Schatz says that Kennedy will kill millions, which is odd, considering millions are already dying because our country's obesity rate is astronomical. So, are the diseases associated with obesity, like diabetes, heart disease, cancer, which is why RFK Jr. wants to re-evaluate processed foods and additives to hopefully lower obesity.
"COMMON SENSE" thinks the Democrats would understand that if they only would allow Kennedy to speak. Instead, they spoke. Saying, untrue and outrageous things, and they said these outrageous things about somebody who, just months ago, was their friend. Because, as always, politics supersedes humanity.
"COMMON SENSE" thinks it's going to be impossible to control obesity until you control the big fat lies.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: I put safety first. Obama, Biden, and the Democrats put policy first, and they put politics at a level that nobody has ever seen, because this was the lowest level. Their policy was horrible and their politics was even worse.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: The president not hesitating tonight to point the finger of blame for the deadly disaster at his democratic predecessors and their DEI policies.
Let's bring in licensed pilot and Los Angeles County Aviation Commissioner Christina Pascucci, Fox News contributor Steve Hilton, and the author of what's killing America, Seattle talk radio host Jason Rantz.
Jason, to you first. I mean, you know, after -- look, the president might be right. Maybe woke policies did contribute to this accident. We don't know that. I think the question is, should that be left to the investigation? Is this the time to bring it up? What do you think?
JASON RANTZ, TALK SHOW HOST, KTTH RADIO SEATTLE: So, I thought the first half was great. I thought he spoke thoughtfully, passionately, and really hit home the emotions that so many people were feeling in the aftermath of this. And really was focused on the victims' families.
But then unfortunately, I think he got into the DEI stuff way too fast. If he was asked a question about this, that would be one thing, but he decided to be proactive about it, and I just don't think it came off the way that he had hoped, and I think it overshadowed everything that he had done up until that point that I thought was so incredibly effective.
It just was the wrong place, even if his policies are better, and even if his position on this is reasonable.
GALLAGHER: Yes.
RANTZ: It's not like any of us disagree with the DEI nonsense. It was just the timing of it, I don't think was appropriate.
GALLAGHER: And Steve Hilton, to you. The president clearly always says what's on his mind. And, you know, you can say it's not the time for it, but mistakes were made, and it cost 67 lives. Steve.
STEVE HILTON, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Yes. Yes. And honestly, Trace, this really reminds me of something we've been talking a lot about in the last few weeks, another disaster that claimed lives, not on exactly this scale, but if you put them together, just in the last month, over 100 Americans have died. Both these situations, the crash now and the wildfires in L.A.
They both look as if they are the result the scale of it from incompetence, policy failure going back years. And yes, it is Democrat policy failure in both cases. And if you look at the FAA, even the inspector general back in 2023 in June, a scathing report about how it's been mismanaged and understaffed and sit overs in some of the -- some of the locations in the country, over 65 percent nearly of the people in air traffic control are trainees.
(CROSSTALK)
GALLAGHER: Yes.
HILTON: It's a total mess, and it became a mess under the last administration. It's totally appropriate to say so, just as when it was in the L.A. wildfires, people, yes, were anxious and grieving and all the loss.
(CROSSTALK)
GALLAGHER: Yes,
HILTON: But they were also angry.
GALLAGHER: Yes. And it's a good point. You're a pilot, Christina, you know. And getting out of the politics aside, if you were in one of those aircraft -- piloting one of those aircraft, you would have wanted more information coming into you.
CHRISTINA PASCUCCI (D), SENATORIAL CANDIDATE, CALIFORNIA: Yes, a big part of the problem was a split frequency, so the air traffic controller knew it was going on with both pilots in each aircraft. But the problem was a regional jet pilot probably didn't hear the frequency that the Black Hawk pilot was on, and so, didn't have full situational awareness.
And obviously, that is hugely problematic, especially when you consider the whole other onslaught of issues with the altitude potentially being the wrong altitude for the helicopter --
(CROSSTALK)
GALLAGHER: Right.
PASCUCCI: For, you know, being hard to see at night, when you -- the city lights kind of look like, maybe the aircraft lights just much harder were that night vision goggles on.
We don't know, also, did the Black Hawk pilot see the wrong air traffic?
GALLAGHER: Right.
PASCUCCI: So many questions still.
GALLAGHER: Yes, a lot of questions.
Meantime, now to the confirmation hearings to you, Jason. Maggie Hassan said this during the RFK hearing. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. MAGGIE HASSAN (D-NH): When you continue to sow doubt about settled science, it makes it impossible for us to move forward. So, that's what the problem is here. It's the relitigating and rehashing and continuing to sow doubt, so we can't move forward, and it freezes us in place.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Three years ago, Jason, they fired people because the COVID vaccines, in their mind, was settled signs. You hear settled signs, you're like, please.
RANTZ: Yes, I think that's entirely correct. And I think the strategy of just attacking, not letting him respond, pretending that he didn't answer a question, and then, yelling and attacking again, just as going to blow up in their face.
I think there's some valid criticism of some of the comments RFK has made in the past. I think it's totally relevant when you bring those questions up, but you have to do it in a good faith way.
You have to actually allow him to answer. And they did neither of those things. And that's why I think, ultimately, people probably watch this and side it with RFK Jr. even if they went into it a little bit skeptical of maybe some of his past positions.
GALLAGHER: Yes, we played a little bit of this in the intro to the show, Steve, but I wanted to play it for you because this is the Senate. These are his ex-friends not allowing him to answer the questions. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. ELIZABETH WARREN (D-MA): Something a jury might be impressed by. You could appoint a vaccine panel who share your anti-vax views and let them do your dirty work.
So, that what you do as secretary will also benefit you financially down the line.
ROBERT F. KENNEDY, JR. HHS SECRETARY NOMINEE: I'll comply with all the ethical guidelines.
WARREN: That's not the question.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You're just a rubber stamp in this position. So, if it really is fundamental to what you believe, how do you live with that? How do you address those issues as you're moving forward, knowing that it's going to harm Americans?
KENNEDY: You want me to answer the question, Senator?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes.
KENNEDY: You want me to answer the question?
(END VIDEO CLIP) MELBER: You would think they would want answers. You would think that they would not put politics over what they believe is best for the country.
STEVE HILTON, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Honestly, it is -- all these hearings actually, and they seem to be getting worse. The main casualty, if you like, is not the people they're trying to take down, these nominees of President Trump, it's the senators themselves.
They just make themselves look like such pompous -- well, I'm not going to curse on your show and get you into trouble. But they're so pompous, and just these ridiculous, you know, grandstanding speeches. It's all about them and the intention that they want rather than actually doing their job.
Which is, by the way, not to push their policy disagreements; that was settled in the election. President Trump won. The policy agreement, disagreements, and irrelevant, it's purely is he qualified. They should limit their questions there. Of course, they can't help themselves because they're pompous politicians.
GALLAGHER: Yes, RFK talking about his former friends, Christina. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) KENNEDY: And all these Democrats are opposed to me for partisan issues they used to be my friends. Now, they're against me because anything that President Trump does, any decision he makes has to be lampooned, derided, discredited, marginalized, vilified.
(END VIDEO CLIP) GALLAGHER: Old friends.
CHRISTINA PASCUCCI, FORMER CALIFORNIA SENATE CANDIDATE: Look, no matter how you feel about RFK, the faux outrage from politicians during these hearings is absolutely stunning. I'm a mother of a 10-month-old child. I have to work so hard to not poison my daughter. Where was that outrage when half of our kids in America developed chronic disease?
When red dye was put into children's medication, that's a carcinogen. They have corn syrup, which causes a whole slew of issues. We have food and chemicals in this country that are banned in other countries. Where has that outrage been the last few decades as all of that happened?
And we became one of the sickest developed countries on the planet. It's completely unacceptable. And I'd like to see, I'd like to see them put, you know, actually come to the moment and create a law that will save and protect Americans.
GALLAGHER: Christina, Steve, Jason, thank you all.
Coming up, Kash Patel turns the tables on Democrats at his confirmation hearing, how he plans to shake up the FBI under the new Trump administration.
And new video coming into Fox News of an Israeli soldier reunited with her loved ones tonight as three more hostages are released from captivity.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GALLAGHER: While the president's picks to meet the directors of National Intelligence and the FBI brought the sparring gloves to their respective Senate confirmation hearings today, the Senior National Correspondent Kevin Corke is live in D.C. to show us how Tulsi Gabbard and Kash Patel fared. Kevin, good evening.
KEVIN CORKE, FOX NEWS CHANNEL SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, gloves on and they were definitely swinging at the opposition. I can tell you that. Evening to you, my friend. Now, despite fierce criticism from Democrats and even some Republicans, Trace, many of the president's most controversial cabinet picks appear poised to earn confirmation, believe it or not.
That's the verdict following a day of intense interrogation on Capitol Hill for both of the president's choices that were being interrogated today knowing namely: his choice for National Intelligence, Tulsi Gabbard; and his presumptive FBI Director nominee, Kash Patel.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) KASH PATEL, FBI DIRECTOR NOMINEE: She also said, I carry not only the dreams of my parents but also the hopes of millions of Americans who stand for justice fairness and the rule of law.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The American people deserve an FBI director focused on keeping our families safe from terrorism, drug trafficking, and violent crime, not the checklist of grievances we find in this book.
Mr. Patel, your record makes it clear you're not that person.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CORKE: We knew how the Democrats were going to vote all along. Meantime, while Patel seemed on fairly solid ground, certainly coming into the confirmation hearings today, former Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard seems to have improved her chances with an unflappable performance today.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) TULSI GABBARD, NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE DIRECTOR NOMINEE: I'll begin by leading by example, checking my own personal views at the door and committing to delivering intelligence that is collected, analyzed, and reported without bias, prejudice, or political influence.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It appears to me you have repeatedly excused our adversaries' worst actions and instead often blamed them on the United States and those very allies.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CORKE: Meantime, former Governor of North Dakota Doug Burgum was confirmed as Secretary of the Interior today, making him the fifth Trump cabinet nominee to be so confirmed. And plenty more to go, Trace.
GALLAGHER: And plenty more. Kevin Corke live for us in DC. Kevin, thank you. Let's bring in naturopathic physician Dr. Gina Nick; Daily Nouri, Founder and CEO, Caroline Carralero; former FBI Special Agent and Fox News Contributor Nicole Parker; along with former National Security Council Chief of Staff Alex Gray. Great to have you all on.
Nicole, you first. I want to play Kash Patel's two themes that he wanted to hit on. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PATEL: The two themes that, if I'm confirmed that I have for the FBI, are really just going back to keeping it simple. One, let good cops be cops. That's track one. Track two, to restore the trust in the FBI, that has degraded, not by my opinion, by the Gallup poll, that only 40 percent of Americans have trust and faith in the FBI.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: And the trust is way down, Nicole. Might be time for a change.
NICOLE PARKER, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Oh, it's absolutely time for a change. You know, Trace, obviously I was a special agent with the FBI for over a dozen years. I worked violent crime. I had the gun, the badge, the credentials. I was out there working tirelessly, day and night, over and over and over.
And you know why I was there? I wanted to protect the American people and uphold the Constitution. And obviously, the FBI has gone off the rails, especially under this last administration. The political and social weaponization has taken the agency down.
The trust is at an all-time low. But what Kash Patel is going to need to do, obviously, is to gain the trust of the American people, but more importantly, to gain the trust of the FBI agents internally. Because they, at the end of the day, are the ones doing the work, the rank and file, those that are working honestly and hard, they need to gain trust in the FBI.
They have lost trust in the FBI and I pray that he comes in with solid leadership and gives them the accolades and respect that they deserve and that they need in order to protect the American people.
GALLAGHER: And when you talk about trust, I mean, look at this, put this on the screen. This is the Gallup poll. This is the FBI doing an excellent good job. Look at 2019, 57 percent said, yes, excellent/good; 2024, 41 percent. 16-point drop Alex is nothing to be proud of.
ALEX GRAY, FORMER NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL CHIEF OF STAFF: No, it's not, Trace. I mean, it shows that we have to have fundamental reform of the FBI, and I think what the American people saw today was the Kash Patel I know, the Kash Patel, I worked with the Kash Patel has been a trusted confidant to President Trump for the last nearly decade.
And this is a guy who the American people saw today. He has the character, he has charisma, he has the professionalism, and he also learned, I think, sadly, for the first time, because the media has obfuscated on this key point. Kash is the most qualified person in the history of the FBI, if you just judge him based on national security credentials.
GALLAGHER: Right.
GRAY: This guy has been there in the trenches on national security and he is going to be the right guy at the right time to fix the FBI.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Now, meantime, Dr. Gina Nick, here's RFK saying that, you know, you want a big mac and a coke, have a big mac and coke. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KENNEDY: If you like a McDonald's cheeseburger or Diet Coke, which my boss loves, you should be able to get them. If you want to eat Hostess Twinkies, you should be able to do that, but you should know what the impacts are on your family and on your health.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Eat what you want, but know what you're eating.
DR. GINA NICK, NATUROPHATIC PHYSICIAN: A 100 percent, a 100 percent, Trace. And really, it's about education, that we need to know what these foods are doing to our health, to the health of our children. And once parents know, educators know, what the foods that they're eating, how it impacts their health, they're going to make those changes.
And so, that's what RFK Jr. was saying; he's not trying to limit access to certain foods and be biased in that way.
GALLAGHER: Yes, we were talking about this in common sense, Caroline, where they were talking about, hey, oh, he wants to do the Tuskegee experiment, and you think it's so ridiculous. He wants you to know what's in your food. He wants your children to know what's in their food.
CAROLINE CARRALERO, DAILY NOURI FOUNDER AND CEO: Yes, that's exactly right. I mean, the reality is that the health care system is a failed system. You know, there's 220 million Americans who are dealing with chronic illnesses, so something is not right. Everyone knows it. We're at a very fork in the road; either we continue down this failed path, or we go a different way. And that's all he's saying. He's just calling for radical transparency.
GALLAGHER: I want to get through the second round very quickly here, Caroline. Here is, I'm sorry, Nicole, I want to play this because this is Senator Warner versus Tulsi Gabbard. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) SEN. MARK WARNER (D-VA): Do you still think Edward Snowden is brave?
GABBARD: Mr. Vice Chairman, Edward Snowden broke the law. I do not agree with or support with all of the information and intelligence that he released nor the way in which he did it.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: I mean she's a patriot. She's a, you know, she has done well by this country, former Democrat, and they got the knives out for her, Nicole.
PARKER: I can just tell you that I have a tremendous amount of respect for Tulsi Gabbard. She is the real deal. She is honest. She is a woman of integrity, and she stands by what she believes. And when she sees truth, she acknowledges it, she recognizes it, and I think she'll do incredibly well.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) GALLAGHER: I want to play this Adam Schiff, Alex. I want to see if you like this. This is Adam Schiff going on Kash Patel saying that he was cheering on the people who, who went in the Capitol on January 6th and went after the police officers. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. ADAM SCHIFF (D-CA): Tell them you're proud of what you did Mr. Patel. They're right there. They're guarding you today. Tell them how proud you are.
PATEL: That's an abject lie and you know it. I've never, never, ever accepted violence against law enforcement. I've worked with these men and women as you know my entire life.
SCHIFF: Oh, no, no, you're didn't accept it, you glorified it.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: I got about 15 seconds Alex, but it's almost theater in that room.
GRAY: It's absurd. It's theater of the absurd, Trace. I mean, we don't know this Adam Schiff couldn't get a security clearance the guys perjured himself over and over again. He couldn't get a security clearance if he weren't a member of Congress and the gall he has to go after a patriot like cash Patel is really beyond belief, but, but that's where we are.
GALLAGHER: Yes, and when you see RFK and when he's going up against his opposition, Gina, are you thinking, this is crazy?
NICK: Absolutely, absolutely. What he is bringing to the table is common sense. Common sense medicine and a common sense change in how we approach health in our country. To help us to become the leaders again, which we are supposed to be, the demonstration country. And we have the ability to do that. I regret that he didn't have the opportunity to really talk about the impact that food and agriculture can have on the health.
GALLAGHER: Because they wouldn't let him talk.
NICK: They wouldn't at all.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Last word, Caroline.
CARRALERO: Yes, they're scared to let him talk, but I think that the senators are on notice, right? Because critical to their re-election is this Maha movement, and specifically the women that have switched aisles to come and vote Maha, which is going to be very critical for all of them. So, it'll be interesting to see how they vote.
GALLAGHER: Caroline, Gina, Alex, Nicole, thank you all.
Well, the Trump administration taking just minutes to respond to the deadly plane crash last night. The Biden administration took hours to respond to the New Orleans terrorist attack. Are you surprised by the contrast? Let us know, X and Instagram, @TraceGallagher, next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GALLAGHER: Back with the "NIGHTCAP" crew, tonight's topic, different strokes. President Trump took questions from the press a mere hours after the deadly plane crash last night.
Meantime, Biden, we're still waiting for him to answer our questions about the New Orleans terrorist attack this month. Are you surprised by the contrast, Jason Rantz?
RANTZ: Not at all. I think when you have a really strong leader, your staff is going to emulate that. When you have a deterring old man who's incredibly incompetent, your staff's going to be incredibly incompetent.
GALLAGHER: Yes, Steve Hilton.
HILTON: No, and this is part of the whole approach we're seeing from this new administration; communicating all the time, all the people, you see it over the border, immigration, and this as well, and it's exactly what we need in our information age.
GALLAGHER: Kevin Corke.
CORKE: I think it's a difference in how they view the American people. This administration wants to talk. That administration, they could have taken it or left it, and more often than not, they left it.
GALLAGHER: Christina.
COLEMAN: I agree with Kevin, they want to be transparent and clear, and I really appreciate that.
GALLAGHER: Caroline.
CARRALERO: Yes, that's what this group is all about, radical transparency. It's what the American people voted for and it's what we're getting.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Tim.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I appreciate a president who comes out quickly and reassures the American people that we are there looking into this. They're going to make sure that everyone is safe. I do appreciate accurate information based on evidence that is known.
GALLAGHER: Vicky says, "Emergency management is essential, especially with major events. I'm not surprised by the contrast."
Windy, "It was refreshing to see the real leadership last night from the Trump administration. After four years, it feels like the adults are back.
Kelly, "I think it reassures people that the authorities are working immediately on the situation."
Tammy says, "Delaying the response only stokes the fires of misinformation. It's best to share whatever they can as soon as they can."
Jeff says, "It's about time we had doers in the White House."
Paul, "It's a hundred percent the expectation for our leaders. There were no expectations for Biden."
Tommy says, "Yes, our government needs to respond quickly. It does not surprise me Trump was timely!"
And Tiffany, "Yes, we needed this sort of leadership. It is a breath of fresh air, and I'm here for it."
Thank you for watching America's late news, FOX NEWS @ NIGHT. I'm Trace Gallagher in Los Angeles. We'll see you back here tomorrow night.

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
