




MailOnline
February 8, 2025 Saturday 12:24 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: SHOWBIZ; Version:18
Length: 2684 words
Byline: Sonia Horon For Dailymail.Com
Body


READ MORE: 2025 Critics Choice Awards winners
READ MORE: The best-dressed stars at 2025 Critics Choice Awards
Have YOU got a story? Email 
                     Chelsea Handler delivered a roast of A-list stars during her opening monologue at the 30th Annual Critics Choice Awards, held at Barker Hangar in Santa Monica on Friday.
The comedian, 49, took aim at Blake Lively, 37, and Justin Baldoni's, 41, ongoing legal battle, before poking fun of Nicole Kidman's Babygirl sex scenes and teasing Ariana Grande for 'dating a munchkin' during the star-studded show.
Chelsea, who introduced herself as 'your DEI host', started by roasting It Ends With Us stars Blake and Justin, who were not present, as she thanked them for providing the country with a 'distraction.' 
'Waking up every day not knowing what news we are going to hear that will disappoint or horrify us, it is so important in times like these to have a distraction, and that's why I want to personally extend my gratitude to Justin Baldoni and Blake Lively. Thank you for providing us with that distraction. I'm grateful, we're all grateful.' 
'I think everybody in this room, no matter whose side you're on, we can all agree to accept that there's probably not gonna be a sequel,' she joked. 
'It ends with us, guys,' Chelsea, who hosted the show for the third time, humorously added. 
The It Ends With Us stars' showdown has completely captivated the globe and has even now erupted into a massive legal battle involving multiple lawsuits and a slew of shocking claims, including accusations of sexual harassment. 
The former E! late night talk show host went on to rib Ariana, 31, and her relationship with Wicked co-star Ethan Slater, 32, making a pun at the 5' 7" actor's role in the movie as well as his height.
She told the crowd: 'It's nice to see some of our most beloved child stars grown up and thriving. Miley Cyrus, Selena Gomez, Ariana Grande are all nominated tonight. '
'And now Ariana has even found love with a munchkin,' she added in regards to Slater, who plays a Munchkin named Boq in the 2024 film adaptation of the musical Wicked.
After hearing the crowd's surprised reaction, she said: 'That's good news, everybody.' 
She went on: 'It wasn't just the young actresses. We had a 95-year-old female action star, June Squibb. How cool is that?'
'From Ariana to June, to succeed this year, you had to either survive Nickelodeon or World War II.'
'I saw that documentary and Nickelodeon looked harder,' she quipped. 
She also joked about Ariana and her co-star Cynthia Erivo's emotional Wicked press tour, telling the crowd, 'I loved the Wicked press tour, the two of them were all over each other,' before adding, 'I remember the first time I did molly.' 
Chelsea then poked fun of Nicole's steamy sex scenes in Babygirl.
'There were so many incredible musical performances: Zoe Saldana in Emilia Perez, that was beautiful, Sing Sing, which is not a musical but I thought it would be. Nicole Kidman in Babygirl face down in a carpet.'
'Okay, technically Babygirl wasn't a musical, but she definitely hit a few notes I've never heard before.'
Nicole was pictured burying her head in her hands after the joke. 
Chelsea also made a hilarious comment about Hollywood legend Ralph Fiennes, after she mentioned his film Conclave, where he stars as Cardinal Lawrence.
'Ralph Fiennes, don't think I'm not gonna talk about you. You've played a ruthless Nazi, evil Lord Voldemort, and now a celibate Cardinal, and somehow made me want to have sex with you in all three movies,' she quipped as the camera panned to Ralph, who was pictured laughing.
Chelsea went on: 'I am not alone. You've made some truly unsexy people, very sexy. I'm begging you, please never play Vladimir Putin. I can't do that again.'
'And my other big takeaway from Conclave you Vatican b*****s really love to gossip.' 
Later in her opener Chelsea joked about first lady Melania Trump.
'Musicals weren't the only incredible films this year, we also had movies for straight people. It was a huge year for biopics. A Complete Unknown about Bob Dylan. Maria about Maria Callas. And Anora about Melania Trump.'
                     Chelsea Handler's Opening Monologue in Full                   
Good evening, everybody. Welcome to the 30th Annual Critics Choice Awards. I'm your D.E.I. Host, Chelsea Handler. 
I want to acknowledge that we've all been through a lot lately, not just here in Los Angeles, but the entire country. Waking up every day not knowing what news we are going to hear that will disappoint or horrify us, it is so important in times like these to have a distraction, and that's why I want to personally extend my gratitude to Justin Baldoni and Blake Lively. Thank you for providing us with that distraction. I'm grateful, we're all grateful.
I think we're good. I think everybody in this room, no matter whose side you're on, we can all agree to accept that there's probably not gonna be a sequel. It ends with us, guys.
I'm so thrilled to be here with all of you. This is my third time hosting, which makes it my second longest relationship. My first being with the former head of this very network. Shoutout to Ted Harbert. That was back when it was cool to sleep with your boss. Not so cool anymore.
I spent 7 years on this network. I was the only woman hosting a late night show. Now, 11 years later, look how far we have come. In 2025, the easiest way to get a late night talk show as a woman is to have the creators of Hacks write a fictional sorry about it.
Some of you may be wondering what's going on here, I have a pick line in my arm, and no I'm not on the substance. Sydney Sweeney is not about to climb out of my back. The tru story is it turns out St. Denis Medical is not a real hospital. But, David Alan Grier does give one hell of a Pap smear.
I want you to know that you are in good hands. If there's one thing I can assure you, it's that I'm very professional when it comes to having a good time. I've been doing it for as long as Demi Moore has been acting and I, too, hope to receive an award for it finally.
Plus, these could be the end of times. Drink up, everybody. If you are sober, now is the time to let that go. We will spend the night celebrating all the love and success in this room. It's nice to see some of our most beloved child stars grown up and thriving. Miley Cyrus, Selena Gomez, and Ariana Grande are all nominated tonight.
Now Ariana has even found love with a munchkin. That's good news, everybody. 
It wasn't just the young actresses. We had a 95-year-old female action star, June Squibb. How cool is that? From Ariana to June, to succeed this year, you had to either survive Nickelodeon or World War II. I saw that documentary and Nickelodeon looked harder.
It was truly a stellar year for women of all ages, reaching new heights in career-defining roles - Pam Anderson, Marianne Jean-Baptiste, Jamie Lee Curtis, Jean Smart, Demi Moore, Nicole Kidman. And then there was Cynthia Erivo. Oh my God, the most radical hero of any movie this year, or maybe even the past decade. And not just because you were green, because you were and are epic! What an honor to be in your presence. And I loved the Wicked press tour. The two of them all over each other. I remember my first time doing Molly.
Wicked received 11 nominations this year, as did Conclave. Ralph Fiennes, don't think I'm not gonna talk about you. You've played a ruthless Nazi, evil Lord Voldemort, and now a celibate Cardinal, and somehow made me want to have sex with you in all three movies. I am not alone. You've made some truly unsexy people, very sexy. I'm begging you, please never play Vladimir Putin. I can't do that again.
And my other big takeaway from "Conclave" you Vatican b****s really love to gossip.
And the cast of Wicked weren't the only ones singing this year. There were so many incredible musical performances - Zoe Saldana in Emilia Perez, that was beautiful, Sing Sing which is not a musical but I thought it would be. Nicole Kidman face down in a carpet. Okay, technically Babygirl wasn't a musical, but she definitely hit a few notes I've never heard before.
But musicals weren't the only incredible films this year, we also had movies for straight people. It was a huge year for biopics.
A Complete Unknown about Bob Dylan. Maria about Maria Callas. And Anora, about Melania Trump.
Mikey Madison is here tonight. Another young actress crushing it this year. Where is she? She's running late. What a brave performance by her. It was. That was a wild, wild ride. Russians and prostitutes, who would've made that connection? Certainly, not anyone in this room.
As for TV, 2024 was a banner year. So many great shows. Shogun is the most nominated series tonight. You did a great job. I love reading my TV.
And Janelle James is nominated tonight for Abbott Elementary. Your character - you are so great. So is your character, so incompetent. I'm surprised she hasn't been tapped to run the real department of education.
Hollywood was on the vanguard of social justice this year. Our country's history of racism was explored in the Nickel Boys. Lgbtq+ rights and issues were explored in Queer. And Netflix fought back against the rising tide of anti-semitism by having Kristen Bell get penetrated by a sexy rabbi.
While we talk about incredible TV, I would be remiss to not mention Colin Farrell. Colin spent four hours every day transforming into the Penguin. So I guess now we know how long it takes to make Colin Farrell unf***able. Honestly, I'd still hit those flippers.
On a less personal note and in the spirit of making tonight a celebration, I want you all to know that you're in good hands. Some of you will win. Some of you will lose. Some of you will be in the background questioning your life choices like Cheryl Hines at a Senate confirmation hearing. 
Let's get the show started!
Anora is a comedy-drama film that follows the story of a young woman named Anora (played by Mikey Madison) who works as a stripper in Brooklyn, before meeting and marrying the son of a wealthy Russian oligarch. 
Chelsea then quipped that Janelle James' character from the show Abbott Elementary is 'so incompetent' that she was surprised Janelle 'hasn't been tapped to run the real department of education.' 
Chelsea then teased Kristen Bell, the star of Netflix series Nobody Wants This.
'Hollywood was on the vanguard of social justice this year,' she said, adding, 'Netflix fought back against the rising tide of anti-semitism by having Kristen Bell get penetrated by a sexy rabbi.'
Another star who received a mention in her opening monologue was Irish heartthrob Colin Farrell, whose HBO series The Penguin is nominated in a number of categories.
'While we talk about incredible TV, I would be remiss to not mention Colin Farrell. Colin spent four hours every day transforming into the Penguin. So I guess now we know how long it takes to make Colin Farrell unf***able.'
'Honestly, I'd still hit those flippers,' she joked, as the camera caught Colin's surprised reaction.
Demi Moore was also mentioned, as Chelsea told the crowd: 'I want you to know that you are in good hands. If there's one thing I can assure you, it's that I'm very professional when it comes to having a good time. I've been doing it for as long as Demi Moore has been acting and I, too, hope to receive an award for it finally.' 
Chelsea also touched on her former stint as late night host: 'I spent seven years on this network, I was the only woman hosting a late-night show. Now 11 years later, look how far we've come. In 2025, the easiest way for a woman to get a late-night show is to get the creators of Hacks to write a fictional story about it.'
She capped off her segment with a joke about actress Cheryl Hines and her husband Robert F. Kennedy Jr.'s recent Senate hearings.
'On a less personal note and in the spirit of making tonight a celebration, I want you all to know that you're in good hands. Some of you will win. Some of you will lose. Some of you will be in the background questioning your life choices like Cheryl Hines at a Senate confirmation hearing.'
Fans took online following the opener to share their reactions.
'chelsea never holds back love her energy at award shows!' one wrote.
Speaking of the Justin and Blake drama, one wrote, 'ouch, still a little too fresh for that.' 
Another added, 'Seriously, let's let it end with us.' 
'CHELSEA MAKING JOKES ABOUT ARIANA AND CYNTHIA BEING ALL OVER EACH OTHER AND #him BEING A MUNCHKIN OHHHHH.'
'NOT CHELSEA HANDLER CALLING OUT ARIANA FOR ETHAN??? SHE WENT THERE.'
The Critics Choice Awards both shook up and solidified the awards season race ahead of the Academy Awards.
Anora was the upset winner of Best Picture, despite failing to win any of the other six awards it was nominated for, while Demi Moore and Adrien Brody emerged triumphant in the lead acting categories at the Barker Hangar in Santa Monica, California, on Friday.
The Sean Baker-directed verité-style comedy stars Mikey Madison as an adult dancer who impetuously marries the son of a Russian oligarch, only to have his handlers go to shocking ends to annul the marriage.
In his emotional acceptance speech, Baker noted that the film only cost $6 million - a shockingly small amount for a major film. 
Demi, 62, brought down the house when her name was announced for Best Actress.
She stars in the satirical body-horror film The Substance, about an aging actress who resorts to an untested therapy to allow her to temporarily inhabit the body of a younger woman (Margaret Qualley).
But both are affected by stomach-churning physical side effects when they overstay their welcomes in the younger body. 
Adrien praised critics for making his 'very small, epic film very visible and accessible to people' after winning Best Actor for The Brutalist, which cemented his status as the Oscar frontrunner in the category.
In the Brady Corbet-directed historical epic, he plays a Jewish architect and Holocaust survivor who butts heads with a wealthy benefactor (Guy Pearce) after emigrating to the US.
The ceremony, which was hosted by Chelsea Handler, finally took place at the Barker Hangar in Santa Monica, California, after it was first slated to take place on Sunday, January 12, before being pushed to Sunday, January 26.
But due to the venue's close proximity to the fire-ravaged Pacific Palisades, ceremony officials decided to push the show to February.
Zoe Saldaña was a surprise Best Supporting Actress winner for Emilia Pérez. The film was swept up in controversy after tweets containing racist and Islamophobic sentiments from its star Karla Sofía Gascón - some of them fairly recent - were discovered.
However, the Critics Choice Award ballots were turned in before the controversy came into the public eye, whereas voting for the Oscars isn't yet over.
The controversial Netflix film also won for Best Foreign Language Film and Best Song.
Notably, Gascón was among those credited for the Best Song win, but she did not attend after Netflix stopped paying for Gascón's travel and accommodations for the awards season due to her tweets and subsequent half-hearted apologies that didn't improve the film's outlook.
Keiran Culkin also won for Best Supporting Actor, while Jon M. Chu won for directing Wicked, setting him up as the Oscars frontrunner, despite positive reviews that sometimes dismissed his contributions.
The Oscar hopes of Ralph Fiennes and Conclave were kept alive, as the film won the acting ensemble award - with Fiennes accepting - and the Best Adapted Screenplay prize. 
Among the TV winners, Shogun emerged triumphant with wins for Best Drama Series, Best Actor (Hiroyuki Sanada) and both supporting categories (for Tadanobu Asano and Moeka Hoshi).
Hacks was the top comedy, win in the Best Comedy Series category and nabbing honors for Best Actress (Jean Smart) and Best Supporting Actress (Hannah Einbinder). 
The Limited Series categories were split between Baby Reindeer, which won Best Limited Series and Best Supporting Actress for Jessica Gunning, and The Penguin, which won Best Actor and Actress for stars Colin Farrell and Cristin Milioti.

Load-Date: February 8, 2025


End of Document
