




States News Service
February 11, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 States News Service
Length: 321 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


The following information was released by the U.S. Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation:
U.S. Senate Commerce Committee Chairman Ted Cruz (R-Texas) released a database identifying over 3,400 grants, totaling more than $2.05 billion in federal funding awarded by the National Science Foundation (NSF) during the Biden-Harris administration. This funding was diverted toward questionable projects that promoted Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) or advanced neo-Marxist class warfare propaganda.
Sen. Ted Cruz said,
"Over the past few weeks, the Trump administration has been taking a sledgehammer to the radical left's woke nonsense. DEI initiatives have poisoned research efforts, eroded confidence in the scientific community, and fueled division among Americans. I am proud to release our investigation's database, which exposes how the Biden administration weaponized federal agencies to push a far-left ideology. Congress must end the politicization of NSF funding and restore integrity to scientific research."
The database served as the backbone for Sen. Cruz's October 2024 investigative report, which revealed how the Biden administration politicized scientific research. The report discovered multiple extreme research projects that were spearheaded by professors who were also promoting antisemitic protests on college campuses.
Recognizing the harmful, discriminatory practices done in the name of DEI initiatives advanced by the Biden administration, President Trump signed an Executive Order requiring all agencies and departments to immediately terminate all DEI programs, offices, and positions.
NSF immediately froze its annual grant review to incorporate President Trump's directives and announced the review of all funding activities and services to ensure compliance. Chairman Cruz has requested significant scrutiny of awards listed in the database.
Click HERE to download full database.
###

Load-Date: February 11, 2025


End of Document
