




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 6, 2025 Thursday 11:20 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 667 words
Byline: Anna Spiegel
Body


February 6th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
Black entrepreneurs in the DMV are pushing back against  
Why it matters: Some of America's largest companies are reversing their commitments to diversity, equity and inclusion in the  
Driving the news: Alexandria-based entrepreneur DeShuna Spencer just launched a new site,  
Spencer is also behind   
How it works: As a former journalist, Spencer sought to create a site that increases transparency and empowers purchasing decisions - no calls to boycott, "but if you want to, we wanted to create a platform that's as accurate as possible," Spencer tells Axios.
Sections are broken down by "dismantled" (companies that have ended or scaled back DEI efforts), "committed" (companies with active initiatives), and "funded," noting significant Trump donors - all with links to company pages or news sources.
The intrigue: Spencer tells Axios she was surprised to find certain companies  
Part of her ongoing work is shining a light on lesser-publicized rollbacks - or on the flipside, commitments.
The latest: There's a renewed push for "intentional spending" with the start of Black History Month.   
She tells Axios that February is a call to action - support Black-owned businesses, share them on social media and utilize platforms like    
What they're saying: "In D.C., we take for granted that we can find a Black lawyer, doctor or business," Smith tells Axios. "It can be challenging in other areas. ... That's why we're pushing this intentionality initiative to make habits of buying Black and supporting our own communities."
Friction point: New DEI policies are leaving some entrepreneurs in limbo. Penny Cudjoe, CEO of Maryland-based  
She tells Axios that her company was in conversations with Target, but the future is uncertain.
"We're a minority, women-owned company. How can we channel our thing now?" says Cudjoe. "We can't use 'DEI' or 'minority' - all those names that helped us get in front of people. We don't know where to go."
Meanwhile, one of the region's long-established Black- and woman-owned businesses,    
CEO and D.C. native Arsha Jones, who started the company 14 years ago, was a face of Amazon's   
What they're saying: Jones says the potential impact on her company or others "is still unclear at this time."
"Honestly, I encourage my customers to shop wherever they feel like their values are aligned," says Jones. "If that means they prefer to shop small and local, for us, that works. While we're partnering with these large box retailers, we'll never forget the people who got us here: small shops in the D.C. area."


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
