




Forbes.com
February 1, 2025 Saturday


Copyright 2025 Forbes LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 2757 words
Byline: Siladitya Ray, Forbes Staff
Highlight: Sixty-seven people died in a collision between a Bombardier CRJ700 regional jet operated by PSA Airlines and a military Black Hawk helicopter.
Body


Topline
Black boxes, which record flight data and voices of pilots in the cockpit, were recovered from both the airplane and helicopter involved in the fatal crash that killed 67 people on Wednesday, investigators said, a potentially crucial source of information in the ongoing investigation.
<figure>
<figcaption>
In this image provided by the U.S. Coast Guard, wreckage is seen in the Potomac River near Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport.
Associated Press
</figcaption></figure>
Timeline
Jan. 31, 6:00 p.m. ESTBlack boxesfrom both the plane and the Black Hawk helicopter were recovered,investigators said, which record the pilots  voices in the cockpit and other flight data and are important tools in investigating plane crashes.
Jan. 31, 3:00 p.m. ESTThe remains of 41 victims have been recovered, 28 of which have been positively identified, Washington, D.C., Fire Chief John Donnelly Sr. said at anews conference.
Jan. 31, 2:54 p.m. ESTThe Armyidentifiedtwo of the three crew members aboard the Black Hawk as Staff Sgt. Ryan Austin O Hara, 28, of Lilburn, Georgia, and Chief Warrant Officer 2 Andrew Loyd Eaves, 39, of Great Mills, Maryland, and they said in a release the name of the third soldier will not be released at the request of the family. O Hara and Eaves  names had previously beenreportedbut unconfirmed by the military.
Jan. 31, 10:30 a.m. ESTThe FAAreportedlyimplemented new, indefinite restrictions on helicopters near Reagan airport that will ban most of the vehicles from certain air traffic routes and limit other routes to police and medical helicopters.
Jan. 31, 10:30 a.m. ESTFAA employees, including air traffic controllers, received an email from the federal Office of Personnel Management Thursday night about the sweepingbuyout offerfor federal employees, even though FAA employees werereportedlyexcluded from the government s initial buyout offer. The email encouraged FAA employees to resign their posts almost exactly 24 hours after the first major commercial plane accident in the country in almost 16 years,The New York Timesreported. The air traffic control field has been plagued by staffing shortages for years.
Jan. 31, 9:15 a.m. ESTAnew videoof the fatal helicopter and plane collision was released Friday morning, providing a clearer view of the crash than previous CCT footage from further away.
Jan. 31, 8:15 a.m. ESTPresident Donald Trump on Fridaysaidthe helicopter involved in the fatal collision was flying  far above  its designated flight path.
Jan. 31, 8 a.m. ESTDefense Secretary Pete Hegseth told Fox News that the black box, a key data recording device, has not yet been recovered from the Army helicopter.
Jan. 31, 7:30 a.m. ESTThe National Weather Service s Baltimore and Washington office said in itsmorning forecastthat  an area of low pressure and cold front... will bring widespread rain today.  Recovery divers will have to brave the conditions as they are set to resume the search for the remaining bodies and salvage parts of the downed aircrafts for investigators.
Jan. 31, 4:30 a.m. ESTTwo Chinese nationals and a police official from the Philippines were onboard the American Airlines plane that crashed Wednesday night, officials in the two countriesconfirmed.
Jan. 31, 12:30 a.m. ESTThe FAA s preliminary report on the incident noted that the staffing at the air traffic control tower was not  normal,  pointing to the fact that a single air traffic controller was handling both helicopter and plane traffic, the Associated Pressreported.
However, the federal body s assessment was refuted by an unnamed source cited by the AP who was familiar with the matter and said the staffing at the tower was at a normal level.
The New York Timesreportedthat the handling of airplane traffic and helicopter traffic is usually handled by two separate controllers until 9.30 p.m. everyday.
However on Wednesday evening, an air traffic control supervisor merged the two jobs before 9:30 p.m. (the collision occurred shortly before 9 p.m. local time) and allowed one air traffic controller to leave early, the Times report added.
Jan. 31, 3:00 a.m. ESTA day before the collision, a similar accident was likely avoided in the same area after a passenger plane was forced to execute a  go-around maneuver  to prevent a collision with a military helicopter in the area,according to theAssociated Press. Citing flight tracking data and air traffic controller logs, the AP reported that an Embraer E-175 regional jet attempting to land at the Reagan Airport had to pull out of its approach after being warned by its onboard automated collision avoidance system but managed to land safely after a go-around.
Jan. 30, 11:30 p.m. ESTThe National Transportation Safety Board, which is investigating the crash,announced it had recoveredthe crashed plane s cockpit voice recorder and flight data recorder which are sometimes referred to as  black boxes.  The two recorders were taken to the NTSB s lab for evaluation.
Jan. 30, 5:40 p.m. ESTAbout 40 bodies had been recovered in the Potomac River,ABC NewsandCBS Newsreported, along with some partial remains, and investigators believe they have recovered all they can without moving the plane s fuselage. CBS reported the search for remains will stop at dusk and pick back up tomorrow.
Jan. 30, 5:15 p.m. ESTKansas Gov. Laura Kelly said they do not yet have the list of plane passengers or know how many people from Wichita or Kansas were on the plane, but she said the National Transportation Security Board was working to inform all next of kin and told her the manifest could be out sometime tomorrow afternoon.
Jan. 30Trump signed a memorandum on aviation safety that orders a review of federal aviation hiring and safety decisions to undo the  damage  Trump said was done by former President Joe Biden s diversity policies, and while signing it he reiterated the unproven claim that diversity, equity and inclusion policies may have played a role in the crash.
Jan. 30, 2:15 p.m. ESTThe air traffic controller who was handling helicopters near the airport Wednesday night was also directing commercial planes in take off and landing, jobs that are usually assigned to two separate people, according to an internal preliminary FAA safety report seen by theTimes, which also reported the tower at the airport has been understaffed for years.CNNalso reported the tower was understaffed and had one person doing two jobs, citing an unnamed air traffic control source.
Jan. 30, 1:20 p.m. ESTArmy officialsconfirmedthat two pilots of the helicopter one man and one woman and a male staff sergeant crew member were killed in the collision. Their bodies have been recovered.
Jan. 30, 12:15 p.m. ESTFormer Transportation Secretary Pete ButtigiegcalledTrump's claim the FAA was made unsafe by DEI hiring practices "despicable," and criticized him for what he called his move to  fire and suspend some of the key personnel who helped keep our skies safe  (within a day of taking office, Trump hadfiredthe head of the Transportation Security Administration and eliminated all the members of the Aviation Security Advisory Committee).
Jan. 30, 11:30 a.m. ESTTrump, in a press briefing, boasted about anexecutive orderhe issued last week ending diversity, equity and inclusion hiring within the FAA, and suggested without proof that people with  severe intellectual disabilities  had been hired as air traffic controllers under the Obama and Biden administrations. He said only  naturally talented geniuses  would be hired for the job under his new policies. He later said  we don t know that necessarily (the crash) is even the controller s fault. 
When asked how he could have determined diversity hiring practices were to blame for the crash without evidence, Trump said,  because I have common sense. And, unfortunately, a lot of people don t. 
Jan. 30, 11:24 a.m. ESTTrump appointed Chris Rocheleau, a 22-year veteran of the FAA currently serving as deputy administrator, as acting commissioner of the agency. The FAA has not had a chief since Mike Whitaker resigned on Jan. 20.
Jan. 30, 11:20 a.m. ESTTrump confirmed there are no survivors in the crash and said called the incident a  real tragedy  while thanking the local first responders for being  so quick, so fast  to respond.
Jan. 30, 10:30 a.m. ESTHegsethsaidthe Army helicopter involved in the crash was was flying from Fort Belvoir, Va., was being flown by  a fairly experienced crew  and was conducting  a required annual night evaluation  flight.
Jan. 30, 8:10 a.m. ESTNewly appointed Transportation Secretary Sean Duffyignoreda question from a reporter at a press conference Thursday morning asking if an acting director of the FAA has been appointed after the former chief,Whitaker, who was pressured for months by presidential confidantElon Muskto resign, stepped down earlier this month.
Jan. 30, 8:10 a.m. ESTDuffysaidthe crash was "absolutely" preventable, adding that there was "not a breakdown" in communication between the military helicopter and the commercial plane, and that U.S. military helicopters routinely fly near the Potomac River.
Jan. 30, 7:45 a.m. ESTWashington s Fire and EMS Chief John Donnelly said emergency responders were switching over from a rescue to a recovery operation, adding  at this point we don t believe there are any survivors.  Donnelly added that responders have recovered the bodies of 27 of the 64 people onboard the plane and one of the three people onboard the Black Hawk helicopter.
Jan 30, 7:40 a.m. ESTDuffy said authorities located both the crashed aircraft and the passenger plane s fuselage, which was in split into three and found in waist-deep water in the Potomac River.
Jan 29, 11:15 p.m. ESTAfter the crash, all takeoffs and landingswere haltedat Reagan National and officials said operations at the airport will remain halted at least until 11:00 a.m. EST on Thursday.
Jan 29, 11:19 p.m. ESTTrump posted about the incident on his Truth Social platform and questioned the helicopter operator and air controllers  handling of the situation:  The airplane was on a perfect and routine line of approach to the airport. The helicopter was going straight at the airplane for an extended period of time. It is a CLEAR NIGHT, the lights on the plane were blazing, why didn t the helicopter go up or down, or turn. Why didn t the control tower tell the helicopter what to do instead of asking if they saw the plane. This is a bad situation that looks like it should have been prevented. NOT GOOD!!! 
Jan 29, 11:00 p.m. ESTWhite House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt told Fox News host Sean Hannity that Trump has been briefed about the incident and both federal and local law enforcement are working  to try to save as many lives as possible. 
Get Forbes Breaking News Text Alerts: We re launching text message alerts so you'll always know the biggest stories shaping the day s headlines. Text  Alerts  to  or sign up .
Crucial Quote
"As one nation we grieve for every previous soul that has been taken from us so suddenly,  Trump said.  We are in mourning. 
What Do We Know About The Crash?
A Bombardier CRJ700 regional jet operated by PSA Airlines, a regional carrier owned by American Airlines, collided with a Black Hawk military helicopter while approaching the runway at Reagan airport for landing. The incident took place shortly before 9 p.m. local timeaccording to the FAA. The Bombardier jet which originated in Wichita, Kansas was carrying 60 passengers and four crew members, American Airlines said, making the flight fairly full (a CRJ700 regional jet can usually seat between 60 and 80 passengers). The chopper involved in the crash was a U.S. Army Blackhawk helicopter carrying three people, Washington D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser confirmed in a press conference after midnight on Thursday.
Who Is At Fault In The Crash?
Investigations are on going and no blame has been placed by any formal agency. Trump, however, has blasted air traffic controllers, the helicopter pilots and Biden and Obama-era diversity hiring practices, after the tragedy. On Friday, the presidentblamedthe Black Hawk helicopter crew (called "fairly experienced" by Secretary of DefensePete Hegseth) for flying  far above  its designated flight path. At a press conference Thursday, he lashed out against DEI hiring practices implemented under the Obama and Biden administrations and suggested they were to blame for sub-par employees being hired by the FAA as air traffic controllers. He said a group within the FAA had "determined that the [FAA] workforce was too white  and suggested, without evidence, that people with  severe intellectual disabilities  had been hired by the agency.
Do Dei Hiring Practices Apply To Air Traffic Controllers? 
No, an unnamed former FAA officialtold ABC Newson Friday. The official told ABC that no preferential treatment is given for race, sex, ethnicity or sexual orientation when hiring air traffic controllers. Chris Wilbanks, FAA deputy vice president of safety and technical training, said all applicants for the job (who must be under 31 years of age and retire by 55) must pass a medical exam, aptitude test and psychological test before being hired. The job is a tough one to get, Wilbanks said, explaining that out of 57,000 people who applied to be air traffic controllers in 2022, only 2,400 qualified to attend the academy. Of that, 1,000 made it to the first day of training and about 60% of those will finish the three- to four-year program. The National Air Traffic Controllers Association labor unionFriday saidtraining is not "based on race or gender," but that controllers do work "short-staffed, often 6 days a week, and in facilities long overdue for modernization."
What Do We Know About The Rescue And Recovery Efforts?
Inpress conferenceearly on Thursday, Donnelly said the first units arrived at the scene at 8:58 p.m. local time, 10 minutes after they first received an alert,  and found an aircraft in the water and began rescue operations.  Donnelly said 300 emergency responders were on the scene working on a  highly complex operation  due to  extremely rough  and windy conditions. As of Friday afternoon, more than 40 bodies had been recovered.
What Do We Know About The Number Of Casualties?
There were 60 people on the plane, along with four crew members, and three people in the helicopter. Officials said Thursday there are believed to be no survivors.
What Do We Know About The Passengers Onboard?
More details are emergingabout the passengers onboard the plane and more than a dozen have been identified by friends and family. On Thursday, U.S. Figure Skating the national governing body for the sport said  several members  of its community were on the plane. Skating Club of Boston CEO Doug Zeghibe later confirmed that fourteen members of the U.S. Figure Skating team, not including parents and coaches, were onboard the plane to Washington D.C. returning from a training camp that took place after the U.S. Championships in Wichita, Kansas. Among the victimswere1994 figure skating pairs world champion duo Evgenia Shishkova and Vadim Naumov who have lived in the U.S. since 1998 and worked as coaches for the Skating Club of Boston. TwoChinese nationalsand a police official from thePhilippines, Police Colonel Pergentino N. Malabed, were also among the victims authorities from their countries announced on Friday. Other victims include several young ice skaters, lawyers from Washington D.C. and at least seven friends who were returning to the East Coast from a hunting trip in Kansas.
Key Background
The area around Reagan National Airport is heavily congested and tightly controlled, with a busy airport sitting in close proximity to sensitive sites like the Pentagon and Washington, D.C. Serious crashes involving large passenger jets are exceedingly rare in the United States. Wednesday s incident is the first fatal crash of a U.S. commercial airliner since the the Colgan Air crash inupstate New York in 2009, which killed 50 people. It is the deadliest aviation disaster in the U.S. since Nov. 12, 2001, when an American Airlines flight crashed in New York and killed all 260 people on board. The last crash on U.S. soil involving a commercial airliner took place in 2013, when a plane operated by South Korean carrierAsiana Airlinescrashed in San Francisco, killing three people and injuring 187.
Further Reading
U.S. And Russian Figure Skaters Onboard D.C. Plane What We Know About The Crash Victims(Forbes)
Passenger jet collides with Army helicopter while landing at Reagan Washington National Airport(Associated Press)

Load-Date: February 2, 2025


End of Document
