




USA Today Online
February 3, 2025 11:12 AM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Section: US NEWS
Length: 1097 words
Byline: Nicole Fallert, USA TODAY
Body


Beyoncé took the Grammy Awards' highly coveted prize, album of the year, for her country record "Cowboy Carter." President Donald Trump's tariffs could hike prices for American consumers and increase inflation. Air crews head to work following horrendous deadly crashes last week.
‍♀️ I'm , Daily Briefing author. !!!!
Beyoncé wins album of the year at 67th Grammy Awards
By incorporating a fundraising effort with onstage salutes to firefighting heroes, the annual Grammy Awards managed to deftly walk a sensitivity line Sunday in Los Angeles, a city ravaged by numerous wildfires in recent weeks.
The takeaways: After some scandalous buzz from the red carpet (where Ye showed up with his  to ), the show itself stuck to its bread and butter of celebrating music with outstanding performances from the likes of Sabrina Carpenter, Billie Eilish, Charli XCX and Doechii.
Here are some of the top moments from the night, including Beyoncé finally taking home the gold for album of the year and :
. The long-awaited recognition from the Grammy Awards comes after she was snubbed by the Country Music Association.
. Roan, winner of best new artist, sang her ode to queer sexuality, "Pink Pony Club." The song was a deliberate statement in light of recent moves by the Trump administration to restrict LGBTQ+ rights.
The breakout hip-hop star became the third woman ever to win best rap album.
. The chairman of the "Tortured Poets Department" went home empty-handed, despite carrying six nominations.
. After trading diss tracks (and a lawsuit) Lamar snagged best song and record of the year for his Drake diss, "Not Like Us."
So you sound in-the-know at work this morning: and our recap of .

Trump says Americans could feel 'some pain' amid tariffs
President Donald Trump warned there could be "some pain" for Americans' wallets after signing executive orders that imposed stark tariffs on imports from Canada and Mexico and a 10% duty on imports from China, targeting three key U.S. trade partners. Set to go into effect Tuesday, the new duties include a 25% tariff on goods from Canada and Mexico. The move is intended, Trump has said, to incentivize these countries to clamp down on the flow of fentanyl and migrants traveling from their borders into the U.S. 
More news to know now
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahuis in Washington .
The Palisades and Eaton wildfires are 100% contained.
A Louisiana grand jury indicted a New York doctor .
A huge undersea volcano off the West Coast .
What's the weather today? .
Flight crews continue working as they cope with tragedy
As air crew members cope with the tragedy of two recent deadly plane crashes, they're also returning to the skies. Pilots and flight attendants are highly trained professionals with safety at the core of their jobs – a commitment reinforced in the wake of crashes last week in the D.C.-area and a Philadelphia residential neighborhood. .
Read more from USA TODAY about recent US plane crashes:
The Black Hawk helicopter that collided with a passenger jet near D.C.  for its training mission, authorities say.
Investigators have recovered the cockpit voice recorder, killing seven people and injuring over 20 others.
Transportation Sec. Sean Duffy vowed it's safe to fly after the shocking crashes — .
Feeling nervous about flying?.

Global field aid work hangs in balance as more USAID staff ousted
The Trump administration put dozens more staff at the U.S. Agency for International Development on administrative leave, three sources familiar with the move said, as it moves to abolish the agency's independence and bring it under the control of the State Department. The purge follows more than a week of mayhem inside USAID, Washington's primary agency funding billions of dollars' worth of life-saving aid globally, such as field hospitals, HIV treatment and landmine clearance. President Donald Trump ordered a freeze on almost all U.S. foreign aid, saying his administration will review spending to ensure money is distributed in line with his "America First" foreign policy. .
The Education Department placed dozens of officials on leave.
FBI staff have been ordered to reveal their role .
Today's talkers
What cities have put in bids for a new team 
Is Beyoncé's "Cowboy Carter" tour
People are paying
Most people stop.
Here's the history.
Get prepped for Super Bowl Opening Night 
Welcome to Super Bowl week. Kicking off Monday with Super Bowl Opening Night, the days leading up to the big game will be full of events for fans, locals and media members alike. This year's festivities include press conferences from players and coaches, press conferences from the performers featured throughout the Big Game's production, a four-day fan experience in New Orleans, the NFL Honors awards show, a celebrity flag football game, a pre-game concert and, of course, the game itself. . 
Photo of the day: The world's most famous groundhog has a chilly message
The legendary weather predictor Punxsutawney Phil , signaling six more weeks of winter on Groundhog Day.

Nicole Fallert is a newsletter writer at USA TODAY, . Want to send Nicole a note? Shoot her an email at N  m. 
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: February 3, 2025


End of Document
