




USA Today Online
February 27, 2025 11:34 AM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Length: 929 words
Byline: Jane Onyanga-Omara, USA TODAY
Body


The Supreme Court paused a judge's order requiring the Trump administration to pay its foreign aid contractors. Oscar-winning actor Gene Hackman and his wife Betsy Arakawa have been found dead in their home. DEI rollbacks are having a direct impact on the careers of Black Americans.
I'm Jane, Daily Briefing author.  will be announced Thursday, recognizing women across the country inspiring the next generation.
SCOTUS pauses judge's order requiring USAID pay foreign aid contractors
Chief Justice John Roberts on Wednesday granted the Trump administration's emergency request to pause a judge's order requiring the government to pay foreign assistance dollars to organizations that contract with or receive grants from the U.S. Agency for International Development and the State Department.
, Robert's order was the first time the Supreme Court has intervened as judges have temporarily blocked the White House from taking huge steps to reshape the government and consolidate power.
told the Supreme Court Wednesday night it is committed to paying "legitimate claims" but complying with a federal judge's order midnight deadline was "not logistically or technically feasible."
on hold and told the grant recipients waiting for their funding to tell the court by Friday why the order should go forward.
Actor Gene Hackman, wife Betsy Arakawa, found dead, local media reports
Two-time Oscar winner Gene Hackman, 95, and his wife Betsy Arakawa have been found dead in their home in New Mexico, the Santa Fe New Mexican website said on Thursday. The website quoted Santa Fe County Sheriff Adan Mendoza as saying the couple had died along with their dog, and that there was no immediate indication of foul play. Hackman was an intense character actor who won Academy Awards for the violent 1971 drug saga "The French Connection" and the 1992 western "Unforgiven." The former Marine appeared in more than 80 films, as well as on television and the stage. 
More news to know now
Ceasefire and hostage deal in Gaza expires this weekend. 
Pentagon issues transgender policy requiring .
Clothes, wine, cars? What will cost more .
Michelle Trachtenberg, "Gossip Girl" and "Harriet the Spy" actress, .
What's the weather today? .
Texas child dies in first US measles death since 2015
Texas authorities on Wednesday announced the first measles death in the state's outbreak of the highly contagious disease. The victim, an unvaccinated school-age child, is the first measles fatality in the U.S. since 2015, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. In a Cabinet meeting Wednesday at the White House, Health and Human Services Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr. said two deaths had been reported in the outbreak. Later on Wednesday, HHS spokesperson Andrew Nixon said the CDC, which is part of HHS, was aware of one death, adding "our thoughts are with the family." 
How Trump's DEI attacks are reversing gains for Black workers
One month after George Floyd’s murder in 2020, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce launched an initiative to address America's racial divides. The message: "Equality of opportunity" is everybody’s business. But shortly before President Donald Trump took office in January, the campaign vanished. As the Trump administration moves to dismantle corporate diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives in the private sector, the Chamber of Commerce and companies across America are accelerating efforts to jettison DEI programs. The rollbacks are having a direct impact on the careers of Black Americans and on the diversity of executive suites, .
Today's talkers
The Oscars' 10 worst best picture winners .
Stop flying with your kids on your laps. .
How much gold is at Fort Knox? Trump wants to make sure .
I used Apple's newest iPhone 16e for a week. .
This viral TikTok trend "predicts" your 2025 .
NFL makes switch to technology for first down measurement system
Goodbye, chain gang. Hello, technology. The NFL will make a 21st century approach to its first down measurement system for the 2025 season, getting rid of the chain gang and instead going with a technology tracking system. Starting in the upcoming season, the NFL will use Hawk-Eye virtual measurement to determine the line to gain and it will be the primary method for measurements. The chain gang, which has been used for practically the entire lifetime of football, will still be on the sidelines, but will be used as a secondary method to determine the distance. 
Photo of the day: USAID humanitarian efforts in limbo 
USAID delivers billions of dollars in humanitarian aid and foreign assistance to dozens of countries. President Donald Trump ordered a pause on foreign aid on his first day in office, throwing humanitarian relief efforts into chaos. The administration is cutting more than 90% of USAIDs foreign aid contracts and over $58 billion in overall U.S. assistance around the world, a State Department spokesperson said. .

. 
Reuters contributed reporting.
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
