




USA Today Online
January 22, 2025 11:27 AM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Length: 1059 words
Body


President Donald Trump is making good on his campaign pledge to roll back diversity, equity and inclusion across the federal government. Southern cities face a rare wintry slam. Why your Meta accounts may suddenly follow Trump.
‍♀️ I'm , Daily Briefing author. 
Executive branch to shutter all DEI & accessibility offices Wednesday
The Trump administration ordered executive branch agencies to close all “diversity, equity, inclusion and accessibility” offices by close of business Wednesday. 
These employees likely won't return to work: All employees of offices “focusing exclusively on DEIA initiatives and programs” will go on paid administrative leave Wednesday afternoon. Charles Ezell, the Office of Personnel Management’s acting director, directed agencies to submit plans by Jan. 31 to permanently fire the employees.
: Ezell's Tuesday memorandum announcing the move includes a template email to the federal workforce urging them to report any effort to “disguise” diversity programs. The message threatens “adverse consequences” for employees who don’t report such practices.
Republicans claim focus on race and gender comes at the expense of individual merit and excludes white Americans.
The pastor of an inauguration prayer service attended Tuesday by Trump urged the newly sworn-in president to "have mercy" on immigrants and transgender children ‒ making what she called "one final plea."

Deep freeze, snow blanket parts of US 
More than 30 million Americans are under snowstorm warnings Wednesday, from southern Texas through Georgia and into Virginia. North Florida residents may be bringing the novelties out and converting them into makeshift sleds, while Oxford, Mississippi, is forecast to have a low of 8 degrees Wednesday morning. Major Southern cities facing a wintry hit include Austin, Texas, and New Orleans, Louisiana, which hasn't seen measurable snowfall in 16 years. .

More news to know now
Prince Harry settled his privacy claim.
Wildfires prompted evacuations.
Israel launched a "significant" West Bank military operation,.
Eighteen states, ACLU filed lawsuits against Trump's order .
The U.S. government website offering resources .
Pete Hegseth's sister-in-lawsays he raged at his ex-wife .
What's the weather today? .
Proud Boys and Oath Keepers leaders are free
Of the almost 1,600 Jan. 6 insurrectionists whose sentences were commuted or who received full pardons from President Donald Trump on Monday, arguably the two most high-profile prisoners were Henry “Enrique” Tarrio and Stewart Rhodes. Tarrio and Rhodes are, respectively, the leaders of the extremist street gang the Proud Boys and the founder and leader of the anti-government so-called “militia” the Oath Keepers. 
These two groups became synonymous with the Jan. 6 assault on the U.S. Capitol, and Tarrio and Rhodes received the longest sentences of anyone charged in the attack. 
In the four years since the insurrection, both the Proud Boys and the Oath Keepers have been muted in their activity, researchers who study the groups told USA TODAY. 
But now both men are free. Extremism experts say it’s too early to tell whether the release of Tarrio, Rhodes and other senior extremist leaders will spark new interest in these groups. 
Keep reading: ? 

No, Facebook isn't forcing you to follow Trump
Shortly after President Donald Trump was sworn in Monday, Facebook users began to report that their personal accounts automatically followed the new commander in chief. The allegation that the tech giant made people automatically follow Trump spread quickly. But what actually happened is that the POTUS and White House Facebook pages are run by the sitting president. So, former President Joe Biden’s POTUS page was archived when he left office. The followers stayed, while the feed was wiped clean and restarted. .
Today's talkers
Planetary alignments aren’t rare, .
Let's predict!
Help one USA TODAY reporter.
College basketball has been quietly thriving during college football season. . 
The baseball world reacted to Ichiro Suzuki's .
Justin Baldoni's legal team releases footage of Blake Lively slow dance scene
The Justin Baldoni-Blake Lively saga is far from slowing down. Amid Baldoni's ongoing legal battle with his "It Ends with Us" co-star, his attorneys have released behind-the-scenes footage of an intimate scene the actors performed. The nearly 10-minute clip shows their characters Ryle Kincaid (Baldoni) and Lily Bloom (Lively) slow dancing. Lively cited the scene in her December complaint against Baldoni as evidence Baldoni "did not act in character" for the scene and that the actor's physical intimacy was out of bounds. In a statement to USA TODAY, Lively's legal team claimed that "every frame" of the behind-the-scenes clip "corroborates, to the letter, what Ms. Lively described" in her complaint against Baldoni. 
Photo of the day: American women battle down under
Hopes for a U.S. woman winning the singles at the Australian Open title . Keys, 29, defeated No. 28 seed Elina Svitolina Tuesday night in Melbourne in the quarterfinals, while Navarro fell to No. 2 seed Iga Swiatek. Swiatek will face Keys later this week in the semifinals.

Nicole Fallert is a newsletter writer at USA TODAY, . Want to send Nicole a note? Shoot her an email at N  m. 
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: January 22, 2025


End of Document
