




thetimes.co.uk
February 24, 2025 Monday 4:30 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 590 words
Byline: Alistair Dawber, Washington
Highlight: The former New York City police officer and Secret Service agent will co-lead the agency with Kash Patel
Body


President Trump has selected a conservative podcaster who railed against “peak stupid” American liberal politics to be deputy director of the FBI, placing two staunch allies at the head of the agency.
The appointment of Dan Bongino comes after Kash Patel was sworn in on Friday as FBI director. Patel has said that he wants to reshape the agency, focusing more on crime fighting and relocating hundreds of employees away from its headquarters in Washington.
Bongino, 50, spent his early career as a New York City police officer before a 12-year stint as a Secret Service agent.
Since a failed bid for election to the US Senate in Maryland in 2012, and later bids for the House of Representatives in Maryland and Florida, he has become a conservative commentator. He had a television show on Fox News and more recently on Rumble, an online channel that hosts Russell Brand, among others.
He is also the host of 
                   The Dan Bongino Show                   
, one of the US’s most popular podcasts on Spotify.
In an episode aired on Friday, Bongino discussed the FBI, praising 
 and attempting to calm the fears among some Democrats that the agency will be used to target Trump’s enemies.
“Kash Patel is there for one reason; he is there to make the FBI great again,” Bongino said, adding that the new director was the “change agent” the FBI needed.
“How amazing would it be in four years to look back with a good, high-quality, reformed FBI free of woke culture and 
 that goes out making headlines, big arrests of real bad guys destroying your community. How good would that be?”
Trump, 78, announced the appointment on Sunday night in a post on his Truth Social platform, praising Bongino as “a man of incredible love and passion for our country”. He called the announcement “great news for law enforcement and American justice”.
The selection places two staunch 
 allies at the top of the federal law enforcement agency. Democrats say they are concerned that the president could seek to target his adversaries.
The role of deputy director would normally be expected to go to an agency veteran who would run its day-to-day operations. The director is often a political big hitter who is an ally of the president.
Bongino has been supportive of Trump’s takeover of the Republicans and savaged the Democratic Party and liberal politics.
“We are now living through peak stupid with the left, and this ‘toxic masculinity,’ ‘white patriarch’ nonsense, where they’ve devolved to judging people exclusively by their gender and their skin colour, is a marker of the total intellectual collapse of the radical left,” he said on his podcast.
“My entire life right now is about owning the libs,” he said in 2018.
Patel and Bongino will succeed the two acting FBI leaders, Brian Driscoll and Robert Kissane, who have led the bureau since the 
 last month. Wray was appointed by Trump in 2017 and held the job for the next seven years before resigning at the end of the Biden administration to make way for his chosen successor.
The two will oversee the vast surveillance and investigative powers of the FBI, which employs 38,000 people and has a budget of about $11 billion.
Bongino joins a number of media figures who have secured jobs in the Trump administration. 
Pete Hegseth, a former Fox News host, has become the new defence secretary, while Linda McMahon, the former chief executive of WWE wrestling is expected to be confirmed as education secretary.

Load-Date: February 24, 2025


End of Document
