




Newsweek.com
February 1, 2025 Saturday 4:52 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 674 words
Byline: Rachel Dobkin
Highlight: Seven people died and nearly two dozen more were injured when a medical jet crashed in northeast Philadelphia on Friday night.
Body


The moment that a medical jet carrying six people crashed in Philadelphia on Friday night was captured on dashcam video from a stunning angle.
Why It Matters
Philadelphia Mayor Cherelle L. Parker  that both passengers and the four crew members aboard the in the city have died, along with one other person who was in their car nearby the crash site.
The Philadelphia crash happened just two days after an  flight and a Sikorsky H-60 Black Hawk  helicopter collided near Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport in Washington, D.C. There were 64 people onboard the plane and three military members onboard the helicopter, none of which are believed to have survived.
Recent airplane incidents and close calls nationwide have continued to raise concerns of safety protocols, and in a news conference on Thursday, President   initiatives were partly to blame for the Washington, D.C., crash.
What To Know
A Learjet 55 crashed at around 6:30 p.m. ET in northeast Philadelphia near the Roosevelt Mall on Friday evening. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) confirmed the plane was en route to Springfield-Branson National Airport in Missouri.
The crash was recorded via dashcam as motorists drove down Roosevelt Boulevard. The video captured a stunning angle of the plane erupting into flames after it crashed, turning the blue night sky into shades of amber. Meanwhile, .
Jet Rescue Air Ambulance previously revealed that  was a girl who was returning to Mexico after "receiving treatment for life-threatening illness," and the other passenger was her mother.
In a Saturday morning update, the Philadelphia mayor's office confirmed fears that there were no survivors in the crash and noted that many people on the ground "in parking lots, on streets, in cars and homes in the area" were injured.
At a press conference held late on Saturday morning, Parker revealed that a person in their car at the time of the crash also died and that 19 others have been confirmed injured.
Mexican President Claudia Sheinbaum confirmed in a message posted to X, formerly , later on Saturday morning that all six people on board were Mexican, and that "consular authorities" had made contact with the families of the deceased.
What People Are Saying
President Donald Trump  on Friday: "So sad to see the plane go down in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. More innocent souls lost. Our people are totally engaged. First Responders are already being given credit for doing a great job. More to follow. God Bless you all."
Philadelphia Mayor Cherelle Parkersaid in a statement posted on X, formerly Twitter, on Saturday: "This is a tragedy in our City. People have lost their lives and many injured in this horrific crash and the damage is significant. Our prayers are with the families, friends, neighbors and all of those impacted by the tragic crash. We are unified in our approach - a One Philly philosophy with all hands on deck."
Mexican President Claudia Sheinbaumwrote on X on Saturday: "I regret the death of six Mexicans in the plane crash in Philadelphia, United States. The consular authorities are in permanent contact with the families; I have asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to support them in whatever way is required. My solidarity with their loved ones and friends."
What Happens Next
Democrat Governor  of Pennsylvania was on the ground in Philadelphia with city officials and addressing the public late on Saturday morning.
Cleanup of the site will continue, and officials will provide further information about injuries and any resulting fatalities as it becomes available. Fire marshals remain on the ground to ensure further complications do not arise from the damage.
The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) is leading the investigation into the crash.


Graphic

 
Plane crash
Matthew Hatcher/Getty Images
Emergency service members respond to a plane crash in a neighborhood near Cottman Avenue on January 31, 2025, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

Load-Date: February 1, 2025


End of Document
