




Business Insider
February 13, 2025 Thursday 06:34 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Insider Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 401 words
Byline: dreuter@businessinsider.com (Dominick Reuter)
Highlight: Anne and Lucy Dayton said in a letter that Target is "undermining" ethical and business standards their father, Bruce Dayton, believed in.
Body


The daughters of one of Target's cofounders say they are "alarmed" at the company's DEI rollback.
In letters to the Financial Times and LA Times, they said their father believed in clear principles.
Target is one of several companies scaling back diversity efforts amid wider political pressures against DEI.
The daughters of one of Target's cofounders say they are "shocked and dismayed" at .
In letters to the editor published in the  and the , Anne and Lucy Dayton said their father, Bruce Dayton, believed in clear principles of happy customers and strong communities.
"We are alarmed how quickly the business community has given in to the current administration's retaliatory threats," they wrote. "It is not 'illegal' for a company to create a business model based on what it believes to be important ethical and business standards."
Bruce Dayton was one of five brothers who grew their father's Minneapolis department store into a national brand, as well as the B. Dalton chain of bookstores. The cofounder died in 2015 at the age of 97.
Neither the sisters nor Target immediately responded to requests for comment from Business Insider.
Target is one of  amid wider political scrutiny of DEI programs following the reelection of President Donald Trump.
CEO Brian Cornell said in 2023 that DEI was "the right thing for society, and it's the great thing for our brand."
Days later, the company began pulling LGBTQ+ pride merchandise after conservative activists mounted a campaign against the celebration.
More recently, a proposed class-action shareholder lawsuit was filed by the City of Riviera Beach Police Pension Fund against Target alleging the company had made "false and misleading" statements about its DEI strategy's impact on its financial results.
While some companies have announced their moves more publicly, others have been comparatively  from their official communications.
Some companies, including Deloitte and Google, have said that as federal contractors, they are  to end DEI programs at federal agencies more closely.
"By cowering, Target and others are undermining the very principles that have made their companies a success," the Dayton sisters said.
Read the original article on


Load-Date: February 13, 2025


End of Document
