




The Daily Caller
February 7, 2025 Friday 07:23 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: DAILY-CALLER-NEWS-FOUNDATION; media
Length: 663 words
Byline: Harold Hutchison, Reporter, 
Body



Former Obama administration official David Axelrod expressed dismay Friday about mass layoffs at the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) following a review by the Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE).
Representatives from DOGE and the State Department gained access to USAID's headquarters on Jan. 31 to review the agency's spending in order to align it with U.S. foreign policy after a brief standoff with employees of the agency, ABC News . Axelrod said the Trump administration's plans for layoffs targeting over 95% of USAID's workforce were “profoundly bad.” 
“There's a challenge in that they are flooding the zone and doing so many things at once that it's like sensory overload. And where do you go and what do you do? But there's a larger issue that I think unifies all of this, which is this notion of unaccountability, of defiance of the law, of shredding, constitutional separation of powers,” Axelrod told “CNN Newsroom” host Pamela Brown. “So there's no check. There's no check on on Elon Musk. There's no check on what Trump is doing. And Van is right. The thing that people out there, whether they support Trump or not, should consider, is they may love what Donald Trump wants to do or is doing. The question is, what about the next president?”
WATCH:
Federal judges have blocked or delayed President Donald Trump's executive orders by issuing injunctions involving , barring  from women's prisons, a  to encourage some federal employees to resign and a  on some aid programs.
Trump  Tesla CEO Elon Musk and former Republican presidential candidate Vivek Ramaswamy as co-chairs of the Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) Nov. 12, and has the power to replace Musk.
“If you shred all of these sources of accountability, if you take if to, to borrow a phrase from Elon Musk, if you put the First Amendment of the first article, one of the Constitution that guarantees Congress certain rights through a wood chipper, what happens when the next president comes?” Axelrod asked. “And it may not be someone who you have that kind of faith in? It's very, it's very, very dangerous.”
Fifty-Six percent of respondents to a Reuters-Ipsos  released Wednesday supported Trump's  to freeze most foreign aid programs while the administration reevaluated and realigned foreign aid spending. 
Secretary of State Marco Rubio defended the decision to drastically reduce USAID's workforce Monday during a press conference in El Salvador, saying that his concerns about its oversight began when he was in Congress and noting that the agency is “completely unresponsive” and “not functioning” as intended. The agency reportedly  over $100 million in Afghanistan as part of a “democracy project,” and also  funding for the Organized Crime and Corruption Reporting Project (OCCRP), an outlet whose reporting on former Republican Mayor Rudy Giuliani of New York City was cited by then-Army Lt. Col. Alexander Vindman in the whistleblower complaint that led to Trump's first impeachment.
USAID additionally spent $45 million on grants to promote diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) scholarships in Burma and $21 million for renewable electricity in Lebanon, The Washington Times .
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Graphic

 
David Axelrod, Pamela Brown, and Van Jones

Load-Date: February 26, 2025


End of Document
