




Newsweek.com
February 4, 2025 Tuesday 7:10 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 660 words
Byline: Anna Commander
Highlight: In an update on Tuesday, officials say that transcriptions for both aircrafts cockpit voice recordings are ongoing.
Body


The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) issued an update on the investigation into the fatal midair collision near D.C.'s Ronald Reagan National Airport last week.
The update included insight into the Black Hawk helicopter's height and cockpit voice recorder transcription.
Why It Matters
The collision over the Potomac River was the first fatal  since 2009, when a propeller plane crashed near Buffalo, New York, killing nearly 50 people.
Recent airplane incidents and close calls nationwide have raised concerns about safety protocols, and in a news conference after the crash last week, President   may be partly to blame for the crash near Reagan National.
Trump also questioned air traffic controllers and the helicopter's path during the press briefing.
What To Know
The crash involved a Sikorsky H-60 military helicopter and an  (AA) passenger jet. The jet was carrying 64 people on board and the Black Hawk was carrying three soldiers. All 67 people died and the remains of 65 victims have been identified,  5 said, citing the D.C.'s chief medical examiner.
In an update on Tuesday, the NTSB said that recovery of the wrecked jet continues as pieces continue to be removed from the river.
"NTSB has also been provided updated information that shows the air traffic control tower display at DCA is fed by the Potomac TRACON," the NTSB said in the update. "The TRACON fuses information from multiple radar sensors and ADS-B data, providing the best quality flight track data to air traffic control. This data showed the Black Hawk was at 300 feet on the air traffic control display at the time of the collision. This data is rounded to the nearest 100 feet."
To gather additional information "to verify data points from the Black Hawk," the helicopter will need to be removed from the river, the NTSB says. That will take place later in the week.
Maintenance paperwork and records for both the helicopter and the jet are getting reviewed by officials, the NTSB says. Also, the cockpit voice recorder transcriptions for both aircraft are ongoing, the NTSB says.
In an email to Newsweek when asked when the transcriptions will be complete and if they will be shared with the public, the NTSB said, "We don't have information to share on that at this time."
The New York Times last week that on the night of the collision, the Black Hawk was flying too high and at least a half mile off the preapproved path, citing people briefed on the matter.
What People Are Saying
Virginia Governor Glenn Youngkin, a Republican, on X (formerly Twitter) on Saturday: "This morning, we grieved as a community. 67 souls lost—each with families, friends, and dreams. We hold them in our hearts, across states and borders, and come together to support one another. In this time of deep sorrow, let's wrap these families in compassion, prayer, and hope."
U.S. Army on X on Saturday, linking to a news release of the third soldier's ID: "Our deepest condolences go out to all the families who are mourning the loss of their loved ones impacted by this devastating accident. We continue to work with the families of our fallen Soldiers and support the ongoing investigations."
The NTSB said on X ahead of their update: "NTSB is not planning any additional on scene media briefings on the Jan. 29 midair collision near DCA. NTSB needs additional information to verify data points from the Black Hawk. In order to obtain this information, the Black Hawk needs to be recovered from the water, which is expected to take place later this week. Any future media briefings will take place at NTSB headquarters. A written investigative update will be provided later today on ."
What Happens Next
As the plane wreckage gets removed from the river, the parts will be moved "to a secure location for a wreckage layout examination," the NTSB says.


Graphic

 
DCA plane crash
A crane pulls up a portion of the damaged plane during recovery efforts after the American Airlines crash on February 04, 2025, in Arlington, Virginia. (Photo by Kayla Bartkowski/Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 4, 2025


End of Document
