




The Times (London)
February 6, 2025 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition


Copyright 2025 Times Newspapers Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: EDITORIAL; Pg. 25
Length: 555 words
Body


Ronald Reagan once said the nine most terrifying words in the English language were "I'm from the government, and I'm here to help." Donald Trump, the 40th president's spiritual heir, prefers to rail against three letters: DEI. Diversity, equity and inclusion policies - for so long received wisdom in corporate boardrooms and government - have been the first casualty of President Trump's second term. As the old saw goes, when America sneezes, Britain catches a cold - and this country's businesses and public institutions should follow suit in abandoning corrosive identity politics.
Already there are encouraging signs that the pendulum that not long ago carried corporations and government departments into extreme territory on questions of race and gender identity is swinging back towards sanity. President Trump's bombastic style is not to every Briton's taste, but the principle of his opposition to DEI initiatives strikes a chord with our values of meritocracy. Diversity, equality and inclusion are of course worthy goals on their own terms, but when they meet bureaucracy and institutional self-interest they often do more harm than good: stifling innovation, fomenting resentment and thus undermining the very aims DEI schemes set out to achieve.
Indeed, when deployed at exorbitant cost to taxpayers in the public sector, DEI does something altogether more serious: it wastes money and obstructs the delivery of public services. The police is one culprit: West Yorkshire police has spent £1.4 million on 19 such roles in the last year. The health service is another. Wes Streeting, the health secretary, was right to criticise the NHS on these grounds earlier this week. He does not propose the full abolition of diversity policy within the NHS but instead made clear he will not tolerate the "really daft things" such as staff promoting "anti-whiteness" in their work. He still has work to do: NHS trusts have advertised for more than 30 equality roles since Labour took power, despite instructions to devote resources elsewhere.
The health secretary calls for an evidence-based approach. "Where we see health inequalities, whether they affect men and women, black people, white people, rich and poor, we've got to take a much more evidence-based approach to those inequalities - and say, if you're on the wrong end of the stats, we want to deal with that to make sure we get equality of outcome." Mr Streeting is quite right: public bodies should serve those in need, be they a poor white man in Wigan or a poor black woman in Peckham. It is a measure of how extremist DEI policy has become that such a statement might now be considered radical by the standards of mainstream Labour politics.
The private sector appears to be following suit. BT, for one, has abolished the DEI targets its middle management once had to hit in order to qualify for a bonus. They will surely not be alone in rethinking their commitment to a contentious political agenda. Even the Green Party, never before accused of any acquaintance with sanity, has followed every Whitehall department in disaffiliating from Stonewall, whose trans dogma has set back the cause of gender equality. The tide is turning. The diverse peoples of these islands are by and large tolerant, and abhor discrimination. They do not need to be lectured or re-educated.

Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
