




Newsweek.com
January 23, 2025 Thursday 6:11 AM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 860 words
Byline: Paulette Granberry Russell
Highlight: This week marks a somber chapter in our nation's ongoing journey toward justice and equity.
Body


This week marks a somber chapter in our nation's ongoing journey toward justice and equity. Among his first acts as president,  has issued executive orders targeting diversity, equity, and inclusion initiatives, a move that seeks to eliminate roles and efforts vital to fostering opportunities for all, and efforts that are intended to further understand the value of diversity across our communities. These orders, underpinned by a mischaracterization of diversity, equity, and inclusion efforts as divisive, racist, or even illegal preferences, strike at the very heart of what it means to build an inclusive and unified society and democracy.
Why is it that three words are uttered with such venom and vitriol, and directed in ways that are intended to diminish those who have the same hopes and dreams of benefiting from all that this country stands for? At their core, these three words, diversity, equity, and inclusion, are not about exclusion or division—they are about community. It is through our diversity and opening doors of opportunity that we now address health inequities, which became even more evident to us all during the Covid pandemic. It is acknowledged by businesses that diversity brings with it innovation. We talk, even today, about the need for more talent that can allow this country to excel in science, technology, and engineering. Students of all ages can learn and engage across differences—but to be clear, it also requires tools and strategies for creating learning environments that are not discriminatory, that are welcoming and that can deliver on the promise of success for all students. These efforts are far from being divisive or discriminatory; these efforts are the connective tissue that binds us together as a society that values what our differences deliver. The opportunity to succeed is the right of all people.
Critics of diversity efforts have framed these initiatives as attempts to undermine merit or promote favoritism or discrimination. This is a deliberate distortion. Contrary to these mischaracterizations, providing fairness and opportunities for all is not about elevating one group at the expense of another; it is about eliminating barriers to success so that everyone has a fair shot at success. Neither income nor who you know should be what determines access to opportunities. Your country of origin does not determine your worth or merit, nor should it make you a target for divisive rhetoric and physical harm. We cannot ignore the legacy and impact of discrimination, including discrimination that for generations was permitted or mandated in laws based on race and gender. Addressing these barriers is not an act of favoritism; it is an act of justice.
Trump's recent executive orders risk undoing years of progress. They threaten to silence voices that have worked tirelessly to address inequities and promoted inclusion in education, health care, employment, and beyond. They undermine efforts to cultivate environments where innovation and collaboration can flourish. Most troublingly, they send a message that the pursuit of equality and just treatment is somehow un-American.
But nothing could be further from the truth. Our nation's founding principles of liberty and justice for all compel us to confront inequities and strive for inclusion. Supporting each other in ways that honor our diversity embody these principles. Efforts that are intended to inform and educate across our differences, acknowledging that our differences may require different support efforts, are about uniting us and building stronger, more resilient communities.
Educational institutions, in particular, have a vital role to play. Diverse, equitable campuses are critical in creating a pipeline of qualified leaders and innovators essential for a competitive global workforce.
As we face this moment of challenge, I urge leaders across sectors—in higher education, business, government and beyond—to reaffirm their commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion. These efforts are not political talking points; they are essential to the fabric of a thriving society. To abandon them now would be to abandon the progress we have made and the promise of a better future.
At the National Association of Diversity Officers in Higher Education (NADOHE), we stand firm in our belief that diversity, equity, and inclusion are not partisan issues but human ones. We will continue to advocate for policies and practices that promote equality, and result in everyone having a fair shot at reaching their potential. We will work with partners and those of goodwill to resist efforts that seek to divide us.
The road ahead is likely to be difficult, but the stakes are too high to remain silent. In the face of these executive orders, we must stand firm and redouble our efforts to champion diversity, equity, and inclusion. Let us remember that our strength lies in our unity, and our unity is enriched by our diversity.
Paulette Granberry Russell, J.D., is president and CEO of the National Association of Diversity Officers in Higher Education.
The views expressed in this article are the writer's own.


Graphic

 
Trump Signs Executive Orders
JIM WATSON/AFP via Getty Images
President Donald Trump signs executive orders in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington, DC, on Jan. 20.

Load-Date: January 23, 2025


End of Document
