




telegraph.co.uk
January 22, 2025 Wednesday 7:46 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: US; Version:1
Length: 554 words
Byline: By Zoe Strimpel
Highlight: Trump’s war on this pernicious ideology is vital if the rise of contemporary anti-Semitism is to be combatted
Body


The last few days in DC have had a sense of the surreal. The language,  – his curiously casual yet cunning statements on everything from America’s “golden age” to Hamas’s unfitness to rule in Gaza (“they didn’t exactly run it well” despite it being a “phenomenal location”) – have been mesmerising.
Certainly, I don’t trust this burger-scoffing, ethically compromised (to say the least) geriatric, and the views of many of his staffers make my blood run cold. That he   who stormed the Capitol on January 6 is deplorable, scary, and a worrying sign of things to come. 
Even so: Trump has stumbled onto righteous ground   (DEI). Following the death of George Floyd in 2020, America’s DEI quotient rocketed, seeping into every nook and cranny of the country’s workplaces, schools, and hospitals. No longer. Trump has taken drastic, seismic action within two days of taking office. As a starter, every single federal employee working in DEI has been placed on administrative leave.
This is nothing short of miraculous. DEI is rotten from start to finish and its impact has been deeply regressive and dangerous. It’s not just the money that has been wasted, diverted away from frontline services. Each and every bit of DEI’s governing ideology is mendacious, doing the opposite of what it says.
Under the aegis of DEI schemes, federal and otherwise, there has been thought policing via  , the curtailment of free expression, no matter how respectful, and an increase in bullying as bosses enforced the ideology. Diversity of thought has been under attack, thanks to the expulsion or exclusion of those who deviate from compulsory wokeness. Meanwhile,   because it says that people from allegedly marginalised backgrounds should get a big leg up throughout the hiring and promotion process, based on skin colour or gender identity alone.
One of DEI ideology’s most poisonous side-effects has been a sharp rise not just in anti-Semitism, but in its acceptability. What we saw taking place on   last spring, as progressive brigands in keffiyehs took to their megaphones to denounce “Zionists” in unmistakeably Hitlerian terms, was directly in line with DEI culture as it has come to be understood in the Anglosphere.
According to the pernicious doctrines of critical race theory that underpin much DEI thinking, Jews are deemed to be both “white” and colonisers and oppressors (as the devious, vicious spin on “Zionists” would have it). Therefore, in DEI world, laying into “Zionists” is considered to be virtuous; since “Zionists”, charged with “systematic” oppression of the Palestinian underdog, must be the enemy of all that is good. In an environment fostering such putrid systems of thought, anyone associated with Israel, which is largely Jews, for reasons that ought to be obvious, becomes fair game.
Ending the use of taxpayer money to fund this ideology is the first big step. The next one will be to finish the job already begun at some of America’s biggest corporates, and excise DEI from all workplaces, schools, and, eventually, from a rising generation’s view of the world.

Load-Date: January 22, 2025


End of Document
