




Business Insider
February 21, 2025 Friday 12:13 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Insider Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 427 words
Byline: jzitser@businessinsider.com (Joshua Nelken-Zitser)
Highlight: Coca-Cola said its business could be adversely affected if it is unable to attract or retain top talent with diverse perspectives and backgrounds.
Body


Coca-Cola has warned that DEI policy changes could negatively impact its business.
In an annual filing, the company said fostering an inclusive workplace culture was "critical" to its success.
It comes as rival PepsiCo rolls back DEI initiatives amid Trump's anti-DEI push.
Coca-Cola has warned that changes to policies meant to diversify its workforce could negatively affect its business.
In an annual filing, the company said its business could be adversely affected if it was "unable to attract or retain specialized talent or top talent with diverse perspectives, experiences and backgrounds."
"Our diverse, high-performing global employee base helps drive a culture of inclusion, innovation and growth," it said. "We aspire to develop a global workforce with diverse perspectives, experiences and backgrounds that reflect the broad range of consumers and markets we serve around the world."
It added that it remained committed to "providing access to equal opportunities and fostering belonging both in our workplaces and the local communities we proudly serve."
These efforts, it said, are "critical" to the company's growth and success.
Coca-Cola added that failure to maintain a corporate culture that "fosters innovation, collaboration, and inclusion" could disrupt our operations and "adversely affect our business and our future success."
It comes as a  announce rollbacks of  following President Donald Trump's January executive orders, which ended federal diversity programs and placed federal DEI staffers on leave.
Coca-Cola's industry rival PepsiCo rolled back some of its  this month, scrapping a breakdown of its workforce demographics from a recent filing and removing a line about how a "culture of diversity, equity, and inclusion is a competitive advantage" that retains talent and strengthens its reputation.
Coca-Cola and PepsiCo are both government contractors.
Although  primarily targeted DEI efforts in the public sector, the "ending illegal discrimination and restoring merit-based opportunity" order also calls for encouraging the private sector to end "illegal DEI discrimination and preferences."
Asked last week if the company would be changing its DEI policies to comply with the executive order, Coca-Cola's chief financial officer, John Murphy, said it was "focused on having the best talent around the world," per .
However, he added that it would "follow any change in regulations at the national level."
Read the original article on


Load-Date: February 21, 2025


End of Document
