




The Times (London)
January 29, 2025 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition


Copyright 2025 Times Newspapers Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 33
Length: 681 words
Byline: Louisa Clarence-Smith
Body


In the Elon Musk era, it is easy to forget that there is a world offline that looks very different to the one we see on social media platforms - particularly in the debate around diversity, equity and inclusion, known in corporate circles as DEI.
Spend time on a platform such as Musk's X and you would be forgiven for thinking the age of workplace initiatives to improve employee diversity is over. Musk, a long-time critic of DEI because of the belief that it promotes some groups unfairly over others, calls it "just another word for racism".
Anti-DEI activists have built online followings by showcasing examples of businesses adopting contested critical race and gender ideologies and imposing them on staff or customers. Emboldened by the change in the political climate as President Trump begins his second administration, they are now calling for the abolition of DEI altogether and celebrating as some companies yield to pressure to prove they are not "woke".
Mark Zuckerberg, the Meta chief executive who has reinvented himself as a macho conservative just in time for Trump's second term, scrapped DEI programmes at Facebook and Instagram, including those that influenced hiring and picking suppliers. Walmart, Amazon and Target, the US retail giants, as well as McDonald's and Harley- Davidson have also dialled back DEI policies in the face of scrutiny.
However, away from the algorithm-distorted prism of social media, there is an alternative view of what's happening. Vern Myers, a DEI consultant based in Baltimore, Maryland, says she has called friends working at companies reported to have scrapped DEI policies and asked if it's actually happening. Privately, they say not.
Many company leaders are quietly resisting the DEI backlash, committed to the view that having a diverse workforce and inclusive policies is consistent with casting a wide net for the best talent to support their businesses.
A smaller group of chief executives have spoken publicly of their continued support for diversity initiatives. Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JP Morgan Chase, said last week that America's biggest bank would continue initiatives to promote DEI in its workforce and customer base. "We're going to continue to reach out to the black community, the Hispanic community, the LGBT community, the veterans community," he said.
It is only five years since the Black Lives Matter protests, in the wake of the murder of George Floyd, led to sweeping pledges from corporate America to increase the representation of ethnic minorities in their workforce. It is less than a decade since US companies made widespread commitments to crack down on workplace harassment and increase the number of women in senior roles in the wake of the #MeToo movement. Research has found that racial and gender diversity improved in hiring decisions in the wake of both movements.
Why aren't those employees affected by the potential removal of DEI policies protesting? Corporate workers I have spoken to say they are scared but are meeting privately to discuss their fears among each other. They say they worry about the risk of losing their jobs if they speak out.
Trump has turned up the heat on the DEI debate since entering the White House, issuing an executive order directing federal agencies to terminate initiatives and encouraging private companies to do the same. Companies now face a legal quagmire, with the potential to discriminate against white employees when using DEI, and the risk of being sued by women or ethnic minorities for discrimination if they do not have inclusive policies.
Anuradha Hebbar, of the Society for Human Resource Management, said: "We don't yet know what Trump's DEI executive orders mean, beyond specifying the requirement to end illegal discrimination and restore merit-based opportunity." She is advising companies to "evaluate their DEI initiatives to ensure they are legally compliant and evolve them for effectiveness".
DEI isn't over, but it will have to be reinvented. That process is only just beginning.
Louisa Clarence-Smith is US Business Editor of The Times

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
