




telegraph.co.uk
February 6, 2025 Thursday 6:00 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: BUSINESS; Version:2
Length: 1352 words
Byline: By Lucy Burton, Employment Editor, Louis Goss, Business reporter
Highlight: Trump’s war on diversity rules prompts British business leaders to question UK initiatives
Body


Rachel Reeves has promised to crack down on “stifling and unpredictable regulation” across the economy to kickstart growth. In the City of London,  , equity and inclusion (DEI) rules.
While most agree that diversity is good for business, many bosses argue that it should be up to them to decide how to improve representation based on the specific circumstances and business needs of their companies.
However, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the City regulator, is considering putting in place official rules for how companies should treat diversity. A policy statement is expected later this year, following a consultation in 2023 that recommended requiring companies to draw up and publish an official diversity and inclusion plan overseen by the board.
The idea is to prioritise hiring people from under-represented groups to ensure a balance of gender and ethnicities within companies. The FCA argues this will help to reduce group think, support healthy work cultures, improve understanding of and provision for diverse consumers and tap into diverse talent.
However, the proposals have sparked a fierce backlash from  , the Conservative leader, who has accused the watchdog of “overreach” and said the plans could hinder the Government’s push for growth.
The Chancellor was last month urged by three members of the Conservative front bench to halt the FCA’s diversity drive, amid warnings that the data collection, publishing and oversight over such schemes could cost the City as much as £1bn.
Andrew Griffith, the shadow business secretary, says: “The FCA’s obsession with diversity has to stop. Nothing short of pure ‘merit based’ hiring policies will keep the City competitive.”
                     City bosses concerned                   
Privately, many City bosses are also concerned. They view officially mandated diversity reporting as little more than red tape that threatens to simply become a box ticking exercise. Some also echo Griffith’s concerns that a focus on diversity could lead companies to overlook the best talent and harm competitiveness.
“The majority of the industry has long been unconvinced by the rationale for this – it’s duplicative, doesn’t achieve what it sets out to do and just adds more bureaucracy and red tape,” says one finance chief. “We’ve made our concerns clear for a long time and will continue to do so.”
Nikhil Rathi, the FCA’s chief executive, has been personally approached by senior executives about the ineffectiveness of DEI programmes. Trade bodies and regulators are also facing pushback across professional services.
Still, ahead of official FCA guidance, many companies have either introduced or are putting in place their own diversity policies so that they are not caught flat-footed. The City’s DEI push took the form of hiring quotas for women and ethnic minority executives and mandatory “unconscious bias” training for staff.
Critics say such measures have warped corporate priorities, heightened tensions in the workplace and hindered companies’ abilities to hire the best people for the job. Others argue that these programmes amount to little more than superficial pushes for diversity that promote tokenism over true diversity of thought.
A backlash is growing. A poll of 500 City executives carried out by research firm JLP shows that one in three bosses now believe DEI has gone too far. Last week the Institute & Faculty of Actuaries (IFoA) abandoned plans to introduce its own strict diversity rules after a revolt by some members.
“There’s no way regulators should be wasting their time asking for data or challenging [bankers] on it,” says one City veteran. “I doubt there is a boss brave enough to speak out, but once the vibe shift kicks in, you’ll find they all suddenly do.”
                     Political earthquake                   
The vibe shift has been triggered by a political earthquake in America, where   on the movement. One of the president’s first executive orders upon returning to the White House was to end what he called “radical and wasteful government DEI programmes”. He called hiring policies under Joe Biden “illegal and immoral discrimination” and has claimed that his administration’s recruitment will be based solely on merit.
Last week, without evidence, Trump blamed DEI for the Washington air disaster, in which a military helicopter and a passenger plane collided above the US capital. He accused Biden and Barack Obama of degrading standards at America’s aviation agency by prioritising diversity over ability.
US banking and securities regulators have already begun wiping out references to internal diversity and inclusion efforts from their websites.
The president’s declarations have also had a chilling effect on the private sector. Technology companies including Meta and Amazon have ditched their DEI teams, while retailers Walmart and Target said they would drop diversity programmes.
Some businesses are defending diversity – notably on Wall Street. Goldman Sachs and JP Morgan have both defended their policies.
In Europe, Stefan Hoops, the head of Deutsche Bank investment arm, has also thrown his renewed support behind the bank’s diversity policies. Last month he posted a “masculine-looking picture” of himself lifting weights on LinkedIn to balance his “anti-anti-woke observations” that Trump risked sending the world of finance “straight back to the macho ‘Wolf of Wall Street’ era”.
Still, DEI is unarguably on the retreat in the US and observers believe it is only a matter of time before it is under siege in the UK too.
                     In the City                   
“What happens in America crosses over into the UK,” says Tom Lubbock, founding partner at JLP, the polling company. “Trump’s win has made people reconsider where to put the emphasis.”
The shock margin of Trump’s win has revealed wider splits in public opinion on cultural issues than many executives had imagined.
“People are taking a second look at culture wars issues, and that includes DEI and associated policies,” Lubbock says. He adds: “Clearly there are UK businesses thinking about their relations with the US government.”
Amanda Jones, a barrister who has been fighting DEI rule put forward by the Bar Standards Board (BSB), which regulates barristers, says the problem with many policies is that they lack clarity.
While she believes that “eliminating unlawful discrimination, harassment and abuse is important,” Jones says DEI policies are “too regularly not firmly based on the actual law, and [people] either misunderstand it or want to ‘go beyond’ the law”. This can lead to “unintended consequences, conflict with other protected characteristics and overreach”.
Baroness Morrissey, the City veteran who founded the 30pc Club, which pushes for more women on boards, recently wrote on social media that “the DEI ‘industry’ is partly to blame for the present situation as some of the efforts and language have (ironically) been exclusionary, favouring certain groups over others, discouraging diverse viewpoints or prioritising identity factors over merit, rather than creating opportunity for all”.
Binna Kandola, of consulting firm Pearn Kandola, adds that diversity quotas have sometimes hindered efforts to boost diversity by causing some people to perceive those who have benefited as less competent.
“This might be an opportunity to have a more dispassionate discussion about the orthodox approach, its failings and what needs to be done better,” he says. “It may be that we will start thinking about the intellectual and theoretical foundations of what’s actually being done.”
Scarlett Maguire, the director of JLP, says: “Reverberations from Trump’s inauguration are being felt all around the world. And whilst the UK is not the US, British C-suite executives are at least rethinking cultural issues in the wake of Trump’s win. The next 12 months could be difficult to navigate.”
                     Recommended                   
Helena Morrissey: Trump has fallen short with his war on DEI

Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
