




The Hawk: Saint Joseph's University
February 12, 2025 Wednesday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINIONS; Pg. 1
Length: 371 words
Body


Diversity, equity and inclusion is a framework instilled within companies and organizations that promotes the inclusion of all demographics of people, regardless of their race, gender, sexuality, physical ability or other aspect of their identity. DEI aims to assist underrepresented groups in finding success in fields where, historically, there have been barriers to their entry.
The point of these programs is to increase diversity across the workforce in America, so why do people hold this as a bad thing? 
DEI is often discussed in the context of race, and a common (incorrect) argument is that DEI initiatives cause "reverse discrimination" that pushes white people out of jobs. In reality, DEI intends to level the playing field and make it easier for marginalized groups to get jobs in fields typically dominated by one race. DEI isn't taking jobs away from people; it's opening opportunities to qualified individuals who may have been excluded because the hiring system was built to benefit white people. 
DEI has also become a political buzzword, with right-wing groups misconstruing its meaning and effect. Throughout the 2024 presidential election, many right-wing politicians criticized former Vice President Kamala Harris for being a "DEI candidate," despite her genuine qualifications.
President Donald Trump has also spread falsehoods about DEI. He blamed the Jan. 29 plane collision in Washington, D.C., on inclusive hiring standards, even though DEI practices don't apply to air traffic control hiring. 
Despite the many criticisms of DEI, there is so much good that comes out of it. With this process of hiring, the employee talent pool expands, making often-excluded underrepresented candidates just as hireable as the triple legacy Harvard alum. With a more diverse staff, companies are able to appeal to a wider variety of customers. Studies have also shown that as more companies have incorporated DEI hiring processes, employee satisfaction has grown. 
The apparent rise of racism in our country has resulted in government-enforced actions to diminish these benefits. Hopefully, we as citizens can begin to get America back on the right track and embrace the diversity our country is supposed to be proud of. 

Load-Date: February 12, 2025


End of Document
