




The Daily Vidette: Illinois State University
February 17, 2025 Monday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 671 words
Body


Members of the organization Punks Against Tyranny, a student organization that is dedicated to mutual aide and community service, organized a protest that took place at noon on Feb. 15, on the Illinois State University Quad. About 20 individuals came together to march on the Quad with a musical finish at the Uptown Circle in Normal. 
The cold temperatures made it difficult for protesters to stay warm, but the vision of living in a country where diversity, equity and inclusion is welcomed kept them outside for over two hours. 
In January 2025, President Donald Trump signed executive orders that ended federal DEI programs and removed DEI programs from the Department of Education. 
Protest leader Oriah Matich explained the motivation behind forming and executing a protest. 
"We feel like the DEI overturn is setting a harmful precedent, and we feel as if this is getting rid of history that is valuable and important," Matich said. 
The march began at approximately 12:23 p.m. Various chants remained persistent as the protesters moved past ISU buildings such as Hovey Hall, the Hewett and Manchester resident halls and the Science Laboratory Building. 
Junior communication major Rhiannon McHale said that no one should question if they will be hired for work solely based on their race. 
"I was talking to someone the other day, and they said that they were afraid that they weren't going to get hired just because of their race. The fact that that's a fear now is disgusting," McHale said. "It's a scary world to live in now, and it just makes me sad." 
Eventually, the protesters marched past Fell Avenue and ended at the Uptown Circle. This form of protest differed from previous events; members from small-town bands such as Brynth and The Occasion performed songs after the march ended. 
"Today's protest is special because it's a music protest, which means we are going to have bands who are going to perform for us at the circle," Matich said. 
Singer and guitarist for Brynth Ricky Lesney was the first to perform. Lesney performed a song called "Post Party Depression" by Days N' Daze iin hopes that their song would comment on issues they care about in today's society
"I think it does reflect now, especially with those first lines 'kill the masquerade, lose the tough-guy facade.' I think a lot of the people in power now want to express how powerful they are...and those people shouldn't be in power," Lesney said. 
Frontman of The Occasion Jey Kota brought his friend Nick to sing following Lesney. 
"My favorite song that me and Nick both sang was an a cappella song made by the band Chumbawamba. It's called 'Nazi,' and I think that it's very relevant right now with who we're currently putting in power in the United States," Kota said. 
Nick added that "Nazi" was his favorite song, but he also enjoyed the song "El Fusilado" (English translation: "The Shot One.") The song describes the life of a man named Wenceslao Moguel: a Mexican soldier who was captured in March 1915 during the Mexican Revolution. 
Moguel was shot ten times, with one final bullet to the head. However, he managed to survive every single shot he received and lived to tell his story. The song written by Chumbawamba covered Moguel's life, endorsing a message that after every horrible action, you can continue to live.
"The whole song is basically him saying 'You guys shot me this many times, and I still stood there. I am still alive.' That's really powerful to me," Nick said. 
The Uptown Circle grew louder and more prominent in the dreary weather as the protesters sang for everyone to hear. Certain bypassers were not pleased, as profanity was shouted through car windows and protesters were greeted with thumb-downs.
However, other bypassers paused to watch the protesters sing. Some bypassers joined in and others honked in a way to encourage the music. Whether the songs brought joy to some and annoyance to others, people were listening. 
The protest concluded at approximately 2:15 p.m. after speeches and announcements were shared. 

Load-Date: February 17, 2025


End of Document
