




Forbes.com
January 28, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 Forbes LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1117 words
Byline: Maria Gracia Santillana Linares, Forbes Staff
Highlight: JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon stood firm against calls for the financial giant to end its DEI programming, emphasizing his commitment to not being swayed by partisan pressu...
Body


<figure>
<figcaption>
WASHINGTON, DC - JANUARY 14: A sign that reads "DEI in our Military" is visible as Sen. Eric Schmitt (R-MO) (L), accompanied by Sen. Ted Budd (R-NC) (R), questions U.S. President-elect Donald Trump's nominee for Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth during a Senate Armed Services confirmation hearing on Capitol Hill on January 14, 2025 in Washington, DC. Hegseth, an Army veteran and the former host of "FOX & Friends Weekend" on FOX News will be the first of the incoming Trump administration's nominees to face questions from Senators. (Photo by Andrew Harnik/Getty Images)
Getty Images
</figcaption></figure>
Diversity, equity and inclusion programs are on the federal chopping block. Within hours of being sworn in last week, President Donald Trump quickly placed DEI workers on leave, removed DEI measures and protections for federal agencies and contractors, and went as far as eliminating DEI in the military.
It s part ofa larger pattern of organizations axing their DEI programs. Just this week, anothermajor retailerannounced that it would be nixing its diversity initiatives (see the quiz below for the answer), including participating in external DEI surveys, eliminating anti-racism and bias training for employees, and renaming its  supplier diversity  team to a  supplier engagement  team.
But whileone in eight companies say they plan to reduce or eliminate their own DEI programs this year, some of the world s most powerful CEOs reiterated their commitment to diverse workforces last week. JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimonstood firmagainst calls for the financial giant to end its DEI programming, emphasizing his commitment to not being swayed by partisan pressure and refusing to  pander to any which side or any which thing. 
Others who stood behind their company s initiative include Nasdaq CEO Adena Friedman, Alexandr Wang of Scale AI and Pinterest s Bill Ready, according toCNBC. Costco shareholders also against a proposal that would have ended the company s DEI efforts. 
Not everyone is celebrating the Costco vote  19 Republican state attorney generals signed aletterurging Costco CEO Ron Vachris to  end all unlawful discrimination imposed by the company through diversity, equity, and inclusion ( DEI ) policies. 
If you are a manager or a business owner, here s whatyou need to know about Trump s DEI rules.
Happy reading, and hope you all have a lovely week!
WORK SMARTER
Practical insights and advice from Forbesstaff and contributors to help you succeed in your job, accelerate your career and lead smarter
Don t create a  boogeyman, or a shared enemy, tomotivate your employees.
You can build your brand beyond the world of social media.Take up speaking engagements or host your own eventstogrow your personal brand.
Struggling through the first month of the year? Here s arefresheronhow to maintain a healthy work-life balance. 
REPORTER S NOTEBOOK: An AI Startup Graduates From Job Search To Career Companion
AI-powered job search and career companion Teal raised a fresh $7.5 million in its Series A round last week. I spoke with its founder, David Fano, about the company s push into direct-to-consumer AI interview prep and compensation comparison. You can read the
There s a number of websites and companies that allow you to use AI to spruce up your job application materials (yes, even beyond ChatGPT).
But one company is evolving from a straightforward job search assistant to a larger career companion.Teal, founded by WeWork s former chief growth officer David Fano, announced last week it raised $7.5 million to fund its expansion. The raise comes alongside the news of two new integrations AI interview prep and salary and benefits comparison.
The tools are especially tailored for folks looking to get hired rather than the ones hiring.  We're not for the solopreneur nor the entrepreneur,  says Fano.  We re for the intrapreneur, for the employee who wants to be an employee and doesn t wanna feel capped by what the company is dictating for them. 
Fano started Teal in 2019 with the mission of helping workers take charge throughout their careers. But the pandemic-driven rise in unemployment and the rise of AI forced him to rethink Teal s initial offerings. He decided to first build a job search tool, which would help job seekers with the first steps of an application.
 It's harder to convince somebody outside of that job search moment to take out their credit card and sign up for a service that is going to help you further your career,  says Ben Lerer, managing partner at Lerer Hippeau, an investor in Teal.
That is Teal s biggest challenge, according to Lerer: finding customers willing to pay $9 per week for Teal premium beyond the time they spend looking for their next gig.
But for those willing to pay out of pocket for their own career journey tools,Teal gives them unlimited access to AI rewrites, interview questions and feedback.
TOUCH BASE
News from the world of work
Federal hiring freezes are already being felt at a number of government agencies. At theIRS, for example, candidates with start dates on or before February 8 will still be allowed to start work, but anyone with later start dates or an unconfirmed time will have their offer revoked.
President Donald Trump is settling into his role as chief executive of the U.S. government as an employer. In his first two weeks in office,he has let go including government appointees, federal employees working in DEI roles and even a Coast Guard commandant. Top leaders of theU.S. labor boardhave also been fired.
 have started across the country. On Thursday, Newark mayor Ras Barakacriticized the raids in the city,in which federal agents detained several people, including U.S. citizens. Businesses are starting to feel the impact too planned raids in Chicagohave left employersin the restaurant and food industry weary. Here swhat businesses and employers need to knowabout how these raids may impact them.
Return-to-office mandates are in full swing across corporate America, buthigh performers and employees with unique skills or talents could be exempt from full-fledged returns. It s creating a  new hybrid hierarchy,  theWall Street Journalreports.
Single-parents in Spain will now be getting the same amount of paid parental leave as couples, thanks to a new courtruling. That would increase the time allowed off from 16 weeks to 32 weeks for single parents.
NUMBER TO NOTE
7.3%
That s how much CFOs expect wages and salaries to go up this year, according to a survey by Deloitte. 
VIDEO
How to Find Compassion At Work
 QUIZ
Which of the following companies have eliminated its previous DEI programs and initiatives?
A. Target
B. Costco
C. JPMorgan
D. Goldman Sachs
Check if you got itright here. 

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
