




The Daily Telegraph (London)
February 12, 2025 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Pg. 6
Length: 537 words
Byline: Dominic Penna ; Lucy Burton
Body


DELOITTE'S UK office has signalled a split from its US arm by reiterating its commitment to diversity targets.
The boss of the auditor's British office recently informed workers that it would not follow its American counterpart by scrapping diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) goals, saying that they would remain a priority.
In a memo seen by The Telegraph, Richard Houston sought to reassure staff by claiming the UK office was "committed to our diversity goals" and "will continue to report annually on our progress on inclusion".
This came just hours after Deloitte's US staff were informed of the DEI crackdown, as it became the latest major company to abandon diversity targets in response to the changing political climate in America.
The corporate backlash against DEI has been growing since Donald Trump re-entered the White House, with the president recently ordering a ban on diversity policies in corporate America.
However, Mr Houston said Deloitte's diversity networks "will remain critical to our UK firm" and stressed that "events in the external landscape do not change our commitment to building an inclusive culture". The opposing messages suggest a divide over how to handle diversity programmes at the "big four" firm, which insists it remains "united" by "one set of shared values".
As part of its DEI crackdown in the
US, Deloitte staff working on government contracts in America have been told to stop listing their pronouns at the end of email signatures.
This comes after Mr Trump told federal agencies to remove any references to "gender ideology" from their communications, putting lucrative government contracts at risk for professional services that fail to comply.
After those staff were told to remove pronouns indicating their gender from emails sent externally, a separate email was sent to Deloitte's US workers informing them that the accounting giant planned to scrap its diversity goals, sources told the Financial Times.
The move comes days after Accenture, the consultancy giant that employs nearly 800,000 staff worldwide, scrapped its DEI goals. Julie Sweet, its chief, told staff that the consulting firm was a "meritocracy" and that it would start scaling back diversity goals it originally introduced in 2017.
Accenture won a five-year IT contract from the US Air Force worth $1.6billion (£1.3billion) last October.
A spokesman for Deloitte UK said that it "stands by our stated intention of maintaining a workforce and culture that reflects the diversity of the UK."
Flying in the face of woke Ban lifted on use of the word 'airmen'
President Trump has reversed a ban on the use of the word "airmen" in pilot safety bulletins as the US president rolls back diversity policies. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) published a decree overturning an edict that was issued under the former president Joe Biden which outlawed the term "Notice to Airmen" in the bulletins.
The phrase will be reintroduced, replacing "Notice to Air Missions" which had been in use since 2021 after the FAA said that it was "more applicable" and "inclusive of all aviators and missions".
The FAA said the re-adoption of the term "airmen" was "effective immediately", without offering any rationale for the change.

Load-Date: February 12, 2025


End of Document
