




thetimes.co.uk
February 11, 2025 Tuesday 9:35 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 628 words
Byline: Louisa Clarence-Smith, US Business Editor
Highlight: The consultancy giant’s American business also asked staff to drop gender pronouns from their signatures on emails to ‘align with emerging government client practice’
Body


Corporate America is rolling back its policies on diversity, equity and inclusion since Donald Trump’s second presidency with Google removing Black, LGBTQ+ and women’s holidays from its digital calendars and Deloitte asking employees to remove gender pronouns from their email signatures.
The world’s biggest search engine previously marked the beginning of Black History Month in February and Pride Month in June, but the events do not appear for 2025.
Madison Cushman Veld, a Google spokesperson, told the Verge that the listed holidays were not “sustainable” for their model.
“We got feedback that some other events and countries were missing — and maintaining hundreds of moments manually and consistently globally wasn’t scalable or sustainable,” the statement reads.
In an email sent on Monday, Deloitte told employees that it would “sunset” its diversity goals, an annual diversity, equity and inclusion report, and the company’s DEI initiatives, the Financial Times reported.
In a separate email, employees working on government contracts were told to remove gender pronouns from emails sent externally “to align with emerging government client practices and requirements”. 
In Britain Deloitte has no plans to make changes to its DEI initiatives. A spokesman said: “Deloitte UK stands by our stated intention of maintaining a workforce and culture that reflects the diversity of the UK. We are committed to fostering an inclusive culture that helps all our people thrive and reach their full potential.”
Management consultancy firms have enthusiastically embraced DEI initiatives in recent years, both for their staff and as a business opportunity to advise corporations on their DEI agendas.
However, some US firms are now rolling back on those initiatives after President Trump criticised DEI and promised to 

 in the federal government. He has ended the use of DEI in federal hiring and contracting. 
Trump has also issued an executive order, “Defending Women from Gender Ideology Extremism and Restoring Biological Truth”, which states that it is US government policy “to recognise two sexes, male and female”. The order states that government agencies should “ensure grant funds do not promote gender ideology”.

Some government agencies have issued directives ordering employees to remove gender-identifying pronouns from emails. 
Last week, Accenture scrapped its global diversity and inclusion goals in response to the changing US political landscape. In a memo to employees, the professional services company said it will start “sunsetting” the diversity goals it set in 2017, along with career development programmes for “people of specific demographic groups”.
Disney has also revised a policy linking executive pay to the diversity and inclusion of senior employees, telling staff that it is changing its DEI programmes to focus more on business outcomes.
Instead of boosting the diversity of executives and managers to “reflect the guests and audiences”, executive pay will now be linked to “talent strategy”, which evaluates how well leaders have advanced the company’s values. Disney’s executive compensation is weighted 70 per cent against achieving financial performance targets and 30 per cent against other performance factors, according to its most recent proxy filing. 
The company is also removing advisories that it plays ahead of some old films, such as 
                   Dumbo                   
 and 
                   Peter Pan                   
, which warn viewers that they “include negative depictions and/or mistreatment of peoples or cultures”, a source told the Financial Times. The advisories will be moved to a box along with other details about the film.

Load-Date: February 11, 2025


End of Document
