




Financial Times (London, England)
February 12, 2025 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition


Copyright 2025 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 10
Length: 331 words
Byline: ELLESHEVA KISSIN ;MYLES MCCORMICK
Body


Deloitte US has asked employees working on government contracts to remove gender pronouns from their email signatures and ditched its wider diversity and inclusion programmes, in the latest sign of companies shifting their policies after the election of Donald Trump.
But the Big Four firm's UK arm signalled yesterday it would double down on its diversity policies, splitting from the US firm's policy direction.
Deloitte's UK senior partner and chief executive Richard Houston told staff in an internal email seen by the Financial Times that diversity "remains a priority" despite the US firm's strategy shift, and it would stand by its diversity goals and reporting.
The firm's US network had told consultants who work in its roughly 15,000- strong government and public services practice to remove pronouns indicating their gender from external emails "to align with emerging government client practices and requirements", according to people familiar with the details.
A separate email sent on Monday and seen by the Financial Times said Deloitte US would also "sunset" its diversity goals, a yearly diversity, equity and inclusion report, and the firm's DEI "programming".
Deloitte US is the latest firm to update policies that touch on politically sensitive matters after Accenture scrapped its global diversity goals and demographic-specific career programmes last week, also citing an "evaluation" of the new US political landscape.
In one of his first acts on returning to the White House last month, Trump directed federal agencies to purge all references to "gender ideology" from their communications.
Deloitte US confirmed to the FT that the guidance on email signatures had been given to staff in its government and public services practice, but declined to comment on the DEI targets.
"As a US government contractor, we have a long-standing track record of compliance with new governmental requirements," it added.
Deloitte UK did not immediately respond to a request to comment.

Load-Date: February 11, 2025


End of Document
