




telegraph.co.uk
February 11, 2025 Tuesday 1:38 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: BUSINESS; Version:1
Length: 462 words
Byline: By Dominic Penna, Political Correspondent, Lucy Burton, Employment Editor
Highlight: Accountancy’s British branch ‘committed’ to diversity goals, says boss
Body


Deloitte’s UK office has signalled a split with its US business by . 
The boss of the auditor’s British office recently informed workers that it will not follow its American counterpart by scrapping diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) goals, saying instead that they will remain a priority.
In a memo seen by The Telegraph, Richard Houston sought to reassure staff by claiming the UK office will remain “committed to our diversity goals” and “will continue to report annually on our progress on inclusion”.
This came just hours after Deloitte’s US staff were informed of the DEI crackdown, as it became the latest major company to abandon diversity targets in response to the . 
The corporate backlash against DEI has been growing since Donald Trump re-entered the White House, with the president recently ordering a . 
However, Mr Houston said Deloitte’s diversity networks “will remain critical to our UK firm” and stressed that “events in the external landscape do not change our commitment to building an inclusive culture”.
The opposing messages suggest a divide over how to handle diversity programmes at the  , which insists it remains “united” by “one set of shared values”.
As part of its DEI crackdown in the US, Deloitte staff working on government contracts in America have been told to stop   at the end of email signatures.
This comes after   from their communications, putting lucrative government contracts at risk for professional services that fail to comply.
After those staff were told to remove pronouns indicating their gender from emails sent externally, a separate email was sent to Deloitte’s US workers informing them that the accounting giant planned to “sunset” its diversity goals, sources told the Financial Times.
The move comes days after Accenture, the consultancy giant that employs nearly 800,000 staff worldwide, . 
Julie Sweet, Accenture’s chief, told staff that the consulting firm was a “meritocracy” and that it would start “sunsetting” the diversity goals it originally introduced in 2017.
Accenture won a five-year IT contract from the US Air Force worth $1.6bn (£1.3bn) last October.
A spokesman for Deloitte UK said that it “stands by our stated intention of maintaining a workforce and culture that reflects the diversity of the UK. We are committed to fostering an inclusive culture that helps all our people thrive and reach their full potential.”
                     Recommended                   
Corporate America is abandoning diversity targets – will Britain cling on?

Load-Date: February 11, 2025


End of Document
