




Collegian: Delta College
February 20, 2025 Thursday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 464 words
Byline: Kaitlynn Brandon
Body


On Feb 14. 2025, a memo from the United States Department of Education Office for Civil Rights, now nicknamed "The Dear Colleagues Letter," advised that all educational institutions end all diversity initiatives on campuses from preschools all the way to colleges and trade schools.
Amid anti-diversity initiative executive orders under Donald J. Trump's administration Delta stays strong on equality and anti-racism promises.
Diversity initiatives are programs that promote and maintain diverse workforces or student bodies that are inclusive of all lifestyles, ethnicities, sexual orientations and abilities. These are programs like Disabled Students Programs and Services , the Veterans Resource Center and the Pride Center.
In response to this memo, Superintendent/President Dr. Lisa Aguilera Lawrenson released a responding memo, as "reassur[ance to] our campus community that the Board of Trustees and the campus administration and staff will continue moving forward toward the achievement of our Strategic Goals in fulfillment of our college mission."
Delta's mission? To be a "student-centered, anti-racist, equity-focused college."
Lawrenson's letter also states that on Feb 18, 2025 California Community College Chancellor Sonya Christian states that while the CCC plans to comply with federal and state law, the "The Dear Colleagues Letter" does not change the law or the effect of law, and the situation will continue to be monitored.
If the law does change, what could students expect from Delta college?
The Board of Trustees commented on the developing situation.
"Losing that financial aid is practically a death sentence to an institution like this," said Dylan Myers, Student Representative on the Board of Trustees.
If program funding is affected, already struggling students could face even more challenges, such as hunger and homelessness.
"I am disabled, I have autism myself, and I rely on the disability programs that are generally associated with DEI, [Diversity, Equality, Inclusion," said Myers.
Myers estimated that around 85 percent of Delta students rely on diversity initiative programs just to attend school.
If program funding is affected, already struggling students could face even more challenges, such as hunger and homelessness.
Myers is hopeful for the future of equity work at Delta.
"The institution [Delta] is going to do everything in its power to defend these policies," said Myers.
President of the Delta College Board of Trustees Janet Rivera echoed the affirmation to continue the path.
"I think Delta is going to stay strong," said Rivera. "It's woven in our society. "I will continue to respect DEI policies and advocate as I've done my entire life! I am DEI, just like the blood running through my veins."
Share this:
Email
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Print

Load-Date: February 20, 2025


End of Document
