




The Daily Caller
February 4, 2025 Tuesday 10:19 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: DAILY-CALLER-NEWS-FOUNDATION; media; media; media
Length: 799 words
Byline: Harold Hutchison, Reporter, 
Body



Democratic Rep. Jasmine Crockett of Texas told CNN host Laura Coates she was “tired” of “white tears” Monday night during a rant targeting President Donald Trump, Department of Government Efficiency chair Elon Musk and “mediocre white boys.”
Trump signed executive orders  the federal government's involvement in diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) programs, mandating a  and temporary pause on foreign aid spending and  the Department of Government Efficiency under Musk on Jan. 20 within hours of taking office. Crockett began her nearly two-minute-long tirade by attacking Trump over the hiring of former White House speechwriter Darren Beattie for a State Department post.  
“The coddling is for the white boys. That's what's happening right now. I am tired of the white tears. Listen, if you are competent, you are not concerned. When I walk into Congress every single day, you know why I don't feel a way and why you can't make me doubt who I am? It's because I know that I had to work 10 times as hard as they did just to get into the seat,” Crockett claimed. “When you look and you compare me to Marjorie Taylor Greene or me to Lauren Boebert, there is no comparison. And that is the life that we have always lived. So the only people that are crying are the mediocre white boys that have been beaten out by people that historically have had to work so, so much harder.”
WATCH:
“This is why they don't want us to have education. This is why they are trying to literally say, 'We won't fund the [historically black colleges and universities] HBCUs,' because they know that if they've already gone after affirmative action and they're saying, 'You know what? Don't allow them to come into, say, these [predominantly white institutions] PWIs, as we call them, don't allow them to come into these institutions,' we know why they created the HBCUs in the first place,” Crockett continued. “It was because they wouldn't allow us into the white institutions. And so now they're not allowing us in and now they're saying, 'You know what? We're also going to defund the HBCUs. You know why? Because they don't want any more Kamala Harrises, they don't want any more Jasmine Crocketts. But I got news for them. I don't care what they do.”
Trump  the FUTURE Act in December 2019 that permanently authorized over $255 million a year for HBCUs, touting that support in debates with former President Joe Biden in  and . Crockett also attacked Trump over immigration enforcement.
“We will fight to the end to make sure that we get our due. Because again, if you want to talk about the people that shouldn't be in this country, you probably need to look in the mirror,” Crockett said. “Because the last time I checked, the Native Americans who some of [Immigration and Customs Enforcement] ICE have been rounding up, or the Puerto Ricans, who are absolutely Americans, listen, the only people that came and colonized this place are your ancestors, Trump.”
ICE and other federal law enforcement agencies have  immigration enforcement under Trump's directive, though the president's border czar Tom Homan has clarified on numerous occasions that the agencies are primarily focusing on arresting and deporting illegal migrant criminals who pose a public safety threat. There is no evidence to suggest that ICE has targeted Native Americans or Puerto Ricans, both of whom have U.S. citizenship.
Crockett has previously engaged in similar rants, including one in December 2024 during which she  about “new white seats” in Texas after Congressional reapportionment. She also  after Scott Jennings questioned her on whether she cared about the race of firefighters trying to save homes during a panel discussion on the Los Angeles wildfires in January. 
Crockett unleashed another racial  during a November 2024 House Oversight Committee hearing during which she claimed black people were “stolen” and “didn't ask” to be in the United States. Crockett also claimed a Republican witness feared listening to a “qualified black woman” like Vice President Kamala Harris during a September  held by the House Oversight Committee.
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Graphic

 
Jasmine Crockett

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
