




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 28, 2025 Tuesday 7:15 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 498 words
Byline: Andrew Solender
Body


January 28th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
Democrats in Congress are gearing up for a pitched public battle with President Trump over his move to  
Why it matters: The freeze, which Democrats argue is both illegal and deeply harmful, is already becoming a cornerstone of Democratic messaging strategy against the Trump administration.
The Democratic Policy and Communications Committee, essentially House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries' (D-N.Y.) messaging arm,  
"Raise Awareness Today!" the memo says. "Hold a press conference with local elected officials and invite stakeholders who provide direct services in the community to share the impact of the Republican funding freeze."
It adds: "You should also go live or record and share a short video clip across your platforms to explain what is happening and how it will affect the people you represent."
Driving the news: The Office of Management and Budget sent shockwaves through Washington on Monday night with a memo to federal agencies directing them to "temporarily pause all activities related to obligation or disbursement of all Federal financial assistance."
The memo quickly created confusion in federal agencies and   
Democrats pushed back swiftly, with Rep. Rosa DeLauro (D-Conn.) and Sen. Patty Murray (D-Wash.), Congress' leading Democratic appropriators, expressing "extreme alarm" in a letter to the administration on Monday.
In a  
What's next: House Democrats will huddle virtually Wednesday afternoon for an "emergency" caucus meeting on the "Illegal Republican Funding Freeze," according to an invite obtained by Axios.
Jeffries, in a "dear colleague" letter, said lawmakers will discuss a "comprehensive three-pronged counteroffensive" involving the use of the federal appropriations process, litigation and communications.
Jeffries said DeLauro and Oversight Committee ranking member Gerry Connolly (D-Va.) will give presentations, as well as the DPCC.
House Democratic leadership is slated to meet Tuesday afternoon, a senior House Democrat told Axios.
Zoom in: The DPCC memo offers an early preview of how Democrats plan to push back, stating, "President Trump and Republicans are pushing an illegal scheme to choke off virtually all federal funding for basic services."
"Democrats are exploring every option to fight back and defend hardworking American taxpayers," it adds, urging Republicans to "join us right away."
In the Senate, Murray's office is distributing a memo with a list of programs that would be halted by the OMB's funding freeze.


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 28, 2025


End of Document
