




Fox News INGRAHAM ANGLE 7:00 PM EST
February 10, 2025 Monday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6668 words
Byline: Bret Baier, Laura Ingraham, Raymond Arroyo
Guests: Mike Lee, Ned Ryun, Victor Davis Hanson, Lee Zeldin, Dana Loesch
Body


BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS HOST: Congratulations to the Eagles. Tomorrow on Special Report, Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth heads to NATO, his first foreign trip. We've got you covered. Fair, balanced, and still unafraid. Thanks for tuning in tonight. The Ingraham Angle is now.
LAURA INGRAHAM, FOX NEWS HOST: Good evening, everyone. I'm Laura Ingraham. This is The Ingraham Angle from Washington tonight. As always, thank you for joining us. Breaking moments ago, the Justice Department is moving to dismiss federal charges against New York City Mayor Eric Adams. More on that in moments. But first, a pen and a phone. That's the focus of tonight's Angle.
All right, they say that when you're in quicksand, the worst thing you can do is flail about.
(VIDEO PLAYING)
INGRAHAM: That's terrifying. And this same ugly fate is befalling today's Democrat party.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. BECCA BALINT (D-VT): We have to be able to have the stomach to stand up to this would-be dictator that is running roughshod all over our government right now through Elon Musk.
REP. JASMINE CROCKETT (D-TX): You all know he likes the power round with Putin, right? He's trying to turn us into Russia, but I got news for him. We, the people, will not go.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: All right, instead of calmly examining their own political troubles, then making the necessary tweaks or adjustments, Democrats are just dispatching the most radical players to make the same failed points that didn't work in 2024. But now, instead of just Trump being an evil despot. Well, Elon Musk is one too.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. KWEISI MFUME (D-MD): Every time you hear DOGE, the Department of Government Efficiency, you just remember it is the Department of Government Evil. This will be a congressional fight, a constitutional fight, a legal fight, and on days like this, a street fight. We've got to meet the wickedness where it is. Leave federal employees alone.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Oh, threatening fights in the street are they? OK. Well, only in the insane liberal clown posse world would volunteering to save taxpayers billions of dollars, which is what Musk is doing, could in any way be considered wicked, but Democrats feel that they found their footing with Vox proclaiming that their anti-Trump resistance may finally be waking up, focused on Musk's methodical and swift disemboweling of federal bureaucracy.
Leah Greenberg, a top progressive organizer has said, if you don't create friction, then the American people don't understand exactly how bad and how dangerous this is. Now, you can expect weeks of Astro Turf activists showing up to protect the corruptocrats, who are burrowed into every agency of our government.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. ELIZABETH WARREN (D-MA): Your fight, my fight, our fight, and we will win this fight. Are you ready to say no to Elon Musk?
CROWD: Yes.
REP. MAXINE WATERS (D-CA): Are we going to fight?
CROWD: Yes.
WATERS: Are we going to win?
CROWD: Yes.
WATERS: Is this our country?
CROWD: Yes.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Shrieking for big government. Well, today, it was the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau which gets its funding via the Federal Reserve. Now to give you a sense of how partisan that place has become. In December, its chief rush to file several lawsuits against the payment platform, Zelle, JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America and Wells Fargo alleging this amorphous failure to protect consumers is ridiculous, and it amounts to another shakedown of business by anti-capitalist crusaders. That's all it is.
Now think of it this way, the same Democrats who caused inflation to skyrocket and who hid Biden's decline, they now want you to think that they care about protecting your bottom-line. And as for their sudden concern with the use of executive orders to get things done, they're all worried about that. Now, I don't recall they had any problem when their hero, Barack Obama, flexed his Article II powers.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BARACK OBAMA (D) 44TH U.S. PRESIDENT: We are not just going to be waiting for legislation in order to make sure that we're providing Americans the kind of help that they need. I've got a pen, and I've got a phone, and I can use that pen to sign executive orders and take executive actions and administrative actions that move the ball forward.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: I got a pen. I got a phone. Well, the press and Democrats loved it, right? Because that was quintessential Obama, cool under pressure. And of course, Democrats cheered when Joe Biden used executive orders to wipe away billions in student loan debt, courts ultimately stepped in to hobble the Biden moves.
But Warren and Schumer, remember, they didn't care at all. Back then, they were not only not complaining about the executive orders, they pushed Biden to issue them, and she even put out a press release about it. So Trump, right now, is just following precedent. He's doing exactly what the Democrats supported for years.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We're actually getting rid of a few programs that are just a waste, just really a waste.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Now liberals are up in arms when Trump uses his own executive authority after campaigning and winning on a platform to cut government waste. It's hypocrisy and it's a hyperbole alert.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. ILHAN OMAR (D-MN): What we are witnessing is a constitutional crisis.
SEN. CHRIS MURPHY (D-CT): This is the most serious constitutional crisis the country has faced, certainly since Watergate, the President is attempting to seize control of power and for corrupt purposes. This is a red alert moment when this entire country has to understand that our democracy is at risk.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Now imagine having that guy, Chris Murphy, as your senator. It's my home state of -- my old home state of Connecticut. It breaks my heart. So your state is sinking. It's bleeding manufacturing jobs due to high taxes in Connecticut and a terrible anti-business climate. And Murphy's answer to all of that is Trump's a threat to democracy. Yes, it's just a propaganda loop, and we've heard it for years. Washington Post Columnist E.J. Dionne is laying it on thick, describing Trump with the A word, authoritarian.
Do they have amnesia? Do they not recall what happened last time they went down this road?
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KAMALA HARRIS (D), FORMER U.S. VICE PRESIDENT: Trump won't hold autocrats accountable because he wants to be an autocrat himself.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Not only did he win the election.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Our CBS poll finds that a majority of Americans, 53 percent approve of the job he's doing. That's a better approval number than he ever reached during his first term in the White House.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: But of course, he's more popular than ever. And instead of demanding answers from the irresponsible bureaucrats, what the Democrats do, and their media friends is they hassle those who are bringing the waste to light.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. BILL HAGERTY (R-TN): Now that we start to find out some of the programs that AID has been funding, if you think about it, sex change operations in Guatemala, LGBTQ programs in Serbia --
MARGARET BRENNAN, CBS NEWS ANCHOR: The U.S. government does not fund --
HAGERTY: -- this is ridiculous, this is so beyond the pale.
BRENNAN: -- sex change operations or fund Hamas. You know that, though, but you said --
HAGERTY: That is not true, Margaret. I couldn't get the Secretary of State, I asked him three times to tell me that we were not funding Hamas through AID, he couldn't do it.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: These anchors supposed to care about facts, at all. Hagerty schools CBS. Yes, that's the headline there. Why weren't there investigative teams at CBS, at NBC, ABC, all the networks. Why weren't they uncovering the waste that Musk has found? Aren't there things called FOIA requests? Don't they care? And don't Democrats also want to be known as good stewards of the taxpayer money, or do they think they can grow their base, improve their appeal to young and minority voters by being the protectors of the bureaucracy, of DEI, of climate change giveaways? That's going to grow your party?
Look, no one seriously thinks Trump and Musk are trying to tear down democracy. No one. But most Americans sure want them to tear down the bureaucracy, and the more evidence of waste that Musk and his team uncovered, the more powerful the argument for a major downsizing of federal spending. And this is what Democrats, and their media poodles truly fear. They fear an informed electorate. The curtain pulled back and the corruption exposed. And that's the Angle.
And now an unelected Obama judge in Rhode Island must be feeling very full of himself tonight, because in a ruling issued earlier today, he railed against President Trump and the DOGE crew for failing to comply with his order, one judge's order to unfreeze federal spending. Judge John J. McConnell handed it down after 22 blue states just were up in arms that funding hadn't been restored. Of course, they went for the sympathy play, citing HIV services in the Congo and a public health grant to Namibia.
Now, McConnell had ruled previously that the Trump team had overstepped its executive authority by halting the monies. But if one judge, one, is going to have the power to stop the Trump cleanup crew and its tracks, don't you think we should know a little bit more about him. And yes, it's as bad as you would imagine.
McConnell once served as Treasurer of the Rhode Island Democratic State Committee, and he donated more than 100k to liberal Democrats, including to Biden, to Hillary, to the DNC and a really hefty chunk of cash to the Democrat Congressional Campaign Committee. The list goes on and on.
So again, this is an unbiased jurist. This is someone who has the power, you can keep, keep scrolling, guys, have the power to do what, to issue a nationwide injunction and stop a duly-elected president from doing what the voters elected him to do. It is a scandal.
Joining me now, Utah Senator Mike Lee of the Judiciary Committee, former Supreme Court law clerk. Senator, in total, more than 40 lawsuits have already been filed against the Trump administration. You and I predicted this. We knew this was coming, and some of the adverse rulings have come even from a few Republican appointees. But I want to focus on this judge in Rhode Island in particular. Should the White House, in your estimation, you've looked at the -- of the pleadings prevail on the merits here?
SEN. MIKE LEE (R-UT): Yes, I believe the White House will prevail on the merits of this case and of the other cases that are now pending. Look, Laura, it's important to remember, this is entirely within the purview of the executive branch. What they're looking to do, Elon Musk and the DOGE crew are going in, looking for waste, fraud and abuse, looking to fair it out ways that we can stop this problem. It's landed us $36 trillion in debt with no easy way out.
So the fact that they're doing this, and they're doing it within what the law allows, this is where Democrats get upset, and they go running to the courts, they're having lost in the court of public opinion, having lost elections, they're now going to try their hand at litigating and at picking off a few liberal one-off judges here and there in order to slow the process down.
But make no mistake, Laura, we're all going to win. The right side of this is going to prevail. This is just a matter of delay, but we need to keep this delay as brief as possible.
INGRAHAM: Well, the other issue here, I think for a lot of Americans are very confused about how a single district court judge in a forum like the First Circuit, which covers a lot of these New England states can actually grind a President's agenda to a halt, and who ultimately would put an end to this? Would the Supreme Court ultimately rule on this? Unlikely would probably get a law, be able to get a law through Congress. I don't know, ending these national injunctions, but this has got to stop. This is insanity.
LEE: Look, one would hope, Laura, when these orders first started coming out a few days ago, I immediately commented on X, on my base, Mike Lee account that it's probably a moment like this when you go, and you seek an extraordinary writ of mandamus. This is a way of stopping abusive action by a district judge midstream. Now, the Court of Appeals could do that, if necessary. They could seek what's called certiorari before judgment, to get the whole case expedited in front of the U.S. Supreme Court. And I hope and expect that Pam Bondi and her team of lawyers at the Department of Justice will consider all these options, because these judges are out of line. They don't have the authority to go in and commandeer the presidency and undo the election of November 2024.
INGRAHAM: So, you have a Seattle judge, you have a D.C. district judge, Carl Nichols, who clerked for our former boss, Justice Thomas. You have a Boston judge; you have a Rhode Island judge. You have a couple of old Reagan appointees. You have a judge who came up for transgender inmates. You have another ruling on -- for -- that was filed on behalf of pregnant illegals on birth right citizenship. So these are coming fast and furious, and the goal here is to just slow it down, so people get demoralized, and I guess they go back to what business as usual. I don't think the Trump team is about business as usual.
LEE: No, they're not about business as usual at all. That's why I anticipate that these delays will last maybe a few days, hopefully not more than a week or two, because there is no there-there. What they're trying to do is entirely lawful. It's within the scope of presidential authority, and therefore the authority of what President Trump has asked DOGE to do. We're very lucky that we've got these talented people willing to undertake these efforts on our behalf, and I wish them every success in doing this.
In the meantime, I hope and expect that Trump administration's lawyers will push back hard and make sure that these judges don't get in the way, because you're exactly right. They want to delay this, hoping that it'll just go away --
INGRAHAM: It's outrageous.
LEE: -- we're not going away. The effort is not going to end.
INGRAHAM: Senator, the First Circuit Court of Appeals, again, we don't want to get too wonky people watching this, like Laura, this is not a continuing legal education course, but the First Circuit Court of Appeals is five Democrat appointees, right? That's the Appellate point from these district courts decisions in Boston and Rhode Island, and they're going to go up to the First Circuit. There are no Republicans on the First Circuit now. Correct, Mike?
LEE: Yes, that's my understanding as well. And look, you don't always -- you're not always able to predict the outcome based on which president appointed them --
INGRAHAM: Yes.
LEE: -- but sometimes you could get a pretty good guess. If they don't get what they need there, I think they should go right along to the Supreme Court and seek the relief there.
INGRAHAM: Bingo. Senator, so great to have you on tonight. Thank you so much. All right, we have a Fox News Alert. At least one person is dead, others injured after two private planes collided at the Scottsdale airport in Arizona. We're going to monitor this story and bring you any breaking updates. And up next, trigger warning for libs, patriotism is back. I'll explain.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
INGRAHAM: Oh, I know you all watched the Super Bowl. All right, here's my quick take. It's easy to just conclude the game was a bore, it was, and that the halftime show was one of the worst ever, which it was, and that Eagles fans know how to ruin a great win. Of course, they do. But what happened outside the game gave us a lot of reasons to smile. First, Trump showed up and you could hear the love.
(VIDEO PLAYING)
INGRAHAM: Second was the return of patriotic, uplifting commercials.
(VIDEO PLAYING)
INGRAHAM: I loved it for a brief moment. It felt like 1985 again, just a moment. And finally, we were reminded who the real MVP is.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: God is good.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (Inaudible) than the highs and the lows.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: All Glory to God, first and foremost.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank God. Thank You, Jesus.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Those aren't just words to them. You could feel it. They felt it. That's far more consequential than whether Taylor and Travis are going to survive the reception that she received at the stadium, but we're going to have more from behind the scenes later on the show with Raymond.
And President Trump back at it again with another day of big action. The President announcing new tariffs to protect American industry.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: This is the beginning of making America rich again. We are putting on a 25 percent tariff without exception on all aluminum and all steel. And it's going to mean a lot of businesses are going to be opening in the United States, but we'll be talking about other subjects, like cars. We'll be talking about drugs and pharmaceuticals. We'll be discussing chips, and we're going to be doing some other things in addition to that, all which will bring in a lot of jobs into our country.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Joining us now, Ned Ryun, Founder and CEO of American Majority. Ned, if anyone thought he wasn't serious about tariffs, I think they've dropped that concern. What is this going to mean going forward?
NED RYUN, FOUNDER AND CEO, AMERICAN MAJORITY: Well, I was encouraged to hear him talk about tariffs in regards to pharmaceuticals and chips, which I believe are national security issues, but this isn't a mystery, Laura, he made it very clear on the campaign that he was going to use tariffs to protect and build our manufacturing base. And I think obviously with the steel and aluminum, obviously we need the steel industry to rebuild our Navy. It's an important part of our economy.
And I really think what Trump is doing is looking at this and going, I am going to rebuild our manufacturing base. I'm going to rebuild the American economy, because if you think about it, we are the arsenal for democracy and freedom across the world. Think about the fact that our manufacturing base really saved the world multiple times in world wars, we rose to the occasion because of our manufacturing base that allowed us to do that, and that's what Trump is looking at. I'm going to rebuild this by every tool I have at my fingertips, or if we don't do this, we'll be weak and imperiled in the future.
And I love what he's doing right now, and it's no mystery. He made it very clear what he was going to do, painted in bold, bright colors, and the American people gave him a second, second term in the White House.
INGRAHAM: Now, I don't believe we have the USTR confirmed yet, U.S. Trade Rep or a general counsel at USTR. These trade issues are very complex. Aluminum is not the same as steel, so a lot of -- some people who love tariffs were concerned about that today. But nevertheless, he's serious about bringing back American manufacturing. And another issue that people are talking about is, when he discussed with Bret Baier, the future of the Republican Party, Ned. Check this out.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: Do you view Vice President J.D. Vance as your successor, the Republican nominee in 2028?
TRUMP: No, but he's very capable. I mean, I don't think that it -- you know, I think you have a lot of very capable people. So far, I think he's doing a fantastic job. It's too early, we're just --
BAIER: Right.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Your reaction to that?
RYUN: I think we'll see where the next four years play out. I think J.D. has been doing a phenomenal job. I think we'll see where he ends up in 2028. But I think right now, if you were to say who was going to be the heir apparent to the America First movement in 2028, I would put odds on J.D. being that person. So, I don't think Trump wanted to fully commit to that, but I think J.D. has positioned himself very well for that.
INGRAHAM: And J.D. is working his butt off over there in Europe right now. He's like, got to keep him on his toes. Everybody has to be on their toes. That's classic Trump, though. Is that not classic Trump? That's, I mean, I -- that -- I actually don't mind that, people were all upset about it, but what is he going to say? It's over. I'm already a lame duck. I mean he's not going to say that. He's Trump.
RYUN: He's not going to say that. And I think he does want to see how it plays out over the next four years. But I see no reason, J.D. has really elevated himself, Laura, over the last year, year and a half.
INGRAHAM: Phenomenal.
RYUN: And I think his rise will continue, and I think it's going to be almost -- not a slam dunk. Nothing ever is. But I think he will position himself very well for 2028.
INGRAHAM: All right, Ned, awesome to see you. Thanks so much. All right, they're deranged, and they're raging, of course against DOGE. New EP Administrator, Lee Zeldin, he's here, next. EPA.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
INGRAHAM: Are you planning on visiting D.C. anytime soon? Well, if so, you should bring an extra bar of soap so someone can wash Mad Maxine's mouth out with it.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNKNOWN: Elon Musk, where are you? Bring your (BLEEP) over here. We know that you are the co-president now. I want you to follow very closely what he's doing. He's a thief. He's a gangster.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: That woman could not follow a one-car funeral, OK? But since she asked, let's do our own inventory of what Elon Musk is doing. DOGE says it's found and caught more than a billion dollars in waste so far. And that includes $17 million on a project that provided tax policy advice to Liberia, $128 million in contracts for HHS administrative expenses, along with hundreds of thousands in outlays to various media entities.
And if you were planning your summer vacay around the unveiling of the new Anthony Fauci exhibit at the NIH museum, sorry, you're out of luck. Along with a crucial workshop on an intercultural communication diversity dialogue circle, it will be cut.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNKNOWN: Are you prepared to shut down the government to join Democratic colleagues who want to stand in the way of keeping the government open?
UNKNOWN: Well, you have to look at what the Trump administration is doing right now. They are simply trying to -- they are -- They are simply trying to dismantle the government. So yes, look, if we have to take steps to be able to hold them accountable, we use the leverage that we have to force it.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Joining me now, Victor Davis Hanson, senior fellow at the Hoover Institution. Well, wait a second, I thought, Victor, that they were not for disrupting the normal function of government. But now DOGE is tweeting, just moments ago, the Department of Education cut 29 DEI training grants today, totaling $101 million. I can hear the cheers across America. Victor, this is awesome. Christmas every day.
VICTOR DAVIS HANSON, HOOVER INSTITUTION SENIOR FELLOW: Yeah, I think they understand that they cannot defend these expenditures. They're corrupt. They're unnecessary. Many of them are probably unlawful. So, they go on offense and call Elon Musk names. I was shocked that we were being told, Laura, for the last four years that big deal, Anthony Fauci only routed $600,000 to Wuhan through Echo Health, it couldn't have mattered at all. It's a multi-million-dollar enterprise gaining function research, and now we learn they knew the entire time that they were, USAID was putting $40 million to the Wuhan laboratory in China.
And then, these men that came out, that Samantha Power came out and said, the Chinese are going to be so happy that we're cutting all of these USAID programs. They're very angry because they're not getting $40 million for their lab. And we're not training 6,000 reporters to be anti-American fashion. And we know that they were very happy that we had a gender studies program being funded at the University of Kabul.
So, I think the Chinese are going to be really angry, because they thought all of the things we were doing were culturally imperialistic and against our own interests.
INGRAHAM: Well, we're finding out, Victor, that a lot of these grants, in one way or another, were dependent upon the receiving countries agreeing on other cultural issues, or maybe climate change or LGBTQ. I mean, that was all kind of interwoven into these grants, which I think also is going to shock a lot of people when they find out about it.
HANSON: Yeah. And I think a lot of the receiving countries may not be as angry at being cut off as we think, because it's very ironic the left turned out to be 19th century cultural imperialists that were trying to impose their own values, way out of the mainstream on these traditional societies that resented that. And the money mostly went to elites anyway that they never saw much of it.
So, and you know, they keep saying Elon Musk, Elon Musk, he doesn't have a statutory role in actually making the cuts. He's an auditor. He just goes through. He says these are the things that we find wasteful, and then the president, either himself or through his cabinet officers, makes the actual cuts. And they know that.
INGRAHAM: Yeah.
HANSON: And it's just a lie. And we've seen it before with informal advisors. Harry Hopkins under the FDR lived -- he moved into the White House and advised Roosevelt every day. No one thought that he was an insurrectionist. It's crazy.
INGRAHAM: Well, they know he's not.
HANSON: Lunatic.
INGRAHAM: But they know they're lying and they're lying anyway. And that's all they can do at this point, because Musk is exposing them all and Trump gave him authority to do that. So that's called the executive branch. Victor, thank you as always.
All right. Security and federal agencies starting to get really fed up with Democrat lawmakers.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNKNOWN: We cannot block the operation. Let's talk outside. Let's just not block the entrance, OK, at this point. Do you understand? Let's talk professionally. Let's go outside, OK? Does everybody understand that?
UNKNOWN: We understand. We're here to request a meeting --
UNKNOWN: Yes.
UNKNOWN: -- with any and all of the DOGE members who are in summit.
UNKNOWN: In the absence of that, we're here to meet with the administrator of Lee Zeldin to discuss what is going on with the EPA program.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: They didn't get in because you can't just barge your way into government agencies demanding a meeting. That's not how the world works. And I thought they were about bringing normalcy back to Washington.
Joining me now, Lee Zeldin, EPA Administrator, who's already getting rave reviews. Lee, it's great to see you. Now, one of the questions Markey said he wanted to ask was, are they, meaning DOGE, blocking the important work that the EPA does on a daily basis to protect the people of the country? To that, you say what?
LEE ZELDIN, EPA ADMINISTRATOR: No, actually DOJ is making us better. They're making us more efficient, more -- helping us to be more accountable to the American taxpayer. They're doing good work. And it's not something where DOGE is coming and saying, this is what has to get done at your agency. It's, hey, here are our ideas. And they come up with great recommendations and we can make a decision to act on it. I think it's been fantastic so far.
And while Senator Markey was at our front door, I was out in Los Angeles at these sites of these fires where EPA is actually doing our mission where President Trump gave us 30 days to remove hazardous material and we're crushing it on the ground, and he's at the front door. Who's stopping the work? Is that type of activity at our front door distracting our people from getting the core mission done.
INGRAHAM: About California, Lee, there is also concern, however, there that the building is not going to be restoring that area to what it was, but something much more akin to the kind of social engineering projects that a lot of conservatives have been warning about. What can you tell us about that as you do your other work there?
ZELDIN: That is something that we have not yet come across. As I was pointing out, our phase one mission, which President Trump, when he came in, he did an executive order, he said, get your job done cleaning up the hazardous material within 30 days. We currently have over 1200 workers on the ground. As phase one gets done, Army Corps at that property comes in, they do phase two, that's the debris removal.
And as far as that long-term recovery rebuild, to your question, that's something that hasn't crossed my plate just yet.
INGRAHAM: All right. And Lee, this issue with the constant protests at federal agencies, that's a decision the Democrats have made. That is their new strategy, and they believe it will change public opinion somehow by showing you all as heartless and uncaring and lacking in compassion. They're using the word authoritarian and dictator. It's back to the 2024 playbook. What are employees of your department saying to you as these protests continue?
ZELDIN: They believe in the core mission, and it's important that we do the core mission in a place like EPA, our mission is protecting human health and the environment, but being cognizant that the American public spoke last November with economic concerns. So, we have to unleash American energy dominance, make America the AI capital of the world, permitting reform, bringing back American auto jobs. We need to get that mission done.
And when they're out there protesting, understand like, for example, there was $160 million went to a Canadian electric vehicle manufacturer to build school buses. Well, they declared bankruptcy, but they still haven't delivered $95 million worth of these buses to 55 school districts. This is just an example. We threaten all of that because we want to do something about it to stop it.
INGRAHAM: Lee, you've been busy these last three weeks. Come back often. Thank you so much. And Raymond goes to the Super Bowl. Here's from the Heartland. We have big updates about something. I'm not saying it. Seen and Unseen is next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
INGRAHAM: It's time for Seen and Unseen where we reveal the stories behind the headlines. And with that we turn to Fox News contributor Raymond Arroyo. All right, Raymond, I know you went down to the Super Bowl for more than the game, and I didn't know you had quarterback aspirations.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
RAYMOND ARROYO, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: We're at the NFL Super Bowl experience. We thought it would be a good place to talk to Americans about the issues most important to them. Come watch.
This Super Bowl, it's hope will bring people together. Is it time to put aside our differences as Americans and gather around this game?
UNKNOWN: Yes, it is. It's time. It's been time. I came today to enjoy the sight.
UNKNOWN: Absolutely.
UNKNOWN: I hope it's the theme of the next four years. Put all the differences aside. Come together. Football, sports.
UNKNOWN: Absolutely. This is a time when you put aside everything and you just have fun.
ARROYO: One time. The president as you know has started an effort to find waste in the government, and they found everything from spending money on trans comic books to, you know, electric vehicles for Vietnam. Is that what we should be spending our money on as America?
UNKNOWN: No, oh my gosh, this is horrifying when I found out what USAID has been financing. It's awful.
UNKNOWN: It's amazing. It's a money laundering operation and he's all be cut out.
ARROYO: The president has put this DOGE in place, which is finding all this government waste. But there are a number of judges now moving against his initiatives. What would you say to those judges?
UNKNOWN: If you look at the waste that is being listed out and they can't see that that's wrong for this country, I think that it's a moral issue on their standpoint.
UNKNOWN: I would say to the judges, hopefully, they just put aside any of their personal differences, get behind what the country voted for.
UNKNOWN: Trump is in the seat, it is what it is, it's going to be what it's going to be, deal with it.
ARROYO: What are the criticisms that Elon Musk shouldn't be a part of that because he wasn't elected? Your take?
UNKNOWN: Well, I think he's a very smart guy and I think he's the perfect person to be doing this.
UNKNOWN: I think he's done a great job so far. I'm a big Elon fan and I'd love to see him do more. I'd love to see him do the whole four years.
UNKNOWN: I've been through two Super Bowls, one as a player, one as a coach, and one of those events that just energizes everyone.
UNKNOWN: Oh, my god. How can you not be here when all of the world is coming to New Orleans, and it's all about Louisiana food.
UNKNOWN: Anytime you get to have the president show up at an event like this it's an exciting time, and certainly when there's so much optimism in the country and people are, I think, just as excited to cheer on Donald Trump as they are just about any sports figure.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: OK, did you ever make -- rolled through the hole there or what? Where's the good throw?
ARROYO: It doesn't go through. You hit the target. You don't go through. But look, that last event was a fantastic taste of the NFL fundraiser to end student hunger. And you know what I was struck by? The unanimity of the people on all these issues, right, left, and center, they want waste gone. They want to give the president a free hand to move his agenda forward. That was amazing to me, rather.
INGRAHAM: I like seeing Sarah Huckabee Sanders. That was fantastic, too. She looked great. All right. So, the Super Bowl halftime show, I gave my optimistic view about the whole thing earlier, but tell us.
ARROYO: Well, look, aside from, you know, they not like us and A minor, it was hard to make out what was actually being said. Kendrick Lamar's 12 minutes of raps was basically a musical grudge match, Laura, on the biggest stage in America. And most people don't care that Lamar doesn't like Drake, or that his exes Serena Williams and Sizza showed up to troll Drake. The music itself is not broad enough or well-known enough to reach generations.
Look, we saw Diana Ross a few years back in New Orleans. That's a multi- generational audience that young, old, middle-aged, everybody could sing along because they knew the tunes. I think we've got to expand this thing a little bit and get out of this narrow lane that, frankly, Jay-Z has put us in. He's been producing these things since 2019. Kendrick Lamar has done two Super Bowls in the last three years, Laura. Give somebody else a chance.
INGRAHAM: Maybe it's time for Jay-Z to -- maybe just move on down the road and get -- maybe give someone else a chance to do it. Why not. I couldn't - - I don't know what he was saying.
ARROYO: Let's have a country night. Let's put Carri Underwood, and Reba, and Morgan Wallace, let them have a go at it. And let's try different genres of American music.
INGRAHAM: A long time ago they did Travis Tritt, who is awesome. And Prince was the best. Michael Jackson. Paul McCartney. I mean, they don't have many of those left, that's the problem.
ARROYO: You're going back decades.
INGRAHAM: All right, Raymond, as always, thank you. Great to see you. All right, when we come back, the last straw.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
INGRAHAM: All right. If there's one thing that brings Americans together, it's how bad paper straws are.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ARROYO: Are you team paper or plastic?
UNKNOWN: Plastic.
ARROYO: Why?
UNKNOWN: I suck out of straw, plastic straws. I don't do paper.
UNKNOWN: We drink a lot here in New Orleans. We don't want to mess around with those paper things.
UNKNOWN: I'm Team Plastic and I usually carry my own straw in the event that they will not be straws. When I am somewhere, I'm very much a plastic straw girl.
UNKNOWN: Plastic all the way. Paper sucks.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Yeah, it does. So, President Trump is doing what the people want.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNKNOWN: This is an executive order relating to the use of paper straws. As you've consistently identified, nobody really likes paper straws.
DOANLD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: No, these things don't work. I've had them many times, and on occasion they break, they explode. We're going back to plastic straws. I think it's OK. (END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: OK, they explode, Dana Loesch. Dana Loesch joins us now, national syndicated radio host. Dana, I'm sorry I'm laughing. Howard Lutnick is laughing there. But it makes it a profound point, does it not? What's the profound point here?
DANA LOESCH, NATIONALLY SYNDICATED RADIO HOST: It does. Laura, the profound point is that President Trump, one of the great things about this is, yes, he's cutting the big things, but he's also going after the little annoying things that have been the bane of our existence for how long.
Paper straws are a demonic curse on America. And he summed it up appropriately when he said that they're getting it out of the federal -- they're not buying it for the government anymore. Hopefully the private sector follows suit. I completely agree with him.
And if people are really hardcore about the straws, you can get like corn- based straws, which are just like plastic, but they don't melt when you look at them or when you like touch liquid with them and they're also good. This is great.
This is like the little things that make our lives easier as we cut everything else. So, I applaud it. I love it.
INGRAHAM: He's definitely -- Dana, he's definitely going to do the annoying toilets that you have to flush five times to get it to actually flush, right? He hates that, too. He hates those toilets.
LOESCH: And the phosphates in the dish detergent because it became horrible to like wash your dishes. I mean, I am constantly running my dishwasher. I'm constantly doing dishes. That's going to be a huge improvement. I mean, go after everything like the light bulbs that make everyone look completely unflattering.
INGRAHAM: Horrible.
LOESCH: Go after all of it. I mean, I love this. The little things add up.
INGRAHAM: And he's getting rid of pennies, and there's kind of a nostalgic thing about pennies in the United States, but Dana, what about this?
LOESCH: I, you know, the ones that have some copper in them, keep them, the old ones, because they're always going to have some value. But like the new ones that really don't, I mean, what is it, like, three cents, three- something-point-seven cents to make a one cent penny.
I mean, it makes sense when you're looking at this in terms of cost cutting. Everything's on the board. There are no sacred cows, totally fine with it. And pennies are gross. I'm a huge germaphobe, like, equal to that of POTUS. And so, touching like loose changes, I can't deal with. I want to burn my hands off after. I can't deal with this. So, I'm fine with this.
INGRAHAM: Don't you wonder how many pennies actually are still in circulation? Like in couches, in your car, little cup holders under your seat. I mean, imagine how much -- maybe we can retire the whole national debt with how much change is sitting around people's houses.
LOESCH: Exactly, exactly. And the copper, like I said, the copper in some of those, that's still, that has some value. So, save your pennies at least. If you have old pennies, save them. But, yeah, it makes sense, you know, considering this is our culture, this is our economic culture now --
INGRAHAM: Pennies from heaven.
LOESCH: -- that makes sense and it's saving money.
(CROSSTALK)
INGRAHAM: Dana, always great to see you. Now, I'm going to check how much change I have in my car cup holder. You check, we'll get back together and figure out how much money we have combined. Thanks so much. That's it for us tonight. Make sure to follow me on social media. It's America Now and Forever. Jesse Watters takes it from here.

Load-Date: February 11, 2025


End of Document
