




Fox News FOX HANNITY 9:00 PM EST
February 26, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7198 words
Byline: Sean Hannity, Joe Concha
Guests: Mike Johnson, Lee Zeldin, Sean Curran, Max Primorac, Scott Brown
Body


SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS HOST: Welcome to "Hannity".
And tonight, a big promotion for the man that you see in this iconic photo shielding Donald Trump at that fateful rally in Butler, Pennsylvania. Sean Curran is now the director of the U.S. Secret Service. He will join us for his very first cable interview tonight.
But first, a brand new low for the media mob. What a shocker. Fake Jake, our old friend, Tapper over at CNN, fake news, is now publishing a new book about Joe Biden's steep cognitive decline and the cover-up that ensued.
Oh, I do hope the fake Jake remember to write a chapter on himself. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
(CROSSTALK)
JAKE TAPPER, CNN HOST: You have no --
(CROSSTALK)
TAPPER: So amazing -- it's so amazing to me that --
LARA TRUMP, FOX NEWS HOST: And try and figure out an answer --
TAPPER: A cognitive decline --
L. TRUMP: When you're trying to tell me that what I was suggesting was stutter --
TAPPER: I think you were mocking his stutter, yeah. I think you were mocking his stutter.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: No, she wasn't mocking his stutter. We were playing it before the 2020 election. We have that full exchange coming up.
But let's be clear, this book is coming out well after Biden's departure from the White House. So it's kind of meaningless until the Democratic Party, of course, gave the green light to throw Joe Biden overboard.
Well, Jake, along with all of his friends at fake news CNN, MSDNC, and the state run legacy media mob and every other outlet in the country, you know, they covered for Joe Biden and his cognitive decline even though it was so obvious to anyone with eyes to see, the former president was mentally inept before the 2020 election. At one point, Biden went 11 straight months without holding a single cabinet meeting, not one.
And when he did finally muster the energy to convene a meeting at the White House, he quickly turned the event over to Dr. Jill Biden who's sitting at the head of the table, just for memory sake. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOE BIDEN, FORMER PRESIDENT: I guess it's still morning, isn't it? Yep.
And so, this cabin meeting comes at a time when -- we're months left in the administration and we're going to keep running through the tape because the vice president and I are determined to keep making sure that the democracy delivers what the American people are asking for and what we provided, means continuing to implement the historic laws we passed. They've allowed us to invest in America, rebuild our infrastructure and implement our historic laws.
So we're grateful that Jill is here today.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Just stop and look at that, just -- just look at that. He was president for four years, how did we ever allow that to happen?
At the time, few in the media mob seemed to care, they pretended this is all perfectly normal. They didn't even bat an eye when Hunter Biden started showing up at White House meetings, they never cover Joe's lies about I never once discussed the foreign business dealings with Hunter, my brother, or anybody for that matter. We have pictures that prove that, false. The people that, you know, he gave preemptive pardons to, eventually, the very same thing he said was wrong if Donald Trump ever did it.
They never covered the lying about the border being secure and closed or the economy and inflation. Well, how -- how times have changed?
Now, it is a five alarm fire in the legacy state-run media mob, all because Elon Musk, a special government employee in charge of DOGE, attended Donald Trump's first cabinet meeting. And by the way, what he said was dead on accurate, and that is we cannot sustain ourselves as a country with the debt we are taking on.
Musk isn't selling access to America's adversaries while smoking crack, committing gun crimes and he isn't clout chasing community college, a clout casing community college teacher masquerading and demanding to be called doctor.
But Musk is the world's richest man with an unprecedented track record surrounding innovation, business, success, efficiency. So maybe the media mob should be crediting President Trump for bringing Elon into the fold to save the average American that only makes 66 grand a year from having to waste their money on radical leftism abroad, in the -- to the tune of tens and what will be hundreds and hundreds of billions of dollars.
You know, the it is -- the vitriol is nonstop as President Trump, Elon Musk, the administration vilified for trying to be good stewards of your heart hard earned money. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ELON MUSK, TECH BILLIONAIRE: We're spending like over a trillion dollars on interest. If this continues, the country will go -- become de facto bankrupt. It's -- it's not an optional thing. It is an essential thing, that that's -- that's the reason I'm here, and taking a lot of flack and getting a lot of death threats, by the way. I mean, like stack them up, you know?
But if we don't do this, America will go bankrupt. That's why it has to be done.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: De facto bankrupt. America will go bankrupt. We're robbing from our children and grandchildren.
A so-called party of compassion, they obviously don't care. Today on Capitol Hill, more fun fearmongering from elected Democrats. What a shock, take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Welcome to the Elon Musk chainsaw massacre, except for this remake of a classic is terrible because it's hurting real people and its lead character, Mr. Musk, hasn't shown up in front of this or Congress at all.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: He'd be wasting his time. You wouldn't understand it.
Anyway, we're going to play the worst of the worst coming up. But while Democrats continue to whine and moan and complain, big things are happening at the White House, every single minute of every day.
Today, after his cabinet meeting, the president signed an executive order requiring government agencies to work with DOGE to justify spending, limit travel, identify federal properties that can be sold.
And meanwhile, as these southern border becomes more and more secure in record time, Trump is turning his attention to America's convoluted legal immigration system. His first move was the announcement of a brand new gold card which will enable businesses wealthy individuals, after they get vetted, to invest $5 million in the U.S. in exchange for a path to citizenship.
By the way, this is something many, many, many countries around the world, they all have these programs in place, places like Australia, New Zealand, other countries a little cheaper, want to live in the Caribbean somewhere, you can get a passport, you can buy one. The proceeds will be used to pay down the national debt.
President Trump also negotiating a peace plan in Europe. And earlier this week, he successfully crafted a rare earth minerals deal with Ukraine. On Friday, President Zelenskyy will visit the White House to sign off on that deal.
As Vice President J.D. Vance rightly pointed out, don't underestimate Trump's ability to get important things across the finish line. You know, maybe if the media and Democrats waited for some results, they won't sound so stupid all the time. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
J.D. VANCE, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: As the president said, we're not going to do the negotiation in public with the American media. He's going to do it in private with the president of Russia, with the president of Ukraine, and with other leaders. And I think that's how this has to go.
I think that -- I just want to push back against some of the criticism I've seen in the administration on this because every single time, the president engages in diplomacy, you guys preemptively accuse him of conceding to Russia, he hasn't conceded anything to anyone. He's doing the job of a diplomat and he is, of course, the diplomat in chief.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Unlike the last president, Donald Trump is working around the clock thinking outside the box. He's thinking differently.
In other words, business as usual is over. That's a good thing, and he's keeping his promises and he wants to improve the quality of life for all of you, every American and even to top it off today, more meetings at the White House as Trump navigates a critical budget deal that will restore fiscal sanity to the Washington swamp.
Just today, Secretary of State Marco Rubio announced, look at this, $60 billion -- billion in savings at the State Department, on top of the estimated $65 billion in DOGE savings.
And moments ago, Speaker Johnson wrapped up a meeting with Elon Musk as a budget deal is now hanging in the balance and here with more on that meeting, Speaker of the House Mike Johnson.
All right. So you actually had two meetings today. Let's start with the second one. First, you met with Elon Musk. How did that go?
And -- and there are issues with the Senate bill and the House bill and I want to talk about how we reconcile those differences.
REP. MIKE JOHNSON (R-LA), SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE: Yeah, thanks, Sean. Thanks for having me.
This is an exciting time for the country. There is so much going on. You gave a great recap of that in the monologue. It's a lot to keep up with.
The president is moving so quickly, delivering on his promises and here in the legislative branch of the government, we're going to do the same thing.
Congress has taken the first big step. We passed that budget resolution last night, the Democrats and the media said it was impossible we did it, and we -- that is the first important step in delivering reconciliation, which is how we're going to present the America first agenda and check every box that President Trump -- the campaign promises he made on the campaign trail and that we did as well.
Look, really important meetings today as you noted. I met with Elon late last night talking about the latest savings that he's finding uncovering incredible amounts of fraud, waste and abuse across the federal government, doing the job that Congress has been unable to do for decades because the bureaucrats were hiding the data.
He's cracked the code, Sean. He's on the inside of the belly of the beast of the bureaucracy now with the algorithms crawling through the data and as we talked about last night, he said, you know what? The data doesn't lie, and this is a very exciting time.
The second meeting was with the president and the vice president and Leader Thune of the Senate, in the White House, and we had a great discussion about the strategy and the steps ahead. There is no daylight between those -- those three entities, the White House, the Senate and the House, that's a great thing for the American people and we are very excited to deliver on the agenda.
HANNITY: Let me ask some specifics about that meeting and that's you, the vice president, the president and Majority Leader Thune, who I think did a very good job of getting the president's cabinet, choices through.
But the Senate version currently does not include anything about taxes. The House version makes the Trump tax cuts permanent but also is structured in such a way that it could trigger some Medicaid cuts, which Republicans -- some Republicans oppose.
What -- what you passed last night was a framework. In order to have budget reconciliation, it's a little tougher in the Senate. They have stringent requirements for it and they have to pass the framework, then it will go to conference. I assume that's what today's meeting was about, but then it will have to go back to the floor, but it does have to be the same bill.
So with all that said, because it's a little bit Washingtonian probably for a lot of people --
JOHNSON: Yeah, yeah.
HANNITY: Okay. You have the House version, the Senate version, there are differences. You have President Trump's agenda. Where is this going to end?
JOHNSON: It's going to end in success. We are going to accomplish this mission, Sean, we have to because the American people are counting on it.
If we fail in this mission, everyone will see the largest tax increase in U.S. history at the end of this year when the Trump era tax cuts expire. We have to extend them. We've got to get back to energy dominance. We've got to get the border secured.
We have to cut the bureaucracy in the in the deep state and cut the regulations. All those things are going to happen in one big beautiful bill, as President Trump has talked about and as we've said repeatedly.
So what the House resolution last night did is it set up as you said the framework to achieve that goal, to go forward with that mission. We talked about it today in the White House. Leader Thune and I, there's no daylight between us on this mission.
There's been a little disagreement about the best way to get there. But now that the House has passed the resolution, I think the Senate is going to take that up, they'll look at it. They may massage it a little bit but I think we're going to come up with a product that is a framework that both chambers can work under, and that's going to be a very exciting development for the country. The next several weeks and through the month of March, the committees will then be working as you said to draft the technical details of that bill.
And let me point out, this is very important, we are not going to cut Medicaid benefits for those beneficiaries. The president's been crystal clear about that we have as well he said we're not going to touch Social Security, Medicare or Medicaid.
What we're going to do, Sean, is find efficiency, cut the fraud, waste and abuse, and that's going to help this -- the program stay solvent.
HANNITY: Okay, that's a very different issue if you're cutting waste, fraud and abuse. When I interviewed the president and Elon, they were clear on Social Security and Medicaid, but your version makes the Trump tax cuts permanent. I think that's critical.
JOHNSON: Right.
HANNITY: No tax on tips. No tax on social -- Social Security. Will all of that make it into the final bill?
JOHNSON: Yeah, that's the -- that's the goal and that's the plan and that's what we're committed to doing, making the tax cuts permanent is critical because business owners, small business owners have to have stability. They've got to have certainty as they're making plans for the future and this will be good for the economy.
We believe we're going to usher in a pro-growth economy because we're going to do much of what we did during the first Trump administration. You remember, we had the greatest economy in the history of the world prior to COVID. Why? Because we cut taxes on individuals and businesses, small business owners, and we also cut regulations.
And so, you're going to see all that compacted into this one big beautiful bill, that's going to be a great thing for the U.S. economy, for our security, for liberty, all the way across the board. And we're excited to deliver that. It's going to be a lot of hard work ahead.
We've already begun that and we're -- we're ready to deliver for the American people.
HANNITY: And you're talking about $4.5 trillion in tax cuts that will be permanent, which always ends up increasing revenues in spite of people predicting all the time that it will cut revenues to the government. That and energy dominance I think gets us a long way to where we need to go.
Speaker Johnson, thank you. We appreciate it.
Now, breaking tonight, a stated -- State Department memo is reportedly directing officials to deny U.S. visas to anyone who misrepresents their birth, sex on official applications, including trans athletes. Again, big changes are happening all throughout the federal government, could impact the Olympics,
One agency that will likely see a major reduction under the Trump presidency is at the EPA. And here with reaction is the EPA administrator, our old friend Lee Zeldin, should have been Governor Lee Zeldin, but what do I know? Good to see you.
Congratulations. Great to have you.
LEE ZELDIN, EPA ADMINISTRATOR: Thanks, Sean. Great to be with you.
HANNITY: So, you're talking about a 65 percent reduction in the workforce at the EPA. Tell us.
ZELDIN: Well, 2024 at EPA, there were tens of billions of dollars spent. In 2025, we want that number reduced by tens of billions of dollars.
I don't want Congress to be giving us the tens of billions of extra dollars. We saw all this money going out to leftwing advocacy groups. Not only are we not sending money out to leftwing advocacy groups, we don't want to send money out to right-wing advocacy groups.
We don't need the money. We need to operate more efficiently, that's with regards to grants. We've been working with DOGE. Elon and his team have been fantastic to work with. I've canceled about 30 grants working with them, with $120 million of savings. I canceled a $50 million grant for the Climate Justice Alliance.
They say the Climate Justice runs through Gaza, runs through a free Palestine. And there's been a lot of developments with regards to this scheme to dump the gold bars off the Titanic, Biden EPA political appointees words, not mine.
And every time we uncover a new rock with regards to that fund -- that funding, we keep finding new concerning things, been working with the Justice Department. They're all over it and the fact that they park tens of billions at this bank is crazy. We want to reduce the real estate footprint, and we also have a lot of personnel who have now decided to exit the agency, others who have been terminated. We need to operate as efficiently as possible. We want to make the American public proud, want to make you proud, and ensure that we are fulfilling our mission while also delivering on that Trump mandate.
HANNITY: Let's talk about how much of the EPA has gotten caught up in environmental radicalism and how much of the money at from the EPA is being spent abroad.
ZELDIN: Well, a lot -- I mean, when we had talk about tens of millions of dollars that went out in 2024, a lot of it was going out towards, you know, with self-dealing in mind, conflicts of interest, going out to entities that weren't prepared to receive it. One example, a Stacey Abrams linked NGO that just formed in 2023, and only received $100, got $2 billion from the Biden EPA, and they put in the grant agreement that they had 90 days to complete a training called how to develop a budget.
If they don't know how to develop a budget, they shouldn't be given a dollar, let alone being given $2 billion. So a lot of the funding has been going to these leftwing activist groups. You know, they'll use a term like environmental justice. They'll say that some community has been left behind and that we need to deal with an important issue to deliver clean air, land and water. Okay, that makes sense.
But here's the thing, in the name of climate justice, instead of sending that dollar to remediate the environmental issue, they're sending the money to their friends on the outside. You know, we're not going to play along with that. As you said earlier in the show, no more business as usual.
HANNITY: Well, I got it -- the fact that you can cut 2/3 of the staffing at the EPA speaks volumes and then maybe they can actually focus on -- on the real issues involving environment, not radical leftism.
Anyway, Secretary Zeldin, Lee Zeldin, thank you. We appreciate you being with us.
When we come back, Secret Service Director Sean Curren, he was there in Butler, Pennsylvania. He'll join us for an exclusive interview. I'll ask him about his plans for the agency, about the day the president was almost assassinated. You want -- you don't want to miss it. That's straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. President Trump has now selected his new director of the Secret Service, Sean Curran, who rose to prominence over the summer after rushing to help President Trump following the July assassination attempt in Butler, Pennsylvania, and featuring prominently in this iconic photo of Donald Trump's fist raised in the air after being shot. That, of course, by the way, and then during the Super Bowl, the Secret Service released this ad.
Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP, SECRET SERVICE AD)
AD NARRATOR: America was founded on an idea of freedom. America's always step forward in time of need throughout our short but powerful history.
JOHN F. KENNEDY, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT: Ask not what your country can do for you, ask what you can do for your country.
RONALD REAGAN, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT: Tear down this wall.
AD NARRATOR: We've been there for all of it.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Second plane hit the tower.
AD NARRATOR: Our heroes are humble. They have an inner pride to keep this idea alive.
Protectors are born. They're not made.
America's Secret Service is asking a few more to step forward.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: All right. Here now for an exclusive interview, Secret Service Director Sean Curran.
Sean, great to have you. We appreciate you being here.
SEAN CURRAN, SECRET SERVICE DIRECTOR: Great to be here. Thank you for the opportunity, Sean.
HANNITY: You know, I watched that ad. It kind of gives me chills a little bit because that is an ad basically inviting people to join the forces of the Secret Service, and that basically is a job description that says you will be trained and willing -- and ready, willing and able to throw down your life for another person, that's basically the -- in a nutshell, in many ways the job description, isn't it?
CURRAN: That's right, Sean. It does. It takes a special person to do this job.
As I typically say, this isn't just a job, it's a career. It's a lifestyle. You have to adapt to live someone else's schedule. It's often difficult, and when I came up with this idea to run this commercial, I had a lot of input from some close friends and we were lucky enough to get a friend of mine Michael Bay, to do this, and just a real patriot was honored to help the Secret Service do this commercial and we had the support of Secretary Noem, which was just amazing, and it just came out a lot better than I envisioned.
Michael Bay, his -- his vision of showing patriotism and just showing the brave men and women that that have chosen to do this job every day is -- is -- it's pretty special.
HANNITY: I know you have the support -- I've spoken to many of the Trump family members and the president himself obviously. They -- they know you, trust you, support you, wanted you in this position, let's go back to Butler and that day and that iconic photo which you are a part of, that's you to Donald Trump's left. He has blood all over his face and obviously, what was that like? How did that unfold in your mind?
CURRAN: Sean, obviously, it was -- it was life-changing for me, for the president, for the team, for the agency and really just for this country, it's a life-changing moment. It's often hard to express that. It's -- you know, it's difficult at times and just -- it's incredible, really is.
HANNITY: Yeah. I -- I know when you have an ongoing investigation, you usually can't comment on -- on the progress as such and I won't put you in that position. I don't think that's fair, but are you confident that we're going to get to the bottom of what happened to Butler and what happened around Trump International, the second incident where a would-be assassin was hiding in the bushes? Are you confident in the process that is now on going in to any extent that you can tell us, what can you tell us?
CURRAN: I am confident, Sean. I'm confident the men and women in Secret Service, our partners on the Hill, the secretary and the cooperation from everyone else. We've -- we've really -- we've come together and I'm -- I'm confident in the process, yes.
HANNITY: Yeah, I will -- you know, I know I know it's -- it's -- it's amazing. I have a lot of my own thoughts on it. I'm not -- I don't have a top security clearance, but I do read a lot and I do have a lot of sources and people that have -- have access to information and we did hear Director Wray say the last six or seven times before he went before Congress the threat level has never been this high, and they mentioned Iranian assassination squads being in the country. Elon Musk mentioned it earlier when he was at the cabinet meeting today. His life is being threatened.
Iranian assassination squads here to target Donald Trump, that is so chilling. I don't know how you close your eyes and sleep at night knowing that the pressure of the world is on you.
CURRAN: Well, Sean, you -- you bring up a good point and it's one of the reasons why I brought out -- brought in an outside expert from the intelligence community to take a look at our intelligence apparatus. I feel that strongly about what we're doing and where I want to take our intelligence divisions, too, and that's why I brought a true pro in from the intelligence community, to take a look at that and advise me on -- on how we can do things even differently and just strengthen and build more relationships with the IC community. It's that important.
HANNITY: You know, I think one of the things that history will show about President Trump is that in spite of all the weaponization, in spite of all the non-stop I believe unfair attacks against him, he was still willing to lay it and then -- then two would-be assassins put it all on the line and the left in this country -- and I believe it'll come out and it'll be -- I think it's been proven already, you know, the double standard in our justice system and Russia, Russia, and FISA abuse, and 51 former intel officials, and stacked up charges in New York and a phony evaluation of Mar-a-Lago, which is worth a billion, not 18 million -- all that they put this man through.
And at one point, I noticed you were quoted as saying that you had a conversation with him and that if he -- if this election didn't come out the way they -- you wanted it, that you kind of joked, people laughed I think is how you characterize it, that if they tried to put him in jail, you said you would be there with him and closer to him than he probably ever wanted. Is that true?
CURRAN: It is true, Sean. First of all, President Trump and all of our protectees, they -- they deserve the best protection that that we can provide, and I felt that he deserved the best no matter what and this was a difficult time for us. This was unique. This had never happened before, the positions that the president was put into by the various, you know, justice department the -- you know, the state of New York.
It was unique. It was unchartered territory. You know, we had to figure this out almost daily about what they were putting him through, and I did at one point tell him that we -- if it came down to it, we would be sitting there together because that's my job and he understood that.
But it -- luckily never came to that and we had just saw things that we just never anticipated or we probably thought we would ever see coming from, you know, whether it be the state of New York or the Justice Department. It was just incredible.
HANNITY: I really think the definition -- what defines your job is that as I said, you're -- you're willing to put your life down on the line for others and you ran this ad. If -- if people have an interest in the Secret Service, what do they -- what do they have to do to become a Secret Service agent?
CURRAN: Well, Sean, it -- it -- it starts -- it starts with how you're brought up. It -- it does it takes a special person to want to commit to doing this. You -- your time is -- it's not your own. You live someone else's schedule and you know training, mental, schooling, everything's so important and critical to this job.
HANNITY: Yeah. Well, we appreciate the fact that this country is full of heroes, heroes in our military, heroes in law enforcement, you know, heroes in the medical community, heroes in the Secret Service, and we thank you guys every day. We appreciate, Sean, you taking the time to be with us and thank you so much for your time.
All right. When we come back fake news CNN's Jake fake Tapper writing a book about media cover covering up Biden's cognitive decline after he ripped Republicans and Lara Trump for asking questions about Biden's cognitive decline. Also, Jeff Bezos shaking up "The Washington Post" in their opinion page.
The one and only Joe Concha will break it all down. And also, you are not going to believe so much more that we have, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. You're going to love this one. Fake Jake Tapper over at fake news CNN just wrote a new book and it's about the cover up of Joe Biden's cognitive decline.
Jake, we have a little tip for you, start by looking in the mirror, chapter one. I got it wrong. Anyway, he was one of the first people to deny there was anything wrong with Biden all the way back in 2020, while we on this program were pointing out the cognitive decline, taking a lot of heat for point out the cognitive decline. Remember, we all these truths to be self- evident that that all men and women are created by the thing, oh, you know, that would be god, the creator of everything.
And we have the tape to prove it. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
L. TRUMP: What we see on stage with Joe Biden, Jake, is very clearly a cognitive decline.
TAPPER: OK.
L. TRUMP: That's what I'm referring to. It makes me uncomfortable --
(CROSSTALK)
TAPPER: You have no --
(CROSSTALK)
TAPPER: So amazing -- it's so amazing to me that --
L. TRUMP: And try and figure out an answer --
TAPPER: A cognitive decline --
L. TRUMP: When you're trying to tell me that what I was suggesting was stutter --
(CROSSTALK)
TAPPER: I think you were mocking his stutter, yeah. I think you were mocking his stutter. And I think you have absolutely no standing to diagnose somebody's cognitive decline.
I have one last question for, Lara. You can --
(CROSSTALK)
L. TRUMP: -- times on stage and it's very concerning to a lot of people that this could be the leader of the free world.
TAPPER: OK. Thank you, Lara.
L. TRUMP: That is all I'm saying I genuinely feel sorry for Joe Biden.
TAPPER: I appreciate it. I'm sure it was from a place of concern. We all - - we all believe that. Lara Trump, thank you so much.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: He considers himself a journalist, not a talk show host.
Now we asked fake news CNN for a comment, they claim Tapper has been covering questions about Joe's age since 2022, which is interesting because fake news CNN had no trouble parroting the White House talking points about these so-called cheapfake videos last year which all turned out to be very real.
By the way, here's a little reminder.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The White House is calling cheap fakes.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're hearing about so-called cheap fakes. It's playing out on right-wing media.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: These videos, I mean they're blatant lies.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: These are cheap fakes with the White House and Biden people call them.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Cheap fakes are a little bit simpler. They're cheap. They're just distorted, out of context videos, chopped up in certain ways, constructed in certain ways.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Humpty-dumpty's back.
But fake Jake and fake news CNN aren't the only members of the state-run media mob reversing course these days. "Washington Post" owner Jeff Bezos just told his opinion department that their editorials from now on should focus on supporting and defending personal liberties and free markets, seems pretty reasonable to me, and sounds like he's making adjustments that would make the paper better, but not to the paper's opinion editor who decided to quit rather than take on a mission of fairness.
And meanwhile, despite being responsible for 40 million people and a $4 trillion economy, our good friend, California Governor Gavin Newsom is now launching a new podcast. It's called "This is Gavin Newsom", and he says his first guests will be leaders of the MAGA movement.
I'm available. I'm volunteering. Let's see if I get the invite.
Anyway, here with reaction, FOX News contributor Joe Concha is with us.
Joe, let's first start with Jake and -- okay, we -- people like me were excoriated. We saw it before the 2020 election. We pointed it out in 2020, 2021, 2022.
You know, somewhere along the line, some people said a few things, but then they went to the cheap fake, oh, those -- those are very real videos are fake, that was all just lying to protect Joe, wasn't it?
JOE CONCHA, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Oh, Sean, absolutely. Tapper writing this book is like Hannibal Lecter writing one on the dangers of cannibalism. I mean, as you just showed the millions watching, Jake Tapper in patently pious fashion scolded Lara Trump in an interview on CNN when she was RNC co-chair, saying he found it so amazing she was mocking Joe Biden's stutter, and insisted there was no cognitive decline and marked up him forgetting the names of his own cabinet members or having conversations with world leaders that died years ago, and overall, acting and sounding like a president whose brain had turned to applesauce and Tapper blamed it all on a stutter.
And now, Jake is going to pretend there isn't this thing called the internet or programs like these where these clips can easily be pulled up and played or quoted. He was culpable as was most of the media who blamed cheap fake videos that showed Biden shaking hands with the air, or not being able to figure out how to exit a stage or falling up the stairs of air force one, when he wasn't falling off his bicycle, because there's money involved now, the kind that comes with book deals like this one.
Suddenly, Jake Tapper is having a come to Jesus moment. And by the way, I wrote a best-selling book that focused largely on this topic three years ago. So welcome to the party, pal. Here it was "Come On, Man!: The Truth About Joe Biden's Horrible, Terrible, No Good, Very Bad Presidency".
So, yeah, you were ahead of the game by six years. I was right behind you on that.
Now all that said, Sean, his co-author in this case, Alex Thompson, happens to be a solid reporter. He's one of the few that are left in the political beat. I have zero idea why Thompson would hitch his wagon to Tapper because Thompson would have some credibility in this regard based on his prior reporting on Biden's decline. So he should have written this alone, instead of hitching this -- his wagon to a cheesy performance artist like Jake Tapper.
But in the end, what this book, with Tapper being the co-author shows that rock bottom apparently does have a basement and hypocrisy has no bounds.
HANNITY: Yeah, and the thing is -- is they claim to be journalists. They're not journalists. I mean, this guy thinks he's so sanctimonious and self-righteous that he thinks -- he's a liberal leftwing talk show host. Why doesn't he just -- why did they not admit that? We only have about 30 seconds.
CONCHA: Yeah. Say you're an opinion person, say that you are taking a side and you advocate for the Democratic Party. If you say that, I'll have a lot of respect for you. You'll have a lot of respect for him. Instead, he insists that he is an objective anchor when he's actually an activist, Sean.
HANNITY: We actually -- we found an area of disagreement. I will never respect him, I just won't, after years and years of that. Sorry, you lost my respect a long time ago. You have no shot of regaining credibility that you never had anyway.
Anyway, we appreciate it. Joe Concha, thank you.
When we come back Democrats descending in absolute, madness, chaos during today's DOGE hearing on Capitol Hill. We've got all the tape.
You'll hear from a former chief operating officer at USAID, you know, where all the tens and tens of billions of waste, fraud, abuse and corruption, took place, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: And today on Capitol Hill, Democrats descended into chaos at the DOGE hearing on foreign aid as they desperately tried to defend their wasteful spending. Take a look at some of the highlights or low lights, depending on your point of view.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Welcome to the Elon Musk chainsaw massacre except for this remake of a classic is terrible because it's hurting real people and its lead character, Mr. Musk, hasn't shown up in front of this committee or Congress at all.
We also, of course, call this the subcommittee on DOGE or Project 2025, as we'll see here during the Q&A.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is a pick of co-president Elon Musk who, of course, is leading DOGE, and I brought this pick of course to our last hearing, and I know some folks were upset by it. But just to be clear, we know that Elon Musk is dangerous, he's incompetent, he's chaotic and he's killing programs that we rely on.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If you want nightmares just Google severe acute malnutrition and look at the photos. The way that healthcare workers determine if a kid is dying of this is they measure their bicep. And if their bicep is less than four and a half inches around, then that means you could die of starvation tomorrow.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: It's not how the money was being spent now, was it? We'll scroll that in a minute.
One of the witnesses to this liberal meltdown was the former chief operating officer at USAID, Max Primorac, who will join us in just a moment and here's what he said during his testimony.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MAX PRIMORAC, FORMER COO, USAID: We have been funding radical NGOs around the world that oppose capitalism, democracy, NATO and Christianity. None of this is counter China. This is counter America.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: And if you need any further evidence of wrongdoing by USAID, a disturbing new report from "The Daily Wire" found -- you'll love this -- the organization allegedly paying Ukrainian models, designers, to go to Paris for fashion week and other fashion weeks and other frivolous luxuries.
Senator Joni Ernst revealing that USAID did not report the expenditures in public databases and tried to block her staff from seeing them.
Anyway, here now with more, former chief operating officer at USAID and Heritage Foundation senior research fellow, Max Primorac, along with former U.S. Senator Scott Brown.
Max, you were there. You were in the hearing. You said this is counter America. It was being used as a global platform to push anti-American, radical and obscene ideas. They -- they funded activities for Ukrainian models for junkets to New York City, London fashion week, Paris fashion week, women's attire company, fashion design house, and I can keep going, on top of DEI, wokeism, transgenderism, radical new green dealism. It's pretty amazing that they're defending this.
PRIMORAC: Yeah, it is and it's done America extreme harm overseas. When you -- now, you talk about American values in places like Asia and Africa and Latin America, people run for the hills because they associate American values with this kind of woke ideology with transgender surgeries, with climate alarmism, with abortion. It's done tremendous harm and the national security implications from them are -- are very severe, especially when we're trying to compete against communist China, who doesn't do this sort of thing.
HANNITY: You -- you're making a great point. And Scott Brown, I want to go to you. You know, you know, now, we're hearing from them, Elon Musk is getting death threats and he's being F Elon, and F Trump. You know, these are the same people that have been fixated on January 6 for years and years, ignoring the fact that Donald Trump was willing to call up guard troops, ignoring he said peacefully patriotically, all of that.
And ignoring the 574 riots that killed dozens of Americans, injured thousands of cops and caused billions of property damage. And this is the rhetoric they keep using, nobody in the media seems to care and they keep doing it.
SCOTT BROWN (R), FORMER U.S. SENATOR FROM MASSACHUSETTS: Yeah. Sean, you know, I'm just amazed at the speed and progress which the president has done his job. It's so refreshing.
And there were those after January 6 that wrote him off, but he was a onetime president, he had four years of lawfare, he needs to come back more hungry and organized than I've ever seen anybody. We talk about it every day. You support him. I support him. I support him financially and on the air all the time.
And I look what's happening now and I'm just so thankful he's there. And on January 6, Sean, I'm attorney, we've discussed that, and I tried to get the facts, I tried to make sure I understand all the facts, and I said he could have done more and he bore some responsibility in that January 6 situation, and I was wrong and I apologize.
And I tell you what? I wake up every day thinking how lucky we are that we have him because look what he's done with the border, look what he's done with trying to end the war with Ukraine and Russia.
HANNITY: But, wait, but, you know, Scott, but think about this, they had a predetermined outcome hearing, they got rid of all the evidence, they lied -- the driver, he never tried to commander the vehicle. Four people that I interviewed on tape, in the room, verifying that he authorized the use of guard troops. They -- they and the fifth person in the room, General Milley, they said it in writing, they never brought that up.
They never once comp -- cared about the dozens of dead Americans, thousands of injured cops, billions in property damage. You know what? They didn't tell the whole story purposefully.
BROWN: Right, yeah, I know. I know, Sean, and that's why we're so blessed right now. I mean, it's -- it's great to talk about those things, but I wake up every day excited as to what he's done in the middle of the night, trying to write the ship from all the Biden mistakes, whether it's inflation and all the other things we've talked about.
So go get them. I love the cabinet. A lot of them as you know are our friends and we're -- we're so happy that they're there, Marco -- I serve with them. He's a great guy, he's doing an amazing job. So --
HANNITY: Yeah. He's been amazing.
Max, last word, we have about 20 seconds.
Sure, I mean, what -- what Trump and Elon are doing is taking away this multi-billion dollar money pot. You know, you're talking about $70 billion a year, half of that stays in Washington, 95 percent of the industry is on the left.
HANNITY: All right. Max, appreciate it. And Scott Brown, thank you.
When we come back, Monica Lewinsky revealing why she thought Bill Clinton should have resigned after their affair -- affair became public, next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. On the "Call Her Daddy" podcast, Monica Lewinsky spoke about her affair with them President Bill Clinton and said this. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MONICA LEWINSKY, PODCAST HOST: I think that he should have said -- I'm like now thinking this through. I don't think I've answered this question before but good question.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yeah.
LEWINSKY: I haven't been asked that before. So I think that the right way to handle a situation like that would have been to probably say it was -- you know, nobody's business --
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yeah.
LEWINSKY: -- and to resign.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Wow. By the way, secretservice.gov, if you're interested in the Secret Service. Please set your DVR. Let night your heartbeat troubled.
Greg Gutfeld is next to put a smile on your face.
Have a great night.

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
