




Fox News THE FIVE 5:00 PM EST
February 13, 2025 Thursday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6732 words
Byline: Dana Perino, Jeanine Pirro, Harold Ford Jr., Jesse Watters, Greg Gutfeld
Body


WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Thank you for sharing that. I know you come from Senegal. I know you've seen the other way of doing businesses, and I know why you protect so hardly saying it's the difference between life and death a deregulated, free economy. Thank you so much, Magatte, for being with us.
All right, thanks for joining us as we get to the heart of the matter from the heart of America. Now, THE FIVE.
DANA PERINO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Hello everyone. I'm Dana Perino along with Judge Jeanine Pirro, Harold Ford Jr., Jesse Watters and Greg Gutfeld. It's 5:00 in New York City. This is THE FIVE.
So, check it out here. You're looking live at the White House, where, in just moments from now, President Trump and Indian Prime Minister Modi are set to hold a news conference, and while we wait for that, let's talk about the Democrats who cried Musk.
Former Congressman Dean Phillips trying to warn his party that the collective freak out over the world's richest man and self-proclaimed DOGE father could destroy their credibility in the long run. Watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DEAN PHILLIPS, FORMER PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Unfortunately, Democrats are only focused on one thing right now, Mr. Musk, the fact of the matter, he's quite popular. We're missing the boat as Democrats. And all I'm saying is that sometimes it's better to join them and actually play a role in how the strategy works, rather than so pathetically, frankly, try to combat something that clearly is a steamroller, and Democrats are being steamrolled.
I think Democrats should join the club and then have more credibility to actually raise the alarm about constitutional issues. Right now, it's the boy who cried wolf.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERINO: But Dean Phillips might as well be shouting into the void of that limestone mountain of paperwork. Democrats name dropping Musk at two different events, first in a house hearing on USAID, that's an agency that DOGE gutted, and another rally outside the Department of Veterans Affairs. Watch here.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You can't spell felon without Elon.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Trump and Musk like to say, we're reading out fraud, waste and abuse. We're looking at efficiency. That's a dog whistle.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Elon Musk ripped up the Constitution and our system of checks and balances.
REP. PRAMILA JAYAPAL (D-WA): The Trump administration and unelected billionaire Elon Musk have led a reckless and illegal attack on USAID.
SEN. RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (D-CT): Nine million veterans are watching you give them the middle finger, and we're not going to stand for it.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERINO: President Trump revealing DOGE's next target while providing the group some cover.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I think that the Internal Revenue Service will be looked at like everybody. It's just about everybody's going to be looked at too.
And so, they're doing a hell of a job. It's an amazing job they're doing. I call it the force of super geniuses. But it's building and, you know, they go up and they talk to some of the people about certain deals, and the people get all tongue tied. They can't talk.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERINO: Judge, it's hard to understand why the Democrats are so mad at Elon Musk. He voted for Obama. He created the best electric car, which they purport to love. He can't run for president. He's doing things for free, and they just think that he is enemy number one.
JEANINE PIRRO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL LEGAL ANALYST: Well, I think it just goes to show you that it's all about politics for them. And the sad part about that statement is that it ignores the American people.
I mean, we finally have someone who is willing to take a look at all of the fraud, the waste and abuse in the -- in our government and in the bureaucracy and as opposed to applauding that and saying, great, this is going to benefit the American people who pay through taxes through the nose, instead, they say they're only focused on how horrible Elon Musk is or how horrible Donald Trump is.
And I think it's very frustrating, because to me, it's disappointing, Harold, that the Democrats are not appreciative of this kind of thing because in the end, but you still have Fetterman, Hakeem Jeffries, James Carville, Dean Phillips. I mean, these guys, even Hakeem Jeffries is saying we've got to find common ground with them on something.
But you know, they ignored the history of the Clinton presidency when they fired 400,000 people, bureaucrats, and they called it the National Partnership Reinventing Government to make the federal government less expensive. And it was Obama who pledged to do the same in 2011.
So, all this does is it comes down to hate. It's like, you know, when you get divorced, you hate the other person so much you don't care if it hurts the kids.
PERINO: And then we're actually going to talk about Department Education a little bit too, because those are supposedly about kids. I found out today that Bernie Sanders was the chairman of the Education Committee for four years, Hunter Biden had one hearing on education the entire time, and then they go and complain.
Hi, Harold, what do you think of out these protests that are a throwback, are they having any effect?
HAROLD FORD JR., FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: I don't, first of all, good to be with you again. I don't think so. I think that Dean Phillips is largely right. I think the Judge is as well.
I tried to say yesterday, and perhaps I didn't say it as clearly as I wanted to, there's a time for outrage, and then there's a time to assess impact. The outrage for Democrats should have ended when the election ended. There were so many awful things said about President Trump. He said some awful things about Democrats, but I think Democrats said more awful things about him. And the instinct to want to try to work with him, I think, is the right instinct.
So, the outrage is there. You now got to look at the impact. The country, no one has ever won office saying, elect me, I will grow government. I will grow the debt, and I will make it unrecognizably large. Anyone that tries to do that has lost. Democrat presidents, you mentioned it, and I like your Valentine's Day red, Judge. You mentioned how these Democrats that Obama wanted to cut, Clinton wanted to cut the reinventing government, and no one ever did.
The thing I would urge Democrats to do, as opposed to standing outside and singing and being so critical. If you're going to be critical, you have to answer what Elon Musk, who is a popular guy and Donald Trump, who just won an election, has a 53 percent approval rating counter their cuts with other cuts.
Senator Cassidy -- Senators Cassidy and Britt today, in the last 24 hours, have said, look, Senator Cassidy said cutting medical funding is not going to help LSU. We're from a red state and we don't -- our tax dollars -- we give back more tax dollars. Senator Britt said you can't cut medical funding as well. These are the kinds of things you should be focused on, as opposed to the yelling and the kind of scattered outrage that seems to afflict the party.
I'm a believer that the reason that Elon Musk is able to do this, I say to Democrats in Congress and Republicans, the reason he's able to use up your responsibilities, because you haven't exercised oversight responsibility in so long, and you haven't been a budgeting body in so long. You go through shutdowns and defaults. That's the only language that comes from Congress.
If you want to take back this responsibility, hold the hearings, identify cuts that you would impose, as opposed to the ones the president's talking about. And with that, Your Honor, that's my opening argument.
PERINO: All right, we will continue on. And the federal government, Jesse - -
GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: I rest my face.
PERINO: Federal Government less popular than ever. So the question kind of is, if not now, when would you try to cut it?
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: It's got to be now. Dana, can I tell you a story about Robin Dunn Marcos? I believe Robin Dunn Marcos worked for these two nonprofits, International Rescue Committee and the Church World Service. She leaped frogs over to the Biden administration to work for HHS, the refugee office, the one that lost all the little kids, and then she steers a billion dollars, a billion dollars, to the two nonprofits that she used to work for. That's how this whole game works.
We're finding out HHS, under Joe Biden, spent $22 billion on migrants, $22 billion and it's not just these little tent cities. They were buying them cars. They were helping them own homes. They were paying off their credit cards. How they get a credit card? I don't know. They were buying college tuition. They were giving them startup money to start businesses, Harold.
FORD JR.: Why me?
PIRRO: Yes, Harold's been good today.
WATTERS: So far. These are the kind of things we're spending money on. We are staging hamster fight clubs, Dana, we're putting dead turtles on treadmills.
Now, I know what happens when you put anything dead in a treadmill. It just flops right off. I've watched videos on YouTube of this before.
They've injected puppies with cocaine. Now the cocaine was pure, the puppies wanted to be injected, but it doesn't make it right, Dana. They were sticking marbles into cat's anuses and then electro shocking them.
(CROSSTALK)
WATTERS: Making experiments that the government is using your taxpayer on. There's more.
PERINO: What was the point of the marble?
WATTERS: Don't ask me, I don't have this kind of fetish. They spent $3 million for the Department of Education to write a report to say that no one reads reports.
PIRRO: Right, exactly.
WATTERS: How about this, 50 million to the Climate Justice Alliance who believes that climate justice travels through a free Palestine? Do you know what that means? I don't know what that means, Dana. They spent 25 grand for shrinks for trans refugees in Greece.
Now, if you're in the trenches. Like we are in cable news. We've been doing this a long time. This is like, free money. OK? I can come out and I can read this every day of the week. Doesn't matter what the Democrats say. They have to defend this. And I haven't seen one single Democrat on any of these shows defending any of these cookie projects. And every day we read this stuff and expose it, and they're not saying anything or defending it, they're losing, and they've lost every single day since DOGE started up.
PERINO: That's a good point, because the Democrats are demanding more transparency. I'm not against it, but the more there's transparency, the more kinds of things like that you find.
GUTFELD: Well, all I know is, when I get home, I'm cleaning my marbles.
So, Dean Phillips stepped out of the prison of two ideas where Harold lives. You know, it's the next step in the gradual enlightenment that the Democrats must pursue, but most of them aren't.
Right now, for these Democrats, their only hope is that things go bad for Trump, and you can see that already in the press as they're looking at the price of eggs, but for bad things to go for Trump, that things have to go bad for America, because this entire plank is America first.
So, it's a terrible hope to have. You know, it doesn't really clear a path for a new vision when you just hope that things will go wrong, and they're still clinging to this fantasy that if Trump fails, then they can return to what exactly, there's nothing there. Woke is dead. Identity politics is dead. DEI is dead. Open borders is dead. CNN, MSNBC, all of legacy media is dead, dead, double dead.
Trump may well hit a snag at some point, but that's not going to solve the Democrat's big, bigger and greater problem. What do you stand for? It can't be everything that's not Trump, because he's the common sense president, you can't be the not common sense president, you can't be the not America first president, or not America first party. You know, we're wacky and weird, America lasts. We want big government and bigger trans, it's not going to fly.
So, you know, I think Harold hit on it, probably by accident, that this is, you know, they got to be for something. They got to think about it.
And their argument about accountability is hysterical because they say Musk has no accountability. Well, duh, that's why he's doing this. He's not an elected official. He doesn't owe anybody anything, and he's holding you accountable. And the people voted for Trump, voted for DOGE, and they're going to hold them accountable. They expect them to hold you accountable.
The bottom line is, you can't undo the undoing. The undoing has started. You know, you can't put the dish back together after it fell off the hutch. As my mom used to say, when she would throw dishes at me. I'm done. That was good I think.
PERINO: It was brilliant, all of it. Really, Harold.
FORD JR.: And I meant what I said, though I didn't accidentally get on the boat (ph).
PERINO: All right, up next, it's tariff Thursday, President Trump unleashing the trade tool, he says, will level the playing field with the world.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GUTFELD: The tariff man is back, President Trump unleashing his favorite word in the dictionary, announcing a plan to slap sweeping reciprocal tariffs and close trade deficits so America stops getting ripped off. Roll it, Burn (ph).
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: Really reciprocal tariffs. Those two words reciprocal. Reciprocal makes tariffs really fair. If you build here, you have no tariffs whatsoever. And I think that's what's going to happen. I think our country is going to be flooded with jobs. The jobs will go up tremendously. We're going to have great jobs, jobs for everybody. This is something that should have been done many years ago. It's going to mean tremendous amounts of jobs.
And ultimately, prices will stay the same, go down, but we're going to have a very dynamic country.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: President Trump is in a boot to let go of his dream to make Canada the 51st state.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: Canada has been very bad to us on trade, but now Canada is going to have to start paying up. Why would we pay $200 billion a year in subsidies to Canada when they're not a state? You do that for a state, but you don't do that for somebody else's country.
So, I think Canada is going to be a very serious contender to be our 51st state.
I spoke to Governor Trudeau on numerous occasions, and we'll see what happens.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: You know, Dana, I was thinking about this. You in Your DNA is punctuality. It just guides your entire life. You hate people who are late and you slit someone's throat if they were early, which I like about you.
Trump, it's reciprocity. Almost everything that he does is about if I -- it's almost what the Democrats claim to want, which is fairness, but they never define it. It's just take, take, take. He's basically saying reciprocity, reciprocity.
PERINO: That's a good point. I like the analogy. I had one of my -- of my own.
GUTFELD: What?
PERINO: I feel like one of my favorite things to do is if I when I finish a novel, and then the next night, I get to choose which is the next one. I'm so excited. So you read chapter one. Like, wow, what is this about? And then start getting into like, oh, I can't wait to see where this goes.
That's how I feel about this tariff thing. I hope for the sake of this -- excuse me, they want my -- I'll put my earpiece back.
GUTFELD: Did you get a marble in there again?
PERINO: I can't just throw a marble in my ear. We have to do these experiments, because in NIH, you're no longer allowed.
I know that the small businesses in America especially are looking for some certainty, because they have to plan ahead, and they need that. So I want that for them. But right now, I think it's a little too early to say how this is going to turn out.
GUTFELD: You know, Judge, I'm a little -- I'm a little annoyed by the Canadian arrogance, you know, as if, like, they have a say in this. You know, we either -- they're going to be a state -- we don't need -- they're assuming we want them. Isn't that a little presumptuous?
PIRRO: That's a good point. You're absolutely right about that. I mean, we certainly don't want them with Trudeau, that's for sure.
GUTFELD: Exactly.
PIRRO: And even as the governor, we don't want him, but, look, I think that what the president is doing is a good thing, because in the end, it's all about fairness, and it's fairness to the American manufacturer. It's fairness to the American labor. You know, by telling other companies or countries, if you want to build your plants here and make your products here, we won't put any tariffs on it.
But tariffs are about reciprocity and what's fair, because in the end, you have a level playing field, and then you bring other countries to the table as well, then you're also protecting your national security interests. Because if we're talking about technology and manufacturing and agriculture, it ensures that critical industries are not undermined by foreign competitors.
And one of the things that concerns me there is that China is making most of our medications, and we've got to start leveraging that and bringing some of those businesses back.
And I think that, you know, this president really cares about the American farmer, the American manufacturer, the American laborer, jobs are going to go up tremendously with this. And in the end, interest rates are going to come down, and ultimately prices are going to come down, Harold.
GUTFELD: Harold, let me try to break this down for you.
FORD JR.: Thank you.
GUTFELD: Because I know that some of these concepts are a little complicated. We know that high taxes disincentivizes work. Why work more if the government takes more? Whereas a tariff disincentivizes consumption, so I have to pay for this. Maybe I won't eat as much. So, isn't the international tariff an international consumption tax? And why are you against it, commie?
FORD JR.: Well, it's a lot to unpack there. So, in the history of our country, certain things have happened when you impose tariffs. It generally means prices on something are going up to your point, which I think you would agree.
Your question is, does that disincentivize people from buying things or consuming things? And maybe it does. Maybe you'll make the choice, if you have to buy four things, not to buy one of those four things. But if all four things are expensive, you know, whether it's egg, state car insurance or your phone or cable bill. I think voters will have that. Americans will have that chance.
Now, I give the credit -- the president a lot of credit. I listened to him very closely today during his press conference, and some of the things the judge said, and your question presupposes, Greg is right. He believes firmly that if you incentivize companies from around the world to manufacture here and use tariffs as the tool that they may come here and do that, I think it defies two things, or two things will have to be defied for it to happen.
First is that will cause prices to go up in the short term, if not the long term. And two, you have to have workers to take those jobs, otherwise, you're going to have to continue to import workers.
One of the challenges we have in our country is that we don't have prepared and trained workers for a lot of these jobs that the president wants to create. Now you first have to create them. I'm not convinced that this is the right way to do it, but I'll give them the benefit of the doubt up to where it is, because I think at the end of the day, when the voters start saying, two thirds of voters in these polls say that they don't believe he's doing enough to bring prices down. More than three out of five say he's doing everything right on the border. Let's see if he's able to tackle this.
And you're -- what you laid out Greg is not wrong. The question is, can you get there? And I'm not certain that the president the way he's talking about this, it's neat. It's easy to say, as someone would say, garner it's hard to accomplish without raising prices and making life more difficult for dock workers, for those working night shifts, and for single parents trying their hardest to make a living for their kids.
GUTFELD: So basically, two minutes to say you're right, Greg. Come on, Harold.
FORD JR.: I should have just said, in my face, Harold.
GUTFELD: Yes. So Jesse, according to the National Toy Industry, tariffs will cause a massive increase in the cost of marbles, leaving many cats with empty anuses.
WATTERS: That's true, toy prices will go up, but the goal, Harold, is to reduce prices, because when you have reciprocal tariffs, it makes it personal. Because if one country is hitting you with a tariff and you have a low tariff, then all of a sudden it goes to the same level, and then you can have a negotiation. And that's the end goal, is to bring all of these tariffs down.
For instance, India has a very large tariff on Harley-Davidsons. Why? It's because they have the biggest motorcycle manufacturing sector in Asia, because what, there's like a billion and a half people in India.
So, what they're doing now is they're actually, before they got here, they dropped those tariffs because they know they're going to have to cut a deal with Trump. We want Harley Davidson to be successful. We want to sell those motorbikes over in India. There's a lot of customers over there.
So, the end goal is to make our products more competitive and help our industry too. I love this India relationship. It's going to be the key relationship in this century. It is the largest populated country now in the world. They just overtook China, and they sit at such a critical place right by the Indian Ocean and Arabian Sea. All the shipping from the oil from the Middle East goes right through the subcontinent, all the way around, up into China, up into Japan.
If we don't have basing there that the Indian military gives us, we're screwed. So we have to have a great relationship with them.
And I love this guy, Modi, Trump, had a great relationship with him in the first term. This is a democracy over there. They have Hindus, they have Muslims. They can project power if they get their politics together, but they're a nuclear power so we got to be friends with the Indians. They're a good ally.
GUTFELD: Well said, I guess. Kind of tuned out there.
Up next, AOC is teaching illegals how to dodge deportations.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: There's a new DOJ in town and they're not messing around. Attorney General Pam Bondi just threw down the legal gauntlet suing New York and its squad of lawfare junkies, Governor Kathy Hochul and A.G. Letitia James for straight up ignoring immigration laws and hooking up illegals with driver's licenses.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PAM BONDI, U.S. ATTORNEY GENERAL: New York has chosen to prioritize illegal aliens over American citizens. It stops. It stops today. If you don't comply with federal law, we will hold you accountable. We did it to Illinois, strike one. Strike two is New York. And if you are a state not complying with federal law, you're next. Get ready.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: A.G. Bondi should probably look into this. AOC's office is now giving webinars for illegals on how to avoid Trump's deportation raids.
Judge Jeanine, tell me a little bit about this lawsuit that Bondi filed against Tish James and these New York people.
PIRRO: Now, Tish James, Governor Hochul, and the head of DMV, Department of Motor Vehicles. Basically, the president has already declared an emergency at the Southern Border. He has prioritized the immigration crisis and the vast majority of Americans support him in his efforts to curb immigration and get rid of illegals who are criminals.
Now, what Pam Bondi and the Department of Justice have done is they are suing New York State. They -- last week they sued the State of Illinois. They're suing them number one over the sanctuary city policies as well as in New York what's called the Green Light Law that was passed by the Democrats in 2019.
The Green Light Law very simply is obstructionist. It basically says to any illegal come on in, we'll give you a license, OK. We don't care what your record is. We don't even know what your record is, come on and we'll give you a license. And just, you know, as a point of information, a license is one of the identification points that you can use to vote, OK, which is outrageous.
But this license creates a real problem for law enforcement because if there is an emergency, a vehicle stop, a search warrant, something's happening at the border, and they stop a guy driving a car, the first thing they do -- you know it because you've gotten -- you've gotten tickets before, Jesse, is they will call the state DMV and say who am I dealing with? You know, does he have a prior record? What does he look like? Send me this picture. I've got a license. I don't have a license.
DMV is saying we refuse to cooperate with the feds. We would rather jeopardize because everyone knows the most dangerous situation for any law enforcement officer is a traffic stop. And we don't care that they're in jeopardy here whether it's local law enforcement state police or ICE or Border Patrol. We are not going to give your information and we are obligated to tell the illegal that you feds are looking at them. So, they said -- Pam saying, hey, idiot, the Supremacy Clause is above your local nonsense.
WATTERS: That sounds like common sense, Harold Ford Jr. Just you're going to sabotage law enforcement from the DMV.
FORD JR.: I agree with the judge.
WATTERS: Good. God that's never happened before.
FORD JR.: I am -- I'm glad though that this -- the attorney general corrected -- someone corrected that it's not -- it's not criminal charges against the state.
WATTERS: Right.
FORD JR.: It's civil charges. But I agree with the judge.
WATTERS: Do you think this is going to have an effect on other State Democrat officials throughout the country?
FORD JR.: The success -- if they're successful in this legal challenge or challenge -- court challenge against New York, it absolutely will.
WATTERS: All right, Dana P.
PERINO: So, it's interesting to contrast this new DOJ with the previous one. The previous one sued states for passing Voter ID laws, right? And it has like an 82 percent support number in the country. The Trump DOJ is suing states for fighting to keep murderers and rapists on the streets and away from ICE. So, that is a huge contrast.
And it's not like cities in states are just an island. So, like in Mario, right, the game, it's not like you come into the border and then you pop up in a sanctuary city. You break laws all along the way. So, I think that's what Pam Bondi is saying is that we'll go after all of you in every step of the chain.
FORD JR.: That was pretty good.
WATTERS: Right. Little Mario Brothers analogy without permission.
PERINO: Better than the Super Bowl analogy?
WATTERS: It's probably better. Anything was better than that, Dana.
PERINO: It wasn't too bad, actually.
FORD JR.: I thought it was good. I thought it was good.
PERINO: Go back and listen.
WATTERS: You've had better. All right, Marvels, take it away.
GUTFELD: All right, I -- this is especially delicious because I can't stand Kathy Hochul. She's been operating without any accountability forever. She was ignoring crime while focusing on woke politics. Ever since she's been here, she failed to reverse bail and criminal justice reforms that directly caused the spike in crime and our quality of life declining. She's terrible.
Instead of like signing bills like for -- that would roll back this stuff, she like forced real estate agents to undergo bias training and cultural competence while our city was overwhelmed by migrants. She declared that racism was a public health crisis. This idiot said that according to modern science the male and female sex binary is outdated. So, this moron couldn't get the subway safe, but you could get the trans to run on time.
WATTERS: Wow, that was like horrible until the trans joke. Really, really good.
GUTFELD: Thank you.
WATTERS: Really good.
GUTFELD: It was bad.
FORD JR.: You guys want to hear -- you want to hear me talk about Marbury v. Madison again?
WATTERS: Get out of here, Harold.
GUTFELD: You didn't talk that much this segment. Did I hurt your feelings?
FORD JR.: No. I agree with the judge. There was --
PIRRO: Yes, well --
FORD JR.: This is -- this is -- this is what administrations do and they're going to sue, and we'll see what happens. I think they're going to win.
GUTFELD: Whatever.
WATTERS: Agreeable Harold. Ahead, transgender activists are stealing sanctuary cities from the illegals. We'll explain next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
PIRRO: The left's delusions of victimhood on full display in Massachusetts. A city council meeting in the state's second largest city going off the rails after nearly 200 far-left agitators started screaming and demanding their town become a sanctuary city for transgender people.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: If you think you're afraid of Trump, you should see how afraid of Trump I am. You better prepare for trans people to make this a very unsafe space.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I don't want to spend an hour applying glitter on my face so that you will hear and see me.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I'm shaking right now. I don't want to be here.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Can you wrap up please?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I'm sorry. Am I taking too long pleading for my life?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Please wrap up.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Look at me.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: OK. We're all done here.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Pathetic.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're all done.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PIRRO: And the woke pressure campaign worked, with the city approving the resolution. OK. So, Dana, we've got transgender sanctuary cities now where the LGBTQ plus A1 and advocacy groups are fearful. What are they fearful of?
PERINO: Well, that's what bothers me about this. I feel -- I don't want anyone to feel scared. I mean, I can kind of look at this and laugh and I did a little bit with the drama of it all. But I also think that the left - - the far-left has made people who are in this situation whether it's mental health or whether they believe it, or whatever it is, if they're adults, if they're kids, I think some of these people are obviously adults, they are being made to be fearful for their lives for no reason.
PIRRO: Right.
PERINO: For politics. Nobody is coming after them. There are going to be some rules and guidelines about bathrooms. There's going to be rules some rules and guidelines about sports and the protection of women's sports. There will be rules and guidelines protecting children. But when that guy says I'm pleading for my life, I don't really understand where that comes from except for that if he's getting fed information from the left that makes him think that he should be fearful. I don't want anyone to have to live like that.
PIRRO: Yes. Well, the amazing thing or not so amazing is the fact that you've got people like Rachel Maddow and Joy Behar, I mean, saying they're going to lose their jobs, the ABC Studios are going to be bombed, they're going to be off the air. But it's such a self-centered a concern that has no basis in fact. What are they being protected from?
WATTERS: They don't look young enough to play high school sports. So, as far as I'm concerned, I don't know exactly how the Trump Administration can do anything. You can be trans in America. You can dress like that. You can act like that. As far as I know the trans regulations only involve the military and involve sports. Everything else they can still do exactly the same.
I have to say the guy or the girl in the leather jacket was hysterical, and I'm not anti-trans. Some of these people are great. This person is hilarious. I want to get to know them. I would have a drink with that person, man, woman, whatever she is -- he is. But it is kind of funny that the left just got bushwacked last November and America was like we're done with this.
And the Democrats have come out and asked for reparations. They have trans sanctuary cities now. And they're basically trying to recapture that late 60s revolutionary spirit where it's a bunch of singing and dancing and swearing. This is not a civil rights movement. This is just -- we don't want DEI and we want everybody to stick to their bathrooms. Once the left gets over that, I think we can get along.
PIRRO: You know, Harold, apparently there's some talk of they're getting the locals to resist in enforcing laws from other states that criminalize health care on gender affirming care. But that's for kids.
FORD JR.: So, I think that's -- as I've read through this earlier today and reading through it again, that seems to be the most powerful part of it in terms of the resolution, in terms of what this -- the kind of protections that it may give people. However, it's a nonbinding. It has no legal binding power. It's more of a declaration --
PIRRO: Right.
FORD JR.: -- it sounds like from the city. I agree a lot of things what Jesse just said there about -- I have no issue with anyone exercising their freedom and exercising their sexual preference. I think the issue for a lot of Americans was whether or not men would become women and compete against women in sports and go in the bathrooms. I think there was a safety -- a public safety and other concerns.
Again, I feel terrible that someone feels the way that this person does and had to had to share that. And as crazy as this may sound, I think it might even behoove the president, our president to say what you just said which is this is what I was trying to do. I can differ with your lifestyle but you have freedom to live your life the way you want to live. But what I don't want is for men to be going into women's bathrooms, the little boys to go to little girls' bathrooms, and boys to be playing sports with the little girls.
That's my opposition to it and it's unfortunate they had to do this, but I don't quite understand the amount of -- the amount of time because it's a legally -- it's not a leg binding resolution.
PIRRO: What do you think, Greg?
GUTFELD: Harold, you're acting like this is real. This is not real.
FORD JR.: Well --
GUTFELD: This is -- no, hear me out here. Imagine that this had nothing to do with sex and it was a group of people maintaining that they want their healthy limbs removed. Would you sit there and have the same -- apply the same kind of logic. You know, maybe we should like -- you don't have to listen to this. The only fear that you are experiencing is the city council terrified of them.
There is no fear among them. All that was performative. I'm shaking right now. That is fake. You know what? If they did not even go to this, no one would care. They would not know who these people are. But they can't live their lives where there is no attention. They cannot live in obscurity like the rest of us. They crave this chaos. The idea that somebody is targeting them is what they get off of.
These people are not trans, they are trans activists. They are melodrama queens. And the and the council just indulges this to save their own skin. And it's kind of sad because a lot -- the sad part about it is a lot of these people are mentally ill. They will not find no joy in life because they're separated from the idea of mental health. The prism that they operate their life in will never lead them to a good place because everything they think is wrong. And you indulge them by looking at them as a block of people when in fact they're very troubled, you feed their attention.
Imagine if they weren't there. We wouldn't even have this segment. That would hurt them more if we didn't have this segment.
WATTERS: I'm glad we had this segment.
GUTFELD: Well, good for you, Jesse.
WATTERS: I want to give them a lot of attention.
PIRRO: I like -- I like Michael Jackson. Ahead, are factories just a boys' club? One Democrat is convinced.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. JAN SCHAKOWSKY (D-IL): I'm just wondering if just the name man manufacturing sounds like a guy.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
FORD JR.: Is the word manufacturing too manly? Democratic Lawmaker Jan Schakowsky apparently -- from Illinois -- apparently thinks so.
WATTERS: Is that gay porn?
FORD JR.: Seriously --
WATTERS: Why did they use that photo?
FORD JR.: Did you --
WATTERS: That guy was all greased up.
GUTFELD: Well --
WATTERS: Wait --
FORD JR.: That's --
WATTERS: Is he on a porn shoot?
PIRRO: He's a manufacturer.
GUTFELD: You're derailing the segment.
WATTERS: It was already derailed.
FORD JR.: So, you think manufacturing, does that make you think of guys?
WATTERS: Now it does.
PIRRO: Well, that woman is a congressman. She doesn't know man, it's a derivative of Latin that means hand. And feci means to do or to make by hand. That's manufacturing. But you know, she thinks is as man, that it only applies to men. Like, how about menstrual cycle? Does that only apply to men? Well, maybe today. Who knows?
FORD JR.: That was one of your better answers. I mean, that was --
PIRRO: Thank you, Harold.
FORD JR.: D.P., what are your thoughts on this?
PERINO: Well, she is elected member of Congress and a woman. She should be a role model for other women. She should know better. I don't like it when people say you're better than this, but surely hopefully, you are better than this. But I guess she's also saying that women couldn't work in a nut factory.
FORD JR.: Oh, gosh.
WATTERS: Dana.
PIRRO: Well, that's good, Dana.
GUTFELD: Disgusting.
FORD JR.: Mr. Exclamation Point, what are your thoughts on this? Does this make you think --
GUTFELD: Well, I'm kind of with Dan on this. I mean, aren't old people supposed to have a little bit of wisdom? I would expect that from like an AOC or somebody in college, but she's like 100. She should be able to like -- and also, it's like --
PIRRO: She's probably my age.
GUTFELD: 93 percent of all fatal occupational injuries are male. That's since 2011. So, men build things, and they will die building them. Maybe women don't do this, and it has nothing to do with the word but the fact that you croak.
FORD JR.: Yes.
WATTERS: Isn't that they lack the upper body strength to build things?
GUTFELD: I didn't say that, Jesse. Maybe you said that because you're sexist.
WATTERS: Is it your engineering brains? Is that what you're saying, Greg?
PIRRO: Go ahead.
FORD JR.: Just for the record. The CEO of Siemens, the CEO of GM, they're all women. So --
GUTFELD: What did you say Siemens?
FORD JR.: The CEO of -- these are -- these are manufacturing --
GUTFELD: Semen?
PIRRO: Siemens.
GUTFELD: Siemens -- that seems like a lot.
FORD JR.: -- big manufacturing companies. "ONE MORE THING" -- "ONE MORE THING" is up next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
PERINO: It's time now for "ONE MORE THING." Greg?
GUTFELD: Tonight, we got Michele Tafoya, Rich Vos, Timpf, and Tyrus. That's tonight 10:00. Let's do this. Greg's Sloth News. You know, there's nothing more adorable than a sloth unless it's a sloth with hiccups. Look at this little guy with hiccups. Probably --
PERINO: Is it slow?
GUTFELD: Yes.
PERINO: Oh, that looks painful.
GUTFELD: Yes, it's tough for them, you know. That's Juno by the name.
PERINO: Oh, my God.
GUTFELD: Two-toed sloth at the Cincinnati Zoo and Botanical Gardens obviously had too much to drink last night.
PERINO: Oh, he's got little gas.
GUTFELD: All right.
PERINO: Jesse.
WATTERS: How does a sloth do a shot?
GUTFELD: I don't know.
PERINO: Did you see the sloth commercial on the Super Bowl?
GUTFELD: Yes, I did.
WATTERS: The Watters family just got a little bit bigger. We have a new dog.
FORD JR.: Look at there.
WATTERS: The name is Coco.
GUTFELD: Coco.
WATTERS: She's a cockapoo. That's a cross between a Cocker Spaniel and the Poodle. And --
PERINO: And you're thrilled.
GUTFELD: I can tell.
WATTERS: I am psyched. No, I'm psyched.
FORD JR.: We can tell.
WATTERS: I'm really excited about it.
GUTFELD: Who's potty-training it?
WATTERS: You are.
GUTFELD: Oh, great.
PIRRO: All right. My -- are we ready. I got to say this. My new special, "SUBWAY JUSTICE," just dropped today on Fox Nation. I dive into New York City's most sensational self-defense trials. Bernie Goetz, the subway vigilante of 84, and Daniel Penny whom you all know. Both cases amazingly ended up in the same courthouse and although the Goetz precedent was used by the Penny lawyers in his defense. It's fascinating.
PERINO: That's it for us. Have a great night!

Load-Date: February 14, 2025


End of Document
