




Fox News INGRAHAM ANGLE 7:00 PM EST
January 29, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6783 words
Byline: Laura Ingraham, Raymond Arroyo
Guests: Rand Paul, Max Lugavere, Alina Habba, Charles Marino, Jared Ross, David Sacks
Body


BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS HOST: Remember, if you can't catch us live, set your DVR, 06:00 p.m. in the East, 03:00 p.m. on the West Coast. Thank you for inviting us into your home tonight. That's it for this Special Report. Fair, balanced, and still unafraid. The Ingraham Angle is next.
LAURA INGRAHAM, FOX NEWS HOST: Good evening, everyone. I'm Laura Ingraham. This is The Ingraham Angle from Washington tonight. As always, thank you so much for joining us. All right, this is a Fox News alert, Donald Trump gets his first legislative win. It's a law that requires criminal illegal aliens to be detained.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: In a few moments, the Laken Riley Act will become the very first bill that I proudly sign into law as the 47th President of the United States.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Awesome moment. And Laken Riley's mom was there, who was a tearjerker today. Plus, what's got up Chuck Schumer so hot and bothered?
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): Donald Trump with his cruel policy has aroused the American people.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: And Trump re-homes illegals.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: You have 30,000 beds in Guantanamo to detain the worst criminal illegal aliens threatening the American people.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Now, where did I hear that suggestion? We're going to have more on that in moments. But first, MAHA takes Capitol Hill. That's the focus of tonight's Angle.
First, he laid out the facts.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ROBERT KENNEDY JR., HHS SECRETARY NOMINEE: My uncle was president, 3 percent of Americans were obese. Today, 74 percent of Americans are obese or overweight. No other country has anything like this. In Japan, the obesity rate is still 3 percent. And epidemics are not caused by genes. Genes may provide the vulnerability, but you need environmental toxin. Something is poisoning the American people.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: A compellingly accurate opening statement by Trump's HHS Secretary nominee, RFK Jr. Now we can save countless lives and save billions in health care costs if we focus on Americans health before they get sick. And sick, they are. Now beyond the obvious scourge of obesity that he referenced there. According to the latest figures, more than 38 million Americans have diabetes. That's about one in 10 and about 90 percent to 95 percent have Type 2 diabetes, depression, that's been soaring, reaching new highs, nearly 29 percent. Cancer is the second leading cause of death in the U.S., exceeded only by heart disease. One in every five deaths in the U.S. is due to cancer.
Now these numbers and especially types of cancers that haven't really been hitting young people to the extent that they are now, it's heartbreaking. Now, much of this we're going to learn is entirely preventable. RFK Jr wants Americans to get back to basics, and he brushed off kind of the anti- vaxxer accusation pretty well, but Democrats, they never let the facts get in the way of a good smear operation.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The receipts show that Mr. Kennedy has embraced conspiracy theories, quacks, charlatans. This is the profile of someone who chases money and influence wherever they lead, even if that may mean the tragic deaths of children.
SEN. MICHAEL BENNET (D-CO): This is a job where it is life and death for the kids that I used to work for in the Denver Public Schools. It's too important for the games that you're playing.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: And the Oscar for Best Actor in a political drama goes to Michael Bennet. Now seriously, if one had to diagnose the condition afflicting today's Democrat Party, what would it be? Because their minority status and President Trump's popularity, it's triggered their acute political psychosis.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Mr. Kennedy has questioned the scientific basis for germs causing disease and the power of vaccines and antibiotics.
KENNEDY JR.: I never questioned that, Senator.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Well, I will submit that for the record.
KENNEDY JR.: Senator, you're asking me not to serve vaccine for --
SEN. ELIZABETH WARREN (D-MA): No, I am not.
KENNEDY JR.: And you are. That's exactly what you're doing.
WARREN: No, look, no one should be fooled here.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (I-VT): Are you supportive of these ones?
KENNEDY JR.: I'm supportive of vaccines.
SANDERS: Are you supportive of this clothing which is militantly antivaccine?
KENNEDY JR.: I am supportive of vaccines.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Bernie Sanders actually had him on my radio in my car today that I think that blew my speaker on the passenger side, it's just more ALH, angry liberal hyperbole.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The head of the HHS must believe in science and believe the experts.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The first 100 people you'd find would be less dangerous at the head of HHS than Robert F. Kennedy Jr.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: RFK Jr. wants to conduct the Tuskegee experiments on all of us. I truly believe that if he runs HHS, that millions will die.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Democrats, colon, millions will die. Look, the Democrats, they're in a quandary here, because after years of claiming the mantle of the health care protectors, they're now scrambling to take down the nomination of a true health care crusader, RFK Jr.
Plus, let's face it, a party that holds a sacrosanct the genital mutilation of children and the in utero mutilation of babies has zero credibility on protecting health and saving lives, and I'm not even raising the COVID issue.
Now, to be clear, RFK Jr. is certainly not a conservative, not in a lot of the issues that I care about, and he's never run a big institution before, but since when has that ever bothered Democrats before in cabinet picks? Can anyone say Mayor Pete, oh, South Bend is big, though. And what RFK Jr. lacks in managerial experience, he makes up for with an unwavering dedication to improving America's spiraling health with more common sense approaches. Now that alone has helped galvanize millions of Americans into the MAHA movement, Make America Healthy Again movement, and those people wonder why a country so rich with so many experts can be so unhealthy.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What's at stake is American health. We can either continue along the path that we've been on, or we can go a different way, and that the way that RFK Jr. is proposing is that we actually get to the root causes of this chronic disease epidemic that we're seeing that's impacting our children.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It's unfortunate that this has become such a political issue because RFK has been appointed by Trump. There is a vast majority of Americans that want to see serious change in health. And I think RFK really helped want him to make it easier for parents to shop for their families.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Yes, parents want answers. They don't want more obfuscation. So industry experts, lobbyists that make huge money, and they're paid by Big Pharma and Big Food, and of course, our own government have all failed us in the health care arena. So it's time for a fresh start, and that's the Angle.
Joining me now, Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky. Senator, long time, no see, it's so good to see you --
SEN. RAND PAUL (R-KY): Thanks for having me.
INGRAHAM: -- in your is that a down? Is that a heated vest that you're wearing? I just want ask that.
PAUL: Well, no, it is winter. It is winter, Laura. I mean and I've just come in from killing deer for my dinner, skin the (inaudible) --
INGRAHAM: Got it.
PAUL: -- being the great hunter than I am.
INGRAHAM: Perfect. I was just wondering, just checking. Senator, I don't know if you caught, you know, caught some of the out of hearing hyperbole today about RFK Jr., but does he have a chance of convincing any of the Democrats who scolded him today?
PAUL: You know, I had hoped so. But, you know, what's so disappointing is, RFK spent probably 30 years of his life cleaning up the Hudson River. It's a big deal. I mean, he should be part of his, you know, memory and his biography is for having been a great environmentalist. And not one of them complimented him on that. Not one of them gave him a break for spending a lot of his career doing that.
Instead, it was sort of, oh, we know the science. Well, not one of them has a degree in science. You know, they've got, like, public education or public policy. Not one of them is a scientist, and yet they want to say he's not following the science, when all he's asked for, really is transparency. He just wants the science to show the facts, but we should have it without the presupposition of the conclusion. And that's been the problem with science in recent years is they start with a conclusion, then they look for facts to match the conclusion, and it hasn't been objective.
INGRAHAM: Well, Senator, Bernie Sanders asked RFK Jr. a question that we hear a lot from progressives. I guess he couldn't come up with a new one. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SANDERS: Health care a human right, is health care a human right?
KENNEDY JR.: In the way that free speech is human right.
SANDERS: Yes.
KENNEDY JR.: I would say it's different, because if -- with free speech doesn't cost anybody anything, but in health care, if you smoke cigarettes for 20 years and you get cancer, do you --
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: What are your thoughts on his answer there?
PAUL: Well, you know, I've had this debate with Bernie before. We've been debating this for 10 years. And I try to explain to Bernie, there is a difference between a right and an obligation. As a Christian, I have an obligation to help my fellow man and to provide health care. As a physician, I have an obligation through the Hippocratic oath and also through my use of the hospital. The hospital asked me to treat people for free in the ER in exchange for the privilege of being a doctor at that hospital. But those are obligations.
But a right implies that someone can knock on my door and say, hey, I want free cataract surgery because I have a right to health care. No one really has a right to someone else's service, and he doesn't quite understand this, and they misinterpret it to mean that we're somehow mean or selfish. No, I've traveled the world helping people and removing cataracts for free, but I do it as something I voluntarily and I feel good about because I chose to do it. But if someone made me do it, then it wouldn't be charity anymore, and it wouldn't be of any kind of source of -- or resource for you for the soul. It just wouldn't be the same. And he doesn't understand the difference between charity and taxing or coercing somebody to do something.
INGRAHAM: Being up there now with the Republicans (sic) [Democrats] in the majority, can you just take us behind the scenes a little bit, Senator, on what the mood is like with your colleagues across the aisle? Are they in need of help? I mean, should we send fruit baskets only organic of course?
PAUL: Well, you mentioned in your opening about depression, oh my goodness, there's some serious depression. There's some scowls, there's some petulance. They're all so upset that they're protesting against Department of Interior, the Secretary of Department of Interior, they're going to stop them or commerce. No, they're just being petulant, and they have been so defeated. But the one thing I've noticed in the last 100 executive orders that have come out, I don't see a lot of people protesting in Boston when they arrest murderers, rapists, thugs, assailants, and say you're leaving the country and put them on a plane.
The whole thing with Colombia having the president there back down and take the people that he was obligated to take by treaty, was a huge victory, not only for our country, but for the rule of law. So I see so many victories coming down that I think the Democrats are going to need some kind of intervention. And I'm willing to sit with them and hold hands and try to make them feel better about their losses. But the American people, I think, are with us.
INGRAHAM: Yes, you help remove cataracts. You do that out of your Christian charity, and you can help remove depression and anxiety. Is there nothing you won't volunteer to do out of the goodness of your heart, Senator, it's great to see you.
PAUL: I am up for Humanitarian of the Year.
INGRAHAM: True.
PAUL: I'm just joking. I'm just joking. The one thing that is that I would say in conclusion about RFK is that the biggest problem we face in our country is too much food, and it is obesity, and it is diabetes. You said 38 million people with diabetes in your opening that's 10 percent of our country. That's an enormous number, and that's all curable. Weight loss cures 70 percent to 80 percent of Type 2 diabetes, amazing, and somebody needs to talk about it.
INGRAHAM: You bet, Senator as always, thank you very much. And if RFK Jr. does get through the committee and is confirmed to his role as HHS Secretary, what should he realistically try to do in that role to actually make America healthy again? To answer that question, we're joined by Max Lugavere, Health and Science Journalist. Max, so if he's confirmed, what should be his first move?
MAX LUGAVERE, HEALTH AND SCIENCE JOURNALIST: Oh, man, it's a great -- it's a great question. I think, you know, rooting out the conflicts of interest in our regulatory agencies. You know, most people don't realize this, but almost 50 percent of the FDA's budget comes from the drug industry, the pharmaceutical industry, the industry that it was tasked to regulate. And then there's the revolving door concept, which we often talk about, whereby you know, high level officers at the FDA, one year, will be regulating the pharmaceutical industry. In the next year, they'll have cushy jobs within that industry. The USDA is no different.
I mean, the USDA, the Dietary Guidelines for Americans Committee, the committee that literally tells Americans how they should be eating for better health, preventative health. Almost 50 percent of the committee members on this year's committee have ties with the pharmaceutical industry, the industrially ultra-processed food industry, it's a huge problem.
I also, personally would really like to see ultra-processed foods, which now dominate the American diet, 60 percent of the calories than your average American consume comes --
INGRAHAM: 100 percent.
LUGAVERE: -- from these ultra-processed foods. Yes, I think they should be barred from being able to make health claims. The healthiest foods in the supermarket, the foods around the perimeter of the supermarket don't need to make health claims. It's all of the junk foods, essentially that are adorned with, for example, the red heart healthy logo. I think that's a crime. It's very misleading.
INGRAHAM: Well, that was brought up today at the hearing and one of the senators said, well, that's, you know, basically, that's well and good, but that's the Department of Agriculture. That's not what you're doing at HHS and kind of didn't brush it off completely, but that was kind of where they went with that. Now, RFK also brought up some problems facing kids, and the numbers from the CDC are just -- these are crazy. One in five children now in adolescents are obese. One in 36 have been identified with autism spectrum disorder.
But in 2000, that number was one in 150. I mean that what is going on? I mean we need; we need scientific answers to these questions.
LUGAVERE: Yes. And these are the -- these are precisely the questions that I think we ought to be asking, rather than sweeping them under the rug or self-censoring or suppressing or altogether silencing critics of the fact that the vaccine schedule now requires 72 doses for children before they turn 18. I mean, it's just crazy to me that we're not even allowed to ask these questions, and we're labeled conspiracy theorists when we do. It's not a conspiracy theory to compare what we're doing here in this country with what is regularly occurring, you know, in other countries, the fact that in other countries, for example, in Europe, they take a more precautionary approach with the food additives and the vaccine schedules and the like.
RFK, I mean, he said he's not anti-vaccine, nor am I, nor are is anybody who's pro-science as he is, as I am, but these are precisely the questions I think we ought to be asking. I think we have a historic opportunity at this juncture to ask them.
INGRAHAM: Well, this is an exciting time, and parents want answers, and our country has got to get more healthy. Period. For our own survival. Max, thank you so much. We'll have you back. And the Democrats resistance, yes, it's creeping back, even if Rand Paul says they're really depressed, how will Trump respond? Alina Habba is here next with answers.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SCHUMER: In one instant, in the blink of an eye, in the dark of night, Donald Trump committed one of the cruelest actions that I have seen the federal government do in a very long time, cutting off, shutting off billions, maybe trillions of dollars, things that average American families need.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: OK, this is it. Democrats think they found their resistance legs, a little wobbly, but they think they found them here because of that OMB memo, that order that paused certain federal grants that the White House thinks may be inconsistent with the Trump agenda. OK, so then it meant meals on wheels. It meant head start. It meant welfare benefits. Everyone was freaking out, and as a result, the White House decided to rescind the memo and offer further clarification. But did they open the door to this criticism?
Joining me now is Alina Habba, Counselor to President Trump. Alina, well, they think you guys opened the door by putting out a general memo without the specificity. But where does this stand tonight?
ALINA HABBA, COUNSELOR TO PRESIDENT TRUMP: So, I'm happy you asked me about this. The OMB rescinded their memo. Their memo was what caused confusion, and I understand that, but the President's freeze is something he stands by. And that is why we have entities like DOGE. That's why we're canceling entities like DEI. We're stopping all of the CRT, the Green New Deal, and all the garbage that the last administration, frankly, left us with.
Now to stop that we have to pause, and the pause, as we've said 100 times over, is not going to affect Americans that deserve this assistance, Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, but this is the Left-wing's narrative, Laura. We're used to it, and none other than Chuck Schumer himself to pick. I mean, they could have picked a new person, but, you know, they're old games, old tricks, same old people, and we heard from them, and that's what they're trying to do, fear-mongering as usual.
But no, the freeze is in place. But what we are doing is examining how we're spending taxpayer money, and we're doing what the responsible thing to do is, instead of frivolously throwing money around as if it's not our own.
INGRAHAM: All right. Well, I worked in the White House eons ago, OK? And I know how these, you know, these memos can get written and rewritten. They get drafted, redrafted,
HABBA: Yes.
INGRAHAM: But how does that happen when an OMB memo goes out that that obviously left the door open for this confusion, because clearly, it's vetted by the White House Counsel's Office. It's read over by multiple people. So do you have any idea how that happened? Because then it leaves it to people like you who have to, you know, kind of clean it up.
HABBA: Answer the questions. Look, the truth is, we've been really clear on what it is and what the President wanted to do, and that is still standing. We have not changed the President's directive. We are going to have a freeze. Yes, do I think that there was obviously an OMB memo that they had to rescind to clarify? Sure, but don't forget that the reason we had to do that is because the Left-wing media spun it so much and put it in front of a judge who was clearly trying to make a platform for himself politically.
So now we're doing this to avoid that nonsense and have the American people get what they voted for on November 5th, which is a clear mandate that swept the entire country, and that was to put America first and stop spending stupid money.
INGRAHAM: Now, billions and billions going out the door for ridiculous programs that never should have been funded --
HABBA: 50 million, Laura --
INGRAHAM: It's a joke.
HABBA: 50 million towards condoms in Gaza for Hamas, it's absurd. That's what we've stopped, and we stand by those decisions, and President Trump made the right decisions, and we'll continue to dos so.
INGRAHAM: Lots of money to be saved. Now, the ladies on The View, Alina, have really important agenda items to talk about, like this one.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
WHOOPI GOLDBERG, THE VIEW CO-HOST: She said there will be no wokeness here. Let me explain something to you, because without that wokeness, you might not have that job.
JOY BEHAR, THE VIEW CO-HOST: I think she's probably been put in there because, according to Donald Trump, she's a 10.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: So they're sniping at Karoline Leavitt, who did a just bang up job in her first day in the briefing room. Does this surprise you? Women, Mean Girls thing, I guess that's what we come to expect.
HABBA: You know what's confusing about this, Laura, and you and I support each other as strong women with voices in America. And I will say this, I thought that the Left-wing media, I thought the liberal agenda was that we're supposed to break glass ceilings that we're supposed to support each other and lift each other up. Karoline Leavitt is overqualified, brilliant, and was well-versed and ready. She answered every question. She didn't need a thick binder, whoopie, sorry. Unlike our last press secretary who was put in there for DIE reasons, DEI reasons.
Karoline Leavitt was a part of our team during the campaign. She was a spokesperson. She did tremendous job, and it is very clear that what she did on her first day, she will only continue to grow and be amazing further. So I think the hateful messages from The View are exactly why we won the election. They're part of it. And I want to thank them for handing us the White House.
INGRAHAM: Yes, girl power. So much for girl power. It's only -- it only goes one way. If you believe in their views on all these hot button issues, then you get celebrated. Other than that, you're out of luck. Alina, thank you so much. Great to see you tonight.
HABBA: Great to see you, Laura.
INGRAHAM: And for years, non-governmental organizations have been raking in big, big money profiting off of illegal immigration. Now, the free press recently found three of the most prominent NGOs include global refuge, Southwest Key programs and Endeavors, Inc. They saw their combined revenue grow from 597 million back in 2019 to 2 billion by 2022, that was the last number available. Last year, available.
Now the CEOs of these companies all are making over $500,000 a year, and one CEO of Southwest Key programs is making over a million dollars a year. So realize this, under the Biden administration, you are unknowingly subsidizing the killing of Americans, the overwhelming of our country by illegals, obviously the drugs, the human trafficking, all of it. We end up subsidizing it through these NGOs. Well, luckily, President Trump, he's putting it to an end.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Today, we are announcing that we have stopped all grant funding that's being abused by NGOs to facilitate illegal immigration into this country. We're not spending another dime to help the destruction of this country.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Joining me now, Charles Marino, former DHS Senior Advisor. Charles, we at the Angle, have been reporting on this for many years, focusing primarily on Catholic charities and Lutheran services, but there are so many others across the country that are making so much money off the illegal immigration crisis. What do people need to know about these so- called charitable efforts?
CHARLES MARINO, FORMER DHS SENIOR ADVISOR: Well, what they need to know is the role that they've been playing the past four years, at the request of the Biden administration, specifically with the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Health and Human Services. And that was, they were facilitating the largest human trafficking operation in the United States. They may have well been working directly for the Mexican cartels. Let's also remember that 350,000 missing unaccompanied minors were facilitated by these NGOs. There should be outrage here, not only from the American people, but by Congress. There needs to be an investigation forthwith to bring these CEOs to Congress and find out exactly what was going on.
But for the American taxpayer to have to send billions of dollars to these NGOs to facilitate the entry of illegals into this country, to include criminals and terrorists is unacceptable.
INGRAHAM: Now, and I know Cardinal Dolan in New York was upset with J.D. Vance because he called out Catholic charities, and he's a practicing Catholic, but, I mean, you got to, you got to call this what it is, correct, Charles. I mean, I mean -- no one wants to criticize Catholic charities, but you can't be facilitating illegal immigration.
MARINO: Well, especially when these charities are setting up operations south of the border in Mexico and along the path of migration to educate these illegal migrants on how to gain entry into the United States.
INGRAHAM: Yes, the comic books.
MARINO: What are we doing here? What are we doing here?
INGRAHAM: Well, President Trump's going to put an end to this madness, and it's about time. It's been going on for decades frankly. Charles, thank you. Now, Trump tries to stop the Left's gender mutilation complex, but the radicals are refusing to give in.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNKNOWN: He was admitted to a psychiatric hospital as a suicide risk. After diagnosis and medications, our son began to recover.
UNKNOWN: They will be bullied. They will have no one to turn to, and they will feel betrayed.
UNKNOWN: As a lifelong Kansan and a transgender person, the very care this bill attacks is the reason I'm alive. My time as a school social work intern put me in contact with dozens of kids and teens. The relationships we had were so valuable because of how few adults they could trust. Impaired relationships with children, drives them to self-harming behaviors, including suicide.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Now, sick gender radicals, they want your kids. They want their minds, and they want their bodies. The ranks of mutilated and transitioned children is growing exponentially, courtesy of the booming industry of so- called gender-affirming care.
Now, this means big money, and I mean big money for hospitals that perform these gruesome and godless procedures. The advocacy group, Do No Harm, has a searchable database that maps providers and hospitals providing gender- affirming care.
Now, prestigious hospitals such as Boston Children's Hospital and Children's National Medical Center made the site's dirty dozen list of the 12 worst offending children's hospitals that promote these sex change treatments for minors.
Thank the good Lord for President Trump and his executive order banning the procedure and any institutions that receive federal funding.
Joining me now is Dr. Jared Ross, Senior Fellow at the Do No Harm Medical Advocacy Group. Dr. Ross, will this executive order really put a halt to these, you know, life-altering surgeries and treatments that have done so much harm to so many kids?
DR. JARED ROSS, DO NO HARM SENIOR FELLOW: Laura, we're thrilled with this executive order. This is a great start and lays the groundwork to completely abolish these barbaric practices, these so-called child sex change procedures.
INGRAHAM: Now, what happens in these hospitals that results in such a huge influx of money? And is it resulting from the way insurances build? Because it is a really lucrative industry, much more lucrative than just run-of- the-mill, you know, tonsillectomies or, you know, arthroscopic procedures. And that apparently has just really pushed these procedures through the roof in numbers.
ROSS: Laura, what these activists are doing is they're taking vulnerable children and their parents and turning them into lifelong patients. These children require lifelong medications, hormones, surgeries, revisions on those surgeries. So, this is incredibly profitable for them.
INGRAHAM: Now, Kansas is considering a bill that would ban any type of transition treatment for minors. And one of the mothers spoke out at this town hall against the legislation. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNKNOWN: Two of my children are receiving gender-affirming care. My son has always been the happiest child I've ever known. When he was 10 in fourth grade, that all changed. We discovered cuts on his arms and legs. The school called me and said that they could no longer keep him safe.
He was admitted to a psychiatric hospital as a suicide risk. After diagnosis and medications, our son began to recover.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Dr. Ross, given your experience here, is that -- she's a concerned mother with blue hair or whatever?
ROSS: This is -- the suicide myth that we continue to hear about, you know, we've thoroughly debunked this. It's unfortunate that children are used to manipulate parents into doing these procedures. But this is a child who's suffering, clearly suffering, from a severe mental illness.
Selling them this false bill of goods, changing their name, their pronouns, their hair color, injecting them full of hormones, and cutting off body parts will fix those problems, is a complete lie.
INGRAHAM: Well, it's demonic. That's what I'm going to call it. It's just demonic, the whole thing. It's just, I can't believe this is even happening in the United States. Doctor, thank you.
All right, when we come back, RFK's family turns on him, and the fashion world turns on Melania. Raymond Arroyo's back. He has it all. Seen and Unseen is next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
INGRAHAM: It's time for Seen and Unseen, where we reveal the stories behind the headlines. And for that, we turn to Fox News contributor Raymond Arroyo. All right, Raymond, you saw in the Angle how vicious the Democrats were to RFK Jr. today.
RAYMOND ARROYO, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Laura, I did see that. But you know what's more cruel? I thought it was the way his family treated him. This is his cousin, Caroline Kennedy, and her son, JFK's grandson. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNKNOWN: It's no surprise that he keeps birds of prey as pets, because Bobby himself is a predator. Bobby has gone on to misrepresent, lie, and cheat his way through life.
UNKNOWN: Hey, everybody. I'm trying to figure out the right present to get Donald Trump for the inauguration. So, I found a really rare animal and killed it, and I'm going to give it to him.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
ARROYO: This is horrible, Laura. I mean, to make fun of RFK Jr.'s spasmodic dysphonia, which is, you know, that condition he struggles with, is really pathetic. And he's so magnanimous to the family.
When we interviewed him in the past, Laura, he was always saying, look, I have a big family. We all disagree, but we come together to use this family, the family skeletons, and to take them out for ideological purposes. That's what holidays are for. Keep it in private. Fight in private. I thought this was unseemly.
INGRAHAM: What did the Godfather say? Never speak against the family.
ARROYO: Yeah, exactly. But look, something's obviously in the water, Laura, over there in D.C., so don't turn your tap on. Listen to Chuck Schumer trying to create his own Randy Word of the Day.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
UNKNOWN: Donald Trump, with his cruel policy, has aroused the American people. People are aroused. I haven't seen people so aroused in a very, very long time in terms of going, trying to get this done.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
ARROYO: People are aroused. Laura, there's a reoccurring theme here with Schumer. Every time he talks about Donald Trump, he's aroused. Remember the Senate floor speech from 2021? I do.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNKNOWN: Senators will have to decide if they believe Donald John Trump incited the erection, insurrection, against the United States.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
ARROYO: I wish he knew how to quit him, Laura. It's a problem there.
INGRAHAM: But seeing him in the Rotunda for the swearing-in, he just looked like a broken man. I mean, he was broken and kind of dragging himself in there. I mean, again, you know, time to retire.
ARROYO: He's aroused. And look, over at Vogue, rather than feature the first lady, a former model on their cover, they've decided to play mean girls and attack her official portrait, this one. Now, Vogue writes, the choice to wear a tuxedo as opposed to a blazer or blouse made Trump look like a freelance magician than a public servant.
It's perhaps unsurprising that a woman who lived in a gold-encrusted penthouse whose fame is so intertwined with reality television would refuse to abandon theatrics.
What is she supposed to wear, Laura? Overalls? It's a Dolce & Gabbana tuxedo, for goodness sake. It screams, we're all business and we don't care what you say anymore.
INGRAHAM: You know what I love about what Melania is doing with her fashion, is it's her fashion. It's her choice. It's her authentic fashion message. Whatever that is to her. I love it. She doesn't care. Maybe she should wear really thick, you know, thick black sunglasses and like oversized sunglasses and then she'll just have it made. You know, no offense to anyone.
ARROYO: And Laura, for those with a cultural memory, the Melania portrait is clearly an homage to Terry O'Neill who photographed all the James Bond actors. That was the first thought I had when I saw this.
And just a historical point, Michelle Obama got a cover. Jill Biden got a cover. Kamala Harris got two covers and she was neither a first lady nor a president. In 130 years, Vogue has never featured a Republican first lady on its cover. That seems just wrong.
INGRAHAM: Just cementing the rather irrelevant nature of all of this at this point. Raymond, and I won't be happy with this segment. Thank you, Raymond. And ahead, a wake-up call about China's plan to dominate, yeah, the world. Trump's A.I.'s czar, crypto czar, David Sacks joins us next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNKNOWN: Nvidia getting crushed along with other chip and A.I. related names, logging the worst single day market cap loss ever, around $600 billion.
UNKNOWN: Stock futures are down sharply this morning amid fears of an A.I. stock bubble burst after the news of Chinese artificial intelligence startup, DeepSeek, releasing an open source A.I. model.
UNKNOWN: I think the Chinese companies are catching up very fast. I think that's the point. I would say that we haven't lost our leadership here.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Move over TikTok because there's now another Chinese tech firm raising national security and competitiveness concerns. Now, if you go in the app store on your iPhone right now, you're going to see that the top downloaded app is from a company called DeepSeek.
Now, DeepSeek is an A.I. chat box company whose founders claim is cheaper to develop, their technology. It's more energy efficient. It uses less data than American A.I. firm such as Chat GPT and Open A.I.
And even Open A.I. CEO, Sam Altman, is calling DeepSeek, quote, "an impressive model, particularly around what they're able to deliver for the price." But of course, the CCP looms over all Chinese businesses, which means data stealing and censorship is ever present.
Now, for instance, when you ask DeepSeek what happened during the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests, it answers, sorry, that's beyond my current scope. Let's talk about something else. That's not good.
And now the meteoric rise of a communist aligned A.I. firm has President Trump's attention.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DOANLD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: The release of DeepSeek A.I. from a Chinese company should be a wake-up call for our industries that we need to be laser focused on competing to win, because we have the greatest scientists in the world.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Joining us now is Trump's A.I. and crypto czar, our old friend, David Sacks. David, great to see you. Now in an email, David, the Navy has warned some members against using DeepSeek. Given the Navy's A.I. policy, should any government official be downloading that app tonight?
DAVID SACKS, TRUMP'S A.I. AND CRYPTO CZAR: Well, I think it's probably prudent not to. I mean, you have to remember that any data that you enter into that app is going to go back to Chinese servers. So, you have to be a little bit careful if you're going to use that app. There are American versions of this.
So, the Chinese company DeepSeek open sourced their model. And so, if you want to use it as safe or try it, a safe way to do that would be to use an American company like Rock or Perplexity or Olama, and they have their own kind of safe hosted versions of it.
INGRAHAM: So, David, when you said in another interview that what you believe is that through a process called distillation, the DeepSeek guys kind of took the guts of what the folks at Open A.I. were doing, an American firm, and used it to develop their model in China, which is not quite as advanced, but it's moved pretty fast. Explain why that matters so much.
SACKS: Yeah, well, distillation is a technique that's been used in Silicon Valley among A.I. companies for a while. It's a way of training, you could call it a child model, based on a more sophisticated parent model. And so, what it would do is the child model would ask the parent model a bunch of questions, just like a real child would.
And in the case of A.I., the child model could literally ask millions of questions. And so, the child model learns to mimic the reasoning of the parent and it can kind of suck the knowledge out of that parent model.
Well, you know, it's one thing if a company like Open A.I. is using distillation to train its own models, but it's another thing when a third- party company like DeepSeek is potentially doing it because that would be IP theft. And, you know, I think this is a pretty, let's call it, open secret in Silicon Valley that distillation occurs.
About a month ago, there was a news cycle that didn't really get beyond Silicon Valley when DeepSeek released its v3 model. And what the stories at that time were reporting is that if you asked the DeepSeek v3 model, who are you? You know, what model are you? It would self-identify as ChatGPT.
In other words, it had been trained on so much ChatGPT output -- yeah, it would train on so much ChatGPT output that it believed it was ChatGPT. So, you know, I think distillation has been going on here for a while. And, you know, I think there was confirmation from Open A.I. and Microsoft today that they're at least investigating this possibility.
INGRAHAM: Scale to 1 to 10, how -- 10 being the most concerned, how concerned are you, as the White House A.I. czar, about China's leap into this arena?
SACKS: Well, I would say that before R1, most people here in Silicon Valley thought that we had about a 6 to 12-month lead in A.I. models over China. And I think most people would now say that that margin has now shrank to, let's call it, 3 to 6 months.
The R1 model is comparable to the O1 model that Open A.I. released four months ago. So that kind of gives you a sense. They're closing the gap. They're hot on our heels. And they're catching up very fast. And I think that should be concerning.
INGRAHAM: And, David, finally, when are we going to hear the announcement about the Bitcoin reserve from the Trump administration? Everyone's waiting for that. We got the study and the review. But the Bitcoin reserve, Texas is going to move forward.
It looks like with legislation Dan Patrick announced today, that's a big priority for them in Texas. But how about the Trump administration?
SACKS: Well, there's also a bill in the Senate. I think Cynthia Lummis from Wyoming has introduced a bill to create a national Bitcoin reserve. President Trump has asked us to study that issue, so we're just not ready to comment on it yet. But it's one of the things our working group is going to look at.
INGRAHAM: Can't wait. David, thank you so much for joining us. We really appreciate it. You made DeepSeek easy to understand.
All right. That's it for us tonight. Make sure to follow me on social media, not DeepSeek. And thank you for watching, as always. Remember, it is America now and forever, better than ever. Jesse Watters takes it from here.

Load-Date: January 30, 2025


End of Document
