




Fox News THE STORY WITH MARTHA MACCALLUM 3:00 PM EST
February 11, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6944 words
Byline: Martha MacCallum, Leslie Marshall, Kellyanne Conway, Jacqui Heinrich, Paul Mauro
Guests: Ted Cruz, Alina Habba, James Altucher, Rod Blagojevich
Body


MARTHA MACCALLUM, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Thank you very much, you guys. Good afternoon, everyone. I'm Martha MacCallum, and this is The Story.
Breaking right now, President Trump promised Marc Fogel's mother in Butler, Pennsylvania, that if he were elected, he would get her son out of prison, where he has been held in Russia for nearly three years. And that happened moments ago.
Marc Fogel, who is a school teacher, was detained in Russia since 2021, is now on a plane. We have a great picture of him, very happy on that plane on his way home, which we'll show you in a moment. He was helped by the special envoy to the Middle East, Steve Witkoff, who pretty much keeps pulling off what we did not see accomplished in the last administration. We're going to have more on Marc Fogel later this hour.
And also right now we have learned that President Trump will sign new executive orders at the White House where indeed we're seeing snow across that camera. And basically the goal of this executive order is to say that anything that is going on with DOGE in an effort to shrink the federal workforce is indeed the executive order of the president of the United States.
Now, Democrats have been protesting, reacting forcefully to everything that has been happening with regard to trying to cut some of the spending with $36 trillion in debt, remember. And now they're threatening that if this continues, they will consider shutting down the government. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. DONALD NORCROSS (D-NJ): I'm from Jersey. So, I look a little differently. I say (BLEEP) Trump.
REP. MAXINE DEXTER (D-OR): I don't swear in public very well, but we have to (BLEEP) Trump.
REP. MARK POCAN (D-WI): What they meant to say, (BLEEP) Donald Trump and Elon Musk.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: Wow, classy.
All right, Senator Ted Cruz is standing by. But first to Kellyanne Conway, former senior counselor to President Trump, now president of KAC Consulting, and Leslie Marshall, Democratic strategist. Both are Fox News contributors, and as I said, Senator Ted Cruz coming up in moments. Ladies, great to see both of you. I want to pull this up.
This is from Jerry Baker's editorial in The Wall Street Journal, as Democrats stand up for the bureaucrats against and against DOGE, he says it was a tableau for the ages. One example of the many strange battle lines the Democratic Party has chosen to defend the past few years, illegal immigrants over citizens, teachers unions over parents and children, criminals over victims, men turned women over girls. Good luck with that, Democrats, he writes. You may want to fire your pollsters.
Leslie, let me start with you, your reaction to the, you know, sort of vulgar language that was just used that you saw from Democrats who seem to be wanting to die on the hill of not cutting spending in Washington.
LESLIE MARSHALL, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Oh, I would disagree. I'm a Democrat. I want spending cut, but I don't want people who are in the middle of a medical trial who have medication in their body and could become very ill or die because of that type of a cut, when you're spending millions to send the president to the Super Bowl, when you have people that are not vetted properly, when you have people that don't have security detail, when you have people who are experts in computers rather than forensic accountants or CPAs looking to cut budgetary items and then which budgetary items. You want to cut fat, you want to cut pork. I and Democrats don't have a problem with that.
But we do have a problem when you're cutting programs that affect the healthcare for veterans as examples. And I could go on and on and take up the whole show with cuts that are going to hurt people, farmers that are going to be hurt in the Midwest.
MACCALLUM: Yes. But, Leslie, the issue is that Democrats have never wanted to cut anything. So, you know, they have never come forward in the way that we're seeing now. And, Kellyanne, let me let you weigh in here and answer Leslie's discussion here that they're cutting things that are hurting people. What do you say to that?
KELLYANNE CONWAY, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Well, that's what they want us to believe. They want to scare people instead of get the facts and actually help a little bit. Why not some bipartisan action, Leslie and Martha, on things that are so outrageous and egregious? No one can possibly rationally disagree. No one who doesn't have stage five Trumped derangement syndrome, which is everyone you just showed.
Leslie, I don't think you're a party looks good right now, and sometimes you just have to say, the away team is having a bad season.
We're going to regroup. You don't want to defend the indefensible. It is indefensible to say that we should be spending billions with a B on nonsense, on things that don't work anymore and never did, transgender parades here and spreading atheism in Nepal there. I think the people of Nepal, you need other things other than godlessness.
Look, you know that it has been going on in the last four years, I always disagree that people said, Joe Biden's not doing anything. I think he was doing a lot of harm across this world and in this country. But taking a woke agenda and exporting it to the world and asking all of us to pay for it. Ladies, I'm old at this point. I remember you're politically correct. You're politically incorrect. Ha, ha, we can go have a drink and laugh it off. Now, people are saying, excuse me, your wokeness is costing all of us money. You're putting dollar figures behind it.
Now, those Democrats, if they actually had chapter and verse, Martha, of people are being denied benefits and things that are going askew, we're all listening. I want to hear it. They're dropping F bombs that you have to censor on a 3:00 in the afternoon show. They're obsessed with Donald Trump and Elon Musk, who are only trying to do what Trump was elected to do, what we all want done, which is to make sure that our money as taxpayers is going to things that help Americans, that help around the world. We can help, but it can't be for all this nonsense and these wasteful programs.
MACCALLUM: Let me quickly play this from Joe Rogan with a warning that there's another F bomb in this one too. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOE ROGAN, HOST, THE JOE ROGAN EXPERIENCE: Joe Biden had went in and found corruption that was in the halls of our government and tried to weed it out and said, there's corruption in these NGOs, there's corruption in these, you know, not for profits, there's a lot of corruption and influence, and we're going to weed this out because we want a fair country, the (BLEEP) place to be cheering.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: Leslie, what do you think about that?
MARSHALL: I think if we're cutting waste, why are we cutting? Anybody who's not a Republican from a certain committee or certain department? If we're cutting waste, why are we firing people who had a certain opinion politically on January 6th? And if we're cutting waste, then how come it's not being done in a bipartisan manner? How come it's not being done with transparency? How come it is a constitutional crisis? They're just not only not caring about the Constitution, but the legality of these things.
When Congress appropriates funds, whether it's Democrat or Republican, you can't just say, oh, well, we'll drop the executive and the judicial branch.
MACCALLUM: But, Leslie, let me just point one thing out, and we got to go. But, Leslie, you had 83 percent of Americans polled saying that they wanted significant or complete overhaul of the government. So, are you willing to admit that your party has just not has completely overlooked how strongly Americans feel about cutting this spending that has gotten us $36 trillion in debt.
MARSHALL: I would admit they want spending cut. I don't admit this is the way they want it cut. And they certainly don't like seeing gas prices go up, eggs, bacon, bread, which are just three today than (INAUDIBLE).
CONWAY: Yes, those were so inexpensive under Biden. Listen, 98 days ago, less than 100 days ago was the election. The election was 98 days ago. A month ago, we didn't even know who was running the country. Now, there's absolutely no doubt. And the volume and velocity with which President Trump is enacting this agenda, this mandate to actually cut out the waste and showing us, ladies, I think this is the important part, it's all transparent.
Today, we're cutting USAID here. Today, we're exposing this program and that program. They're making it transparent. And I think this is the end of Chuck Schumer, Martha. I think that they have no message except to attack Trump and now Musk. And I think those old warhorses in the Democratic Party are going to be on their way out. They act like the election didn't happen yet.
MACCALLUM: All right, ladies, thank you very much. Leslie Marshall, Kellyanne Conway.
Also joining me right now, Republican Texas Senator, Chad Cruz, he serves on the Judiciary and Foreign Affairs Committee. Senator, always good to have you here. Thank you very much for joining me.
You know, I watched your colleagues, Cory Booker and Andy Kim, saying that if this doesn't stop, they're going to shut the government down by March 14th. They have seen politically that is a very unsuccessful route. Are you surprised that they are pushing for this now?
SEN. TED CRUZ (R-TX): Look, sadly, Democrats are in full on meltdown. We have not only Trump derangement syndrome, which we've seen for nearly a decade now, but we have now a new disease, a new disease that they have succumbed to, and that's Elon derangement syndrome. And they are equally fevered with just anger.
I got to say, we are three weeks into this administration. It is breathtaking. 21 days since President Trump once again, took the oath of office and return to being president. There have never been an opening three weeks like this in our nation's history. I got to tell you, Martha, I'm enjoying, I've turned to a number of my Democrat colleagues and simply deadpanned.
Well, three years and 49 weeks to go and they twitch. They literally start twitching. And they're mad because he's delivering on the promises made to the American people. That's why he was elected. That's why we got a Republican Senate. It's why we've got a Republican house and now we've got to deliver.
MACCALLUM: But the pushback, and we're going to talk more about this, but I want to get a quick thought on you from this, and then I want to ask you one more thing about Greenland and Panama. The pushback is that it's unconstitutional. And that's why you see Chuck Schumer calling for whistleblowers to come forward. Here's a quick sound bite from him.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): The whistleblower portal will give civil servants and people of goodwill the chance to report on potential wrongdoing in government, abuse of power, threats to public safety.
We are urging Americans who see some real wrongdoing being created by this DOGE thing to report it.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: Senator, your thoughts?
CRUZ: Well, look I responded on Twitter and said, all right, I want, it's a great idea. I want to start by reporting Joe Biden and Kamala Harris and Chuck Schumer and every single Democrat who spent the last four years abusing power, weaponizing the federal government. You look at these grants, the Biden administration, they didn't just weaponize the Department of Justice and the FBI to attack their political opponents. These grants are going to every leftist group that they're paying off $2 million for sex changes in Guatemala. You're seeing money for DEI. You're seeing all of the abuse of power.
And these are the same Democrats that didn't blink at all when Joe Biden was utterly lawless at our southern border, allowed 12 million illegal immigrants to invade this country. They didn't blink at all. When Joe Biden issued an illegal COVID vaccine mandate that was so egregious, the Supreme Court had to strike it down. They didn't blink at all when Joe Biden claimed he was going to give away a trillion dollars in an illegal student loan forgiveness. The president doesn't have the ability to give away a trillion dollars without Congress. Again, the Supreme Court struck that down.
Listen, what President Trump and Elon Musk are doing is they are trying to rein in the out of control spending. And in terms of the Constitution, there is a long history of presidents exercising a power called impoundment. As you know, I do a podcast every week called Verdict with Ted Cruz. Yesterday's podcast does a deep dive explaining what Trump and Elon are doing. But you look at impoundment, Thomas Jefferson first exercised impoundment in 1801. And I think the Trump administration is teeing up a legal challenge to bring back impoundment to turn around spending and debt. And that's a very good thing for American taxpayers.
MACCALLUM: Fascinating. All right, next time up we're going to have you back. We'll talk about Greenland and Panama, a whole other subject of great interest, and that I know you talk about on your podcast as well.
Senator, thank you, always good to see you.
CRUZ: Thank you.
MACCALLUM: Thank you, sir.
So, straight ahead this hour, Counselor to the President Alina Habba comes to talk to us about exactly this, the executive power in the power of the presidency. Alexander Hamilton said there should be energy in the executive. We'll talk to her about the constitutional pushback, coming up.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
MACCALLUM: All right. We've got two big headlines that are coming out of the White House this hour. The first one we mentioned at the top of the show, very good news, President Trump's envoy securing the release of American Marc Fogel from Russia. The president also going into detail about his plan for the U.S. to take Gaza and warning Hamas that they must release all of the hostages by Saturday or all bets are off.
Senior White House Correspondent Jacqui Heinrich reporting live from the North Lawn. Hi, Jacqui.
JACQUI HEINRICH, FOX NEWS SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Martha. The president expressed some doubt that Hamas would meet that Saturday deadline calling Hamas bullies, but he reiterated he's done with these weekly releases negotiated in tandem with the Biden administration, said he wants them all out by noon on Saturday or all hell will break loose after the president surprised the region with his proposed plans to redevelop Gaza. The king of Jordan said any plan for Arab nations to take in more Palestinian must be satisfying to all parties.
Ahead of their meeting, the president threatened to cut off aid to Jordan and Egypt with the caveat that he didn't think it would come to that. Take a listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: One of the things that we can do right away is take 2,000 children that are either cancer children or in a very ill state to Jordan as quickly as possible.
DONALD TRUMP, U.S. PRESIDENT: What you just said about the 2, 000 is fantastic. It's so beautiful. It's music to my ears. But we're going to be able to work something, and I know we'll be able to work something also with I believe not 100 percent but 99 percent we're going to work out something with Egypt.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HEINRICH: After the meeting, King Abdullah posted to X reiterating his firm opposition to displacing Palestinians in Gaza and the West Bank. Trump's proposed plans are not without controversy. Seizing the territory and blocking them from returning could be a violation of international law. White House aides though have walked back some of his comments, including about the role of U.S. troops and how this effort would be funded. Here's what the president said today.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: We're not going to buy anything. We're going to have it, and we're going to keep it, and we're going to make sure that there's going to be peace, and there's not going to be any problem, and nobody's going to question it, and we're going to run it very properly. And eventually we'll have economic development at a very large scale, maybe the largest scale on that site.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HEINRICH: Meantime, the administration is celebrating the return of Marc Fogel, the White House calling it a show of good faith from Russia toward the end of the war with Ukraine.
Martha?
MACCALLUM: Great picture of him there, a happy man on his way home.
Jacqui, thank you very much, Jacqui Heinrich at the White House.
So, President Trump is about to do what he does often at this time of day, and that is sign another executive order. It is snowy outside the White House this afternoon, and this new order that we're about to learn about is aimed at significantly reducing the size of the federal government and upholding the executive the executive's ability to do exactly that.
Counselor to President Donald Trump Alina Haba joins us on the judges who are trying to put a check on the president and DOGE's power.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
MACCALLUM: Okay. We are waiting for President Trump to sign a new executive order in the Oval Office that will be designed to fuel DOGE and to ensure that it can take action under these executive orders. Some of his efforts to slash spending have seen pushback from courts in New Hampshire and in Boston, including a ruling from a federal judge on the president's buyout offer to roughly 2 million federal workers. That includes full pay and benefits through September.
So, with that, we bring in Alina Habba, counselor to President Trump. Alina, great to have you with us today.
You know, we have watched you battle fiercely on the president's behalf in the New York courts.
And now this issue of whether or not, as the president of the United States, he has the power to decide to offer people a way to go home and get paid for eight months and to leave their federal jobs. There's pushback in the court to that. How do you see it, Alina?
ALINA HABBA, COUNSELOR TO PRESIDENT TRUMP: One important thing, the reason that we're doing that is because these individuals haven't come to work on the taxpayer dollars and the request was please come to work. And if you do not want to, here's a buyout. How horrible is that? I guess we should all be in an uproar and frantically panicking here.
I mean, unfortunately, I thought the lawfare was going to stop when we got in here and won in November 5th in a sweeping mandate from the 77 million Americans that were tired of the last administration, but it has not. All we've seen is these radical left judges who maybe should have run for president themselves if they wanted to act like a president trying to take action against DOGE, against Bessent and not allow him to do what he needs to do in Treasury and ridiculous things. The USAID, it goes on and on.
So, yes, we will be back in court. We will be fighting. We will be appealing, but lucky for us, this team knows it way, way too well.
MACCALLUM: Yes. You mentioned Scott Bessent, you know, there. There's one order from a judge that would make it so that he cannot even open the books at the Treasury to take a look at waste and fraud in that agency. How is that possible that the secretary of the Treasury would not be able to go into the books of his own agency?
HABBA: Yes, a man that was confirmed as Secretary of the Treasury who answered tough questions, who went through the vetting process, who was appointed and confirmed, and now he can't do his job. That's called a violation of something I'd like to call the separation of powers. It's a really novel idea. But our founding fathers created a document, the Constitution. There's a separation of powers for a reason. The executive branch is the ultimate authority on federal issues, and we have rogue judges who are trying to stop members like DOGE team, Bessent from doing their job. And that's to protect taxpayer dollars, to look at what we're doing with spending and to run the federal government under President Trump.
MACCALLUM: So, here's what J.D. Vance posted about this to try to explain to people the separation of powers that you just mentioned, Alina. He says, if a judge tried to tell a general how to conduct a military operation, that would be illegal. If a judge tried to command the attorney general in how to use her discretion as a prosecutor, that's also illegal. Judges aren't allowed to control the executive's legitimate power.
Now, Ted Lieu, a representative from California, pushed back on this. Watch what he had to say.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. TED LIEU (D-CA): Every president, including Donald Trump in his first term, complied with court orders. If this administration is going to start ignoring court orders, they're essentially eliminating entire judicial branch because why even have judges if you're not going to follow their court orders? So, we expect this administration to follow the court orders.
And then what J.D. Vance said was just clearly insane. If he really wants to eliminate the third branch of government, I think there's going to be enormous pushback from both Republicans and Democrats.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: What's your legal take on these arguments, Alina?
HABBA: What a spin, Martha. What a spin. That guy should get a degree in spinning. Number one, he's probably not a lawyer because that made zero sense to me. Number two, J.D. never said that he wanted to eliminate the judicial branch. What he said is, you have to respect the executive branch. And that is the branch that President Donald Trump runs. And he is running it, he is it, and he has to be able to do his job.
So, maybe that gentleman should link up with Chuck Schumer, Letitia James, Maxine Waters, and some of these other radical lefts that did not get the memo from American people on November 5th. We don't want your agenda. Let President Trump do what he does. He's got approval ratings through the roof right now. Everybody's happy with what we're doing and we're working hard to save America.
So, you know, that gentleman clearly doesn't know what he's talking.
MACCALLUM: Yes. I mean, the approval numbers are higher for President Trump than they were at any point during the first term and we see these are CBS polls that show that people are glad that he's doing what he's doing. So, politically, this is a difficult road for Democrats to go down.
Here's one more that I wanted to get your take on. FEMA is halting payments to house migrants in New York City hotels after it was disclosed that somehow they managed to spend $59 million on New York hotel rooms to house migrants, Alina. I'm not sure how they even came up with that dollar figure.
HABBA: That's right. That's right. So what happened was they pushed out $59 million just last week despite the executive orders, despite the clear mandate that President Trump has implemented. We are no longer doing this. We are no longer going to have sanctuary cities. Eric Adams has spoken out about it and look what happened to him. They tried to punish him and persecute him like President Trump.
Look, we're not doing it. And that female that had actually taken part in that is now terminated. So that's the way we're going to operate, you know. You're going to mess with us, you'll find out how it goes and it's only going to go -- there's no spot for you here if you're not going to be on this agenda and putting American taxpayer dollars to use in the right way.
MACCALLUM: Aliba Habba, thank you very much, counselor to the President. Always good to see you.
HABBA: Good to see you.
MACCALLUM: Get inside, snow is coming down pretty hard down there. Thank you, Alina. We'll see you soon. All right.
So Vice President Vance outlining a bold vision for the United States dominant role in artificial intelligence. This is the battle of our time, we'll show you what he said coming up next.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JD VANCE, VICE PRESIDENT OF UNITED STATES: The United States of America is the leader in AI and our administration plans to keep it that way.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
MACCALLUM: So we just learned that Susan Collins, the senator from Maine, says that she will support RFK Jr for HHS secretary. Collins says that Kennedy told her that he would work to restore Americans confidence in vaccines and government health agencies. So he gets one step closer to being HHS secretary. We'll continue to cover that.
Republicans, of course, have 53 seats in the Senate. If it ends at 50/50, then you have JD Vance come in to break that tie. The vote on RFK Jr is expected this week. Pam Bondi also expected this week and Tulsi Gabbard as well. So we'll see where all this goes.
And in the meantime, Vice President JD Vance assuring American dominance in the rapidly evolving race on artificial intelligence. Watch this very significant speech today that is getting a lot of attention. He is in Paris, watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
VANCE: We believe that excessive regulation of the AI sector could kill a transformative industry just as it's taking off. And we'll make every effort to encourage pro-growth AI policies. We've also watched as hostile foreign adversaries have weaponized AI software to rewrite history, surveil users and censor speech. This administration will block such efforts full stop.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: You see world foreign leaders, they're watching his words very closely. Let's bring in James Altucher, leading AI expert, author, entrepreneur and partner at Alpha 9 Ventures. He has nearly four decades of experience in emerging technologies, and he co founded 20 companies. It's great to have you with us, James. Thank you very much for being.
JAMES ALTUCHER, AI EXPERT: Great to be here, Martha.
MACCALLUM: So, what was your take on JD Vance's speech? Clearly, he wants to assert strength for the United States in the air arena and wants to make it clear that the United States will not stand for overregulation in this area. What did you make of it?
ALTUCHER: I mean, it's very important what he's saying. This is perhaps the most important technological innovation of our time. AI is going to transform every single industry on the planet, including industries related to national security. So either -- what he's saying is either we're going to be the leader in AI or we're going to be at the mercy of whoever is the leader in AI.
And he knows that regulation slows down innovation. I mean, when he arrived to Europe, they tried to get him to sign a document that all the other Euro countries signed which is to make AI as inclusive and safe as possible. Which are great sounding words, but who actually defines what those words mean, some government bureaucrats.
And again, they're not going to be as smart or as savvy as the people actually building AI in this race. And believe me, China is going to have no regulation slowing them down. Regulation only slows down innovation. And if AI -- if we want to be first, we can either choose ourselves or China, no regulation is the way to choose ourselves.
MACCALLUM: Here's some more strong words from Vance with regard to exactly what you're saying. Let's watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
VANCE: The Trump administration is troubled by reports that some foreign governments are considering tightening the screws on US tech companies with international footprint. We want to ensure the internet is a safe place, but it is one thing to prevent a predator from preying on a child on the internet, and it is something quite different to prevent a grown man or woman from accessing an opinion that the government thinks is misinformation.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: Your reaction to that, James?
ALTUCHER: Well, you know, powering AI, we don't even know the full capabilities of AI. We don't even know the extent to which the more data we put into our AI, the more useful it will be, the more diseases that will cure, the more problems that will solve in society. So we're just an inning one of this, and already people are saying, no, we need to -- AI is going to be like the Terminator. It's going to take over everything. No.
We have to let the technologists have free reign on this because we want to win this race. This is a more important race than the race to the moon. And the US is in front right now, but we see China is right on our heels with the recent announcement of DeepSeek.
So again, China has nothing holding them back. They will win this race if the US gets bogged down in any regulation, if Europe gets bogged down in regulation. So again, we either lead this race or we're at the mercy of those who lead this race. I know which side I would like to be on. JD Vance is on that side.
And it's very important what he's saying. No regulation. We have to just let loose and innovate. That's what America does best.
MACCALLUM: So, here's one of the issues with that, and I asked David Sacks about this a week or so ago. I asked him if the reason that DeepSeek was faster than what we've built was that they had stolen our technology and used it to get there faster. Here's what he said, James.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
VANCE: There's substantial evidence that what DeepSeek did here is, they distilled the knowledge out of OpenAI's models. And I don't think OpenAI is very happy about this. We'll see if, if the leading companies can prevent distillation by third party companies, that would definitely slow down some of these copycat models.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: So if it's unregulated and it's shared, you know, don't we risk China having information that we should keep, maybe, proprietary in order to win this race, James?
ALTUCHER: Well, yes, but also, let's just assume China is lying. They're using many more Nvidia chips than they claim to be using, they spent a lot more money than they claim to be using. And David is right, it's very easy to train your AI if OpenAI is the software you're using to train your own AI.
So they're using our software to train their AI. That has to be stopped. That has to be noticed and stopped, and blocked. Again, we, the US Is already the leader in this, but we only remain that way if we stay vigilant and we don't allow a regulation to slow us down and we don't allow China to steal from us.
MACCALLUM: James, thank you so much, James Altucher, for being here. I hope you'll come back soon. We want to take -- we want to learn ourselves about AI and we want to take everybody who's watching the program down this road with us for better understanding of the technology, the pluses, the threats, all of it. So, James, thank you so much for being here.
MACCALLUM: Thank you, Martha. Happy to be here.
MACCALLUM: Thank you very much. All right. So coming up, five years after commuting Rod Blagojevich his prison sentence, President Trump pardons the former Illinois governor. Blago's message to the president today is next.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ROD BLAGOJEVICH, FORMER ILLINOIS GOVERNOR: We want to again express our deepest gratitude to President Trump. Like I said, as a Republican president and a Democratic governor, he didn't have to do this. But President Trump is not a typical politician. I'm a Trumpocrat.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: All right. New York City Mayor Eric Adams praising Trump's DOJ for ordering prosecutors in Manhattan to drop federal corruption charges against him, something that a federal judge could still refuse to do. The mayor, who believes that he was unfairly targeted by the Biden administration for speaking out against its immigration policies, maintains that he has done nothing wrong.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ERIC ADAMS (D), NEW YORK CITY MAYOR: I never ask anyone to break the law on my behalf or on behalf of my campaign, never. And I absolutely never traded my power as an elected official for any personal benefit.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: OK. Let's bring in Paul Morrow, retired NYPD inspector and Fox News contributor. Paul, good to have you here.
The DOJ memo that revealed this DOJ decision to drop these charges, and as we said, the judge still has to uphold this, said this, the pending prosecution has unduly restricted Mayor Adams' ability to devote full attention and resources to the illegal immigration and violent crime that escalated under the policies of the prior administration. Interesting terms there for deciding to drop these charges. What do you make of it?
PAUL MAURO, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Yes. So under that metric, you realistically could never go after a sitting politician because your argument could be, well, we're impeding his ability or her ability to do the job that she was elected for. And so we can't prosecute till that person's out office. Obviously, that's a little thin.
The other thing that's very interesting about this memo, however, is that the charges were dismissed without prejudice, meaning it can be revivified. And so, you know, that's a little bit of a hold that the Trump administration has over Eric Adams. And I'm not the only one to notice that it's all over online by Adams, his adversaries and detractors, they're all saying, and many of them have political aspirations of their own. Hey, Eric Adams now works for the Trump administration, not for the people of New York.
And I think that might be why you see Eric Adams putting a toe in the water about jumping over to the GOP.
MACCALLUM: Yes, that is a question that has come up, would he consider running, because he has said that he will run for mayor again through all of this, whether or not he would become a Republican. Here's part of my conversation with him, because I think one of the reasons the DOJ saw this way is because Adams convinced them that he was a victim of weaponization based on his immigration stance. Watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: Do you believe that the Biden Justice Department came after you and many of the people that work for you because of your pushback on immigration?
ADAMS: I clearly believe when you looked at aspects of the indictment, and you look at the timing of this and the manner, the leaks, there were just so many leaks is clearly suspect to me. We need to make sure that we don't use any tomb of law enforcement in a way to politicize the process.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: Paul?
MAURO: So, as you and I have discussed in the past, both sides of this can be accurate that is to say. There can be some smoke and fire there, right? They got the initial indictment. I mean, he was indicted. And, of course, the timing could also be suspect in that it was political, because there's no missing that they hit the door of his chief financial finance person the day he was down in Washington to press the Biden administration on getting more money relative to the migrants.
Look, nobody here has covered themselves in glory. DOJ started this case in 2023. It took forever for it to get forward. They kept promising more charges. Those never showed up. But on the other hand, Eric Adams didn't give his phone when he was required to by warrant to DOJ, before he changed the password from four numbers to six, and then said he forgot it.
So there's a lot of skullduggery here, I would argue, but right now, he looks off the hook.
MACCALLUM: OK. Paul Mauro, thank you very much. Always good to see you, Paul.
MAURO: And you.
MACCALLUM: So coming up, former Illinois governor Rod Blagojevich, his next chapter after a pardon from President Trump, next.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BLAGOJEVICH: I had a chance to be on his television show, and then he ended what was a long, long, hard nightmare. After 2,896 days in prison, nearly eight years, President Trump pulled me out of there, and now he did this. And all I can tell you is that President Trump is a man who, when he sees things that are wrong, he rights them and puts an end to them.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: So breaking right now, we understand that Elon Musk is currently in the Oval Office with President Trump, as the President is signing new executive orders that are aimed at solidifying DOGE's ability to do its job, which is a government entity, to go after government waste, open up the books, look at what's going on in the accounting, and figure out what can be caught and what should be saved. We're going to have that video for you very soon, Elon Musk and President Trump coming up. Stay tuned for that full play out.
In the meantime, President Trump pardoning former Illinois Governor Rod Blagojevich five years after he commuted his prison sentence. Blagojevich served eight years on corruption charges, including trying to sell or trade President Obama's former Senate seat once it became open when he became president and Blagojevich was governor of Illinois.
He has always maintained that he did nothing wrong. The President also responding to reports that he could possibly be considering a post for Blagojevich or perhaps an ambassadorship.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: It was set up by a lot of bad people, some of the same people that I had to deal with. He wasn't quite as successful, but he had somebody that saw what was going on. I didn't know him other than I believe he was on "The Apprentice" for a little while. He was a just a very nice person.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Mr. President, are you considering him for ambassador to Serbia?
TRUMP: No, but I would. He's now cleaner than anybody in this room.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: All right. Former Illinois Governor Rod Blagojevich joins me now. Good to have you here today, sir. Tell us a little bit about how this all came about.
BLAGOJEVICH: Well, two Saturdays ago, I was spending a quiet evening at home with my wife. And about 8:30 Central Time, the phone call, the phone rang and I answered the phone. It was a familiar name, good guy by the name of Sergio Gor. And he said I congratulated him on the position they'd received from President Trump. And he said, hold on a minute, gov, I have an old friend on the phone for you.
He handed me the phone, it was President Trump. And we spent, I don't know, about seven minutes talking. He was telling me different things, and he certainly pointed out what he intended to do. And I expressed my gratitude over and over again.
And here I am with you. Martha, I just want to say again how profoundly grateful my family and I are for what President Trump did for us. I have unbelievably warm affection for him. He's been nothing but kind to me. My relationship with him has really been basically him doing good things for me.
And I'm grateful for this pardon. I didn't break a law. That so called sale of the Senate seat was reversed by the appellate court many years later, after I sat in prison for a long time. Winston Churchill said, a lie can travel halfway around the world before the truth has a chance to put its pants on. I've got my pants up about halfway now, but this pardon puts them up a little higher.
And my goal is to get full and complete vindication and show just how corrupt those prosecutors were who threw me in jail for eight years.
MACCALLUM: Yes. Everybody remembers the tape and, you know, you saying, you know, I'm going to get something for this, right? I have this -- it's golden, this thing, this appointment to fill the Senate seat after Obama won. Did you ever broker with anyone or make any arrangement with anyone or pay anyone anything to. To get that seat or promise them anything?
BLAGOJEVICH: No. There was none of those things that would be nefarious and criminal. And for those things, yes, a governor should go to prison if he's doing that. But no, these were political conversations. Obama started them. He sent an emissary to me on election night and said he wanted a Valerie Jarrett for the United States Senate, what do you want?
And so, we discussed political deals. That's why the appellate court eventually reversed it. It was never a crime. It was a big lie from the beginning. They called it nothing more than routine political log rolling. It's how government works.
Abraham Lincoln was a great president, our greatest president. Perhaps Trump will surpass him, but he was great because he was great at politics and he made the deals necessary. For example, to get the 13th Amendment and free the slaves and bring freedom to long suffering black people. So no government has to operate through the political process, and that's what I was doing.
And they criminalized it in my case. I never would give up. I would never give in. I would never take a light sentence if they go easier on me. And they couldn't convict me at a first trial. They used unlawful standards to get convictions at a rigged trial. The second time around, they buried me in prison. That was their goal for 14 years.
I never took a penny. No one even said I did.
MACCALLUM: Yes.
BLAGOJEVICH: And eventually here I am today, grateful to President Trump and so excited about my new beginning.
MACCALLUM: Well, we covered your story and spoke with your wife during this. She spent eight years in prison that you lost with your children and your family. And, you know, there are folks that are still, you know, coming after you. Are you going to accept an ambassadorship? Would you seek an ambassadorship to Serbia if it were offered to you by the President?
BLAGOJEVICH: My father came from Serbia. He was an immigrant. I had a chance to be in Serbia last week. It's a country under President Vucic that's leading living, an economic miracle.
Real wages have gone up 270 percent for working people there. I'm excited about what they're doing there. I just want to do the best I can here and be friendly to President Trump and do whatever I can to be show my gratitude to him for what he's done and rudiment to make our country like that job.
MACCALLUM: Sounds like you might like that job. We'll see what happens. Rod Blagojevich, always good to see you. Thank you very much.
That is "The Story," I'm Martha McCallum. We'll see you back here.

Load-Date: February 11, 2025


End of Document
