




Newsweek.com
January 29, 2025 Wednesday 6:06 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 477 words
Byline: Anna Commander
Highlight: The Democratic Party is facing record lows in favorability ratings as Trump settles into his second term.
Body


The  is facing a harsh reality as a record number of voters have the highest unfavorable view of the political party since 2008, according to a new Quinnipiac poll.
Newsweek reached out to the  via online form for comment on Wednesday.
Why It Matters
President , a , won the 2024 presidential election against former Democratic Vice President  in a decisive victory. Momentum for Trump has also increased this month as his ahead of his inauguration.
Enthusiasm for the Democratic Party has continued to slip since the November election, according to a tracker from YouGov. As of January 27, 2025, the party is at its .
What To Know
In the  released on Wednesday, 31 percent of voters have a favorable view of the Democratic Party, compared to 57 percent holding an unfavorable view.
"This is the highest percentage of voters having an unfavorable opinion of the Democratic Party since the Quinnipiac University Poll began asking this question," the poll notes.
The poll shows that 22 percent of independent voters have a favorable opinion of the Democratic Party, versus 59 percent having an unfavorable view. Men have a 22 percent favorable view, versus 67 with an unfavorable view, while 39 percent of women have a favorable view of the party compared to 47 percent having an unfavorable view.
Voters appear to have a different opinion of the  as 43 percent have a favorable opinion versus 45 percent having an unfavorable opinion, the poll shows.
The survey was conducted from January 23-27 among 1,019 nationwide "self-identified" registered voters. The poll has a margin of error of 3.1 percent.
What People Are Saying
Kevin Wagner, political science professor at Florida Atlantic University, told Newsweek via phone on Wednesday: "The Democratic brand is not doing well especially among working class voters."
When asked if he thought it was due to the rise of Trump and his MAGA message, Wagner said, "Trump has been particularly effective with rural and working-class voters that is worth pointing out, while the Democratic Party has become centered on big cities, losing the appeal where they were historically very strong."
Quinnipiac said in the poll on Wednesday, in part: "This marks the biggest favorability advantage the Republican Party (43 percent) has held over the Democratic Party (31 percent) since the Quinnipiac University Poll began asking these questions."
What Happens Next
As Trump settles into his first 100 days in his second term, it is believed he will continue to roll out promises he made on the campaign trail.
Most recently, Trump has issued a flurry of executive orders aimed at rolling back Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) initiatives and curbing immigration.


Graphic

 
Donald Trump and Joe Biden
U.S. President-elect Donald Trump and President Joe Biden can be seen attending Trump's inauguration in the U.S. Capitol Rotunda on January 20, 2025, in Washington, DC. (Photo by Saul Loeb - Pool/Getty Images)

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
