




Fox News THE FIVE 5:00 PM EST
February 6, 2025 Thursday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6851 words
Byline: Jesse Watters, Jeanine Pirro, Harold Ford Jr., Dana Perino, Greg Gutfeld
Body


WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: -- all the time. It's not anything new. I know Pat Summitt at Tennessee did that. I get it.
All right, real quick, we, "THE WILL CAIN SHOW" will be live from New Orleans tomorrow, ahead of the Super Bowl, and before that, I'll be on "FOX & FRIENDS" along with Tom Brady, so we'll see you tomorrow from New Orleans. Now THE FIVE.
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Hello, everybody. I'm Jesse Watters along with Judge Jeanine Pirro, Harold Ford Jr., Dana Perino and Greg Gutfeld. It's 5:00 in New York City and this is THE FIVE.
Elon Musk is having the time of his life, forcing the government to take ozempic as Democrats throw a slumber party to stop him. First to the latest twist in the DOGE drama royal in D.C., a federal judge is pausing the deadline for federal workers to accept President Trump's buyout offer until Monday. More than 40,000 feds have already taken it, and the new press secretary says that number is just the beginning.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: We expect that number to increase, and that alone, just the 40,000, again, we expect it to increase. It's going to save the American people tens of millions of dollars, and we encourage federal workers in the city to accept the very generous offer.
If they don't want to show up to the office, if they want to rip the American people off, then they're welcome to take this buyout and we'll find highly competent individuals who want to fill these posts.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Meanwhile, Senate Democrats are bragging about their anti-Musk all-nighter. They were chugging Red Bulls and crashing on the couch in the office just to keep the Senate in session all night and protest cuts to important USAID obligations such as 14 million to support gender equality for climate change opportunities in Tanzania. Nearly two million to strengthen trans led organizations in Guatemala, and one million for gender diversity in Bangladesh.
But that slumber party is nothing compared to other Dems who were talking about castration and putting Elon in a mental institution.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. ELIZABETH WARREN (D-MA): We've got Donald Trump and his co-president, Elon Musk, and they're just running a wrecking ball through it.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He ought to be putting a mental institution.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There's a tipping point at which you can't get your democracy back. We just have to be right now at this moment on, you know, red alert mode.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (I-VT): Let's start with oligarchy. And I think we are there.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's a little bit of whack a mole, because, you know, every day, Elon and his tech bros ride their skateboards over to a new agency and start crashing into their databases.
REP. JASMINE CROCKETT (D-TX): You all are going to castrate your constitutional duty and hand it over to someone who is unelected.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: And the DOGE father himself, Elon Musk is having a blast watching his critics freak out over his fat cutting crusade, updating his X bio to say he's in charge of White House tech support. He even gave our humble show a shot out.
Dana, the language that the Democrats are using, wrecking ball, tipping point, red alert, oligarchy, castration. Why aren't they actually talking about the programs that are being cut?
DANA PERINO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: It's like, imagine when you said that they were staying up all night in order to prevent things and they want to slow things down. Imagine that kind of passion for the American people who are yelling at the top of their lungs for four years that the prices of groceries were crushing them. They didn't care. They care about this. It is bizarre. They have the weirdest optics right now.
Yesterday, they had a couple of Democrats who marched their way down, cameras on and they would try to get into the speaker's office as they were going to have a meeting, and a staff assistant pushed them back out, because a House Democrat right now has less power than a Speaker Johnson staff assistant and I was a staff assistant, and that is powerful.
One thing that Trump and Elon Musk are doing are helping people learn not to care about being criticized. It's not easy, necessarily. Greg's talk about sharing the risk. The people who have been canceled, lost their livelihoods, crawled their way back, and these guys were like, you can say anything you want.
Like, if Elon Musk said, my minions are now inside the department of rainbows and unicorns, the Democrats would come out saying, how could you do that to rainbows and unicorns? It's like they're falling for everything. They seem very gullible.
WATTERS: Jeanine, Dana mentioned that they don't care about the criticism that wasn't possible a couple years ago. What has changed where Trump and Musk are just doing what they do, and they don't care?
JEANINE PIRRO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL LEGAL ANALYST: They don't care. You know why? Because they are confident in their mission. They know that their mission has been supported by the American people. They are transparent. They've got nothing to hide. They're willing to go out there and talk about everything that they're doing, and in the end, it endures to the benefit of the American people. And that's the difference between -- the startling difference that I talk about every night between this administration and the last one.
I mean, they are willing to say, we're going to do this, this and this, we're going to -- we're going to upgrade aviation, we're going to make sure that USAID isn't going like for Tanzania to support gender equality in the amount of $14 million and the prosecutor in me says, where are the kickbacks in that one? What's going on there?
But in addition to that, I mean, they're getting stuff done. Why do the Democrats want to hide what's been going on for years? Why are they interested in just making sure let's just live and let live?
And now, DOGE wants to go after Medicaid and Medicare. One out of four people in America are on Medicaid. OK? Medicaid amounts to 30 percent of every state's budget.
Now, I was a local D.A. and I was state D.A., and I would prosecute Medicaid cases that were so outrageous, so corrupt. It's like RICO the mob, the gangsters, they're up coding millions and millions of dollars medical mills, and nobody's doing anything about it. It's like this, live and let live.
No, it's our money. You can't tell us not to protect our money.
And can't we all agree that we don't want corruption in government? Can't we all agree that that's a good thing?
And, you know, I just want to say one more thing about the jobs. You know, they're so concerned about all these jobs, and this isn't right and 40,000 people, or 60,000 people.
You know, right after COVID, everybody had to make a decision about their job. Do they want to do remote? Do they want to do hybrid? Are they making a lifestyle change? Are they interested in uprooting their family and going somewhere else?
But Joe Biden didn't give a damn. He was going to fire you if you're in the military, you didn't take the COVID, or if you're in a hospital, nobody gave a damn. At least Donald Trump is giving them a 10 month severance and saying, I'm giving you a warning.
WATTERS: And it's transparent, Harold. He's posting the things he's cutting. He's telling people, you're getting severance in eight months from now, it's over. This is not being done in the shadows.
HAROLD FORD JR., FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: You're right. Good to be back with everybody.
One thing that people -- again, we've talked about on this show many times, President Trump has a very, very strong theory of the case, and this theory of the case is one that, frankly, he's not leaning on Republicans in the House and the Senate to get it done. He's certainly not leaning on Democrats.
But the difference in their reaction is striking. The Republicans, frankly, are just falling in line in the House and the Senate, whether the president is usurping the authority of the Congress or not, we'll let the court decide that, but this president has made clear that the federal government is too big. It's too inefficient and too removed from the very everyday lives of everyday Americans.
And the American people to your point, Judge, they're more in line with this. Dana, you said it as well. They're more in line with this than they're not.
Now, they know there may be some things on the -- on the periphery, or some things even on the core that may not be lawful. We'll find out if the Constitution -- if we're following the Constitution, but they want to see him push the envelope.
If our Democrats instead of complaining about the issues that are unimportant to everyday Americans. And I don't suggest that foreign policy is not but throwing a -- throwing a real strong kind of hissy fit over something that doesn't matter how cost -- or how costs are happening, how communities are made safe and how borders are made safe, get out in your districts. Whole town hall meetings. Listen to people. Let the cameras come and see you guys doing that.
And if people in the audience want to say, we don't like what the president is doing here, or we like what he's doing here, then take that back to Washington. You're not going to win this argument by standing outside of the Capitol or outside of a federal agency in Washington and ranting and raving about what President Trump is doing, because I can assure you, more people can relate to and support what the President is doing right now and trying to make government more efficient and make it work than they are listening to you guys stand outside of the Capitol and the USAID saying that President Trump is doing something wrong, whether he is or isn't.
WATTERS: Greg, I haven't seen a lot of actual regular citizens complain about lesbian grants.
GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: That is a very good point now. And now we come full circle, Dana, which I will touch on shortly.
But your point is well made. Where the -- where the grassroots protests? Because the people who fund the grassroots protests are the people who are getting defunded.
You know, instead, you're getting the shrinking Democrats who are acting like drug addicts watching the cops flush their drugs down the toilet because they are.
So, it's really hard to get energized about USAID, and is it because it's a front that creates artificial social instability in foreign countries portrayed as aid with the ultimate goal of installing a puppet of our liking.
So, think about what they're doing in small countries and you'll follow me, Dana, trust me.
PERINO: I do.
GUTFELD: They do DEI, identity-driven activism with gender and trans, they make this information an urgent cause, while also playing up the latest climate apoplexy.
So, what does this sound like to you? 2016 in America, you had a surprising victory by a populist candidate, and what came next? Well organized protest movements built on race and gender and also climate. The media amplified it through hoaxes like the fine people hoax, the protest, BLM, Antifa, they were as regular as sunrise. And behind it, every step was the media. And what was the goal -- what was the goal? Installing a puppet, Joe Biden.
So, it's kind of a testament to the deep state that they can master a craft abroad and then decide to use it here. So, this is -- do you remember, Dana, during the height of Antifa, BLM and the 24/7 race baiting media, I asked, what would happen if this conflict driven hysteria would disappear?
Well, you would see a unified population that could then set their sights on the real problems, the corruption and the rent seeking in our government. I didn't realize that. I discovered the strategy, which was to keep Americans at each other's throats so they couldn't go after the real villains who were keeping Americans at each other's throats.
WATTERS: Very well said.
GUTFELD: Thank you, Jesse.
WATTERS: It's regime change money (ph).
PERINO: I love when it comes full circle.
GUTFELD: Yes, don't you -- every day I was yelling about that.
WATTERS: Greg is always right.
GUTFELD: I am, always.
WATTERS: And he's the first one to tell you that.
FORD JR.: I could take away from the segment.
WATTERS: Coming up, Donald Trump is the energizer bunny of presidents. He just keeps going and going and going.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
PERINO: The days of early afternoon, White House libs are long gone. Since returning to office two weeks ago, President Trump has been jam packing his schedule with endless executive orders, signing a couple more today. And then there's the daily briefings and those marathon question and answer sessions with the press.
Earlier, the president was up with the sun delivering remarks at two events for the National Prayer Breakfast.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: My all time favorite chart in history, a chart on immigration. Immigration saved my life.
You're going to say, Merry Christmas. Well, now they do it again. But we -- I don't know if you've been watching, but we got rid of woke over the last two weeks. Woke is gonzo, but first two weeks have been probably, they say, the most successful two weeks in the history of any presidency. Now, all we have to do is keep it going for another couple of hundred weeks.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERINO: And the pace of Trump's speedy schedule even has a legacy media struggling to keep up as Politico playbook notes, this guy has energy. Joe Biden, he is not.
And the establishment media is in anguish over Trump's sledgehammer approach, with one outlet saying how they, "Simply can't cover everything."
But more than the media, Greg, is the Democrats, right. It's -- they can't find -- get a foothold. And just as soon as they think, OK, now we can have find something we can oppose, the president's on to the third thing.
GUTFELD: Yes, they're playing checkers and he's playing twister.
I calculated the amount of work this administration needs to do and the pace at which they're doing it, and my calculations conclude that the Trump administration will be completed June 15th, 2025 at 3:45 p.m., that's 12:45 Pacific.
But you know, you mentioned this. It's not just what Trump is doing, it's what he's inspiring others to do. He's actually leading. DEI is now being dropped by Google. Facebook ditched its disinformation propaganda. Student athletes are suing to get their trophies back from men disguised as women who participated in their sport. The pronoun hysteria evaporated. Comedy is coming back. Patriotism is returning. Enlistments are up.
People are simply like you said, no longer scared to speak their mind to lunacy. Preference falsification is dead, except at the DNC. It goes back to what I've always said, you share the risk, the bullies flee. Turns out Trump is winning because the bullies never really had an argument. All they had was intimidation. Trump was the tip of the iceberg, the captain of the pirate ship who made it easier for even the shyest among us to climb aboard.
PERINO: And the contrast is striking, because if you think about, I think if you added up all the questions Joe Biden took in his entire presidency, it probably would fall short of what's been done in the last 16 days.
WATTERS: That's the frustration the Democrats feel because they're seeing Trump use power, and Biden could have used the power. See, Biden just wanted to win the presidency, because he tried his whole life, and then when he became president, he just took a nap on the beach while people couldn't get baby formula.
There's a problem here, because when he did use power, Dana, he used it for almost evil things. He tried to lock up his opponent. He fired people for not getting vaxxed. He bribed kids with master's degrees. This was an abuse of power. Trump is using power to help people, and that's the difference.
And Greg is right, Trump has a vision for what he wants. He's ambitious. He has an agenda. Biden just came in and said, COVID got me in. We're just going to do this and see what happens.
The media is struggling because they can't find a victim. Are people going to feel sorry for gang banging illegals, or Lia Thomas who wants to go into the wrong locker room or a Department of Justice lawyer who will probably be able to find a job? That's the difference. This is the change that people voted for. So, the media can't complain, because this is democracy in action.
PERINO: Harold, if this -- if everything is an outrage, then nothing is an outrage. Is that why you're laughing?
FORD JR.: No, the Judge, I was taking notes. You just crossed my notes.
No, I think you said, if everything is an outrage then nothing is an outrage.
Look, the Democrats are still drowning in the cultural issues. I think you're right, Greg, and I think you're right, Jesse.
But ultimately, President Trump, Democrats have to understand he's going to be judged on whether or not he's able to deliver on the issues that got him elected. Can he deal with the economy in a way and make it grow and allow introduce America and sustain us in this golden age that he talks about, which I think really is dominated by how well you're doing economically.
Is it going to make our communities safer, our borders safer, our borders safe? That's ultimately what this election was about. And Democrats, we didn't have compelling, convincing answers for the American people.
And it seems like we're still fighting or litigating that. Now, as I tried to say in the first segment, you can't do it unless you have answers, which is why I think you have to get out in the country and listen to people, understand where their energy might be, and even anger, and come back and talk about plans to do these things and how you'd like to work with the president.
And remember, the Republicans are being blocked out a little bit to offer them opportunities to work with you, and I think that they might, you might find them taking you up on some of those things.
Finally, there's some things that the president's doing, two things he's done that I think are petty and mean-spirited.
First, stop complaining about what happened in the past. You're rich, you're good-looking, you live in the White House, you have a place at Mar- a-Lago. You got a place at Bedminster. You got a beautiful place here in New York. Real people voted for you have real problems and real worries. Focus on that.
And two, I don't like the firing of -- the person I got most offended by was the four star Admiral, this woman who was in the Coast Guard, who the president had every right to fire, but he kicked her out of her house. Leave that for the pettiness, get back to doing the things that the country elected you to do. I don't agree with every executive order, but I kind of like the energy. I kind of like the impotence, and I kind of like the fact that could produce enough momentum that the Congress and the Senate may act on some of the spending stuff, and act on some of this, bringing our government back into order stuff.
GUTFELD: (INAUDIBLE) complaining on behalf of us, though.
FORD JR.: He talks about himself. He talks about himself. No, I don't think it's -- if he's talking about how I can't afford a loaf of bread, how I'm worried about how I'm going to pay my kid's tuition, how I'm concerned about what tomorrow is going to bring and that summer is going to bring, but I'm having to pay for camp. Those are issues I think the American people are more focused on.
PERINO: Spoken like a possible candidate. Judge, let me give you the last word.
PIRRO: No administration has been more prepared for power than this administration, and the issue, Harold, with all due respect is, you know, what -- you say whether or not he can follow through on his promises. I mean, already he's taken men out of women's sports. Already brought $500 billion from out of this country to tackle A.I. and super A.I. for cancer. Already he's making sure that the worst of the -- of the illegal criminals are being removed from this country. He's not slowing down. The man is -- he is an incredible -- he's got incredible energy.
And you know, you say the Democrats didn't have answers. They created the problems, the Democrats. It's not that they can't figure it out. They created it. They created the trans and the drag queen reading out, that drag reading hour, and they created the open border, and they got rid of bail, and they make -- you know, they wouldn't talk about the economy, you know.
And at the end of the day here, you've got a president who was so startling compared to the other president that the press just can't -- they just can't keep up.
And, you know, thank god Colombia buckled, because we can still get enough coffee to make sure that the -- you know, the press can keep up with the guy.
It is -- this guy is not going to stop. He's not going to stop. And those people who started by saying, if he gets elected, he'll be the oldest president in history, as if you know he wasn't going to be able to even do the job.
And I want to say one thing, he went to two prayer breakfast this morning, and he talked about eradicating anti-Christian bias. And when the FBI Director Christopher Wray came out and really told us, no one at the FBI was targeting Christians, and Senator Hawley came out, and they found that leaked memo that the FBI was investigating Catholics and priests were gone to so that they could then inform on parishioners who were considered domestic terrorists.
I mean, that's over, that is not going to happen again. Thank God for that. And if people got to get fired, so be it. But this country was going to hell in a hand basket having nothing to do with the Catholics.
PERINO: They're going to get along real well in the commercial break.
FORD JR.: Remember when he criticized that bishop too.
PERINO: All right. Hey, coming up, Democrats are looking to win elections again by throwing Kamala Harris under the bus?
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
PIRRO: The chances of a Kamala comeback are dwindling. The former vice president remains in exile, retreating back to California to go grocery shopping with her plastic bags after her embarrassing defeat by President Trump. Her party is trying to move on by throwing her under the bus. Even former DNC folks are saying they don't want her running again ever, especially not in 2028.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ALEX HOFFMAN, FORMER COMMITTEE OFFICIAL, DNC: Everybody, you know, just kind of clapped and was like, yes, good for her. I would say that there -- of the people who are actually in the room whether, you know, they're the DNC members or the operatives or the folks that the donors that were there, I don't think there's a single one of them that was saying that Kamala Harris is the leader of the party nor should she run again. I mean, I don't -- I don't think I found a single person who thought that was a good idea for us, myself included.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PIRRO: All right, Harold, so this former DNC official says not one person in the room wants her to lead the party again or run for president. Isn't this good news for you? Well, I think if she wants to run, she should run. But she's going to face competition is going to have to lay out her ideas and her plan and her vision for the country.
I don't dis -- necessarily disagree with the young fellow. I was not in the room with these officials he's talking about or these people he's talking about. But let me give the Democrats a little hint. Who cares about DNC officials? Get out. Talk to people. These are not the people -- they're my friends and they mean well, they're going to be there regardless of who the nominee is as we all know. Get out and talk to people and listen to people.
I read a great article a great piece by Peggy Noonan in a couple weeks ago in one of our home newspapers here at the journal, and she said that Democrats, if you want to -- one of the things she recommended Democrats do, particularly those in elected office, fix something, do something, make a difference in somebody's lives. Not just say you can raise money or not just say that you come from a state or an area or you represent something in a party that people may want. We understand it. But I think the real appeal in politics today, fix something in your schools, fix the crime problem, fix the bail problem in your city. Do something on healthcare. Make it easier for people to have a better life.
At the end of the day, I remind Democrat and Republican, that's what politics is about at its core when it's -- when it's practiced at its best.
GUTFELD: Yummy.
PIRRO: You know, Jesse, the 60-minute interview with Kamala -- I mean, Trump was right when he said that they had edited it. They took out the word salad to make her sound as competent as possible. They could just as well -- CBS could just as well have been a campaign manager because that's what they do. They edit these.
WATTERS: So, she looks scared to me. And we don't want politicians that are running scared. We can smell that insecurity. Joe Biden was afraid of AOC, she was afraid of her 20-year-old staffer, so they tiptoe around stuff. I want a politician that wants to like me not that wants to be liked.
Trump likes people. He likes people. He's actually interested. Kamala doesn't even like people and you can tell. Too much has been said about Kamala Harris for her to ever run again. You know, when you get into a fight and you've said awful things, you can't go back. The Clintons just said that she was a seventh string quarterback who can't sling a sentence together. Barack, Nancy, they said she wasn't even our pick and the donors feel fleeced, so that's never going to happen again.
To your point, competence is compassion. The Democrats don't understand that. The Democrats are like the dad that says I love you, I love you, I love you, and then forgets to pick you up at school, and gets so drunk he raids your college fund and gambles it at way and Vegas. That's not compassionate. People want someone that just fixes problems and doesn't create problems.
PIRRO: You know, Dana, if the party is going to move more centrist, doesn't that -- you know, and reasonable, doesn't that leave out AOC and Newsom?
PERINO: Well, I think that the Democrats just showed in their election last Saturday that they are more aligned with the activist left than they are interested in going Centrist. You know, the most powerful Democrat right now in America -- the most powerful elected Democrat is Chuck Schumer. And he was trying to lead a chant yesterday and it didn't work and it was embarrassing.
I mean, if I -- honestly, I would be really embarrassed. The most powerful state government elected official I would say right now to me is Josh Shapiro of Pennsylvania and he's doing what Peggy Noonan said and what you're saying. If you look at any of his communications, it's all about here's the number of jobs I brought back, here's the money that I've saved you, here are the roads that we fixed, here are the things that we're doing on education. He is like -- he's trying to be smart and to position himself. But I don't think the activist class is with him at all on that.
Let me add one other thing because I'm not really -- I hope that Democrats would listen to you, Harold. You were the -- probably the most powerful Democrat in media.
WATTERS: Wow, Harold.
PERINO: And partly because of us.
PIRRO: Yes, Harold.
FORD JR.: I think -- well, it's all because of you.
PERINO: But you -- and you're speaking Democrat version of common sense. And so, if -- they would be smart to listen to you.
PIRRO: That's right. That's why I crossed your notes out because you know it. All right, Greg, Joe Rogan.
GUTFELD: Yes.
PIRRO: You know, he comes out he says, Kamala lied.
GUTFELD: Yes. I'm not surprised by that. I think the Dems have plenty of time to find their so-called leader. They have to fill a hole. But they have to find out why that hole existed. What killed the party? What killed the party? We've talked about this. Number one, if you have a party based on victimhood, that means achievement is impossible. Because no one can actually excel because then they become an oppressor. Then you have the opportunity cost of making Trump the number one enemy which that -- at the expense of actually thinking about who you are.
And then if your party becomes we're not Trump, and now Trump represents common sense, where does that leave you? As a point of differentiation, not common sense. So, Trump's the symbol of low crime, strong borders, American enterprise, the Dems all you can think about is he, she, they, them. That's what the Dems have become. Especially for young kids -- young kids, you know the kids in their teens, they know -- they thought they thought the Democratic Party was a joke because of the pronoun stuff.
And you know what? The Dems should hand their party platform over to Harold Ford. They need to out common sense for common sense. Or if they don't do that, if they can't handle Harold because he's a pain in the butt, A.I. -- A.I. the damn thing. Get rid of all activism and emotionalism. Because if you go in the other direction, it's going to be more woke insanity. You're going to be you're going to you're going to embrace minor attracted persons and beastiality as a lifestyle choice and assisted dying for fingernails.
If you don't do that -- hang nails -- if you don't do that, if you don't actually get out of this path and embrace the Harold Fords, you're screwed.
WATTERS: Humble Harold.
PIRRO: Yes. We love you, Harold.
All right, up next, MAGA takes over the Sports World. Kansas Chief Superstar Travis Kelce is praising President Trump.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GUTFELD: Sports stars are free to express their glee for DJT. Donald Trump is set to become the first sitting president to attend a superb owl. Anyway, Kansas City Chiefs royalty are rolling out the MAGA red carpet.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PATRICK MAHOMES, QUARTERBACK, KANSAS CITY CHIEFS: It's always cool to be able to play in front of a sitting president, someone that is at the top position in our country. It's cool to hear that he's seen me play football and uh respects the game that I play.
TRAVIS KELCE, TIGHT END, KANSAS CITY CHIEFS: That's awesome. It's a great honor. I think, you know, no matter who the president is, I know -- I'm excited because it's the biggest game of my life, you know. And having the president there, you know, is the best country in the world, so it'd be pretty cool.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: Harold, I'm sure you're familiar with a superb owl.
FORD JR.: Yes, I've heard of it.
GUTFELD: Yes. It is an event in which some large muscular men combat on a field over an oddly shaped ball. Continue.
FORD JR.: I love this game. Two things. First, congrats to Bret Baier for getting the interview with him. I think it was wrong for President Biden not to have done those interviews in the last few times. I don't know if he ever did one, but I know in the last couple of years he did not when Brett tried to get it. so, that'll be great too.
I don't think anyone should be upset or disappointed or surprised that Patrick Mahomes, the best quarterback in the NFL, Travis Kelce, one of the best players in the NFL as well, probably the best tight end to ever play the game, that they would be excited that the sitting president of the United States is at their game. I would hope they would have said that had Kamala Harris won.
And Republicans might have been mad, Democrats might been mad but this is - - this is a great American tradition. It's the greatest sporting event we host in our country every year. It's a place where the -- it attracts hundreds of millions of viewers in the United States or 100 million viewers in the United States. I think it's a great thing. I can't wait to watch it and I'm excited to watch Bret's interview.
GUTFELD: Thanks for inviting me over. Hey, Judge, bottom line is winners like winners. And you can't deny Trump is doing a lot of winning.
PIRRO: Well, Trump and the Chiefs, I mean, they both keep winning because they work at it, they fight to make sure that they keep winning, and they defy the odds. And you know, I think it's going to happen on Sunday with the Chiefs but what do I know. But if you're sick and tired of losing, maybe your party needs to do better.
FORD JR.: Why you looking at me?
PIRRO: Because you're the only one from your party at the table as far as I know. But you know what I love about this, Greg? I love about the fact that the NFL for so long was about woke nonsense and taking a knee and all this other stuff and you know, pigs and all this. It's a chance for them to bring together America. Whether you're a Trump supporter or a Kamala supporter or whatever, we love this game. The NFL can be a very powerful agency in terms of bringing us together, OK.
And Mahomes -- isn't it amazing that Mahomes said I can't believe the president has watched me play, you know?
GUTFELD: You know what, Dana, we were talking in the green room about Kelce calling this a big honor and you said that's a sick burn on his floozy girlfriend, Taylor Swift. Those were your words.
PERINO: Yes, floozy.
GUTFELD: Yes.
PERINO: It's a -- it's a word that just rolls right out the tongue. I think this is -- maybe not so much about embracing Trump but throwing off the partisanship that prevented them from being able to say it's cool that the President of the United States is coming to the game. And I also think on the thing about winners, when athletes like that saw President Trump get the kind of reaction he was able to get at UFC fights, that is real fandom and I think they admire it.
GUTFELD: You know, Jesse, they removed the end racism what phrase at the --
WATTERS: No way.
GUTFELD: Yes. And they're replacing it with Jesse sucks.
WATTERS: Here's how the Super Bowl is going to end, Greg.
GUTFELD: Yes.
WATTERS: And it's going to be poetic.
GUTFELD: Superb owl.
WATTERS: Because this whole year has been like that. Trump and Taylor Swift are going to be at the game together. The camera's going to show both of them. Trump hates her. She picked the wrong horse. Eagles are going to win. She's going to cry. And Philadelphia, the city where this nation started is going to celebrate, and then the Eagles this time are going to visit the White House.
They dissed Trump when they won the Super Bowl in 2017.
PIRRO: That's right.
WATTERS: I will invite myself to the White House.
PIRRO: Yes, me too.
WATTERS: I will celebrate -- you're not even -- you just said that you wanted the Chiefs.
PIRRO: I don't care.
WATTERS: If the Eagles win, you're not coming. I will make sure of it.
GUTFELD: All right. Well, that was fun. "THE FASTEST" is up next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
FORD JR.: Welcome back. Time for "THE FASTEST." First up, what the heck is a gigachad? Gen Z parents are struggling to keep up with the new bizarre lingo their kids are using. Stuff like mewing, which means making your jawline look more refined, and baddie which means a good-looking girl.
Judge, I know you traffic in this kind of language. Can you give us a sense of how you stay so apprised of all of these developments?
PIRRO: Let me explain something to you. I don't know what any of that stuff means. And the older you get, even if you try to adopt those words, you look ridiculous. Let them say it and you stay out of it.
FORD JR.: Exclamation Point, are these things that are being said yet in the house?
GUTFELD: I think these stories are designed so they can make Boomers look out of touch. Like, I feel like we do this story every year. I'd say bring back the old lingo as I've been telling my friends here. I've been watching a lot of Kojak on Amazon Prime, you know, calling people pal or hit the road or calling women, hey, baby. You know, there was no H.R. department in Kojak land, just a lot of men with lollipops.
FORD JR.: Let's not -- let's not go too far with the old words. D.P., what are your thoughts on this?
PERINO: I mean, I used -- was accused of using the word floozy.
GUTFELD: Yes. Floozy.
PERINO: I'm -- I agree with the judge. I only know about these things when we do these segments.
GUTFELD: Yes.
PERINO: I do -- I don't understand why somebody -- you would call someone Ohio to say they're a loser. That's kind of mean.
FORD JR.: I do. I know that. I understand.
PERINO: Why?
FORD JR.: Because they go blue. I'm a Michigan fan.
PERINO: So, Michigan won that one.
FORD JR.: Primetime, what are your thoughts on this?
WATTERS: My daughter one time said slay skinny baddies. I was like what?
FORD JR.: What does that mean?
WATTERS: I don't know. Apparently, it means good --
WATTERS: I still don't really know what it means. But yes, we do a lot of this at the house. Sus -- they say I'm sus a lot.
FORD JR.: What does that mean?
PERINO: Suspicion.
WATTERS: Suspicious, suspect. If I say something like a sexual double entendre --
FORD JR.: Yes.
WATTERS: They'll say, dad, that's so sus.
FORD JR.: That's suspect. I got to write that down.
WATTERS: Yes, suspicious.
GUTFELD: I think you can remember it.
PIRRO: Yes.
WATTERS: Unless Jeanine crosses it out.
FORD JR.: You have any more thoughts on the football game?
GUTFELD: Yes. Rangers 14, the Librarians 12.
FORD JR.: On that note, "ONE MORE THING" is up next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: It's time now for "ONE MORE THING." Dana?
PERINO: Well, there was a wonderful man laid to rest today. His name was William Ronald Hemmer. That's of course Bill Hammer's father. He passed away last Saturday at the age of 85. He was married to his wife Georgeanne for 63 years. They had five children, and then 11 grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren. And they had the beautiful funeral today.
Bill Hemmer will be back next to me next week. And we just wish his entire family the best.
WATTERS: We love you, Bill. G.G.?
GUTFELD: All right, tonight, we got a great show. Whenever Charles Payne is on, he brings it. Erin Perrine, Adam Hunter, funny guy, Kat Timpf -- there she is. Let's do this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: In your face, Harold.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: You know what? Let's go back to Pine Meadow Farm where Harold the Capibara lives. That's Harold. He as you remember loves his vegetables and he is known as a vegetable vacuum, which was my nickname at the emergency room, Dana.
Anyway, we don't have capibaras here, do we? They're an Australian animal, much like Harold when he goes to Perth. He lets himself go. He loves the Hunter Valley.
FORD JR.: Oh, my gosh. In your -- I'd say it to myself now.
WATTERS: Oh, my God. You're such an Ohio, Harold.
All right, a Hawaiian volcano popped off this week shooting molten lava over 250 feet in the air. They call it lava fountain. How hot is the lava? 2,000 degrees. This thing shows no sign of stopping. I could just stare at it for hours, kind of like Harold.
And tonight, "JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME," Johnny asked Americans about the billionaires club. Here's a sneak peek.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I love Facebook but it's boring now. Instagram is the (BLEEP) now.
JOHNNY BELISARIO, FOX NEWS PRODUCER: What do you do on Instagram?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I look at guys.
BELISARIO: You ever look at Jesse Watters?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He's Black or White?
BELISARIO: He's 0.1 percent Black.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: 0.1 percent Black? I'll take that.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
FORD JR.: Oh, my gosh. Is he Black or White?
PERINO: 0.1 percent.
WATTERS: He'll take that.
WATTERS: Once you go 0.1 percent.
PIRRO: Yes. And that --
FORD JR.: Oh, my God. I thought nothing could have flipped the vegetable vacuum, but that just did.
Prayers to my buddy Bill Hemmer and his family. Best to you my friend.
Check out this incredible rescue in Volusia, Florida. I think I pronouncing it right. A man was rescued from an out-of-control boat after he suffered a medical emergency and passed out with his leg on the throttle. Thankfully, crews were able to close -- were able close in and were close enough to jump on board and stop the boat. The man is expected to make a full recovery. Thank you to the law enforcement and the security enforcement there. That's an amazing thing there.
GUTFELD: Did you know the --
FORD JR.: In your face, Harold. I just want to say it to myself.
GUTFELD: You know that was a three-hour tour.
PIRRO: I couldn't see the guy in the boat. Could you?
FORD JR.: They yank they got him out.
PIRRO: But they didn't keep following it after the yanked him out.
FORD JR.: Can you keep going? Can you keep going?
PIRRO: Yes, keep going. OK. Daily the Jack Russell -- Dally the Jack Russell Terrier may be small but she's a natural cowgirl. Check out her and her trusty companion, Spanky, as the two of them jump hurdles together. They've been doing this for 12 years. Instead of sit or paw, it appears the proper command for Dally is giddy up.
GUTFELD: Yes.
FORD JR.: We have another dinner on the Super Bowl. I won't be here tomorrow to bet --
WATTERS: No. I have a jersey bet with Doocy. He's going to wear a bird's Jersey when they lose.
FORD JR.: Can we have another one?
WATTERS: You want to owe me another dinner? Fine. Let's go, Harold, right here.
PIRRO: All right.
BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST; I've already done the jersey bid.
WATTERS: That's it for us tonight. Have a great night.
What?
BAIER: I've already done it.

Load-Date: February 7, 2025


End of Document
