




Targeted News Service
February 5, 2025 Wednesday 9:20 AM  EST


Copyright 2025 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved


Length: 1072 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


Democracy Forward, a legal organization that says it advances democracy and social progress through litigation, policy and public education and regulatory engagement, issued the following news release:
* * *
National Association of Diversity Officers in Higher Education, American Association of University Professors, Restaurant Opportunities Centers United, and the City of Baltimore File Federal Suit
Suit Alleges New Orders Exceed President's Authority and Violate the First and Fifth Amendments of the U.S. Constitution
Trump's Anti-DEIA Executive Orders will have Disastrous Impacts on Higher Education, Working People, Cities, and Communities
* * *
A diverse coalition representing the nation's leading academics and higher education officials, restaurant workers, and the City of Baltimore has filed a federal complaint to block President Trump's executive orders titled, "Ending Radical Government DEI Programs and Preferencing," and "Ending Illegal Discrimination and Restoring Merit-Based Opportunity" (collectively the "Anti-DEIA Executive Orders").
This challenge, filed in federal court in Maryland, is brought by the National Association of Diversity Officers in Higher Education, the American Association of University Professors, Restaurant Opportunities Centers United, and the Mayor and City Council of Baltimore, Maryland, represented by Democracy Forward and Asian Americans Advancing Justice - Asian American Justice Center ("Advancing Justice - AAJC").
The suit alleges that the Anti-DEIA Executive Orders are chilling speech and expression and have sowed chaos, fear, and confusion from higher education institutions to restaurant workplaces to cities and communities . The Orders, which the suit alleges are unlawfully vague, suggest that the President may with the stroke of a pen prioritize some viewpoints over others, terminate any "equity-related" funding, force federal contractors and grantees to certify that they do not promote "illegal DEI," and target those in the private sector who support DEIA efforts. Plaintiffs, like many others in the nation, are afraid to carry out their lawful DEIA initiatives that are core to their missions. If they do, they may lose critical funding or face enforcement actions.
The suit alleges that the Anti-DEIA Executive Orders chill free speech on matters of substantial political import, solely because the President disagrees with that speech and that they obstruct Congress' exclusive constitutional power of the purse.
"Higher education is about opening up opportunity, innovation and progress for people across the nation. Yet, these Executive Orders will undermine our ability to do that and will have catastrophic impacts on colleges, universities, and higher education institutions, and all of the students and communities they serve," said Paulette Granberry Russell, J.D., President and CEO of the National Association of Diversity Officers in Higher Education. "As the nation's leading association for diversity officers and professionals in higher education, we will use all tools available, including the legal process, to block these harmful orders."
"Terminating federal funds for college teachers and researchers will halt critical research on cancer, heart disease, and diabetes, undermining the health care of all Americans while making universities less inclusive and less equitable," said AAUP President Todd Wilson. "AAUP is proud to stand up and defend our campuses and communities from this vague and destructive executive order."
"The restaurant industry relies on workers of all backgrounds to sustain itself," said Teofilo Reyes, Interim President of the Restaurant Opportunities Centers United. "The diversity of our industry is what sets us apart, allowing us to thrive even in the hardest of times. We are committed to ensuring all workers have access to a thriving wage in the restaurant industry. President Trump wishes to see the end of all diversity, equity, and inclusion programs of any kind whatsoever - and we will not stand for it."
"This executive order goes beyond just attacking DEI; it aims to establish the legal framework to attack anyone or any place who dares to celebrate our diversity," said Baltimore Mayor Brandon Scott. "Doing so directly threatens many programs and entities that serve our community on a daily basis for no other reason than political posturing. Baltimore citizens risk losing vital federal funding due to this executive order, putting jobs and livelihoods at stake -- and we will fight it with every legal tool available to us, just as we are doing with this lawsuit.
"Our Constitution protects all Americans - whether you are a university professor or a restaurant worker - from unlawful intrusion on speech, ideas, and expression and entitles all Americans to fair process. The President's Anti-DEIA Executive Orders offend these protections and others. The coalition bringing this suit represents people of diverse professions and backgrounds who are all harmed by these unlawful orders, which have chilled their activities and provision of essential services," said Skye Perryman, President and CEO of Democracy Forward. "We are honored to bring this suit on behalf of our clients and are committed to working with communities across the nation to confront attacks on freedom of speech, diversity, equity, and inclusion, and fighting back against Trump's continued attempts to test the limits of targeting his political opponents."
"The President's Anti-DEIA executive orders are attempts to cause panic and suppress, selectively, any idea or expression that isn't aligned with his own views under the guise of uplifting merit. In turn, these orders are backpedaling on years of progress and will result in further division, discrimination, inequity, and exclusion," said John C. Yang, President and Executive Director of Asian Americans Advancing Justice - AAJC. "The President cannot stifle our rights and override our democratic processes simply because he feels like it. We are committed to standing up to fight for access, diversity, equity, and inclusion for all."
The Complaint is available here ().
* * *
Original text and links presented by source here: 
[Category: Law/Legal]
Copyright Targeted News Services
MSTRUCK-9034742 MSTRUCK

Load-Date: February 5, 2025


End of Document
