




Fox News THE FIVE 5:00 PM EST
February 7, 2025 Friday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6848 words
Byline: Dana Perino, Jeanine Pirro, Jessica Tarlov, Jesse Watters, Greg Gutfeld
Body


WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Be sure to tune in to Fox this Sunday for exclusive coverage of Super Bowl LIX with the pregame show kicking off at 1:00 p.m. Eastern Time.
Before that, I'll be live from New Orleans on "FOX & FRIENDS" all weekend long leading up to it.
It's been fun hanging out with you, and now I hand you off to THE FIVE.
DANA PERINO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Hello, everyone. I'm Dana Perino along with Judge Jeanine Pirro, Jessica Tarlov, Jesse Watters and Greg Gutfeld. Is 5:00 in New York City, and this is THE FIVE.
(INAUDIBLE)
PERINO: More anti-Musk madness on Capitol Hill, Democratic lawmakers trying to barge their way into the Department of Education in Washington this morning, but they were denied entry. Panted that the agency could be next on the DOGE chopping block.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We're coming in, don't lock the door. We're coming in. Who are you?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You're not coming in.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Who are you?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Who are you, sir?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do you have business here?
REP. MAXINE WATERS (D-CA): We pay you.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We're members of Congress, we're not a threat.
WATERS: We pay you.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You won't have a job if we don't help you.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He was told to come out here and block members of Congress in entering an all access entrance to the Department of Education as we fight in defense of public education and students.
WATERS: Are they prepared to shoot us? He was standing in the way of all children being educated. Look them in their eye. Come on. Hold your face up. Look at them. Let them see you. This is him. Look at it. What's your name? Tell us your name. Give me that idea again.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It's locked to members of Congress, but it is not locked to the billionaires who are to suck every guy out of this department.
I'm ready to go to jail you all.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERINO: It's just the latest full on freak out from the left who've been protesting a cost cutting initiative all week at various buildings. Government workers now have until at least Monday to decide whether to accept a buyout.
So far, 65,000 workers have accepted it. The media also has a bone to pick with DOGE by attacking one of Elon's young engineer workers, a 19-year-old tech wizard, and the preferred nickname he's used online.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ANDERSON COOPER, CNN HOST: We begin tonight with Musk and Big Balls.
JOY REID, MSNBC HOST: He called himself Big, B-A-L-L-S, I won't say the whole words, I won't be vulgar. That's what he calls himself so Big B-A-L- L-S has all of our social security data.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: A 19-year-old high school graduate who has used the unfortunate nickname Big Balls online. So, that would be one way that we could refer to him.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERINO: I'm going to get to Big Balls in a second.
GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: I've heard that before.
PERINO: Maxine Karen Waters, Jesse, I know no relation. She was treating that guy so terribly. She was like, the woman at the airline counter that you cannot stand.
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: I don't think he recognized her. That was the worst part. He was like, I'm a member of Congress. He's like, prove it. He didn't even know who she was.
You know, Maxine's district can't read, they can't do math. I looked at the scores in L.A., where she represents, 30 percent of them can even read or do math at a grade level. This is the first time, though, that she's cared about education.
All the test scores have gone down everywhere in her district since she's been in office. She gave him all this money, spending has gone up. She'd been good for the unions. She hasn't been good for the students, but now she makes a stunt.
These are the kind of stunts that I used to pull. This is the kind of gonzo journalism, let me in here with my little camera crew for the Factor. These are supposed to be members of Congress. This is all they have as a stunt. Don't they have lawyers? Aren't there like parliamentary tactics they could use? Don't they have the power of the purse? Instead, they're just doing this stuff for the television.
I like how they're mad because Big Balls is a teenager. So, if you're a teenager, the Democrats say you can cut your balls off, but if you're -- but if you're a teenager, you can't log on to a government computer? I mean, his name's Big Balls, he's a villain, but if he cuts them off, he's a hero. What?
This guy is a computer genius who's saving us billions of dollars, the other teenage prophet they told us to listen to from Norway Greta. She was costing us billions of dollars. This is ridiculous.
I actually think illegally they have to let her in, but if you are a threat, then he's on solid ground.
PERINO: I'm not sure, Jessica, what they were going to do if they got in there. What are they going to do? They like -- they haven't cared about education in ages, and now all of a sudden they want to go to the Department of Education and so performative and treating an employee like that? That's terrible.
JESSICA TARLOV, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: Well, it's definitely not getting us anywhere in a productive direction. And I've been giving a lot of thought to what Democrats should be doing right now that can be effective.
And Jesse is right, we do have the power of the purse, and so they have a right to be in those buildings. Musk and co don't have a right to be getting rid of things willy nilly when they've been appropriated the money by Congress.
But what I think that they should do, and everyone can, you know, fan out and talk about it individually, is come up with your agenda items. Say, well, this is our plan to reform the Department of Education, or this is our DOGE plan. These are actually programs that I agree with you. Maybe we need to cut these. Or I actually found a couple of things that you hadn't seen, where I think that we could trim back there.
And I think the American public would think more highly of them if they were coming out with a proposal to do something because there was a mandate to cut waste, and just having this blanket refusal to deal with them, just to say everything is unconstitutional and unlawful, is obviously not getting us anywhere.
On the Big Balls front, it's -- well, so it's not just that people are mad that he's a teenager. They're mad that he wouldn't have passed a regular FBI background check. So not only did he tweet incredibly racist things, which, by the way, I was thinking back to when we were talking about the campus protests all the time at the height of the Israel-Hamas war, and everyone was very enthusiastic about kids who were saying things like, wipe the Jews out. When this guy says, normalize Indian hate.
So, if you take that and you insert Jews instead of Indian, that's the thing that J.D. Vance and Donald Trump said, all those kids shouldn't be able to get jobs.
PERINO: I think that's two different people.
JEANINE PIRRO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL LEGAL ANALYST: Yes, they are.
TARLOV: What? Well, it's one of the kids that works at DOGE.
WATTERS: Not Big Balls.
PERINO: Big Balls and this guy are different.
TARLOV: OK, well, Big Balls --
GUTFELD: How dare you slander Big Balls?
TARLOV: Big Balls was fired --
GUTFELD: How dare you attack Big Balls?
TARLOV: Big Balls was fired from an internship for leaking internal information.
GUTFELD: His big balls were leaking?
TARLOV: You know that these kids wouldn't pass a regular background check, and so they shouldn't have access to our files. Well, you work here, you don't work there.
GUTFELD: Whose fault is that?
PERINO: Judge, it's almost like these the Democrats were like performative kids. I love theater kids, they're some of my favorite but it did feel like that, like they were doing improv at the high school gym.
PIRRO: Well, first of all, when do you think the last time that these members of Congress were at the Department of Education? That's the first question I have. But now all of a sudden, for political theater, they need to go there and demand to get in.
And I love when Maxine Waters says, lift up your face. Hold your face up so we can see you, look them in the eye, tell us your name, give us that idea, again, from a woman in a party who don't believe you need an I.D. to vote in this country.
I mean, everything about it is so hypocritical and so backwards.
And you know, this whole thing about the Department of Education and what has happened is it's all about Jimmy Carter who decided something like 45 years ago that we needed a Department of Education in this country. Jimmy Carter was the guy who also made sure that we had, you know, these tough civil service laws so that people who work in the federal government can't be fired the way normal people can be fired.
But they created this bureaucracy, the Department of Education, because Jimmy Carter wanted to pay back the unions for their support of him. I mean, this whole thing is about bottom line, it's not about all the stuff we're talking about here. If you want to talk about the real issues, it's failing with kids, but it's about the bloated bureaucracy. It's about the political -- the politicization of unions and political paybacks.
We don't need a Department of Education, and right now, our kids are doing so poorly. I mean, we spend more, pretty much than any other country spends on kids, and our kids are doing horrible.
And the last thing I want to say is, you know what? I wish these congresspeople were more animated about the Department of Education when Randi Weingarten and the unions were saying, oh, we don't want to go to school. We don't want to -- you know, we don't want the schools to open. It's too dangerous for the teachers and for the kids.
You know, this is all political theater.
PERINO: Greg, I don't know if people at home realize but they might not be surprised at this point that the Department Education spent a billion of our tax dollars promoting DEI in K-12 and 60 percent of kids in America cannot read at the right level.
GUTFELD: It's not surprising. (INAUDIBLE) I'm just kind of shocked and disappointed that I'm the only one here wearing black. Why didn't you guys wear black? It's National constipation Awareness Day. Make poo great again. What's with all the red? Is this an attack on me?
Look, one thing to point out, I get let's -- I can't believe you're not asking me about Big Balls.
PERINO: I did, I said Big Balls could probably read at this grade level.
GUTFELD: You know, he spelled it Big Balls with an S and not a Z. So he's pretty serious about this. He could be for debutante out coming out parties, you never know, you never know.
This reminds me of the scientist, Matt Taylor, do you remember we did this on THE FIVE like 10 years ago? He landed a spacecraft on a comet, but he was forced to apologize for wearing a Hawaiian shirt with scantily clad women on it, and critics swarmed around him, saying that he was discouraged -- His shirt was discouraging young women from the sciences.
Never mind the fact that this guy landed an effing spacecraft on a comet. The story is not about a teenager has a sophomore extensive humor. The story is he's a computer scientist like at 17, who started like five companies. What were the CNN hacks doing that the media -- the legacy media doing at that age? Certainly not that.
If you think the USAID stuff was bad, the Department of Education could be way worse, and it's really bad. And the reason why they're scared is because none of it will be false, like this is all just an audit. It's a transparent audit, and you're going to find fraud and abuse. And why would you be upset? Why would you be upset if they find fraud and abuse in a department that we spend money on? you should be like welcoming this.
What if it turns out that that's all you need to do to cut the budget? What if it's just all that you don't have to do anything else?
And I'll just cut it short here. I just find it intriguing that nobody is upset except for these people. There were no heads of state upset over USAID, which was supposed to be benefiting other countries. Not a single country said, wait, don't go. It was just the NGOs and the people who get money from USAID through the NGOs that were throwing a fit because gravy train is dead.
PERINO: Gravy train is out of gas. All right, coming up, President Trump holding another blockbuster news conference with some choice words for our very own Maxine Karen Waters.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: President Trump capping off his third whirlwind week in office by signing more E.O.s and scarfing down questions from the press and charming the Japanese Prime Minister during a news conference.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I wish I was as handsome as him, but I'm not. I'm very proud of the job that this group of young people, generally young people, but very smart people. They're doing -- they're doing it at my insistence. I've instructed him to go check out education, to check out the Pentagon, which is the military.
I see Maxine Waters, a low life. I see, you know, all these people, they don't -- they don't love our country.
Kash Patel is going to do a great job, and we're going to bring back the reputation of the FBI. We will have relations with North Korea and with Kim Jong-un, I got along with them very well.
We have illegal immigrants on Social Security, and we're going to find out who they are and take them out.
SHIGERU ISHIBA, JAPANESE PRIME MINISTER (through translator): I am unable to respond to a theoretical question. That's the official answer that we have.
TRUMP: That's a very good answer.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: The Trump news tornado doesn't end there. 47 also zeroing in on the one issue that will secure him a third term. "I will be signing an executive order next week, ending the ridiculous Biden bush for paper straws, which don't work, back to plastic." Back to plastic, Jessica.
TARLOV: Is that a joke?
WATTERS: Finally.
TARLOV: This is Dana says, if you got like, an 80-20 issue or 90-10 issue, take the W. I don't think you're going to meet much resistance on the paper straw front, I think it's great that the Japanese prime minister came, President Trump had a great relationship with Abe who used to be the prime minister and was unfortunately assassinated in 2022 and they obviously want to make sure that they have a good and secure relationship. And that there won't be any sort of trade war increase in tariffs.
And there's a lot to talk about as well in terms of countering China, even though, obviously Japan does a ton of trade with them, so maintaining our kind of, you know, post-World War II relationship is top of the list, and it's a big deal to be the second one in right behind Netanyahu, and that was obviously a big priority for the Japanese.
WATTERS: Yes, I think the Indian Prime Minister is coming pretty soon. Judge, the hostility from the press is just gone. Remember that Russia, Russia, Russia, it's gone.
PIRRO: I think they gave up. I think they know, first of all, they lost their credibility. They know that the American people didn't buy into it. They know that there's no one to sell it to anymore.
But I think that what's amazing about this. And both you and Jessica referenced it, you know, you've got the prime minister from Japan, and then we had Netanyahu earlier in the week. We've got Modi coming in from India, I mean, and then you've got the President Trump was talking about, you know, a relationship with North Korea.
You know, this is a president who believes in talking. He believes in having discussions with leaders of foreign countries, because you can't just shut down the world the way Joe Biden did. He didn't talk to anybody. He didn't even go to the G20 photograph, he didn't go to the dinners. I mean, he went to bed. I mean, it was just crazy.
And, you know, I spoke to Ric Grenell today, and I talked to him about what happened and how he got those prisoners back from Venezuela. And he said, simply talking, there was no money exchanged. There was no prisoner exchange. You know, Maduro, we went there and we said, we're not leaving without six.
And he described it in an interview that I did, and it was just mind blowing that, you know, the -- and then what he said was, for all the prisoners in Venezuela and these guys that they took off on the plane ride back to the states, they had never had a wellness check by the United States. And that's something that I could tell Dana, you know, that shake your head, it's incredible.
Anyone who's a prisoner or a hostage an American in any other country, the State Department is supposed to make a wellness check. None of those guys even knew whether that Donald Trump or President Trump knew anything about them. They were brought there in black hoods. They didn't know what was going to happen. That's what a leader is.
WATTERS: And where can we see the interview with Grinnell?
PIRRO: On my radio show, WABC.
WATTERS: WABC. Greg, remember when Biden used to do these joint pressers, and he had the note cards with the faces of the reporters and the names? Those days are gone.
GUTFELD: Yes. And remember the old days when the media and the Dems would tell us that the world was laughing at us, laughing at us over Trump, and we learned that everything they told us was the opposite. They weren't laughing at Trump. They were made anxious and confused by a befuddled puppet called Joe Biden.
The truth is, the world is actually pretty enamored by Trump because he's the most American leader we've seen. Warts and all. Know that the Japanese Prime Minister loves him because he reminds him of Godzilla. True fact, you didn't know that?
But think about -- think about what America is. OK? It's big, it's loud, it's fast, it's forceful. It could be arrogant, it could be a little scary, a little bit of noxious. That's America. That's also Trump like a Camaro. Yes, exactly. Trump is a human Camaro.
Imagine how the world viewed America while the -- while the military was being feminized, or we were degrading our own history, or self-flagellating our country over its role as an oppressor, they were like, what's going on with America? Because that was not our brand. That was not our brand.
You know, Joe Biden fronting the United States was like Dylan Mulvaney fronting Budweiser. It just was like, it didn't make any sense.
You know, Buds not recovered from that, but America is because we finally got the brand right. You can't -- I don't think you can find a more American like front facing emblem, like if America were a beer, Trump's face would be on it.
WATTERS: Right, even though he wouldn't be able to drink the beer because he doesn't drink. Dana, your thoughts?
PERINO: Well, I was thinking about that 90-10 issue, meaning that 90 percent of the country agrees with something, so you might as well just get on board and be for what's going to happen.
Back when I worked at the White House, I sometimes would call my sister, who lives in southeast Denver too, and I'd say, hey, Angie, what did you think about such and such? And if my sister knew about it, I knew we were either in big trouble, or we had a live one, like we had a good issue, or we were in a lot of trouble.
The only thing I heard from my sister today is yay, no more paper straws. So, that is a winning issue.
Kamala Harris was on board to ban plastic straws in 2020, she will never be president.
TARLOV: She would have been impeached.
PERINO: She'll never be president.
WATTERS: All right, up next, Kamala Harris getting banished to the cheap seats at the Lakers games.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
PIRRO: Democrats are so in the dumps that people barely notice Kamala Harris and Doug sitting in the cheap seats in the back of an L.A. Lakers game, a perfect photo illustration of how irrelevant her party has become.
John Fetterman wants his party to rise again, and he's giving Democrats the cold, hard truth on why they lost.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. JOHN FETTERMAN (D-PA): I think their primary currency was shaming and scolding and talking down to people and telling them, hey, I know better than you, or you're dopes, or you're a bro, or you're ignorant, or, you know, don't you -- you know, how can you be this dumb? I can't imagine it like -- and then, by the way, they're, they're fascists. How can you vote for that?
If you go to an extreme and you become a boutique kind of a proposition, then you're going to lose the -- you're going to lose the argument, and then we have done that.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PIRRO: All right, Jessica, I may be assuming wrongs, but I shouldn't assume is he right, and what is the Democrat party going to do about it?
TARLOV: Well, anyone who is winning in this environment is right. There's no way to say otherwise. Fetterman won a competitive race. Was able to do it. I know he wasn't up right in 2024 but yes, he's right, and he's certainly right for Pennsylvania, who seem very happy with him, and he has very high approval rating.
And I think that people should really safe seat Dems need to take a step back, because they are living in a completely different world than those who actually have to compete for their races.
Pat Ryan, who is a swing state or a swing seat down, I should say, in New York, said a very similar thing in an interview around election time, where he said, I basically had to run away from the party brand.
You know, everyone knew I was a Democrat, but I was not talking about myself as part of the national delegation. And I think that there is really a big problem with the amount of policy positions that we have to explain at length. It should be really simple. I'm not saying it has to all be like a branding exercise, but Prop 36 was such a good example of that.
And building off of Dana's sister example, my sister who lives in Los Angeles -- and she pays attention to politics but she was like oh, I'm so excited about Prop 36 and Nathan Hochman, we're going to get a new D.A. And I was like -- she goes, this Gascon has got to go.
And those are not the conversations that I'm having with my sister typically. And those kinds of issues permeated and no Dem was explaining why they were against Prop 36. You could have talked about the private prison system and things like that till you're blew in the face but it was a 70-30 issue in a very Liberal state.
PIRRO: You know, Jesse there's a New York Times-Ipsos poll that showed that something like 79 percent of voters want men out of women's sports, OK. And yet none of the Democrats that I'm familiar with, you know, have come out as a result of what President Trump did and said this is a good thing. And in fact, even this week, we saw the DNC stumbling over their own gender rules still. Are they just stuck in reverse?
WATTERS: The trans lobby is very powerful.
PIRRO: Is that what it is?
WATTERS: The trans lobby is scary to them -- not to anybody else but to them. They are also only in control of about 20 cities in the country. That's the Democrat power base, about 20 cities. Have you seen the cities? Look at them. It's disgusting. They can't manage them. And they're these little urban coastal bubbles and they never leave the city. Even when they go on vacation, they just go to Miami.
So they think they're in the majority. And then they also think they speak for everybody. They think they speak for the Blacks, the gays, the Hispanics, the union workers. And basically on November 5th, the country was like you don't speak for me.
Fetterman, besides having a hoodie, Greg, has common sense. And it's the only guy I see on the Democratic side that has that.
PIRRO: All right, Dana, Kamala goes to a Lakers game. She's in row 58. Nobody notices. Nobody cares. What's her future as a --
PERINO: Wouldn't that be great if she -- like for her -- like, if I were her, I'd say this is great. I can just get back to this and I don't have to -- I don't have to pretend that I'm going to be governor of California or that I'm going to run for office again. Just like go have a great life. You have a husband who loves you. Just go enjoy yourself. You have your health. I would do that. I'd go to all the games.
One of the thing that's incredibly satisfying is that I love a big "I told you so moment." And we're -- the Fox News channel is having one. Do you remember when Chris Harrison got cancelled from The Bachelorette? Was it Bachelorette? Because he said that you should have grace for a contestant who went to an Antebellum themed party. He got ran out of town.
PIRRO: Yes. And it was that kind of lunacy that just got spiraled out of control to the point where you had priests using water squirt guns in order to baptize people. It was just insane and it got way out of control. And now you have all of these Democrats who are not in safe seats who are trying desperately to try to distance themselves.
I maintain that whoever is brave enough to throw the Biden Administration and the big cover up under the bus is likely to be the person who comes out a winner.
PIRRO: Interesting. I thought this question would be great for you.
GUTFELD: Oh, God.
PIRRO: The Democrats have come up with a bill that allows -- that requires that employer give you pet bereavement time off.
GUTFELD: Well --
WATTERS: Gus?
GUTFELD: Speaking of pets, I want to talk about Fetterman. We said everything that he said on this show for four years. But I get why it didn't sink in with Democrats because it's like substance abusers. A drug user will not listen to a normie when the normie is telling him you got to stop doing drugs. They got to hear from somebody who used to be there.
So, when Fetterman talks, he's like a Liberal whisperer. They -- you know, he can -- he could engage with them because they understand -- he understands their reluctance and their fear. You -- it's hard to let go of big ideas because you think there's nothing else out there. But there's a whole world out there waiting for you to join it. And that's what he's kind of saying.
In terms of why it took so long, this is the problem with Democrats they don't move until they see a poll. So, was he talking as a politician or a human being? I don't need a poll to tell me that men in women's locker rooms is bad. I don't care about the polls. I know that it's wrong. And at the same thing, I don't need a poll to hear about plastic straws being better than paper. I don't need a poll to know that my money shouldn't be going to trans operas in Columbia. I don't need a poll, but they do. Maybe they should stop -- get a spine instead of a poll.
PIRRO: That's good.
WATTERS: Jessica --
PIRRO: That's good.
GUTFELD: In your face.
TARLOV: I see what you did there.
PIRRO: Yes.
TARLOV: You changed the spelling.
PIRRO: Well done. Stay right there. THE FIVE Super Bowl spectacular is up next featuring Tom Brady, Taylor Swift, and President Trump.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS CHANNEL ANCHOR: How do you think this story is going to play out?
SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Too close to call.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Five minutes to air.
BAIER: Go big --
HANNITY: Or go home. We're in a Super Bowl 59 spot.
BAIER: I feel super.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
TARLOV: We are just two days away from the kickoff and the game plan is set. This Sunday, Jesse's Philadelphia Eagles take on the Kansas City Chiefs for Super Bowl 59 in New Orleans. Getting the program started with delicious Morgan's BBQ and some guy named Tom who went to the same high school as Greg talking about the big game on "FOX AND FRIENDS" this morning. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TOM BRADY, FOX SPORTS LEAD NFL ANALYST: Do everything you can to not let anything get in the way of your preparation. And it still goes from now up until game time. There's a lot of things that can distract you or take your mind away from what ultimately the goal is. And the goal is to go out here and win the game.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
TARLOV: As always, the event is set to be a star-studded affair. President Trump and Taylor Swift will be there.
Greg, I'm going to let you finish that rib. I think it's your eighth. Judge, what is your Super Bowl plan?
PIRRO: Well, I've got money riding on the Chiefs winning. And I've got Travis touching -- doing touchdown, scoring a touchdown.
TARLOV: Doing touchdown?
PIRRO: Yes, scoring a touchdown. And if any of you could care less, you can go to Pirro's Parlay. You could cheer for me, OK.
WATTERS: Pirro's Parlay.
PIRRO: And I am looking forward to both the game and halftime.
TARLOV: Jesse, it's obviously very serious for you this weekend. Do you have rituals when the Eagles are in? How are you guys watching the game?
WATTERS: We're out of town at an undisclosed location.
TARLOV: Respect his privacy please.
WATTERS: We're not at the game. I no longer tell people where I go.
TARLOV: I know. I asked you and you told me --
GUTFELD: Well, we know you're not in your home, so we can burglarize you.
PERINO: Like Joe Burrow.
WATTERS: We're having someone at the house to house sit, Greg.
PIRRO: Really?
WATTERS: Yes. I asked you and you said you were busy. And so, I'll be watching it somewhere and I will be coming in on Monday.
TARLOV: OK, no matter what.
WATTERS: I will be coming in on Monday. And I just can't believe a president has never gone to a game.
TARLOV: Yes. It's weird.
WATTERS: That is just crazy. That is absolutely crazy. It'll be a big spectacle. I can't wait. I still think the Eagles have it.
TARLOV: Yes?
WATTERS: And I'm also in a pool. And if I win, I actually might t not come in on Monday.
PIRRO: Well --
TARLOV: Dana, will there be queso?
PERINO: No. I think -- I live near Kennedy and I might just wander down. She said she's making some chicken nachos. I really don't -- I don't know. I'm going to go with the Eagles for Jesse.
WATTERS: Thank you. Thank you.
PERINO: I think that -- and I also -- are they the underdog?
WATTERS: Yes, by a little.
TARLOV: By like a point and a half.
PERINO: The underbird.
TARLOV: It's like nothing.
PERINO: The underbird.
WATTERS: The underbird, Dana.
PERINO: Yes, I'm going for the underbird.
TARLOV: Under --
PERINO: That's all I got.
TARLOV: Greg, how's that rib?
GUTFELD: Great. This is number five. Morgans is amazing.
TARLOV: Yes.
GUTFELD: It's amazing. They incredible place if you're ever in New York. You know, it's hard for me to pick the team because I don't know who I like less, Taylor Swift or Jesse. So -- but the real feud is me and Tom Brady. What did I ever do to this guy? I mean, be more successful, better looking, I was more popular at Sierra High School than he was. I had better grades. You know, I took advanced courses, played soccer. He didn't play soccer. I was Santa Claus at Notre Dame and the Easter Bunny at Notre Dame High School. He wasn't. What's his problem. He's got a huge chip on his shoulder. The guy wouldn't do my show. Think about it.
WATTERS: He wouldn't do your show.
TARLOV: Do --
GUTFELD: Do you know --
WATTERS: It's the smartest decision he's ever made.
GUTFELD: Yes. Everybody's freaking out. Don't say anything bad about Tom Brady. It's like, you guys --
PERINO: He probably laughs about it.
GUTFELD: Yes. It's so crazy. These are amazing.
TARLOV: Do we think Taylor Swift and Trump meet?
WATTERS: No.
PIRRO: No.
TARLOV: No?
WATTERS: No.
PIRRO: No, absolutely not.
TARLOV: OK. It wasn't that stupid of a question. "FAN MAIL FRIDAY" is up next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GUTFELD: All right, "FAN MAIL FRIDAY." Let's get to it, shall we? This question from Allison J. If you could have a song played every time you came into a room, what would it be? Judge.
PIRRO: What's that song, because I'm happy?
PERINO: Oh.
TARLOV: Oh, with Pharrell?
PIRRO: Yes, Pharrell.
TARLOV: That's a cute one.
GUTFELD: That's you song?
PIRRO: No, it's not my song but it makes me happy.
GUTFELD: I wouldn't have guessed that. I would have --
PIRRO: I'm happy.
GUTFELD: I would have thought something like Barracuda by Heart. Jessica?
TARLOV: I don't know. This is hard. You're like your walk out music, and I feel like --
GUTFELD: Yes. You came into a room, the music comes on. What is it?
TARLOV: I don't know. It's like such a -- like -- something like, Girls Just Want to Have Fun, like a Cyndi Lauper. Is that fine?
WATTERS: That was mine.
GUTFELD: Jesse?
WATTERS: Hail to the Chief.
PIRRO: Oh, my gosh, Jesse.
TARLOV: Of course.
WATTERS: I think you have to earn that though.
PIRRO: Yes.
GUTFELD: No, you can go ahead. Just take it.
WATTERS: I'll take it. Sorry, Trump.
GUTFELD: Dana, I'm sure it's going to be somebody we know.
PERINO: I'm coming with one that's so fun and embarrassing.
PIRRO: What is it?
PERINO: No, it's not -- it's not -- all I could think of that song Hips Don't Lie by Shakira.
PIRRO: Shakira.
PERINO: Because it been in my mind because I'm trying to learn this song of hers. Something called Dia de Enero, I think. I'm trying to learn in Spanish.
GUTFELD: For dance class?
PERINO: No, I'm trying to learn Spanish but I'm trying to like keep up on my Spanish and --
GUTFELD: Somebody's moving.
PERINO: Yes. See you, Spain. Just kidding.
GUTFELD: So, that's it.
PERINO: I guess so.
GUTFELD: I'm going to go with a theme for today, Big Balls by ACDC.
PIRRO: Of course.
PERINO: I like it.
GUTFELD: A classic song. Gini asks, what do you consider the most adventurous thing you've ever done? Dana, you are -- you do a lot of adventurous things. I could -- I could actually answer the question for you, but you go ahead.
PERINO: No, you remember. Remember I told that story for the first time and my mom learned about it on air?
GUTFELD: Yes. But like --
PERINO: That's not adventures. That was reckless. I went to El Paso on a private plane --
GUTFELD: You hijacked it.
PERINO: -- with a girlfriend and two guys in college. It was so dumb.
GUTFELD: It was amazing.
PERINO: It's so dumb.
PERINO: I'm surprised I'm here.
GUTFELD: No, it's amazing. And you filmed that movie in Tijana which outrageous.
PERINO: I know. I still got royalties though.
GUTFELD: That's good. I was going to say you -- I was going to say you doing standup. Going on stage doing comedy.
PERINO: Oh, that is also -- it's -- it is adventuresome but it's also a huge favor for the Joe's. I will do anything for them but it does take all of my energy.
GUTFELD: Doing it for the Joe's.
PERINO: Yes.
GUTFELD: Jesse, what's the most adventurous thing you've done? You don't strike me as a risk-taker.
WATTERS: Probably the porn.
GUTFELD: Yes.
TARLOV: I'm sorry?
TARLOV: In '96, it was the porn. No, so many things come to mind, Greg. Spelunking, am I saying that --
GUTFELD: Did you spelunk?
PERINO: You spelunked?
WATTERS: Of course, I spelunked.
PERINO: You did not.
WATTERS: Yes.
PERINO: Where?
WATTERS: In West Virginia.
GUTFELD: Wow. Well, I guess you could spelunk there.
PERINO: You spelunked there.
WATTERS: Yes, I spelunked. I had the helmet with the light on top.
PERINO: For what? Why did you do that? For a story?
WATTERS: It was one of those camps my parents made me go to. They probably thought it would be better off if I just never came out of the cave.
PERINO: I would never spelunk.
TARLOV: They love you.
WATTERS: They say they do.
GUTFELD: I caught something in my eye. Jessica, I'm not winking at you. My contact moved.
WATTERS: HR does not accept that.
GUTFELD: Yes. I don't know what's wrong with my eye. Most adventurous thing you've ever done besides doing THE FIVE.
TARLOV: Oh, that's a good one, I married someone I barely knew.
GUTFELD: I did that.
WATTERS: You barely knew him?
TARLOV: I mean, kind of. Like, meet a guy in the elevator, get stuck inside with him. Have we met?
WATTERS: How long were you engaged before like I was --
TARLOV: You know I was -- Cleo was already like a thing that was happening when we got married.
WATTERS: Wait, wait, wait. How long did you know your husband?
TARLOV: Do you care about me at all?
WATTERS: Yes. I didn't --
TARLOV: Dana, the Judge, and Greg all know.
WATTERS: Wait. How long did you know him before you guys got engaged?
TARLOV: Well, we moved --
PIRRO: Who said they were engaged?
TARLOV: No --
WATTERS: Wow. Wait. What is going on here? Did you know this?
GUTFELD: Yes.
TARLOV: Everybody knows how little regard you have for me. That's what's going on here.
WATTERS: I have a lot going on, Jessica.
TARLOV: Oh, the spelunking?
WATTERS: We'll talk later.
TARLOV: I'm just kidding. Brian, you're great and I knew it would work out.
PIRRO: Yeah, Brian.
TARLOV: What?
WATTERS: What is going on? How long was I spelunking for?
GUTFELD: Judge? This is hilarious.
PIRRO: Jesse, take it into the Green Room.
WATTERS: OK.
PIRRO: OK.
WATTERS: We got to talk. Is this a joke?
GUTFELD: No. You were so shocked. Judge?
PIRRO: Riding in hot air balloon.
GUTFELD: Oh, I could do that one.
WATTERS: It's fun.
PERINO: I've done that. I would never do it again.
GUTFELD: Yes, yes.
PERINO: One and done.
GUTFELD: I agree with you. I got -- I got engaged in three months.
TARLOV: When you know, you know.
GUTFELD: Yes. I did that when I met her on my first day of the job in Portugal.
TARLOV: That's the cutest story how you --
PIRRO: Yes, but you got engaged.
TARLOV: -- you said, who are you telling, Bill Maher on Club Random where you said I just knew I was going to marry that girl.
GUTFELD: Yes. I got married at justice of the peace.
WATTERS: You actually watched him on Maher? I couldn't get there the first five minutes.
GUTFELD: Everything is -- everything is news to Jesse.
TARLOV: Well, everything about being --
WATTERS: And a new news.
TARLOV: -- a supportive friend is news to Jesse.
WATTERS: All right.
GUTFELD: It's incredible. Everything is news to you.
WATTERS: Shut up, Greg.
GUTFELD: So, you hear -- have you heard this guy jelly roll? Anyway, "ONE MORE THING" up next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
PERINO: It's time now for "ONE MORE THING." Greg.
GUTFELD: Oh, tonight, we got a great show at 10:00. Dagen McDowell, Rob Long, Todd Piro -- you remember him?-Nobody watches him. Kat Timpf --
TARLOV: Greg.
GUTFELD: I'm kidding. He loves it. Let's do this.
Yes. All right, we're going to play the audio and then we're going to go around the table. Play the audio.
PIRRO: That's a kid.
WATTERS: That's a baby. It's a baby girl.
GUTFELD: All right -- OK, don't play it. It's not a human. It's an animal. Dana?
PERINO: That capibara I think.
GUTFELD: Capibara.
PERINO: What's the thing that that you call in your face Harold?
GUTFELD: Is he a coach for the Yankees?
PERINO: What's the in your face Harold animal?
GUTFELD: Possum? I don't know.
PERINO: No, the thing from yesterday.
GUTFELD: I don't know. You're slowing me down. God.
PERINO: Capibara. Thank you.
WATTERS: It's a cat.
GUTFELD: A capibara.
WATTERS: A cat.
GUTFELD: It's a cat? Jesse says it's a cat.
TARLOV: It's probably not going to be a cat but it sounds like something in that family.
WATTERS: It's in the feline family.
GUTFELD: Be specific, Jessica.
TARLOV: He said cat.
GUTFELD: Oh, so you agree with him?
TARLOV: On this.
GUTFELD: All right, finally. Judge?
PIRRO: I don't know what that is.
GUTFELD: Well, you know what?
TARLOV: It's horrible.
GUTFELD: Should we play it and let everybody find out for themselves?
TARLOV: It is a cat.
PIRRO: It's a cat. That's a cat.
GUTFELD: It's a possessed cat.
TARLOV: Just a regular cat.
GUTFELD: This is Petunia.
WATTERS: The first I ever got that right.
PIRRO: I've had cats. I never heard a cat talk like that.
GUTFELD: That's Petunia from York, Pennsylvania.
PERINO: I think that's kind of lame.
WATTERS: Do I win the nut thing?
TARLOV: No. That specifically for squirrels.
PERINO: All right, Jesse, you're next.
PIRRO: I won that nut thing.
WATTERS: All right. I want that nut.
PIRRO: No.
TARLOV: Big balls has it.
WATTERS: Don't -- it's the new Fox Nation Special, Yellowstone to Yosemite with Kevin Costner. The series explores the region's rich indigenous American legacy. I don't know what that word is. Yellowstone to Yosemite available on Fox Nation tomorrow.
PERINO: Which word? Serendipity?
WATTERS: Serendipitous. Serendipitous. It came out of nowhere. Tonight, "JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME," I was right.
PERINO: Oh, I love that segment.
TARLOV: It's the whole show.
PERINO: Hunters in Germany competed in a national deer calling championship to see who would best imitate a red deer. Watch here.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PIRRO: That's a moose.
WATTERS: Oh my God. That is --
PERINO: That is definitely not a cat. Anyway, that's all I got. Jessica?
TARLOV: People are so weird. 40-year-old LeBron James has officially become the oldest player to score 40 points in an NBA game after scoring 42 and last night's win against the Golden State Warriors, with just 49 seconds left to go. The record previously held by Michael Jordan from 2003. But he's not just the oldest player to secure the historic record. He was also the youngest player to do it.
PERINO: Wow.
WATTERS: Was that Kamala at court side?
PERINO: 58th row.
TARLOV: She was --
WATTERS: She's in the rafters.
(CROSSTALK)
PERINO: All right, Judge.
(CROSSTALK)
PIRRO: OK. It's time for -- OK. So, here is Doodle caught in the act herself looking rather proud of her work which was stolen from my purse as soon as I got home from THE FIVE yesterday. And for all those years I thought the dog ate my homework was a line of crap. It's true.
PERINO: Well, it turns out your children weren't lying.
PIRRO: Yes.
PERINO: It's Doodle all along.
All right, that's it for us. have a great night.

Load-Date: February 8, 2025


End of Document
