




telegraph.co.uk
February 10, 2025 Monday 5:45 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: US; Version:1
Length: 972 words
Byline: By Paul du Quenoy
Highlight: Trump’s critics think the purge of the federal bureaucracy is outrageous. Americans are more likely to be outraged by government waste
Body


“Dangerous Oligarchs Grab Everything”, read one sign satirising Doge –   – at a downtown Washington, DC protest against the Trump administration’s aggressive efforts to reduce the size and expense of the US federal bureaucracy. Musk, the world’s richest man, has been tasked with cutting some $2 trillion from the US’s annual federal budget, or just under one-third of the total.
Within days of Trump’s return as president, Doge officials began thorough investigations of multiple government departments and agencies. So far, they have zeroed in on a list of the worst offenders, many of which have faced long-term allegations of fraud and waste and whose priorities, Trump and his officials have argued, are not aligned with US national interests.
Preliminary findings confirm what many Americans have long suspected.  , with a $1.8 trillion deficit in 2024 swelling an already staggering national debt of over $36 trillion.
Government financial accountability is questionable. Just after the November election, the US Defense Department – which spends over $800 billion per annum – announced that it had failed its seventh consecutive annual audit. Its since-departed comptroller, the Joe Biden-appointed Under Secretary of Defense Michael J McCord, nevertheless claimed that “momentum is on our side” and cautioned against anticipated Trump administration staff reductions, arguing that even discussing such a measure is “not helpful for productivity”. One wonders how an ordinary citizen struggling to manage a household budget would be received if he or she made such arguments to creditors or the tax authorities.
Musk has claimed that his team’s investigation of the Treasury Department may have found up to $50 billion a year in fraudulent entitlements payments, after Bill Clinton-appointed federal judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly issued an order limiting the Doge team’s access to payment systems. Kollar-Kotelly is known for controversial earlier rulings suspected of partisan judicial activism, including a partial block on Trump’s 2017 executive order banning transgendered individuals from military service.
Investigations into financial data at USAid have revealed millions in expenditures in  , which Trump prohibited across government by executive order on his first day back. Millions of dollars also appear to have been disbursed to nearly a thousand media outlets in 30 countries, including the US. The administration has responded by placing over 95 per cent of USAid’s 10,000 employees on leave and effectively folding the agency into the State Department.
Winding up USAid is a dramatic gambit that has been challenged in a major lawsuit, but it reflects Trump’s general policy, which is to use any means at his disposal to .  This is not easy. US federal employees enjoy some of the world’s strongest labour protections and are professionally, socially, and ideologically entwined with Left-leaning legal and media elites who are in a strong position to defend them. 
Originally envisioned as a professional bureaucracy deserving protection from political whims, they are nearly immune from dismissal. Huge numbers have continued to work remotely. Even the higher strata of politically appointed officials enjoy a tradition of deference, with presidents rarely dismissing them outright as administrations turn over.
President Trump has taken a new approach. He has used his constitutional powers to remove officials whom he believes to be unreliable or having acted outside the law. Others have preemptively resigned or retired in anticipation of the same fate. A simpler measure imposed by executive order on the first day of Trump’s new administration required all federal employees to  , an unpopular move that could induce many to resign or retire rather than face punishing Washington commutes or the dubious company of their colleagues.
Trump has also offered a broad   to all two million federal employees, who would be paid until September and then depart. Similar measures have been used periodically before to induce older or redundant employees to leave in targeted cost-cutting programmes. As of Thursday, when Judge George O’Toole Jr, another Clinton appointee, issued a temporary injunction halting the buyout, some 60,000 officials had availed themselves of it. That is a small percentage of the total, but if the courts allow the programme to continue, it will save billions in labour costs.
Trump has other measures at his disposal. In the buyout offer, the administration hinted that it may reclassify large groups of federal officials under a device known as “Schedule F”, which would make them at-will employees liable to easy dismissal or unpaid furlough. Trump did this late in his first administration, but Biden, whose party enjoys the bureaucracy’s near-unanimous support, reversed it.
As Trump did on a relatively small scale in his first administration, he might also relocate federal offices far away from Washington, where many bureaucrats enjoy a more cosmopolitan lifestyle than they would in the Midwest. Good candidates for that include the Departments of Interior, Agriculture, and Energy, whose natural business tends to take place far away from the nation’s capital.
Democrats are consumed with emotion, accusing Trump of seeking to be a “dictator”, a “monarch”, or simply “vindictive”, and hoping that allied lawyers and judges will stop him. For most Americans, however, he is cleaning the house, and it is high time.
                     Paul du Quenoy is a historian and president of the Palm Beach Freedom Institute                   

Load-Date: February 10, 2025


End of Document
