




Fox News JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME 8:00 PM EST
February 7, 2025 Friday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6509 words
Byline: Jesse Watters, Charlie Hurt, Abby Hornacek
Guests: Rob Cohen, Victor Davis Hanson, Caitlin Sinclair
Body


LAURA INGRAHAM, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST, "THE INGRAHAM ANGLE": Social media all weekend long, lots of adventures to document, I will all be there.
And thanks for watching. Remember, it is America now and forever. These are the good old days. Jesse Watters takes it all from here.
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST, "JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME": Welcome to JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME.
Tonight --
REP. MAXINE WATERS (D-CA): He's standing here today, blocking the door, and he can't give us a good reason why he's blocking this door. Are they prepared to shoot us?
WATTERS: Trump and Musk making Maxine mad?
ANDERSON COOPER, CNN HOST, "ANDERSON COOPER: 360": We begin tonight with Musk and Big Balls.
DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We're going to be looking at Department of Education. We're going to be looking at even our military. We're going to be looking at tremendous amounts of money.
WATTERS: The Doge Bros can't stop, won't stop.
TRUMP: We're talking about trillions of dollars.
KAMALA HARRIS (D), FORMER VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: As a society, as a country, invest in adaptation and resilience, and we have to understand these extreme weather occurrences are extreme.
WATTERS: Sorry, Democrats, she's back.
Plus --
TOM BRADY, FORMER NFL PLAYER: Are you ready? Let's go.
WATTERS: Before DOGE, there was Bill Clinton. He cut 400,000 federal jobs, and Al Gore was the executioner.
(VIDEO CLIP PLAYS)
AL GORE, FORMER VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: This report tells us how to cut waste, cut red tape, streamline the bureaucracy, change procurement rules, change the personnel rules, and create a government that works better and costs less.
REPORTER: The Reinventing Government or ReGo Report aims to save $108 billion over five years through eliminating scores of wasteful programs and regulations. Among the 800 recommendations, eliminating 12 percent of the federal workforce, merging some government agencies like the FBI, the DEA, and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms; closing hundreds of government offices outside Washington.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Gore should have fired Monica. Would have saved everybody a lot of trouble.
It wasn't just Clinton and Gore, the Messiah said he was on a mission to trim.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BARACK OBAMA, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: From the day I took office, one of the commitments that I made to the American people was that we would do a better job here in Washington in rooting out wasteful spending.
Now, this does mean making some tough choices. It means cutting some programs that I think are worthy, but we may not be able to afford right now.
We haven't seen as much action out of Congress as we'd like, and that's why we launched, on our own initiative, the campaign to cut waste.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Look at that. Barack was pro DOGE.
Now that 65,000 bureaucrats took a buyout from Donald Trump, a very generous buyout, I might add, Democrats are getting very insurrection-y.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
WATERS: Who are you?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You're not coming in.
WATERS: Who are you? And what do you do here?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I have security responsibilities.
WATERS: Get out of the way. We pay for your job.
So what are you going to do, you going to beat us up if we go in?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I mean, you going to steam roll me here?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're not dangerous people.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There are no thieves and thugs out here. We're members of Congress.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They allow billionaires and his minions to come in.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The kids deserve to have us go in and fight for them.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes, absolutely.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This is appalling.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The children of the country deserve that battle.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This is a public institution. This is not Russia.
WATERS: He said he's a federal employee. We pay him, we raise money to make sure that we have a Department of Education. He's standing here today blocking the door, and he can't give us a good reason why he's blocking this door. Do they have guns on them?
(GROUP answer "Yes.")
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do they have guns?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do they have any weapons?
WATERS: Are they prepared to shoot us?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Does this remind you of the other people who have blocked the schoolhouse doors before?
WATERS: Yes. Yes. Yes.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Boy, this is a flashback.
WATERS: And this is going to go out in history, the man who blocked the doors of the Department of -- hold your face up so they can see you.
Give me that ID again.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'd given you the ID. I showed it to you.
WATERS: Say what?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I showed you the ID.
WATERS: You do what?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I showed you the ID.
WATERS: Could you let me see the ID again?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: I'm surprised the Democrats knew where to find the Department of Education, because test scores have been dropping for years, and this was the first time they showed up at the Department of Education -- to stop an audit, and Maxine is asking someone for ID. It is so racist. Here's the president.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: I see Maxine Waters a low life, I see -- you know, all of these people, they don't -- they don't love our country, they don't love our country. We want great education.
So they rank 40 countries in education, we're ranked dead last. Dead last.
But the good news is, we're number one in one category. You know what that is? Cost per pupil.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: The more money we spend on education, the more test scores drop. Teachers unions are doing all right, not so much the students.
Congress is spending trillions. So DOGE is in there to look at the books. You're not going to let the people who cook the books come in and scream at you while you crunch the numbers.
Try doing math with Mad Maxine screaming like a hyena. It's impossible. You can't.
This is like letting your kids into the living room while it's getting cleaned. No, they made the mess. They're going to have to wait until we're finished.
Musk has whiz kids running AI accounting algorithms saving taxpayers billions. The correct response is, "Thank you."
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
COOPER: We begin tonight with Musk and Big Balls. That's the online name, according to "Wired" Magazine, of a teen tech whiz who, along with others, are helping the world's richest man do whatever it is he is doing, dismantling parts of the federal government.
KATIE DRUMMOND, GLOBAL EDITORIAL DIRECTOR, WIRED: Yes. So this is a 19- year-old high school graduate who has used the unfortunate nickname, Big Balls online, so that would be one way that we could refer to him.
He is now working at Musk's behest inside DOGE and we looked into his background.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: CNN thinks Big Balls is a villain, but if he cuts them off, he's a hero.
Democrats would rather listen to a random Swedish teen than listen to big balls, a genius teen, saving us billions.
We're spending nearly a quarter trillion dollars at the Department of Education and Democrats don't even want us to look under the hood.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. JOHN KENNEDY (R-LA): I haven't heard one single person who is upset with President Trump or Mr. Musk talk about what he's found. They don't want to talk about the spending, the spending porn, the waste of taxpayer money that he's found.
I mean, that's the point of all of this.
I tell you who is interested, the American people.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Musk isn't in there stealing the money. He's catching the folks stealing the money. We haven't had anybody look at America's credit card statement for the last 25 years. Could you imagine if your wife grabbed the AmEx bill out of your hands and said you weren't allowed to look. That's Maxine. It's childish.
"Time" Magazine put Musk behind the Resolute Desk and slapped him on the cover just to tweak Trump. Did the president take the bait?
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
WEIJIA JIANG, CBS NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Mr. President, do you have a reaction to the new "Time" Magazine cover that has Elon Musk sitting behind your resolute desk?
TRUMP: Is "Time" Magazine still in business? I didn't even know that.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Elon's nerd army is sleeping at the Eisenhower Building, working weekends sifting through balance sheets. DOGE just announced and discovered an Anthony Fauci exhibit at the National Institutes of Health, which would have cost 170 grand. Well, the Fauci exhibit has been defunded.
No department is safe.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: It's absolutely obscene, dangerous, bad, very costly. I mean, virtually every investment made is a con job. There's nothing of value to anybody, unless there's a kickback scheme going on, which is possible.
And we're going to be doing more and more of that. We're going to be looking at Department of Education. We're going to be looking at even our military. We're going to be looking at tremendous amounts of money, Peter, being spent on things that bear no relationship to anything and have no value.
We're talking about trillions of dollars. It will be, in the end, trillions of dollars being absolutely wasted and perhaps illegally, I would say, certainly in many cases, illegally, but perhaps illegally overall.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Elon started with USAID because it was the most obvious place to start cutting and we heard the fraudsters squeal.
But some of these departments are going to cooperate, like The Pentagon, which has failed seven audits in a row.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PETE HEGSETH, US DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SECRETARY: We are going to focus heavily to ensure that, at a bare minimum by the end of four years, The Pentagon passes a clean audit.
The American taxpayers deserve that. They deserve to know where their $850 billion go, how it is spent, and make sure it is spent wisely.
It used to be that if you called for an audit, somehow you were undermining the department. I believe the exact opposite. I believe we are accountable for every dollar we spend and every dollar of waste we find or redundancy is a dollar we can invest somewhere else.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: The EPA is also getting put on Ozempic. A hundred environmental justice workers getting pink slips. At USAID, headquarters is getting a makeover. The agency went from 10,000 head count to 300.
Biden's USAID chief Samantha Power is crying on the tracks of the gravy train.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
COOPER: You think this is a victory for dictators, autocratic regimes around the world, who are competing with the US, in Africa, in South America, all around the world, for influence?
SAMANTHA POWER, FORMER US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATOR: What's not even an opinion, they are out relishing this moment and celebrating it, including a statement, an official statement from the Russian Foreign Ministry today.
So this is a disaster, not just from a humanitarian standpoint, from the standpoint of all the beneficiaries who may in fact die because they won't have access to US resources, but it's a disaster for US national interests and National Security.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: US national interests and National Security like what? What is the US interest in Juan becoming Juanita in Guatemala? How does Bert and Ernie in Baghdad help our National Security?
This isn't a victory for dictators. USAID money was propping up dictators, the dictators we like, and if we didn't like the dictator, USAID money went to regime change.
This money was just about putting everybody in our pocket, and the Deep State put the kickback in their pocket. We told you how foreign aid goes to coups and color revolutions. Well, get this, we told you Wednesday that USAID money was used to trigger Trump's impeachment through the CIA whistleblower, and now we're finding out that USAID administered the billion dollar loan Biden dangled to Ukraine to get the prosecutor investigating Hunter's company fired.
USAID doesn't just mess around overseas, they've been caught screwing around here. USAID coerced Big Tech to censor freedom of speech. They did it right before the 2022 midterms.
But the most criminal element to this foreign aid scheme is that the math shows it is one big kickback racket. This here is in "The Wall Street Journal."
"Some dollars do reach intended recipients around the world, but plenty of the funding goes to local affiliates of those same USAID subcontractors. By most assessments, less than 10 percent of US nonmilitary foreign aid ends up with locally based organizations."
Nine out of 10 USAID dollars ends up in the hands of crooked contractors. USAID was a taxpayer funded charity scam, as well as a regime change bank.
If a charity operated the way USAID does, but only 10 percent of the money went to feed the kids or save the whales, the executives would get arrested. The charity would get shut down, and everyone would be charged with fraud.
USAID makes the Clinton Foundation look legit. Democrats didn't always defend USAID. In the 60s, the hippies used it to protest because it would fund counter insurgencies in the third world.
"The New York Times" published a searing expose about USAID bribing India to open their markets to American fertilizer exports. USAID funneled money to a Laotian general to create a private airline that he used to traffic opium, the profits used to finance the war against the Vietcong.
USAID is still doing the same thing, but they co-opted the far left by DEI washing the brand. Democrats were like, I don't know about propping up all of these dictators and funding these coups and USAID was like, guys, some of this money is going to sex change surgeries and DEI operas and green energy, and they were like, oh, well, in that case, have at it.
On November 5th, America rejected regime change wars, DEI, trans surgeries, and the green new scam, but the Democrats are still not listening to the American people.
"USA Today" says "Perhaps liberals should take a step back and think hard about what they're protesting. They aren't just in your face about Trump and Musk, they're also fighting the 77.3 million Americans who rejected what the Democrats were selling."
Dr. Rob Cohen is an Army veteran and USAID whistleblower. He has got an op- ed exposing USAID waste and abuse on FoxNews.com.
So how does this work? Is it really that much money that goes back to the people running the subcontractors?
DR. ROB COHEN, ARMY VETERAN AND USAID WHISTLEBLOWER: Well, I have to say this is a -- I want to be careful that this is a classic case where we want to avoid throwing the baby out with the bathwater.
USAID does save babies. That said, it does. The studies show that up to seven million children have been prevented from being born with HIV by giving drugs to HIV positive mothers while they're giving childbirth and that's a wonderful thing.
That said there is tremendous waste within the aid industrial complex, this is well known, it has been well documented, and it's probably not unique to USAID. It's probably true across the federal government, in which most contractors charge overhead that is beyond what any reasonable business would consider appropriate, and therefore the American taxpayer does not get the return on investment that we expect.
WATTERS: Yes. So we want to save babies from getting AIDS in Africa and that's still going to happen once they look at everything and get this thing streamlined, but you're a Democrat and you raised this issue at USAID, and you were punished for that, weren't you?
COHEN: That's exactly right.
So I was elevated to be the Acting Deputy Chief-of-Staff of the Global Health Bureau during COVID, and I immediately observed incredible delay and arrogance on the part of career bureaucrats who I fought and frankly, cleaned up their mess.
And instead of being appreciative that we avoided an embarrassment, I was retaliated against. I had to sue them under the Whistleblower Protection Act, which is detailed in my op-ed and then they proceeded to botch 10 times more money.
I should add, this was under the career bureaucrats. There were political appointees like our recent Assistant Administrator Atul Gawande, who did a good job of streamlining bureaucracy, and that's where there are important programs that I'm concerned are going to be thrown out with a bureaucracy that has grown over six decades without enough accountability.
There have been efforts to reform it, not successful. And so I hope that this can be an act of creative destruction, which is a good thing, instead of just total destruction, which would be the concern of overreach.
WATTERS: Okay, and I'm sure it will be, because no one wants to see dead babies in Africa if it just costs a little bit to save them. We want to save everyone we can, but we have to save people here, too.
Why aren't Democrats saying, yes, you caught us, $2 million for sex change surgeries in Guatemala, maybe not the best use of American tax dollars. Why don't they just say that?
COHEN: You'll have to ask them. What I would say is, under Republican administrations, agencies can pivot to support those priorities and under Democratic administrations, like the last one you would see that.
I should say those are problematic examples. They're a relatively small amount compared to, say, the efforts to prevent babies from dying. But I will also say there were other programs, like the Global Health Supply Chain Program that was audited for incredible waste and corruption.
WATTERS: Well, I mean, listen, you're saying all of these things about these babies, and you know, I want to believe you, but then when you look at the numbers, only 10 percent gets to the babies, the rest of it just goes to salaries. How do you justify that?
COHEN: I don't, and that's where reform is needed. At USAID, it is great to start there and I think across the federal government. There are many government contractors that are taking far more of an overhead than is appropriate.
And everybody knows this within foreign aid, and it needs to be reformed, and I'm glad it's being approached.
WATTERS: All right, well, thank you very much. Have a great weekend. We'll cover USAID more, I'm sure next week.
Quick update on the POLITICO story, I guess they didn't really like what I said Wednesday about how the government was spending millions of dollars on POLITICO Pro subscriptions. They're complaining that I suggested payments only happened under Biden, not what I said.
I said they exploded under Biden. I even showed a nice little chart. Want to see the nice little chart again. Like I said, Wednesday, POLITICO Pro launched in 2010, an explosion of subscriptions in 2021 happens to be the same year Joe Biden took office.
POLITICO doesn't really like what I said, but I don't care, it is my opinion, and they're entitled to yours and I'm entitled to mine.
The government should not be spending millions of dollars a year to find out what's going on inside the government. And if the government's that big, dark and confusing, then that's the problem.
We tried inviting the CEO of POLITICO to come on the show tonight, we can hash it out. She has a First Amendment right, just like moi.
But she turned me down, and I'm hurt. Not only am I hurt, I'm disappointed, but I won't hold it against POLITICO, because I still read the free version of Playbook every morning. I love it. Please don't cancel my subscription.
Maybe Trump wasn't kidding about retribution. Wait until you hear what he just did to Joe Biden.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: The demolition band is in Washington and is up at the crack of dawn every day. "President Trump' is taking a sledge hammer to a bedrock of US foreign policy, ripping up decades of soft power in favor of a highly personalized, transactional, coercive style of deal making."
Trump secured deals with Canada, Mexico, Colombia, Panama, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Venezuela and he never had to bribe anybody from the soft power DEI bank, and today he cut a deal with Japan.
47 hosted Japan's prime minister at the White House, and made a pretty good first impression.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SHIGERU ISHIBA, JAPANESE PRIME MINISTER (through translator): This was the first time meeting face-to-face, but for many, many years, I have watched him on television, so it was quite exciting -- I was so excited to see such a celebrity on television, to see in person.
On television, he is frightening and he has the very strong personality. But when I met with him, actually, he was very sincere and very powerful and with strong will.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Then Japan pulled out the checkbook.
ISHIBA (through translator): Today, I conveyed my willingness to cooperate together to elevate Japan's investment in the United States to an unprecedented amount of $1 trillion.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: And Japan is going to be buying more gas and military equipment from America. Chalk up another win.
This guy speaks Trump's language, and he knows how to handle the American press. Listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REPORTER: If the US places tariffs on Japanese imports, would Japan retaliate?
ISHIBA (through translator): I am unable to respond to a theoretical question. That's the official answer that we have.
TRUMP: That's a very good answer. Very good answer. Wow. That's very good. He knows what he's doing.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Tariffs are one of Trump's strongest tools, and Japan doesn't want any part of it. Europe is trying to get on Trump's good side too, offering to cut their tariffs on American car imports from 10 percent to just two- and-a-half percent.
Trump's flurry of actions are being followed by a tidal wave of results. Border crossings are down 90 percent. Bill Melugin says I would have trouble finding illegal aliens if I went down there right now.
When Melugin can't find an illegal, the border is secure, and after Trump said he was going to buy Gaza, the Mideast is scrambling for a solution before Trump becomes their new neighbor.
Now, Egypt says they have a clear vision for reconstructing Gaza. Look at that, all of a sudden, what a coincidence.
Today, Trump also signed an executive order to create a Faith Office in the White House and that it is going to target anti-Christian bias, and soon he is bringing back plastic straws. No more paper, but men should stay away regardless.
Trump is also taking over the Kennedy Center in DC. He fired the board and appointed himself Chairman because they were hosting drag shows.
There's been some resistance. California is telling hospitals to ignore Trump's EO on sex changes for kids, and still wants to let boys play in girls' sports. We'll see how that works out for Newsom, because this is exactly what America voted for, and they don't want Trump to slow down.
They're telling Trump to go harder: "Despite the chaos and confusion, some of Trump's early actions have caused in Washington, there was a collective shrug among his supporters, several of whom argued that no actual damage has been done. Some thought Trump was being too generous."
Trump is not being generous with Joe Biden. He just revoked Biden's security clearance. "There is no need for Joe Biden to continue receiving access to classified information, therefore we were immediately revoking Joe Biden security clearances and stopping his daily intelligence briefings. He set this precedent in 2021 when he instructed the Intelligence Committee to stop the 45th president of the United States (me) from accessing details of National Security, a courtesy provided to former presidents. The Hur report revealed that Biden suffers from poor memory, and even in his prime, could not be trusted with sensitive information. I will always protect our National Security. Joe, you're fired."
Charlie Hurt is the co-host of "Fox & Friends" Weekend. All right, so he yanked his security clearance.
CHARLIE HURT, FOX NEWS CHANNEL "FOX & FRIENDS" WEEKEND CO-HOST: Yes.
WATTERS: He got his yanked by Joe.
HURT: Yes.
WATTERS: I mean, the security clearance.
HURT: And Trump has a far better argument for pulling Joe's security clearance, at the very least, just because we know that the Biden family has a long history of selling secrets to our enemies for hard cash. So it's a perfect -- he's got a really good argument there.
It really is amazing, Jesse. I mean, the last two weeks, I can't believe it is two weeks, two days. You know, you sit around Washington for literally decades, and you talk about these things, and you talk about, you know, wouldn't it be great if we did something about throwing all of these billions of dollars down the foreign rat holes around the world and then, like he wakes up in the morning and say, yes, let's go after USAID.
WATTERS: I mean, just a guy with a computer is wreaking havoc in Washington.
HURT: A teenager.
WATTERS: A teenager.
HURT: Big Balls.
WATTERS: Big Balls is coming in like a wrecking ball.
HURT: And you know how much we have spent -- how much time we have spent talking about things like waste, fraud and abuse, or shutting down the Department of Education? These have all been these like -- you almost dared not really even talk about it like in terms of it actually happening, because it was impossible, it would never happen.
And then just on a Tuesday, it happens.
WATTERS: They're saying Trump is cutting deals in the wrong way.
HURT: So they call this coercive.
WATTERS: Coercive.
HURT: And I say, what in the world do you think a deal is? Of course, a deal maker is coercive. That's the whole point of making a deal. You're trying to coerce the other person, and this whole thing about, like, oh, they're treasured soft power, whatever that is.
Soft power is basically you take -- you know, we've gone -- you know, America has always been this great idea. We've been an ideal, and we've sold that around the world, and we've been a leader in the world, but in the recent decades, we're going around buying our friends, and then once we buy them, we foist all of these really weird ideologies on them that even Americans don't support, which is why nobody had ever heard about all of these programs until Donald Trump opened it wide open.
WATTERS: All right, no more sex changes in Guatemala, Big Balls, cut the check.
Charlie, have a great weekend.
HURT: Good to see you.
WATTERS: Finally, getting things done around here.
HURT: Good luck Sunday.
WATTERS: Thank you very much. I'm not going to need it.
Kamala was asked if she's going to run again. Stick around.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: Democrats hope Kamala would just fade away quietly, but she's already back. She popped up in LA to survey wildfire destruction. Is this a preview or a run for governor?
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
HARRIS: I have been home for two weeks and three days. My plans are to be in touch with my community, to be in touch with the leaders and figure out what I can do to support them.
REPORTER: Does seeing this change the way you think about the question of whether to run for governor?
HARRIS: I am here and would be here regardless of the office I hold, because it is the right thing to do, which is to show up in your community and thank the folks who are on the ground.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: I'll take that as a maybe. Kamala hasn't changed a bit. She is still serving up those word salads.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
HARRIS: As we think about the future, we must, as a society, as a country, invest in adaptation and resilience, and we have to understand these extreme weather occurrences are extreme, but they are increasingly less rare.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Then Kamala headed over to a Lakers game where nobody noticed her. There she is with Dougie Fresh on the Jumbotron. No kiss cam, though. Doug saves that for Dr. Jill.
No courtside seats either. I mean, when I was at the Lakers game on "The Factor," O'Reilly sat courtside. I sat a few rows back, but I wasn't in the rafters like Mamala.
Let's be honest, no one's really enthusiastic about Harris. If Democrats think she's the future, they need to go back and listen to their base. Kamala is politically dead, and so is DEI.
"The New York Times" says even Democrat voters are fed up. "Leftists see the turn against DEI programs as an opportunity to reorient Democrats in a direction that will deliver more gains for workers and be more palatable to a majority of voters."
Everyone is coming around. CNN says the numbers don't lie.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
HARRY ENTEN, CNN SENIOR DATA REPORTER: The bottom line is, Americans seem to be less interested in diversity and inclusion than they basically have ever been, or at least going back to when the marches occurred back in 2020, and it's occurring at the same time that we're seeing obvious movement in the government to end DEI as well.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Some liberals didn't get the memo. Their TDS is off the charts.
One Michigan lawmaker says she sterilized herself to avoid becoming pregnant during a Trump America.
Meanwhile, the Raging Cajun is so upset over the level of jackassery in his own party, he's sounding more like me.
(BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)
JAMES CARVILLE, DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST: The first one is some Democrats, some progressives in New York are advocating for bereavement pet leave.
Okay, so in other words, if your cat dies, you get three days of paid leave, and it's like there's a plant somewhere in "progressive" America that just to see how many jackass, stupid things that they can embrace. It's stunningly stupid, both of them.
(END AUDIO CLIP)
WATTERS: But not everyone is down to reboot the party's platform. Hawaii Democrat Brian Schatz, is his name, says establishment strategist or has- beens "Those guys have not been in the trenches legislatively or electorally in a full generation, and there's a cottage industry out there of Democratic strategists. In order to be a Democrat strategist, you actually have to do politics currently and not just podcast about it."
Victor Davis Hanson is a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution, and he's back from pet bereavement leave. How many days did you take for Old Yeller? Four or five?
VICTOR DAVIS HANSON, SENIOR FELLOW, HOOVER INSTITUTION: I don't know, it's been a while, but Kamala in a bad position. I mean, she has no official office. She's not a vice president, she's not a senator. She hitched her wagon to the DEI open borders wing of the party. Donald Trump has demolished that.
She still has that 500-word vocabulary, wash, spin, rinse cycle of speaking. I don't see a future for her.
WATTERS: When you go to a Lakers game, are you more recognized than Kamala Harris?
HANSON: I'm not recognized when I go to a Fresno State basketball game, Jesse, but I don't think -- but I don't see her, she might be recognized, but I don't think anybody wants to admit that they are recognizing her. That's the problem.
WATTERS: I would think all your appearances on PRIMETIME people at the former Staple Center might recognize you.
That's true. It could be dangerous.
So I'm just thinking Kamala Harris, she's doing what she's supposed to do. She's doing the fire thing. She's going to the games. She's playing coy. How long can this last?
HANSON: Well, I mean, she can do it forever, but her currency is diminishing every day. She's out of office, and her party is in a doom loop, Jesse.
They don't have the White House, the Senate, the House of Representatives, the Supreme Court. They have no subpoena power. They cannot block confirmations. All of their issues are below 50 percent, and they think they can get really angry and scream and yell and go to the Department of Education, intimidate people, block the 101 in Los Angeles, and that will make people say, wow, I want to vote for Democratic and that just gets worse.
And then they say, well, it gets worse because we weren't radical and violent enough, so we're going to get even more, and they just keep going in a circle. She is irrelevant to all of that.
WATTERS: So, VDH what is that protest --
HANSON: She is better of just staying away from it and maybe she can reemerge --
WATTERS: What does that mean?
HANSON: -- and reinvent her. Maybe she can be the John Fetterman of California. That's her only chance.
WATTERS: Well, I mean, it's not a hoodie, but I do like that jacket. What does it mean when the Democrats are stuck in college campus protest mode? And what I mean by that is like holding up the signs, pulling all-nighters, pulling little gonzo journalism stunts, trying to get indoors.
Aren't they supposed to be mature adults with like legislative power?
HANSON: I don't think they understand the mood of the country. It's like that the country feels that it was in a coma and it was a bad dream, and on November 5th, they woke up, and all of a sudden they're starting to return to normality. And they said, I can't believe what the last four years were like and then that was a nightmare.
And now, we're getting out of the nightmare. We want to move ahead and when they see this adolescent protest and screaming and yelling, and the confirmation hearings and the ridiculous elections at the DNC, they say, wow, I thought that was all over. That's all over with.
WATTERS: It is like waking up from a bad dream.
HANSON: -- people are really upbeat.
WATTERS: Yes.
HANSON: And they feel like they have awakened from this, I don't know nightmare --
WATTERS: Yes, they are like, oh, God -- I thought I was --
HANSON: They don't want another nightmare to remember it.
WATTERS: I agree. Well said.
And if anybody out there at Fresno State just recognize, say hi to him. Just wave, wink, you know, give him a little pistol shoot.
HANSON: I need it.
WATTERS: He needs it. He needs it. Victor Davidson, have a great weekend.
Sink or Swim is up next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: Sink or Swim.
Tonight, we have Abby Hornacek versus American Values PAC spokeswoman, rookie, Caitlin Sinclair.
Okay, ladies, you guys ready?
ABBY HORNACEK, FOX NATION HOST: Is this the Super Bowl of Sink or Swim?
CAITLIN SINCLAIR, SPOKESPERSON, AMERICAN VALUES PAC: Not really.
WATTERS: This is the Super Bowl of Sink or Swim.
SINCLAIR: Actually, we discussed and Abby and I are going to be a team against you.
HORNACEK: We did not discuss this.
SINCLAIR: I just decided, actually.
WATTERS: You just decided, well, I'm getting ganged up on and the game hasn't even started yet. All right, we will see if the two-on-one thing plays.
Looney Tunes is the category which liberal senator predicted there'd be no vaccines if RFK, Jr. is confirmed. Was it Liz Warren, otherwise known as Pocahontas or crazy Mazie Hirono?
HORNACEK: It sounds like something Mazie would say, given her Senate confirmation hearings.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. ELIZABETH WARREN (D-MA): The rest of us could end up, literally with no vaccines at all.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
SINCLAIR: Yes.
HORNACEK: Oh no. Thi9s is beginner's luck.
SINCLAIR: We are not a team no longer.
WATTERS: All right.
HORNACEK: I am so glad you decided to team up with me.
WATTERS: Caitlin jumped out to a one nothing start.
Category, Pardon Me, Baby, which embattled Democrat used to hate Trump, but now saying he's right about the corrupt justice system. Eric Adams or Gold Bar Bob Menendez.
HORNACEK: Bob is in prison, isn't he? He can't say anything from prison.
WATTERS: That's a good -- it is a good guess.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BOB MENENDEZ, FORMER US SENATOR: President Trump is right. This process is political and is corrupted to the core.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Okay, well, he's going to prison.
SINCLAIR: He is not there yet.
WATTERS: He's on the way.
HORNACEK: He's got 11 years to go.
WATTERS: Category is Whitewash.
SINCLAIR: We were set up there.
WATTERS: Which guy said that the Democrats may never win back White male voters after this past election? Never again. Was it John Fetterman or Joe Rogan?
HORNACEK: If I get this one wrong, I'm going to be really upset.
SINCLAIR: Can I ask ChatGPT really quick.
WATTERS: Are you looking at --
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TARA PALMERI, JOURNALIST: How do Democrats win back White men like yourself?
SEN. JOHN FETTERMAN (D-PA): I don't know, and truthfully, I am not sure if that's possible.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: She was looking. They do look at a lot alike. So it is still the same score and we are into the last question.
HORNACEK: Oh, yes, no peeking, Caitlin.
SINCLAIR: Okay.
WATTERS: No peeking, Caitlin.
HORNACEK: Unless you want to lose.
SINCLAIR: Okay. No. No.
HORNACEK: Because I got the first one wrong.
SINCLAIR: I am body turning.
WATTERS: No peeking. Tears for Fears. Which Democrat politician said that Trump is coddling the White Boys, and she's tired of white tears. Oh, my God, was it Maxine Waters, no relation, or Jasmine Crockett.
HORNACEK: Maxine Waters isn't your mom.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. JASMINE CROCKETT (D-TX): The coddling is for the White boys. That's what's happening right now. I am tired of the White tears.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Yes, she is tired of the White tears. I am 0.1 percent Sub Saharan African. So it's possible we are related. You're going to win this hat. But just to make it fun, we're going to do the tie breaker. Although this hat is yours, we're just going to be a little sporty.
PRIMETIME has been investigating USAID funding. How much did they spend in millions on Iraqi Sesame Street?
SINCLAIR: Oh.
HORNACEK: Oh. Do you watch that?
SINCLAIR: Iraqi Sesame Street?
WATTERS: I don't know Arabic.
HORNACEK: Who goes first?
WATTERS: You go first.
HORNACEK: She's already the winner.
WATTERS: Fine, you go first, Caitlin. How many millions of dollars? Throw it out there?
SINCLAIR: Oh my God.
WATTERS: We're running out of time.
SINCLAIR: Can I have my phone call? Gutfeld?
WATTERS: He knows nothing.
SINCLAIR: Okay, $30 million.
WATTERS: Thirty million. What do you say?
SINCLAIR: 21 million.
WATTERS: She gets it right. It's 20 million, but you still get the hat.
SINCLAIR: I am still the winner. A win is a win.
WATTERS: She is still the winner.
HORNACEK: Congratulations.
WATTERS: Very good. Beginner's luck.
More PRIMETIME, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: New Life hack: Less thinking. The less you think, the better your life is. Trust me.
Let's do some texts.
Paul from Sanford, North Carolina: If Maxine Waters got in my face, I'd cave. Kudos to that guard at the door.
He had that Nick Sandmann energy, right? Just like that.
Chris from Myrtle Beach, South Carolina: Nothing says you're pissed off your donors like getting Row 40 at a Lakers game.
That's exactly right.
Mike from New Orleans: We need Musk's 20-year-olds to start running for Congress. We'd be running surpluses.
Barbara from Apopka, Florida: Joe Biden had his security clearance revoked by a convicted felon? Now that's karma.
Yes. I mean, where is Hunter going to get his great ideas now?
Dan from Sumter, South Carolina: Trump didn't need to take away Joe's security clearance. He can't even remember his password.
Terry from Colleyville, Texas: Today, I shed a manly tear over plastic straws.
Was it a White tear? Because Crockett doesn't want to see any of those White tears.
Craig from Sioux Falls, South Dakota: VDH only smiles for you. What's your secret?
I have that effect on men.
Fred from Bear, Delaware: If your Eagles get slaughtered on Sunday, will you take a pet bereavement day on Monday?
No, but I will be wearing a Chiefs jersey. I bet Doocy.
I mean, I won't be wearing a Chiefs jersey. I am Watters and this is my world.

Load-Date: February 8, 2025


End of Document
