




Fox News JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME 8:00 PM EST
February 5, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6321 words
Byline: Jesse Watters, Madison Alworth
Guests: Mark Moyar, Michael Shellenberger, Vivek Ramaswamy
Body


LAURA INGRAHAM, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST, "THE INGRAHAM ANGLE": A lot of them felt like they were painted as racist just for being at that party. That is unacceptable. They should -- they should retract that cover and, frankly, publish an apology at the very least.
CJ, thank you very much.
That's it for us tonight. Make sure to follow me on social media. You know them all. Thanks for watching.
Jesse Watters is next.
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST, "JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME": Welcome to JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME.
Tonight --
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: I can confirm that more than eight million taxpayer dollars that have gone to essentially subsidizing subscriptions to POLITICO on the American taxpayers' dime will no longer be happening.
WATTERS: Biden was paying the media millions of dollars?
JIMMY KIMMEL, "JIMMY KIMMEL LIVE" HOST: Oh, we are so (bleep).
DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: With this executive order, the war on women's sports is over.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
WATTERS: It's only Wednesday, what did we miss?
TRUMP: What a nice picture this is, huh, Governor?
KAMALA HARRIS (D), FORMER VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Very much prompted by or a result of many things, including our advocacy for what needs to happen in the region.
WATTERS: The unedited "60 Minutes" interview of Kamala Harris. Wow.
HARRIS: Okay, whoever's in the dining room --
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It was me.
HARRIS: Okay.
WATTERS: Plus --
("ACE VENTURA: PET DETECTIVE" VIDEO CLIP PLAYS)
ACE VENTURA, FICTIONAL CHARACTER: Do I have something in my teeth?
WATTERS: It's only been three weeks, and Democrats want to impeach today.
Democrat Al Green, not the soul singer, announced he is introducing Articles of Impeachment against Donald J. Trump, because he said he wants to turn the Gaza Strip into Gaza-Lago.
Democrats were already losing their minds after Musk froze their foreign aid slush fund.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. CORY BOOKER (D-NJ): We will not shut up. We will stand up. We will speak up. We will rise up.
SEN. ED MARKEY (D-MA): What's dangerous is that people who work for USAID are wearing masks to protect themselves from Musk. This is a dictatorship in the making.
REP. JONATHAN JACKSON (D-IL): We're not going to have apartheid in America anymore.
Elon Musk has not been elected to anything.
REP. JOHN GARAMENDI (D-CA): And who the hell does Musk think he is? He has absolutely no right in shutting down USAID. We cannot allow that. We've got to take to the streets.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: First and foremost, (bleep) you, Elon Musk.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Elon is the first government employee Democrats have ever wanted to fire and he's not even taking a salary. We're 36 trillion in debt and a few pennies got DOGE'd and the Democrats are grabbing bullhorns like Bush after 9/11.
Trump and Elon are doing what you do on the first day of prison, you find the baddest guy in the cell block and you clock him in the face. DOGE froze a $40 billion Deep State Super PAC and put 10,000 bureaucrats on paid leave and it happened so fast, one worker had to be rehired to process people's final time sheets.
All the expensive artwork hanging in the agency headquarters has been taken down and sold at auction. The website is down and there's no more Bert and Ernie in Baghdad.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
LEAVITT: I would just say a strong message to Democrats who are out there pretending to be outraged about the long list of crap that this administration is cutting, federal waste and funding like $2 million for sex changes in Guatemala, $6 million to fund tourism in Egypt, $20 million on a new Sesame Street show in Iraq, $4.5 million to combat disinformation in Kazakhstan.
I could go on and on, and I'm happy to provide this list to every single one of you. Democrats are outraged that the American people want to be -- they want their taxpayers going to good uses, not stuff like this.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: But we can add some more to the list, $43 million on a gas station in Afghanistan that had no customers. Still less though, than what Biden paid for a charging station here. One-and-a-half million to promote gays, lesbians, and trans in Jamaica. Jamaican-me-crazy. Four million for trans Serbians. Five-and-a-half mil for gay rights in Uganda.
Over six million for men who have sex with men in South Africa, that's just how it was described. $17 million to promote inclusion in Vietnam. It's just probably another way of saying it went to trans. We carpet bombed them, and then we paid them to cross dress.
$25 million to promote green transportation in Georgia, not the state, the country. And it's not like we took the money and bought them electric cars. We just paid a shady agency to put up a billboard that says, "buy electric cars."
A million for Arab and Jewish photographers. Are you Jewish? Are you Arab? Do you have cameras? Here's a check.
$8 million to teach Sri Lankan journalists how to avoid binary gendered language. Translation: We spent $8 million so that a reporter in Sri Lanka doesn't write he or she.
Well, at least nobody died, right? Wrong. $122 million of the USAID money was given to terrorists. The Taliban is taxpayer funded, so is the Wuhan lab, so we're on a roll.
The people spending the money can't even tell you why they're spending the money.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. NANCY MACE (R-SC): USAID awarded $2 million to strengthen trans led organizations to deliver gender affirming healthcare in Guatemala. So to each of you this morning, does this advance the interests of American citizens paying for trannies in Guatemala to the tune of $2 million, yes or no, Governor?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I have no position.
MACE: Of course, you don't.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: $2 million for sex changes in Guatemala? Despite the blatant waste and corruption, there's a sinister side to all of the gay, lesbian and trans money we are funneling into other countries. It's subversive. It undermines their traditional culture, their religions and their governing authority.
It divides these countries, it distracts them and makes it easier for our government to exploit them.
David Axelrod told Democrats who are defending this stuff, "You're walking into a trap." Rahm Emanuel says "You don't have to fight every fight. Wasteful spending isn't the hill I'm going to die on."
But trans operas in Colombia are the hill Democrats have chosen to die on. Are they getting kickbacks? We're about to find out.
Democrats warn Trump's unelected shadow government is dismantling their unelected shadow government. That's how "The Babylon Bee" puts it. Democrats have been sending your tax dollars to the World Economic Forum so they can tell us to eat bugs.
The George Soros prosecutor fund got $26 million of your money to what? Open jails? USAID brags about overthrowing governments. They bragged about supporting military coups and color revolutions in the Middle East, Asia and Ukraine, and we just found out the Biden administration was paying the press.
During the last four years, POLITICO received $26 million from the federal government. $8 million just last year, the Biden administration was paying a DC insider publication that happened to never report anything bad about the Biden administration.
What did they pay for besides good press? The government says it was for subscriptions to POLITICO Pro. What's POLITICO Pro? It is supposed to give you inside scoops or exclusive reporting about the federal government. It's been around since 2010, but all of a sudden, in 2021 the Biden administration starts buying hundreds of POLITICO Pro subscriptions, and a subscription runs anywhere from $10,000.00 to $75,000.00 a year. Those are like top tier country club dues.
For $75,000.00, this exclusive reporting must be pretty good, right? No. No one ever read in POLITICO Pro that Biden was brain dead. Now, if I am going to pay 75 grand for journalism, I want to know whose coke was in the White House.
POLITICO Pro isn't even for people in government. It's for lobbyists. You pay 75 grand a year for the name and e-mail address of a regulator at the FDA, so you can e-mail them, wine them and dine them at Cafe Milano and then grease the regs for Pfizer or Kraft or whoever your client is.
You find out when the farm bill is about to pass, so you can send your lobbyists into the back room and write the bill. It's not for people in the government.
What do people at the Department of Energy need to pay 75 grand for? To find out what's going on in the Department of Energy? Mayorkas needs to know what's going on with the border bill. All he has to do is call Chuck Schumer. The phone call is free.
This doesn't make any sense, the whole thing is a racket. This was a bailout.
Biden's government didn't need this. It's a payoff product, because when they started paying POLITICO, they tanked the laptop, they covered up Biden's nap times.
The USAID chief, Samantha Power, POLITICO wrote a puff piece about her, called her a celebrity. Have you ever heard of celebrity Samantha Power?
POLITICO didn't get paid to do journalism, they got paid to stop doing journalism. Now, I read POLITICO. I read it every day. I like it. It's got good reporting in there.
But I'm not funneling $26 million of taxpayer money over there in exchange for good coverage. I'm sure a few people at the federal government have "Wall Street Journal" subscriptions for $59.00 a year, not $75,000.00.
And if you're trying to save a few dollars, share your password and logins with your staff. You don't get them all $75,000.00 a year subscriptions.
PRIMETIME reached out to POLITICO and we didn't hear back. The White House says the government paying journalists? That's getting DOGE'd.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
LEAVITT: So upon coming out here to the briefing room, I was made aware of the funding from USAID to media outlets, including POLITICO, who I know has a seat in this room, and I can confirm that the more than eight million taxpayer dollars that have gone to essentially subsidizing subscriptions to POLITICO on the American taxpayers' dime will no longer be happening. The DOGE team is working on canceling those payments now.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: How critical is government funding to POLITICO's bottom line? Not sure. But on the day of the freeze, they couldn't make payroll for a couple of hours.
Not just POLITICO. "The New York Times" got millions. BBC got money. PolitiFact was funded by the Biden administration. Biden was censoring you and funding independent factcheckers to call you a liar.
Kamala took your money and paid Sharpton. Biden took your money, gave it to POLITICO, gave it to donors to build solar panels.
The left somehow looks like one big AstroTurf money laundering shell game. Remember the CIA has a history of planning scoops with journalists.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Disseminate propaganda to influence people's minds, and this is a major function of the CIA.
You have contact with a journalist, you will give him true stories. You'll get information from him. You'll also give him false stories.
You also work on their human vulnerabilities to recruit them in a classic set to make them your agent, so that you can control what they do.
Four hundred journalists cooperating with the CIA, including some of the biggest names in the business to consciously introduce the stories into the press.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Journalists were on CIA payrolls.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do you have any people being paid by the CIA who are contributing to a major circulation American journal?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We do have people who submit pieces to other -- two American journals.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: So if Intelligence Agencies, which is kind of what the USAID is financing the American media, that's state run media, and if Kamala would have won the election, the money would have kept flowing.
POLITICO must have known that, they wrote puff pieces about how fantastic she was. I wonder if that was connected. Don't bite the hand that feeds you.
Trump got elected and caught them. We're only in week three.
Who else is getting paid? Mark Moyar is a USAID whistleblower, and he joins me now.
So Mark, you started at USAID, and what did they do the first thing? Did they send you to DEI camp?
MARK MOYAR, USAID WHISTLEBLOWER, FORMER USAID DIRECTOR: Yes, and great to be with you, Jesse.
So I didn't get into the agency till February 2018 and this is one of the big differences that we're already seeing in 2017,the Trump administration was very slow to get into the agency.
So I get there in February, and we have what's called a Privilege Walk as part of the orientation, where you are given an identity and I was a Scandinavian woman, and so when they read these -- they read lines like, you know, I get discriminated against because of government services or people don't like how I look, so you took a step forward if it applied, and if it didn't.
And so I ended up near the front, and the indigenous woman with unwanted pregnancy and the male prostitute were at the other end and then we talked about our privileges.
WATTERS: All right, so you were trained to be a Scandinavian woman in a Privilege Walk, not root out corruption.
What kind of disguises did they use to fund these projects? I mean, do they just change the names of these things? Is there really some other reason we're doing this?
MOYAR: Yes. They're very effective at rebranding things. So in the first Trump administration, the priorities were support national interests as they are now. Another thing was countering terrorism and promoting self- reliance.
So I went to a country, to give you one example, they had a feminist women's book club that had been started under the Obama administration, and then they now said this is a counter terror program, because women -- feminist women are key fighters in the battle against terrorism.
WATTERS: Oh, yes, yes.
What happened when you raised concerns that this thing was just a big corrupt money pit?
MOYAR: So I reported one of my subordinates for criminal conflict of interest, and the first discouraging sign was, I was told, well, you know, that's nice you want to do that. Most people here don't want to report corruption. They didn't tell me why. I later figured out it is because you get in a lot of trouble.
So I was accused of publishing classified information in something I'd written two years earlier, which had never been subjected to any prior question. And so they ultimately used that to fire me.
Now the people who were engaged in the corruption managed to hold on to their jobs, and so there's a culture of corruption that says if you are going to criticize anything corrupt, we're going to come after you, and we're going to use the tools that are supposed to be used to go after criminals to come after you.
So they ended up firing me based on this bogus accusation, and I've been in court for the last three years, trying to get them to turn over the facts. And this is, of course, what we've seen with a lot of cases with Senator Ernst, for example, they refused to turn over information to the courts or to members of Congress. And so this is why people are fed up.
WATTERS: So they stonewall, and then they weaponize classified information to take you down. That sounds quite familiar.
How do you think DOGE is doing so far uncovering this fraud inside USAID?
MOYAR: Well, from what I've seen so far, they seem to be doing a good job. You know, I do think you're going to need forensic accountants to go in there. It's probably going to take a long time, because these bureaucrats have devised very crafty ways to hide money.
So I was there in 2019, more than two years after Trump administration came in, the first time, we were still finding programs that the political appointees didn't know about. Now you'd think you'd go in and say, okay, guys tell us where the money is, but somehow they will come up with some way or an excuse why they didn't give it to you.
And that's partly why I think you're seeing this more heavy handed approach, because the people there were so good the first Trump term at hiding things from us and mislabeling them and slow rolling them.
And you know, also, I think the first term, some of the Trump appointees were frankly not as vigilant as they should have been. It seems like now there's a much stronger effort and more concerted effort to go in and get all of the information.
WATTERS: And we're finding out POLITICO was paid $26 million by the Biden administration. Can you come up with any legitimate reason why the Biden people are paying so much for POLITICO subscriptions?
MOYAR: Now that's -- and that is deeply disturbing, because I saw including at USAID, the first Trump term, POLITICO would often run hit pieces on people in the Trump administration, and they would source these from anonymous bureaucrats who didn't like what the Trump administration was doing. They're not at all an impartial news outlet. I think everybody knows that.
And so I think certainly, it's a welcome sign the administration is saying, hey, we're not going to we're not going to do this. And clearly, I don't think there -- they have been subsidizing very many conservative news outlets or subscriptions and -- but this, I'm sure it's going to get a lot more scrutiny and see who else --
Clearly, this is not the only case where the Biden administration was subsidizing what's supposedly impartial media organization.
WATTERS: I think if Trump was buying thousands of Fox Nation subscriptions to the tune of $26 million, I think they'd have a little bit of problem with that. Thank you so much. Great to have you on, Mark. Good luck in the fight against that insanity.
MOYAR: Thank you.
WATTERS: We just got our hands on the raw, unedited "60 Minutes" Kamala Harris interview. We'll show you what CBS was hiding.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: We got our hands on the raw footage of Kamala Harris' "60 Minutes" interview last October, in the heat of the election, Harris' Hail Mary with CBS, but the network was caught deceptively editing this answer. Watch.
("60 MINUTES" AIRED VIDEO CLIP)
BILL WHITAKER, "60 MINUTES" CORRESPONDENT: But it seems that Prime Minister Netanyahu is not listening.
HARRIS: We're not going to stop pursuing what is necessary for the United States to be clear about where we stand on the need for this war to end.
("60 MINUTES" RAW VIDEO CLIP)
WHITAKER: But it seems that Prime Minister Netanyahu is not listening.
"The Wall Street Journal" said that he -- that your administration has repeatedly been blindsided by Netanyahu, and in fact, he has rebuffed just about all of your administrations and treaties.
HARRIS: Well, Bill, the work that we have done has resulted in a number of movements in that region by Israel that were very much prompted by or a result of many things, including our advocacy for what needs to happen in the region and we're not going to stop doing that.
We are not going to stop pursuing what is necessary for the United States to be clear about where we stand on the need for this war to end.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Trump sued CBS for $10 billion, and it looks like they might settle. But before that happens, the FCC released the full interview, unedited, and we have the tape.
They talked for an hour and left a lot out. Here's an answer that never made air. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
WHITAKER: I'm trying to understand how it is that with this emphasis on the border, the numbers of crossings quadrupled under the first three years of the Biden-Harris administration. What -- how did that happen?
HARRIS: There are a variety of factors that relate to what we have seen globally, and what we are not immune from at our own border in terms of what we have seen in terms of surge of immigration and irregular migration.
And there are solutions at hand, but we've got to have leaders who are solution oriented, which we've been and are.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: CBS also cut out their host pressing Kamala on how she is going to pay for all of her giveaways.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
WHITAKER: If all of this makes so much sense, why has this not been done? You are dealing with -- you're dealing with a Congress that is divided, that many are in opposition to not only you, but your policies. So how are you going to make this come true?
HARRIS: Bill, if I approached my life as though, while it's never been done before, therefore it cannot be done, I wouldn't be sitting here in this interview with you. That's the truth.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Then "60 Minutes" tossed Kamala a big fat softball, and she swung and missed.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
WHITAKER: The most basic of questions. Why do you want to be president of the United States?
HARRIS: There are many reasons, but probably first and foremost, I truly believe in the promise of America. I do, and I love the American people. You know, we are a people who have ambition and aspirations and dreams and optimism and hope.
WHITAKER: That's why you want to run. That's why you want to be president.
HARRIS: That's why I'm running. That and some other reasons.
WHITAKER: You're asking the American people to make you the most powerful person on the planet. Why do you deserve the American people's votes?
HARRIS: Well, first of all, I have a career and a history of being very clear that I think of my role of leadership, and in particular now for the last four years as vice president and moving forward as president, if the voters will have me, as being a leader on behalf of all Americans,
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Kamala wasn't the only one having a rough night. One of the crew guys misgendered Madam Vice President.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
HARRIS: Is that what you needed?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, sir. Yes, ma'am. Thirty seconds of silence, please, for room tone.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Michael Shellenberger is the founder of "Public News." Do you see anything scandalous about what CBS did here, Mike?
MICHAEL SHELLENBERGER, FOUNDER, "PUBLIC NEWS": Yes, a little bit. I mean, I just -- I kind of forgot -- I just sort of forgot that that's how she talks, you know? And I was --
WATTERS: It was actually enjoyable watching it again. I don't know why this was.
SHELLENBERGER: I mean, it's like the easiest stuff to memorize. You would think she would have memorized it by then, but it feels like she's trying to figure out why she's running for president every time she's asked. I mean --
WATTERS: It's like a month before the election, and you're on "60 Minutes." He is like, why do you want to be president?
SHELLENBERGER: I am spit balling here. Why am I running?
WATTERS: She's like, well, let's see. What?
SHELLENBERGER: Amazing.
WATTERS: Oh my God. All right, well, you have this new piece on Substack that the USAID and the CIA helped orchestrate Trump's impeachment.
SHELLENBERGER: Yes, I mean, Jesse, it's a crazy story. I mean, you might forget that you know, the House of Representatives impeached President Trump in December of 2019, many people may not remember that. It was a CIA analyst who was left over from the Obama White House who wrote the memo that led to the impeachment. It was all based on hearsay. The person had not actually been in the room with Trump.
Nonetheless, this memo that he wrote relied heavily on a report done by an organization funded by USAID. In fact, its initial founding funding, I mean, now it's tens of millions of dollars had gone into this group called the Organized Crime and Corruption Reporting Project, a name that's not very memorable, OCCRP, but it was basically created as an extension of the State Department and then of USAID.
And as you know, Jesse, this is very serious to be involved in an effort to do regime change at home, as we've been discovering, as the files have come out with what Elon Musk has been doing.
We know that USAID was really about regime change abroad. It was a kind of public facing part, you know, regime change operation like CIA, but not covert, more overt. Well, now you see a similar blowback, just like they did censorship abroad and brought censorship tools back home, they were doing this sort of thing abroad, creating a predicate, essentially, for Trump's impeachment.
So I think it's just one of many revelations that we'll see coming out in the next few days.
WATTERS: So, USAID was involved in regime change abroad and here at home. Very interesting.
If you want to read more about what Mike is talking about, go to his Substack after the show. Don't go right now. Go after the show.
Thanks, Mike.
SHELLENBERGER: Thanks for having me.
WATTERS: So how did the Trump-Newsom meeting go?
Straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: This week has been a whirlwind. It's only Wednesday.
Since Monday, Trump started and stopped two trade wars, raided USAID, brought Bibi into the White House and blew the media's minds with the MAGA Strip.
And today, our new Attorney General, Pam Bondi, says she's going to defund sanctuary cities and prosecute anyone that gets in ICE's way. And a few hours ago, Trump banned guys from competing in women's sports.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: With this executive order, the war on women's sports is over.
With my action this afternoon, we're putting every school receiving taxpayer dollars on notice that if you let men take over women's sports teams or invade your locker rooms, you will be investigated for violations of Title IX and risk your federal funding.
There will be no federal funding.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: The president was surrounded by female athletes of all ages when he signed the paper. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: Oh, I think we have a 10. We have a 10.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: God bless you, Mr. President.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: But this won't even be the biggest executive order of the week. In a few days, Trump is supposed to nuke the Department of Education.
This is enough action to eat up a year. JD Vance says, "I think he's done more in two weeks than frankly, Biden did in four years and Obama did in eight. It really is a breakneck pace, and that really does flow directly from presidential leadership. He is constantly asking us, how many days do we have left? How many weeks do we have left? What have we done today? It's a constant drive from the top, and it's why I think you see all these great things coming out of the White House, but he is having fun."
47 is having a good time, but Democrats aren't. They're already trying to impeach him, again.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. AL GREEN (D-TX): The movement to impeach the president has begun. I rise to announce that I will bring Articles of Impeachment against the president for dastardly deeds proposed and dastardly deeds done.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Trump is spit balling a few ideas for Gaza and Democrats are accusing him of ethnic cleansing. Take a deep breath.
Getting mad about everything Trump does is bad for your health, and it's bad politics. Some Democrats get that.
(BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)
SEN. BRIAN SCHATZ (D-HI): There's an opportunity for us if we can stay disciplined. Still got to fight all the other bull (bleep), but we do not need to chase every flying monkey that Donald Trump hurls at us.
(END AUDIO CLIP)
WATTERS: If Democrats want to win their base back, they need to chill. Be like Fetterman.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. JOHN FETTERMAN (D-PA): For me, I didn't take it as like a serious situation, and it's just about shaking things up. And now there's going to be a lot of balls coming down the plate, and I'm waiting for a strike when I'm going to start to swing.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Democrats rallied as many people as they could for their big revolution today. The only problem was no one really knew what they were rallying for.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. MAXWELL FROST (D-FL): What do we need?
(CROWD shouting)
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Democrats are in a rut. They have weak leadership and mixed messaging. So what's their latest strategy? Treat Trump like the pandemic and hold daily press conferences.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MARA GAY, JOURNALIST: I thought Governor Andrew Cuomo did a great job in New York of having a daily briefing from New York about the state of affairs for the COVID pandemic. Why aren't we seeing that from the Democrats and others today, but especially from the Democrats? I think that you cannot over communicate.
You have to start communicating with the American people now and telling them what is happening, showing them you're going to stand up.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Maybe instead of fighting Trump, they meet him in the middle or at the White House, like Gavin Newsom, who had an audience with the president today to talk about wildfires.
These two guys don't like each other very much. Trump treats him like little rocket man. He busts his chops online, but he's still willing to break bread with him.
This is confusing for people, and that's the point. Nobody can get a read on Trump, even though he's totally transparent. It's what makes people uncomfortable, but it also forces them to change their behaviors and think outside the box.
If you want to make everybody comfortable, nothing changes and America voted for change.
Founding member of DOGE and former presidential candidate, Vivek Ramaswamy. All right, Vivek, how have the Democrats handled these first three weeks? Is treating Trump like a virus with daily press conferences the answer?
VIVEK RAMASWAMY, FOUNDING MEMBER, DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT EFFICIENCY: I think it's been disastrous for them, but the reality is, Jesse, I think every American should be proud and energized by the fact that we have a president who has the energy to actually lead our country, instead of turning the White House into nursing home, which is what we had under Joe Biden.
If you think about President Trump moving at a crazy pace, that's what they'll say. Think about the craziness of the last four years, unprecedented open borders, with an illegal influx of migrants like we haven't seen in American history, foreign wars popping up at a scale we haven't seen in a half century. Think about inflation we haven't seen in a half century.
Combine that with back door government censorship, using tech companies to do their dirty work through the back door that would make our founding fathers roll over in their graves. Starting with that, yes, President Trump does have to move at a fast and furious pace. I'm grateful that he is.
And you know what? I think most Americans are too. What do Democrats at home care about? Not the elites, but the actual Democrat voters at home -- they care about their lives actually being more secure, more prosperous and better. That's what President Trump is delivering, and it's why I think he's going to unite the country in the process.
WATTERS: So Democrats are going to the mattresses over foreign aid. A lot of that foreign aid probably winds up in their pockets, we'll find out more later.
When you hear about POLITICO getting paid by the Biden people, $26 million, does that make sense?
RAMASWAMY: Of course, it doesn't make sense, and that's part of the point of why it's been so non-transparent, Jesse.
The idea of foreign aid, in some sense, I don't think we should be using our taxpayer dollars even to help people in foreign countries when we should be helping our own citizens here at home first.
But the irony is, it's not even going to help starving children in Africa or poor people in other countries. That's just the smoke screen and the excuse to actually carry out a political agenda through the back door.
I think it was shameful that we're finding about state funded media here in the United States. But I think equally bad is the fact that we're using that USAID, that foreign aid industrial complex, to push progressive ideas, LGBTQIA+ agendas, woke and DEI agendas, on to foreign countries that cause people in those other countries to actually hate the United States for values that most Americans don't even share.
In some ways, it's the financial cost that's bad, but that's the least of it. It's actually the other effects of that illicit foreign aid that's hurting the United States, even geopolitically in other ways. I'm glad it's coming to an end. We've had four years to complain about this. Now, we've had two weeks, soon, three and four weeks to actually fix the problem. That's why the people sent Donald Trump in, not for incremental change, Jesse, but for sweeping change. And that's what he's delivering.
WATTERS: All right, is sweeping out the fraud, too.
Vivek Ramaswamy, thanks for coming on. We appreciate it.
What are women's biggest turn offs? Madison Alworth is here.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: Time for Watters' Cooler. Let's bring in Madison Alworth.
MADISON ALWORTH, FOX BUSINESS NETWORK CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Jesse.
WATTERS: Hello, Madison.
Today, my co-host on "The Five," Dana Perino, learned about what people are calling "the ick." Here's how she explains it.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DANA PERINO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: I don't know what it means to get the ick. And I said, oh, okay, it means like when I was growing up, if you liked a guy, but you really weren't sure. And then there's something that happened, and you're like, oh, that's a total turn off. That's like, getting the ick.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes.
PERINO: So now I'm curious, like, what are the icks? I want a list of your icks. If you could accommodate me.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: We're here to help, Dana.
PRIMETIME came up with a list of icks that men must never commit.
First up: Running scared from a bee.
ALWORTH: Oh, no. Yes, you know what? Honestly, it is an ick.
I was in Florida this past weekend, and my fiance --
WATTERS: Congratulations.
ALWORTH: Thank you.
We were sitting at a table, and there were a lot of bees, and I was, you know, dodging them. And he was cool as a cucumber, not an ick. He was so calm.
WATTERS: Just swat the bees.
ALWORTH: Yes, he made the bees his B-words. I can't say it on television.
WATTERS: And he had run, she would have called off the engagement.
The second one, wearing slippers. Now, if you see a guy wearing slippers, not those slippers, but any slippers, is that a turn off?
ALWORTH: I don't think so. I mean, I like a cozy -- a cozy dude. If you wore slippers in public, major turn off. Crocs. No. It's a no. But if you're wearing slippers at home, I respect that.
WATTERS: Okay, good, because I maybe have slippers at home.
Our co-host on "The Five," Tarlov says she gets the ick when her husband wears a blanket. If you see a man with a blanket, not snuggling the blanket, but having the blanket atop of him on a chair at home.
ALWORTH: Yes, I think that's probably a no. And if it's a snuggy, even worse. You remember that? The blanket jackets.
WATTERS: No one's wearing a snuggy.
ALWORTH: They are gone for a reason? They probably ended lots of marriages.
WATTERS: All right, licking your fingers while eating? See, I disagree. So if you're eating ribs, or if you're eating wings in front of a woman, you have to lick your fingers.
ALWORTH: There's also Wet Ones. I don't know if you've heard of this technology.
WATTERS: I think that's a feminine to ask for a wet napkin to -- no. Guys lick our fingers.
ALWORTH: Put in your mouth.
WATTERS: That's right.
All right, checking yourself out in the mirror. That's an ick?
ALWORTH: I think -- I don't know if I've ever seen a guy -- maybe I surround myself with the right guys. I feel like that would be an ick. Yes, like, it's like the you're so vain, or like --
WATTERS: No, I mean, not gazing long into your own eyes. There's food in your face. That's all we're doing.
ALWORTH: I don't think it's the same, but okay, agree to disagree.
WATTERS: We agree to disagree. Here's one that stirred up some controversy, going to Disneyworld as an adult.
ALWORTH: Yes. I mean, I've never seen a Disney adult dude alone. He's always with his partner.
WATTERS: That's called a pedophile.
ALWORTH: No, oh my God. So I do think that would be an ick. I've never seen a Disney adult.
WATTERS: That's a big ick. Guys don't do it, stop going to Disney.
ALWORTH: Sorry.
WATTERS: And this is a big one, crossing your legs as a guy.
ALWORTH: Yes. I mean, look at this gentleman. That is not -- that's not the right way to cross.
WATTERS: That's a turn off.
ALWORTH: Yes.
WATTERS: Men should never cross their legs.
ALWORTH: If I was on a date with a gentleman and he crossed his legs like that, I'd be like, I got to go to the bathroom.
WATTERS: And never come back. And she's never going on another date again because she's engaged.
ALWORTH: I got engaged.
WATTERS: Congratulations again, Madison.
ALWORTH: Thank you.
WATTERS: All right, and we're done. Should we talk about umbrellas? Nah, let's not, because I am pro-umbrella. More PRIMETIME straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: If you like, the guest at the top of the show, the USAID whistleblower. Get his book. Mark Moyar has a good one here. "Masters of Corruption," it gets right to the truth about what's going on at USAID, big time corruption. Check it out.
Let's do some texts.
Jeff from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania: Don't be so hard on yourself, Mark. I think he would make a beautiful Scandinavian woman.
A Privilege Walk. We should do that here on PRIMETIME.
Paul from Scottsdale, Arizona: It's too bad they shut down USAID. It could have paid for Johnny's trip to Gaza.
I swear if he crosses me one more time, I am sending him to Gaza.
Mark from North Tonawanda, New York: All of those women and girls and our president didn't smell one of them.
What a change.
Mark from Brenham, Texas: Maybe Biden needed POLITICO Pro to find out what he did each day.
Tim from Wilmington, North Carolina: Does Nancy own stock in POLITICO?
Oh, you bet she does.
Steven from Huntington: You forgot the most important ick for men, drinking out of a straw.
Obviously. Drinking out of a straw, running away from bees and slippers. Never getting laid again.
Mark from Atlanta, Georgia: Karoline Leavitt is doing great, but she needs to have a sign off like you do.
Thank you very much, Washington Press Corps, I am Karoline, and this is my press conference.

Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
