




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 17, 2025 Monday 4:30 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 470 words
Byline: April Rubin
Body


February 17th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
The  
The big picture: The letter includes a sweeping interpretation of the Supreme Court's  
"The law is clear: treating students differently on the basis of race to achieve nebulous goals such as diversity, racial balancing, social justice or equity is illegal under controlling Supreme Court precedent," Craig Trainor, acting assistant secretary for civil rights within the Education Department,  
The directive applies to educational institutions from preschool to college, as well as state education agencies that receive financial assistance.
Zoom in: "At its core, the test is simple: If an educational institution treats a person of one race differently than it treats another person because of that person's race, the educational institution violates the law," Trainor wrote.
Schools also can't use students' personal essays, writing samples, extracurriculars, or other cues as a means of determining or predicting race, the letter said.
What they're saying: The letter states that teaching DEI gives preference to one racial group over another and "teach students that certain racial groups bear unique moral burdens that others do not."
The programs "stigmatize students who belong to particular racial groups based on crude racial stereotypes," the letter continues.
The letter adds that federal law prevents institutions from using race in decisions related to admissions, hiring, compensation, housing, financial aid and scholarships, discipline and "all other aspects of student, academic and campus life."
Friction point: The department's interpretation of the SCOTUS ruling could also challenge content taught in classes along with the functions of student organizations like Black fraternities and sororities, per  
What's next: By the end of the month, the department will "take appropriate measures to assess compliance" with the administration's interpretation of the law.
Education institutions were instructed to review their policies; cease efforts to circumvent bans of race considerations or its proxies; and end contracts with third parties that consider race.
The department's order will almost certainly be challenged in court.
Read the full letter:

Go deeper:  


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 17, 2025


End of Document
