




The Depauw: Depauw University
February 21, 2025 Friday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: HOMEPAGE FEATURED; Pg. 1
Length: 394 words
Byline: Hazel Nguyen
Body


On Feb. 14, the Department of Education sent a letter requiring every U.S. school and entity that received federal funding from the Department to cease Diversity, Equity and Inclusion programs and other forms of race-based decision-making. The notice reads:
"Educational institutions have toxically indoctrinated students with the false premise that the United States is built upon "systemic and structural racism" and advanced discriminatory policies and practices. Proponents of these discriminatory practices have attempted to further justify them-particularly during the last four years-under the banner of "diversity, equity, and inclusion" ("DEI"), smuggling racial stereotypes and explicit race-consciousness into everyday training, programming, and discipline."
The Department advised American schools to stop bypassing prohibitions on race-based decision-making via indirect means like DEI initiatives: "Under any banner, discrimination on the basis of race, color, or national origin is, has been, and will continue to be illegal." Institutions have 14 days, from Feb. 14, to comply with these requirements.
DePauw Vice President for Institutional Equity Dionne Jackson confirmed the university's receipt of the letter. As of Feb. 21, DePauw is reviewing the letter with a legal counsel to determine any necessary next steps, according to Jackson.
"We want to assure you that DePauw University is in full compliance with all applicable state and federal legislation. As we move forward, we will continue to be guided by our mission and institutional values, which include affirming and supporting all members of our community. These principles remain at the core of our educational philosophy and campus culture," she said. Jackson appreciates students' patience as DePauw examines the implications of the letter.
The notice came as President Donald Trump has been cracking down on federal DEI efforts implemented under the Biden administration. The Department of Education also cited the Students for Fair Admissions v. Harvard decision by the Supreme Court in June 2023 as a basis for their interpretations of federal laws. The Supreme Court ruled that Harvard College and the University of North Carolina violated Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 by implementing race-based affirmative action in their admissions processes.
This is a developing story.

Load-Date: February 21, 2025


End of Document
