




MailOnline
February 1, 2025 Saturday 2:34 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 725 words
Byline: Alyssa Guzman For Dailymail.Com
Body


Devastating photos have emerged of the Philadelphia plane crash that killed six as American flyers are voicing their concerns over the back-to-back deadly incidents. 
Large rescue and emergency crews were spotted cleaning up the wreckage of the Philadelphia plane crash outside of Roosevelt Mall in Philadelphia on Saturday morning in pictures taken from the scene. 
Scraps of metal, blackened debris, and personal items could be seen littering the ground.
A small air ambulance, operated by Jet Rescue Air Ambulance, nosedived to the ground Friday evening, engulfing the area in flames and killing a pediatric patient and five others.
It came two days after an American Airline flight collided with an Army Black Hawk Wednesday evening over the Potomac River in Washington, DC, killing 67 people. 
The two deadly crashes have left a lot of US citizens terrified to step foot on a plane. 
'Guys, I have massive anxiety. I feel like the world is falling apart,' one woman wrote on X. 'I'm supposed to get on a plane to CA soon and for the first time in my life I'm petrified to fly.' 
Another wrote: 'I have a flight [tomorrow] and I'm never the type to get anxious ever really because I'm not scared of flying but there's been so many plane crashes it's making me nervous.' 
'I'm flying on Sunday, and I've been on planes since I was a baby, but all this plane crash news lately has me feeling nervous,' a third tweeted. 
'This Philadelphia plane crash has me so nervous of flying. I'm getting married this yr man. Not the time for all these crashes. What in the world!!' a fourth added. 
'All these plane crashes lately are not helping my anxiety about flying and I have a trip in a little over a month and I'm genuinely so nervous [about] it,' another concerned flyer tweeted. 
A sixth shared: 'Girl, I don't even have a flight planned any time soon & I'm still nervous about flying right now. two plane crashes in two days is just way too crazy for me.' 
The nerves come after the head of the FAA stepped down when Trump was sworn in and the president suspended hiring, a move former Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg called 'despicable.' 
'President Trump now oversees the military and the FAA. One of his first acts was to fire and suspend some of the key personnel who helped keep our skies safe. Time for the President to show actual leadership and explain what he will do to prevent this from happening again.
'As families grieve, Trump should be leading, not lying. We [the Biden Administration] put safety first, drove down close calls, grew Air Traffic Control, and had zero commercial airline crash fatalities out of millions of flights on our watch,' he noted.
Just a day before the DC crash, air traffic controllers were offered a buyout plan to resign with eight month's pay by the Trump Administration in an effort to downsize government. 
Trump also blamed the DC crash on DEI - a policy the Biden Administration heavily pushed - for the failure of the crash. 
The president specifically name-dropped Buttigieg - who is gay - calling him a 'disaster.' 
'He's run it right into the ground with his diversity,' he said of the former transportation secretary. 
The Philadelphia plane had taken off from Northeast Philadelphia Airport before it plummeted near Cottman and Roosevelt Boulevards. 
The little girl was on her return flight home after completing her course of care, Jet Rescue spokesperson Shai Gold said. 
'She fought quite a lot to survive, and unfortunately, this tragedy on the way home,' she said. 
Also on board the ill-fated flight were the girl's mother, a pilot, a co-pilot, a doctor, and a paramedic, each of whom had dedicated themselves to ensuring the child's safe return. But in a cruel twist of fate, the journey ended in disaster.
The Learjet 55, often used for critical medical transport, is a lifeline for patients like the young girl who was onboard.
The girl, who is from Mexico, was a patient of Shriners Children's Philadelphia, the hospital confirmed.
With sponsorship from a third-party charity, the girls had traveled to the US for urgent medical care that had given her another chance at life. 
All six of the victims were from Mexico. 
'I regret the death of six Mexicans in the plane crash in Philadelphia. The consular authorities are in permanent contact with the families,' Mexico President Claudia Sheinbaum said. 

Load-Date: February 1, 2025


End of Document
