




Fox News THE STORY WITH MARTHA MACCALLUM 7:00 PM EST
January 28, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Length: 7732 words
Byline: Martha MacCallum; Alexis McAdams; Edward Lawrence, Jack Keane, Alexandria Hoff
Guests: Victor Avila; David Fahey; David Carlucci; David Sacks, Calley Means
Body


[15:00:00]
MARTHA MACCALLUM, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: All right, thanks you guys. Good afternoon everyone. I'm Martha MacCallum and this is the story.
Today, we will speak with President Trump's AI czar David Sachs, about DeepSeek R1 as the Chinese edge ahead of the United States in the A.I. race, and a moment that has that -- it is a moment, I should say this being compared to Sputnik when Russia outpaced the United States in space. We will speak with him moments away about what comes next and how to change that situation quickly.
But, first, another very important job in the new administration, Homeland Security chief for tax, of course, our country. We're about to hear for the first time from the new Homeland Security chief, Kristi Noem. She took Alejandro Mayorkas' spot, a very controversial DHS secretary, and we're about to hear from her live at the Department of Homeland Security. She's been up a long time. She got up early this morning. She was in New York City. And she was on the streets with dozens of federal agents who were carrying out ICE raids here in New York.
During those raids, they took in a member of the violent Venezuelan gang, Tren de Aragua, and a man who was wanted in the Dominican Republic for a double homicide. So, he made his way here to the United States and had been roaming around. But now he is in custody. In Denver, another raid turned up 130,000 fentanyl pills that are now off the streets thanks to this raid. The DEA tells us that that is enough to potentially kill 65,000 Americans.
Illegal border crossings have dropped to half of what they were in the days before President Trump took office. There, there were just 582 on Sunday. At the height of the crisis under President Biden, we were seeing 11,000 crossings and interactions per day now in the hundreds, because these people are getting a huge message. And they're saying that themselves, don't come. I'm telling everybody not to come.
So, we are waiting now for Kristi Noem. We're going to hear from her in moments as she addresses people at the Department of Homeland Security, but Alexis McAdams, our correspondent, reporting live on the immigration crackdown, remarkable in its action that we are watching. Hi, Alexis.
ALEXIS MCADAMS, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Martha. Well, we talked about the migrant crime in New York City for months, and now ICE agents have hit the streets right here in New York City arresting illegal migrants who they say are violent criminals. This comes as the White House had a major warning for migrants, don't try and come.
Now, DHS Secretary Kristi Noem was here in New York City. She got up like 2:00 in the morning to do this. She was on the ground with these teams hitting the streets of the Big Apple. The DHS secretary says, what was she doing, exactly what President Trump promised the American people.
So, it was a multiagency effort. We saw all different agencies out there. The ICE raids were aiming to remove violent criminals who aren't supposed to be in the country in the first place and have rap sheets pretty long, like this Venezuelan migrant who was taken into custody this morning out in the Bronx. He's identified as Anderson Zambrano Pacheco. Pacheco was arrested for kidnapping, assault and burglary charges, to name a few things. And sources tell me he's part of the South American gang, Tren de Aragua, which we've heard about now for months.
He had a warrant out for his arrest in connection to this viral takeover. Remember this at the apartment complex in a Colorado? Well, a group of migrants were caught on camera with weapons, breaking into apartments. People felt like they had nowhere. They took the entire thing over.
So, where are authorities taking these migrants? Well, some sent by plane back to Columbia in South America. You can see the plane was packed. We're talking about hundreds of migrants. This comes after President Trump threatened to tariff that country if they didn't accept those migrants back.
The raids are continuing, Martha, and the team say they're going after the worst people first. We'll keep an eye on it.
MACCALLUM: Yes, we're watching the reaction in cities around the country. And, Alexis, I find it fascinating that some of the most outspoken governors and mayors in Massachusetts, for example, are pretty quiet as they watch these people get taken away. But we know that the mayor in Chicago has been very outspoken, saying that he will continue to protect migrants in his city, and not really delineating between who is being taken off the streets.
MCADAMS: Well, I'm from Chicago, and I can tell you people that live there, and I covered crime and the migrant crisis there when I worked there, people are livid. They don't want the people who aren't supposed to be there in the first place that they say are criminals out in the streets. So, I don't know if Brandon Johnson is really listening to the people in Chicago when it comes to that.
Here in New York City, though, Martha, the mayor, Eric Adams, as he told you in those conversations, he's working with ICE and says he doesn't want people committing crimes in this city.
[15:05:06]
MACCALLUM: Yes. Well, we'll see how the people respond when it comes election time to Brandon Johnson. We're waiting as we can see here on the left hand side of your screen in Washington to hear from Kristi Noem, the new Department of Homeland Security chief.
And in the meantime, let's go to our panel.
All right, she's just being introduced now. So, let's listen in and then we'll move to the panel.
KRISTI NOEM, HOMELAND SECURITY SECRETARY: Good afternoon. It's good to see all of you. Go ahead and be seated. Thank you so much for that wonderful welcome, and thank you to Deputy Secretary Harry Hoffman (ph). He's been fantastic, hasn't he? Let's give him a round of applause. Thank you.
I had the chance to visit with him several times on the phone before I was actually sworn in, and we had candid conversations and visited, and when I got here, he handed me a binder full of papers, and he said, I signed all of this, hope you wanted me to. But I've enjoyed spending time with him and with all of you. Thank you for welcoming me so much. And I am so thrilled to be a part of the family at the United States Department of Homeland Security.
Your mission is big and it's vast. And I know that you approach it with the seriousness of which the day and age that we live in requires. So, just know that I am committed to fulfilling our mission with you and walking alongside all of you as you do your work every day to make sure that not only do you accomplish your job and do it with excellence but that you have the assurance that your families will be safe also, and that we leave this country safe for our kids and our grandkids far into the future.
Now, as secretary, that's my responsibility, but it also is my responsibility to do everything that I can to give you the resources that you need to do your job. You need the training, you need the equipment and the resources to make sure you're prepared for every single situation you find yourself in.
Now, my background and experiences in business, it's also in serving at the state legislative level. I served in Congress and I also have served as governor, but that experience tells me that. If you want people to perform with excellence, you have to equip and prepare them to do so. And that is my commitment to all of you that we will walk through every single situation together, and I'll prepare you as much as I can for it, and we'll have the flexibility to make sure that we can always keep the American people first and foremost.
I am thrilled that President Trump trusted me with this job. And I'll tell all of you that the reason that he trusted me with his job is because when he talked to me about what my future looked like, I asked him for it. I said, I would like to be the secretary of Homeland Security, sir, because it's your number one priority.
And I love my job as Governor of South Dakota. I love my home and my family. I would not leave them to spend time away unless I was doing something of significance. That's the family I was raised in, that we talked every day about the fact that our work should matter. And it should have a purpose, and we should be able to explain why we do what we do and that it has something that we can show the next generation that really mattered for their future and for this country.
So today, I'm hoping all of us will be a beacon of freedom, of light, and of hope, that when people look at us, they don't just see people who are there in a time of crisis or conflict, but we're also people that bring a smile to people's faces and remind them what America is about. You're on the frontlines many times, but you're also sometimes the last ones in to help pick up the pieces. And you see people on their very worst days, but that is a presence that you can bring that will bring them comfort and stability in a time when their whole world seems to be shaken.
Now, I grew up as a farmer and a rancher. I told this story to a few people the first day that I came into the office that I grew up with a dad who was a cowboy. And he was much like you would picture John Wayne was in his westerns. He lived hard and fast. And when he sent us off to school, we obviously lived in the country, we had to drive.
[15:10:01]
He said, drive fast and take chances. So, there's not a lot of people that have dads like that, but he also told us every day to get out of bed because more people die in bed than anywhere else.
And so we knew that when we got up, we got to work and we worked together as a family. But that also taught me a lot about how you need to live your example and an example in front of the people that you lead of what you want them to do but they also could respect you in the process of being in front of that organization.
The one story I'll tell you, and I shared it with Harry the other day about my dad was I remember one time I was building fence with him when I was about ten years old, and we were building fence, stretching wires and out there putting up about a mile and a half of this fence. And he turned to me and he said, Kristi, where's the post mall, which is the post pounder that you post the -- pound the posts in with. And I turned to him and I said, it's in the truck. And he said, go get it.
So, with my dad, you ran everywhere you went. I turned and ran to the truck, grabbed the post mall, brought it back to him, handed it to him. And as I handed it to him, he said, you should know what I need before I know what I need.
And I remember being a ten-year-old girl thinking, how am I ever going to know what he needs before he knows what he needs. But what he was doing was teaching us to think ahead and to think three steps ahead of what he needed and have it ready and prepared for him so he could be more efficient, he could get more work done and we could do a better job, that he should never have to wait for the next tool or piece of equipment that he was asking for that I should have already figured it out and had it waiting for him.
That is what our job is as well here at the Department of Homeland Security, We prepare ahead and think three steps ahead so that people have what they need before they need it. We have lots of stories and lots of experiences where we've responded beautifully or we've been there, provided safety and security, investigation, protected communities, picked up the pieces after disasters, kept them safe as they flew, protected their cyber infrastructure, all of the agencies under this umbrella, the work that you do is excellent. And then we all remember times we maybe could have performed a little bit better.
I will challenge you to think ahead and to think what people might need before they actually need it, how we can pre-deploy resources, how we can be more efficient and how we can be more nimble to respond to the situations that we find ourselves in.
We do have some challenges and the world is a dangerous place and we've got dangerous, evil foreign governments that want to take us down. We will be the first line of defense for anybody that's in the American homeland. We will do everything that we can to protect the American people.
We have jurisdiction over people who live here, people who leave here and people who come here. We have jurisdiction over products that come into this country and which ones leave. We have jurisdiction over our internet, what comes in, what goes out, what kind of business. Virtually, I tell people we have jurisdiction over everything. And we will exercise all legal authorities that we have to protect this country because it is the only last light of freedom left.
We woke up this morning more blessed than 99 percent of the people in this country because we woke up in the United States of America. We woke up in a country where we get to exercise our freedoms, and that responsibility has been laid at our feet. And I know that the people in this room and the people in this department are up to the challenge and up to the task.
I will walk alongside you, support you, lead when we need it, but all the time be there to hopefully inspire you to know the kind of work that you do and how important it is for this day and age. So, may God bless you, may God bless the United States of America, and may God keep us all safe. Thank you. Thank you for being here.
MACCALLUM: All right, that is Kristi Noem, the new secretary of the Department of Homeland Security. She said that President Trump asked her, what does your future look like? And she said, I want to be the secretary of Homeland Security because it's the most important thing to you and it was the top issue in the campaign. And there she is on day one. She's had a busy day. It started 2:00 this morning.
Let's bring in our panel, Victor Avila, former ICE supervisory special agent, Jonathan Fahey, former acting ICE director under President Trump and David Carlucci, former Democratic New York State Senator. Great to have all of you with us.
Victor, let me start with you. As someone who has worked with ICE and homeland security agencies, what's your reaction when you hear an address like that on opening day?
VICTOR AVILA, FORMER ICE SUPERVISORY SPECIAL AGENT: Thank you for having me back. Martha. The first word that came to me is leadership. Wow. What a difference when you have someone that's engaging like the new Secretary Noem is. This is what is going to perk up all these agents, the morale that we used to talk about the last four years, how low it was amongst these agencies like Border Patrol and ICE.
This is -- the difference maker is we all know that it starts at the top.
[15:15:02]
And when you see the leadership of these individuals, like the secretary and Tom Homan being on the scene of some of these arrests, really makes a difference to the field agents, and they know that they're going to be -- they're going to have the backup of their bosses.
MACCALLUM: Yes. Jonathan Faye, let me bring you in. You know, when you watch these arrests, like we saw this morning that Kristen Noem was carrying out with these ICE agents, it just occurs to me. You know, I know that the pushback that we're hearing from Democrats and people who worked in the Biden administration is, you know, oh, we did. We did those, too. You know, we were also taking people into custody, but I don't ever remember seeing Alejandro Mayorkas anywhere near this kind of action. What's your response?
DAVID FAHEY, FORMER ACTING DIRECTOR, ICE: Alejandro Mayorkas was never near any of it and didn't want to do any of this. This is really the greatest thing that they're doing is basically publicizing this because it brings attention to it as really three benefits. One, it gets rid of the most serious criminals most rapidly. Two, it prevents new people from coming in illegally, which we've seen by the reporting, less than 600 just yesterday, compared as you talked about in your lead into 11,000 a day just a year ago.
And it also really shuts down these cartels because they were making so much money off these illegal immigrants or illegal migrants or aliens, they were charging $7,000 to $9,000 per head. So, that's money being taken away from these cartels. And, finally, the people that aren't being arrested that are here illegally, they will be more law abiding because they don't want to be arrested.
So, all of these things are a great thing. And it really is such a morale boost because Alejandro Mayorkas and the Biden administration did everything they could to cut the legs out from the ICE agents, from the Border Patrol, and it just crushed their morale. And in doing so, it made Americans less safe.
MACCALLUM: Yes. David Carlucci, I remember Alejandro Mayorkas testifying with a straight face to Congress that the border was not open. So, I don't know how all these criminals got in here but they are here and now they're being removed. Why did we never see the Homeland Security secretary participating in the removal of criminals and people who worked for the cartels?
FMR. STATE SEN. DAVID CARLUCCI (D-NY): Well, a very simple reason and many law enforcement officers are out there publicly saying that this is reckless to identify and announce when you're doing these raids and where for a few reasons, but most importantly, it gives notice and the most dangerous among them will flee. And when you look at these arrests, particularly this morning --
MACCALLUM: So, that's why Alejandro Mayorkas never participated because he didn't want to give anyone a heads up? I mean, these people, they didn't get a heads up.
CARLUCCI: No, he was participating, but it's not about just large numbers. It's about an actual policy. And when you look at the people that have been picked up, thank goodness we're getting the most dangerous criminals out of here. But over half of them are not dangerous criminals. They're just undocumented. And, yes, they shouldn't --
MACCALLUM: That's not what we understood. This is the worst first policy. I mean, we have put up on the board, you know, examples of the kind of people that are being taken out, child abusers, sex abusers and these are the people who are already indicated as much. They were already indicated that way under the Biden administration and they were not removed, David.
CARLUCCI: No, we had more deportations under Biden than we did in the first term of Donald Trump. And, yes, did we do a good job publicizing it? No. But that's not the idea. It's not about a headline. It's about a policy.
MACCALLUM: I'm out of time, but I got to let Victor respond to that.
CARLUCCI: And look, this is the problem that the Trump administration is having, and it's --
MACCALLUM: Victor, you're in a better position to respond to it than I am. Go ahead, Victor.
AVILA: First of all, they're not announcing and telling anybody what they're going to do. What they're doing is telling you after the fact once these people are actually in custody. And, in fact, Mayorkas was never present with there. He never had the back of these agents, that is for sure. And this is the difference when leadership is present. You're going to see the morale be boosted. You're going to see the agents performing their job better and professionally.
And you know what? There are going to be some collaterals. But you heard Tom Homan say, and you've heard everybody say there are no more restrictions when it comes to picking up people that are undocumented in the country, and that's going to be the big difference moving forward.
MACCALLUM: Gentlemen, thank you.
CARLUCCI: You're right, there's collaterals. And that's the problem. It's wielding an axe and not a scalpel, and that's going to lead to problems.
FAHEY: Scalpel never works on --
MACCALLUM: So far, I don't see any leadership in the states where these are happening. Either Mayor Adams or anyone else, with the possible exception of Brandon Johnson in Chicago, who seems too upset to see these people leaving.
Gentlemen, thank you very much. Good to have you with us today.
FAHEY: Thank you.
MACCALLUM: Coming up, a story exclusive with White House A.I. Czar David Sacks on the threat to all of us that exists if China is successful in winning the race in artificial intelligence, he joins me next.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ELON MUSK, CEO, TESLA: It's going to be very tempting to use A.I. as a weapon. It's going to be very tempting. In fact, it will be used as a weapon.
[15:20:00]
So, the on-ramp to serious A.I., the danger is going to be more humans using it against each other, I think, most likely. That will be the danger.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
MACCALLUM: All right. So, President Trump says that the speed and lower cost of China's deep seek AI app is a wakeup call. The app quickly surpassed ChatGPT and is now number one on Apple in terms of downloads. And the Chinese company claims that their version cost a fraction of ChatGPT to build and to train. Billionaire tech investor Mark Andreessen calling this quote A.I.'s Sputnik moment.
Before we bring in White House A.I. and crypto czar David Sacks, let's bring in Fox Business Correspondent Edward Lawrence on the North Lawn, because this is a human and national security issue. It's also a huge business story, Edward.
EDWARD LAWRENCE, FOX BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT: A big business story in the energy sector, which was down a lot yesterday, down just 1 percent today, still down, whereas the rest of the market is up.
Now, DeepSeek says that it can use less chips, less power to do the same thing as ChatGBT. In fact, it surprised many in the A.I. industry about the release of this and allowed President Donald Trump to say this is the kick in the backside that the industry needs. Listen to this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, U.S. PRESIDENT: The release of DeepSeek A.I. from a Chinese company should be a wakeup call for our industries that we need to be laser focused on competing to win because we have the greatest scientists in the world.
[15:25:11]
Even Chinese leadership told me that.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
LAWRENCE: Well, the chairman of the Chinese Communist Party select committee in the House says, the U.S. cannot allow CCP models, such as DeepSeek, to risk our national security and leverage our technology to advance their A.I. ambitions. We must work to swiftly place stronger export controls on technology critical to DeepSeeks' A.I. Infrastructure. Some text experts worry about what kind of information DeepSeek will spit out.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BRIAN HAUGLI, CEO, SIDECHANNEL: I generally always have a problem with America's, you know, quick adoption to any technology, but also their adoption of any kind of unvetted, unchecked foreign technology or products, whether it's China or anybody else. But I think at this point, yes, it's a -- this is up there on my list of concerns with it being ranked number one now on the Apple store.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
LAWRENCE: So, in fact, when you ask DeepSeek about the 1989 rebellion in Tiananmen Square, it cannot tell you anything. It cannot tell you about President Xi or the Uyghurs. Some tech experts believe that this app could be the push that American companies need to see the most out of the investments that have been made in A.I. so far this year. Martha?
MACCALLUM: Edward, thank you very much.
So, here is where President Trump stands on China possibly pulling ahead in the A.I. race. Watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REPORTER: Karoline, you say restore U.S. dominance. Is there a fear that the U.S. either is falling or has fallen behind? And how would the president make sure the U.S. stays ahead?
KAAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: No, the president is confident that we will restore American dominance in A.I.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: Okay. Who better to talk to about this than White House A.I. and crypto czar David Sacks. He has been at the forefront. forefront of this issue in Silicon Valley, co-founded a company, the company that became PayPal and many other very foundational, crucial tech investments. David, great to have you with us today. Thank you very much for joining me.
So, you hear that issue in the White House press office, thank you, and Karoline Leavitt saying that the president wants to restore U.S. dominance in A.I. How much ground has been lost by this development?
DAVID SACKS, WHITE HOUSE A.I. AND CRYPTO CZAR: Well, I think the Chinese companies are catching up very fast. I think that's the point. I would say that we haven't lost our leadership here. The DeepSeek R1 model is basically comparable in capabilities to the OpenAI 01 model, which came out about four months ago. So they are kind of hot on our heels here. And I think we basically have somewhere between a three and six month lead on them, but they are catching up very, very fast.
And I think President Trump is entirely right to be concerned that they are catching up. And we want to do everything we can to maintain our A.I. Leadership and dominance.
MACCALLUM: You know, we heard about this $100 billion investment in Stargate by Allison and SoftBank and Sam Altman. You know, one of the questions is, are we spending too much? This version is cheaper, and apparently it was much faster to train and build, David.
SACKS: Yes, I mean, this is where DeepSeek's innovation is, is they have managed to get more efficiency out of chips. They're squeezing more juice out of the chips, and they kind of have to because of the export controls, which limited advanced chips going to China. They've had to learn how to be more efficient. So, necessity has been the mother of invention for them.
That being said, there are still great advantages to having a lot of chips, enormous number of chips. And I think that this is an area where America can continue to lead is in a build out of this infrastructure and having the most advanced chips.
And so I think it's a little bit of an overreaction to say that America doesn't need big A.I. data centers anymore. I think we need the build out of these big A.I. data centers. I think President Trump has expressed support for them. And I think we need to make it easier to build those data centers, to get them permitted and licensed and to get power generated electricity for those data centers. If we scale the biggest data centers, it is still an advantage.
It is true that DeepSeek has shown new ways for A.I. models to be efficient. And I think our A.I. companies are going to learn and adopt those efficiency techniques as well. But you still want to be able to scale compute, and the data centers are essential for that.
MACCALLUM: Is there I.P. theft here? Did they steal some of what they were able to scale up here from us? And do we need to close the doors on what we're doing in terms of invention and technology?
SACKS: Well, it's possible. There's a there's a technique in A.I. called distillation, which you're going to hear a lot about. And it's when one model learns from another model effectively. But what happens is that the student model asked the parent model a lot of questions, just like a human would learn. But A.I.s can do this asking millions of questions and they can essentially mimic the reasoning process that they learned from the parent model, and they can kind of suck the knowledge out of the parent model.
[15:30:00]
And there's substantial evidence that what DeepSeek did here is they distilled the knowledge out of OpenAI's models. And I don't think OpenAI is very happy about this. And I think one of the things you're going to see over the next few months is our leading AI companies taking steps to try and prevent distillation.
And so, we'll see if the leading AI companies can prevent distillation by third party companies, that would definitely slow down some of these copycat models.
MARTHA MACCALLUM, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: So in terms of the big picture, David, and national security, I mean, you look at, you know, World War II and Japan built a naval force that became a big threat to us. You look at the Sputnik development, which put a satellite -- Russia put a satellite into space that had some technology that the United States had no idea Russia had access to. Is this that kind of moment and should we be concerned about the actual safety of Americans with AI?
I want to play one more sound bite from Elon Musk. This one much more recent, this is 2023. Watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ELON MUSK, TESLA CEO: There is some chance that, above zero, that AI will kill us all. I think it's low but there's some chance.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: You said there's some chance that I will kill us all. David, what do you say about the national security threat here?
SACKS: Well, here's what we know, is that AI is a very powerful technology that has huge economic ramifications and it'll also have military applications. And if we want America to be the most powerful country, we have to be the leader in AI. There's just no two ways about it.
And so, we have to compete. We know that China is going to be very competitive. They've got a lot of smart people, too, and they've got, you know, a pretty big high tech industry. So it's going to be a very competitive race and we have to do everything we can to win.
It's just, I think, should be unacceptable to any American to live in a world in which China could out compete us in AI, and reap the economic and military benefits of that. So I think we're going to have to compete very effectively.
President Trump, I think, started this in his first week in office. He rescinded the Biden EO, which imposed over a hundred pages of burdensome regulations on our companies. The Biden EO seems to be crafted in a world without global competition that seemed to think that we could slow our companies down and somehow China wouldn't take advantage of that.
It's pretty obvious that if we, you know, hamstring our companies, China is going to basically win this race. So we just can't do that. I think what we have to do is support our AI companies. We have to make it easier to get power for data centers, and we've got to help them build out these data centers.
So I'm confident we can win this AI race, but we can't be complacent about it.
MACCALLUM: Do you draw a line between the Biden executive order and the onerous regulations 100 pages long, and this fall behind in this particular application?
SACKS: Well, I think that our companies got a little distracted, to be honest. I think that maybe they got a little bit complacent. They didn't realize how close these Chinese companies were to them.
They wasted a lot of time on things like DEI. You saw there was like woke AI. They were, you know, the models were basically producing things like Black George Washington. And I think that when you're complacent, you think that there's not global competition, you can indulge in those sorts of things.
But now that we know how close this race is, like I said, DeepSeek now has a model that's comparable to OpenAI. OpenAI is on the next model. But again, there are only maybe three or four months ahead, we just can't afford to get distracted by things that don't matter.
And I think there's going to be a refocusing by our industry. Like President Trump said, I think it's a wake up call. They've got to focus on being scrappy and on competing. And I think you're going to see them get, I think, a lot more focus now on the competition.
MACCALLUM: David, last question before I let you go. The security concerns of downloading this, and I know that you posted something today about a way that you can put this on your tablet or your phone that will not be compromised. But I think there's a lot of concern out there, you know. If your kids are loading up DeepSeek on their phones or you are that they're extracting information from US, data, personal information, to feed this model.
SACKS: Yes. There's some truth in that. I mean, if you download the DeepSeek on your phone, your data will go back to China. But there -- but since DeepSeek open sourced the model, there's ways that you can run it by -- hosted by American companies.
So for example, there's a company called Perplexity which you can go to and try DeepSeek. You can also use Ollama. And so, you can use an American hosted version of their open source model if you want to try it.
MACCALLUM: All right. David Sacks, you're in a very important position on all of this for our country. We thank you so much for serving in that way and for spending some time with us today. Thank you very much, David. Good to see you.
SACKS: Thanks, Martha.
MACCALLUM: So coming up, I will speak with General Jack Keane on President Trump's push to defend America and prioritize warrior ethos at the Pentagon, that is next.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PETE HEGSETH, US SECRETARY OF DEFENSE: Our job is lethality and readiness, and war fighting.
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF UNITED STATES: We will build a massive defense shield all made in the USA. We're going to build a beautiful dome over our country, and a lot of it is going to be made right here in New York.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: When it comes to the Iron Dome, the executive order directed the implementation of the of an iron dome. It also, as you said, kind of directed research and studies to see if or how the United States can go about doing this, particularly the Department of Defense.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: Green lighting an iron dome here in the United States, just one of several actions announced by President Trump. You heard Karoline Leavitt talk about the study and research to begin that process, and it is part of the intention to prioritize military readiness.
He also took, President Trump, also took executive action targeting DEI programs, reinstating servicemembers who were discharged because of the COVID-19 vaccine mandate and took steps to prevent openly transgender people from serving, a move previously repealed by President Biden. FOX News senior strategic analyst and retired four star General Jack Keane joins me now. General Keane, always good to have you with us. Thank you very much for joining us.
First of all, your reaction to these executive orders that came in fast and furious as the new secretary of defense, Pete Hegseth, took the helm?
JACK KEANE, FOX NEWS SENIOR STRATEGIC ANALYST: Well, I don't have a problem with any of them. I thought the DEI thing from the very beginning didn't make a lot of sense. For years we've had -- every single year I was in the army almost 38 years, we had equal opportunity officers and NCOs who helped work that, and educated us on making certain that we had equal opportunity.
The DEI thing was more about equity and it took away the emphasis on meritocracy. And we have had significant, successful racial integration in the United States military where a person of color, every NCO rank or every officer rank all the way up to four stars are supervising a white majority. That's the reality of what's out there, and it's been out there for years. It's been very, very successful.
So listen, I think the Defense Department, when they were asked to execute DEI, were likely the first organization because that's who we are to put it in place. They're being asked to dissolve it. They're likely going to be the first organization in the federal government to dissolve it. And let's move on.
MACCALLUM: So let's talk about the Iron Dome possibility in the last minute that we have here. Can it work and are you a supporter of that program?
KEANE: Well, I think what the President is doing is trying to solve a very complicated problem that the United States faces. Iron Dome was certainly a name that the Israelis used to take down rockets and short range missiles that attack them. And they have two other tiered systems.
Their situation is very different. Their neighbors are attacking them and they have Iran and the Houthis attacking them from about a thousand miles away. We have none of our neighbors are threatening us and no one in this hemisphere is going to threaten us. So our problem comes from our adversaries who are oceans away on land but can approach us by sea and threaten us with different kinds of weapons.
The challenge the United States is facing, and I think the President is really clever here, he's trying to focus the efforts of the research and development community and the Department of Defense by saying, I want an air shield. I want to protect the American people.
Well, these advanced weapons systems take what they are, hypersonic glide systems. China launched one in '21. It circumnavigated the globe. It was propelled by a rocket and then came up through the Southern Hemisphere.
MACCALLUM: Yes.
KEANE: Think of that. All of our protection against ICBM missiles are in the Northern Hemisphere, and they were able to obviously do that. And we did not detect any of it, Martha. We could not track that system as it was circumnavigating the globe, came up through the Southern Hemisphere, then went back towards China.
MACCALLUM: Yes.
KEANE: This is a profound capability that the Department of Defense is aware of, and we got to track it. And the same thing, Russia is developing a very sophisticated cruise missile that they're advertising will eventually be able to circumnavigate the globe. These are major threats, and we've got to get on with developing tracking systems and certainly intercepting systems to do that. Just two examples of what the United States is facing that are quite unique and very different from what Israel is doing.
MACCALLUM: Well, that's the second example on this program today of a place where China has surprised us in their technology and abilities. So we're stepping it up after the last four years. General Keane, thank you very much. Good to have you here today.
KEANE: Great talking to you, Martha.
MACCALLUM: You as well, thank you very much. All right. So Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., the Trump disruptor, tapped to shake up Health and Human Services, facing a big day on Capitol Hill tomorrow and some speed bumps along the way.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. BRIAN SCHATZ (D-HI): He has caused disease. He has caused pain. He has caused death. And so, the vote we're going to be taking on this nominee is much more than your party or mine. It's life or death.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
MACCALLUM: Robert F. Kennedy Jr. on Capitol Hill this hour. He is now hours away from the first of his two confirmation hearings that will be held to become Health and Human Services Secretary. Kennedy pushing to make America healthy again, but he has some vocal opponents. Correspondent Alexandria Hoff reporting from Washington. Alexandria?
ALEXANDRIA HOFF, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Martha. Good to be with you. We know that RFK Jr. right now is in the office of Senator Lee right now. It's unclear if they are speaking or if that's just being used as a holding room.
But he was also seen entering the office of Democratic Senator Ron Wyden, who is the ranking member on the Senate Finance Committee. That's going to be the committee questioning Kennedy tomorrow. And we know that late last year, Wyden called Kennedy's beliefs outlandish and disturbing. So if there was a conversation had, it was certainly a frank one.
Senators on both sides are preparing to press Kennedy on how his personal feelings overlap with the plans that he might have for HHS. The job entails managing a $1.8 trillion budget, 80,000 employees, hence why tomorrow's hearing is before the Finance Committee.
Now one agency within HHS that Kennedy has been clear he wants to completely reform is the FDA, increasing focus on nutrition to fight chronic disease. If confirmed, he would also oversee funding for and support for clinical trials and the FDA's vaccine approval process. On that, Kennedy seeks to soothe concerns and insists he is not anti vaccine but seeks more rigorous testing.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. BILL CASSIDY (R-LA): I agree with him on some things and disagree on others. The food safety, I think the ultra processed food is a problem. Vaccinations, he's wrong on.
SEN. RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (D-CT): Having an appointee who has cast doubt on the efficacy and safety of vaccines is absolutely the opposite of what we need in that job.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HOFF: Now Republicans will also be seeking clarification on Kennedy's past pro-abortion stance. That could be his biggest hurdle this week, Martha.
MACCALLUM: Alex, thank you very much. So just moments ago, Caroline Kennedy releasing a video and a statement, and a letter to senators opposing her own cousin's nomination. According to the Washington Post she wrote that health care researchers and scientists, quote unquote, deserve a secretary committed to advancing cutting edge medicine to save lives, not rejecting the advances that we have already made. They deserve better than Bobby Kennedy, she wrote, and so do the rest of us." Very harsh, strong words from a close family member and obviously a very influential family member.
Here is what RFK Jr. told Bill Maher last year about where he stands on vaccines.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ROBERT F. KENNEDY JR, SECRETARY OF HHS NOMINEE: I believe that people do. They should be able to get it. I'm not anti-vaccine.
BILL MAHER, TV HOST: People think you are. Well, I know, but that's because I'm called that because it's a way of silencing me. But I have said for 17 years I'm not anti-vaccine. I just want good science. I want -- people should be able to make informed choices. I am against vaccine mandates.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: OK. Let's bring in Calley Means, who has joined us before. He's co-founder of TrueMed and the book, "Good Energy" and he's an informal adviser to RFK Jr., knows him very well, has worked very closely with him. Calley, welcome to the program.
That just happened a little while ago, this statement by Caroline Kennedy. Your reaction to that.
CALLEY MEANS, CO-FOUNDER, TRUEMED: With respect to the rest of Robert F. Kennedy's family, some folks are trying to maintain their invite to the Democratic Party cocktail circuit. Bobby Kennedy has put it on the line. And we had an election, Martha. And Bobby Kennedy and President Trump captured the imagination, and really the conscience of millions of voters, millions of moms.
And President Trump is all about promises made, promises kept. And what were those promises? It was very simple. Their mandate is to figure out what the heck is going on. The Biden administration's HHS policy document had the word chronic disease and diabetes zero times. It talked about equity over 30 times. If these senators and these family members are concerned about children's health, we need to be speaking about chronic disease. And that's what Bobby and President Trump talked about throughout the campaign.
Bobby has talked about one mandate and one mandate only. When he gets in there, we're going to return to gold star science. We're going to get conflicts out of these agencies and we're going to figure out what's going on, why we are the sickest country in the developed world, why diabetes, cancer, heart disease, obesity is all off the charts.
That's what they're going to be laser focused on. They work in the conscience of America. And this is a real campaign mandate. We didn't know at the Election Day who the secretary of treasury, state, defense was going to be. We knew when voters voted for Bobby Kennedy getting in there to attack the chronic disease crisis, and we need to see this through.
MACCALLUM: You know, what is your sense? Because you worked on this issue and pharmaceutical companies and lobbyists on Capitol Hill, I mean, there is a very strong lobbying effort underway here to prevent this from happening. Give people a sense of what that would look like before they listen to the hearing and can decide for themselves.
MEANS: Yes. I just focus everyone and the senators on the really spiritual message of the campaign, that we're going to do unimpeachable things to get kids healthier. And as far as the attacks right now, let's just look at Mike Pence. He's sending letters to senators and running ads attacking Bobby Kennedy on the pro-life issue.
Mike Pence's group is funded by the pharmaceutical industry. That was just recently reported. So PhRMA is funding to disgraced Mike Pence, to attack Bobby on this issue, the life issue when, let's back up here, Martha. There hasn't been a bigger pro life message in American politics, in the Make America Healthy Again movement.
This is a war to improve children's health. Bobby Kennedy has made clear he's going to follow the Trump administration's pro-life policies. So you just have an example right there. These culture war issues are being weaponized by interests that demonstrably profit from kids being sick.
MACCALLUM: The FDA would fall under his jurisdiction. What kind of changes have you discussed with him that might take place at the FDA?
MEANS: This is how to think about the construct that President Trump and Bobby talked about. It's let's get to the truth, let's get the corruption out of the FDA. Why is 75 percent of drug approvals funded by PhRMA, why do we have self policing of our food chemicals to where the FDA recently said that they don't know all the chemicals in our food. Let's get to the truth.
And that starts with just postmark reviews of all the food chemicals that we have that aren't allowed in Europe. That's 10,000. So it's getting to the truth, and then it's not regulation, it's not mandates, it's not taxes, it's flexibility for patients once they have that truth to make informed decisions.
As Bobby says, he's not coming in with a list of food or drugs to ban, this is America. But he wants the truth, and then to let people make their own decisions with their doctors. That's MAHA.
MACCALLUM: I mean, we want a healthy country. There's got to be a reason why our children are more overweight and dealing with diabetes more than all these other industrialized countries. We've made some mistakes and we need to figure out what's behind it.
Calley Means, thank you very much. We'll be watching these hearings this week. Good to see you again. And check out my podcast with Calley as well, which digs more into the health side of all of this than the political side.
But that is "The Story" for today, Thursday, January 28th. "The Story" goes on. We'll see you right back here tomorrow. Stick around, the Will Cain show starts right after this.

Load-Date: January 28, 2025


End of Document
