




Fox News THE FIVE 5:00 PM EST
January 28, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6982 words
Byline: Jesse Watters, Jeanine Pirro, Jessica Tarlov, Sandra Smith, Greg Gutfeld
Body


WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: And may be Falcons turned into Captain America, they are wearing kind of a similar outfit, I don't know, I'm not for sure.
KAT TIMPF, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: Yes, you won't -- you won't see me at Comic-Con.
CAIN: I won't see you on that, OK. But I will see you tonight at "GUTFELD!" Thank you so much, Kat.
All right, it's time for Will of The People, your feedback making this a conversation. Larry on X says, you're spot on about everything, but what separates you from the others is your ability to tie a power knot with your tie. A pleat shows confidence and knowledge. Your tie pleat has both. FYI, hook them. Hook them, Larry.
Mandy says about the show. Some of it I like, some of it I've muted. I can't take liberal nonsense, and I'm not a sports fan. The rest is good.
Well, thanks for what you like, Mandy. And then another user says, always watch "KUDLOW." Maybe I'll now DVR "THE WILL CAIN SHOW." However you watch, we enjoy you watching. Us from the heart of America, THE FIVE.
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Hello, everybody. I'm Jesse Watters along with Judge Jeanine Pirro, Jessica Tarlov, Sandra Smith and Greg Gutfeld. It's 5:00 in New York City, and this is THE FIVE.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KRISTI NOEM, HOMELAND SECURITY SECRETARY: Here in New York City this morning. We are getting the dirt bags off the streets.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: The dirt bags are being deported. President Trump's new DHS boss Kristi Noem, suiting up in ICE gear, getting up at 2:00 in the morning and joining federal agents as they begin their first major illegal immigration raids in New York City, removing the worst first, illegals who have been charged with kidnapping, assault and burglary.
It's a refreshing change from the days of Mayorkas shopping for high end menswear while a crisis festered under his watch.
President Trump's new White House press secretary, Karoline Leavitt holding her first briefing and laying the smack down on liberal reporters who are confused about our immigration laws.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Can you just tell us the numbers? How many have a criminal record versus those who are just in the country illegally?
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: All of them because they illegally broke our nation's laws, and therefore they are criminals as far as this administration goes.
I know the last administration didn't see it that way. So, it's a big culture shift in our nation to view someone who breaks our immigration laws as a criminal. But that's exactly what they are.
(CROSSTALK)
If they broke our nation's laws, yes, they are criminal.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Meanwhile, President Trump's deportation crackdown is a stunning success. Border agents report shockingly low migrant encounters with the rivals at the southern border dropping over 60 percent since 47 took office last week.
But the liberal media hates to see any Trump effort as a success, especially if it's supported by most Americans.
So, of course, they're reverting to their tired old playbook of calling your opponent a Nazi.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOY REID, MSNBC HOST: If that sounds vaguely familiar, that's because it is. Similarities to what happened in Germany.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: When you start having Gestapo raids in America.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The fear and the panic and the division is, I think, something that we should all be concerned about.
ARI MELBER, MSNBC HOST: Donald Trump wants a lot of photos because he's not sure he could even hit those Biden highs.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: There are going to be people who see the images of mothers and children who actually will not be affected by it. And that is the piece that concerns me.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Jessica, how do you think today's deportation raids went?
JESSICA TARLOV, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: Well, I don't know it in full, I know that they got a couple of really bad guys. I think that getting one of them who was part of the aurora apartment complex attacks sends a very good message to say we are tracking you across the country. This is not isolated, like we're not paying attention to you in a silo. We know where you are and we're coming for you.
Obviously, Trump and co know the value of a good T.V. moment. It feels more impactful to see the homeland as -- Homeland Security secretary, sorry, in the outfit out there. Tom Homan was in Chicago yesterday. I think that also sends a really strong message. And I have nothing to quibble with these arrests, I think that the points about population of people here who may be undocumented but have not committed other crimes before -- besides crossing the border being scared, the reports of people hiding in attics, this move potentially that they could be showing up at schools, at churches, at libraries, etcetera, is certainly infusing a level of tenseness into the population.
But this guy should be sent home immediately. Nothing wrong with it.
WATTERS: Yes, the only resistance people are upset, Judge, is because people can now go into schools and have the bad guys. American police, they can go into a school of some 17-year-old that has a warrant, why can't ICE?
JEANINE PIRRO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL LEGAL ANALYST: Well, ICE can definitely go into school. ICE can go wherever they need to be on an exigent basis, and the president has determined that this is going to be an expedited removal process, which means they don't even have to go through an immigration judge right now. There are over a million -- almost a million and a half, already with deportation orders where there is no requirement that they go to court, that doesn't even include the number of criminals. So, let's get ready the to see this continuously.
I have a couple of thoughts. First of all, number one, it is so refreshing to see Kristi Noem on the ground, Tom Homan on the ground. And it just is a reminder of how absent Mayorkas was and how absent Biden was for the last four years. That's my first point.
My second point is within a week, border crossings are down, down 95 percent, you can see the difference. The numbers are incredible before they even get these people out. The message is out there, do not cross the American border unless you want to be hustled back to wherever he came from.
My third point, calling Trump Hitler, how dare you. How dare you refer to all of this as Gestapo-like raids. These are individuals, one with a double homicide that we know of, pedophiles, burglars, rapists, red notices on Interpol, which means the highest level of criminal. And they're worried about them and not about the Americans who are subject to their victimization?
And Gestapo is someone who hurt the Jews like cattle to extermination camps to their certain death. And you want to refer to this as that? It is not that at all.
And finally, we are going to get to the point where, you know, people are going to say, oh, they're hiding. They're worried. Yes, they are hiding. They will be worried.
And you know, Selena Gomez can keep crying and Joy Reid can keep calling people's names, but the bottom line is, they're not here legally. We had a guy who was literally did the same as a foreign saboteur, as I've said in the past, that's Joe Biden, who let them all in and did nothing about it. And don't tell me that he eliminated more than Trump's eliminated, because, on the one hand, even if he deported somebody, let in 10 times more with his left hand.
WATTERS: Barack Obama deported millions. They never called him a Nazi.
SANDRA SMITH, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Yes, fair enough. You know, when we were just -- when you're talking there, Judge, and so eloquently make your point, we were showing video of these raids and these bad guys that they're taking off the street.
And for a second there, Jessica, I thought you were about to say, even if they're just taking one of these guys off the streets is a good thing. I don't know how you ended up finishing that sentence, but that is the case. And now you're talking about thousands of them.
And Judge just made the point. I mean, these are -- these are guys with bad, bad track records, right? Bad criminal records, kidnapping, assault, burglary charges. Some of these guys, like this guy, these are known criminals that they're finally going in and getting them out and off the street.
I spoke to a New York City Council member today, Vickie Paladino. She was on my set. Yes, you know Vickie.
PIRRO: I know Vickie.
SMITH: So much energy. She came on the -- she came on the set today, and she said, I'll make my point, Greg, just a second. I mean, she came on and she said people are celebrating the streets, Democrats, Republicans. She said people were sick of thinking that this was the new normal in New York City, that we had to be scared to walk down the street, that we just had to accept that people could break the laws, live here, be criminals and walk freely in the streets of New York City. She said people are super jazzed about it in what is happening.
I'll finish with this thought. We had Tom Homan on the show yesterday. You know, he said, we're following through on the job that this president was elected to do. This is what voters wanted, OK, overwhelmingly, this is what they voted for.
All the way through the election seasons, this was the top issue for American voters. They're carrying through and following through on these promises like they started out obviously out west. They got some of these gang members. They hit Chicago. They're in New York. This is what they promised to do, and this is what people say they want. Look at New York Times polling on this issue. Look at Fox News polling. People overwhelmingly support getting these criminals off the street and getting them out of the country if they're here illegally.
WATTERS: But the media doesn't, Greg. They're in this weird position now where they're for keeping criminal aliens in the country.
GUTFELD: I for one am concerned about these known criminals being in our libraries. I'm not worried about that. America loves what's going on, and this raises the question for the remaining Democrats, how do you react? You react in the context of the last 10 or 15 years when your party was paralyzed in thought and word, or do you grow a pair? Or do you grow up and react accordingly to the situation that is happening right now? The past is dead. That is what logic and reason would tell you to do if you keep calling people Hitler.
By the way, you need a new line because this is getting old. Or if you call people racist, your party is going to die because America is tired of that. You can pick any issue, and you will find this pattern. Somebody tries to solve a problem. And then there's this mundane hysteria. The hysteria doesn't rate, the Democrats right now in my opinion are hopeless because they were so used to forgoing their own beliefs for the bat signal. The bat signal would come and tell you what to believe. You know that Biden was mentally fit, even though you knew he wasn't, that men could be in girl's locker rooms, even though you know that screwy and that illegals are victims, and you know that's not the case.
The bat signal has now gone dark because the threat of cancelation for expressing common sense is gone. So, now, the Democratic Party is orphaned. You can't even grow the ideas you have because you only have one idea, and everybody hates it.
Dems, in the old days, would rather go along to get along. They were worried about how they would be perceived in social media. Now that their marching orders are gone, what do they do? They can't say what they think because they haven't been trained to do that. They've been instructed to parrot the same directive, and they're kind of lost.
I said this to -- I said, this is Jessica in the green room. You have -- you guys have no visionary. You have nobody there to lead the way.
And so, all of these people you suckered into wokeism is now at a loss. So, when something this -- what you're seeing every day in this immigration rates are solutions to a huge problem that America is behind, and the Democrats are like, racist.
But the biggest sin, I think a lot of Democrats believe the cost to their personal and professional status was too great to side with common sense. They were like the, you know, the green grocers in Eastern Europe that would put up a sign that says, you know, workers of the world unite, even though they hated communism.
But they put that up there because not only did they not want to take the risk, they didn't want to share the risk either. I'm really curious, like, what is next for a party when you're seeing all these practical solutions happening and all you could do is shout, Hitler, that's all you got. It's pathetic, but you're going to die if you keep doing it, because no one's buying it. That's my advice, Jessica.
TARLOV: First time ever that you told the truth about what you said to me in the green room. I was like, wait, this is a weird sensation, that actually happened.
WATTERS: But then he ruined it because he wore the same shirt as Sandra.
(CROSSTALK)
GUTFELD: I think a leprechaun threw up on the Judge, and I think we should get somebody over there right away.
WATTERS: I'll wipe that out. Coming up, Democrats are losing it over Trump rooting out government waste, like putting a pause on condoms in Gaza.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
PIRRO: Breaking in details as President Trump takes a blow torch to our bloated federal government, a U.S. judge temporarily pausing the Trump administration's freeze of federal grants loans and other financial assistance programs. The freeze aim to root out all the DEI and the Green New Deal nonsense that undermines our national interests.
But Democrats like Chuck Schumer want to play politics and accusing the Trump administration of starving people in order to pad their pocket.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): It's a dagger at the heart of the average American family in red states and blue states, disaster assistance, local law enforcement, rural hospitals, aid to the elderly, food for people in need. All are on the chopping block in this new administration. Why? They need tax cuts for the ultra-wealthy? This decision is lawless, dangerous, destructive, cruel.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PIRRO: New White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt wasting no time to debunk the Democrat and media hysteria over the order.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
LEAVITT: This is not a blanket pause. It means no more funding for illegal DEI programs. It means no more funding for the green new scam that has cost American taxpayers tens of billions of dollars. It means no more funding for transgenderism and wokeness across our federal bureaucracy and agencies.
DOGE and OMB also found that there was about to be 50 million taxpayer dollars that went out the door to fund condoms in Gaza, that is a preposterous waste of taxpayer money. The past four years, we've seen the Biden administration spend money like drunken sailors.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PIRRO: Wow, all right, 50 million on condoms in Gaza. OK, look, the pause is not across the board. It's to eliminate programs that the president promised he would eliminate that he was elected on, and that is DEI programs, and it's causing money only from 5:00 today until February 10th, so that they can take a look and decide what they're going to do.
SMITH: So, we now know, Judge, that this is obviously brand new information. The judge blocking this. U.S. District Judge Loren AliKhan was a -- is a Biden-appointed judge. OK, I had to read through this AP article to get the update. I had to read through Trump plunged the U.S. government into panic and confusion on Tuesday, there wasn't a lot of confusion, if you read -- really read through the details of this, and Karoline Leavitt did a great job articulating this. This didn't involve or affect individual federal assistance from the government, didn't affect the food stamps program and all those type of things.
Obviously, people need more information so that-- but the media seems to be fear mongering a little bit here. Anyway, there's this is -- the judge is getting in the way of this.
You know what this entire thing told me was that, again, that this is an administration following through on its promises, and that they understand that we've got to -- we've got to cut back, and we've got to start somewhere, and they've got to get aggressive, because you can't just do this bit by bit in small batches.
I think this is going to be -- this is -- this still be a major roadblock for them, but I don't think they're going to -- they're not going to quit, they're not going to tire, and they're going.
But this is a strong message that they sent, starting this out in week two of the administration.
PIRRO: And you know, Jesse, there was a judge who put a freeze on it, and then a judge paused the freeze. So, but this is a funding phase that they're looking at that does not involve money that goes to individuals, as Karoline Leavitt made very clear, it's not Social Security, it's not Medicare, it's not money to snap, it's not money that goes to individuals. It's like for the Green New Deal programs and for foreign aid.
WATTERS: So, you're saying the media and the Democrats overreacted?
PIRRO: Yes, I think -- I think Chuck Schumer is a little over the top today.
WATTERS: So, every money, everybody's getting the money. This is like, if I took over as CEO of Fox, I wouldn't change programming. You could still see "GUTFELD!" at 10:00. See THE FIVE at 5:00.
But I would make sure some things changed that aligned with my priority.
GUTFELD: Like what? What would you get rid of, Jesse? Go for it.
WATTERS: Perhaps some pilots on Fox Nation might be shelved, temporarily.
GUTFELD: Interesting.
WATTERS: Perhaps the D.C. car service was paused until we found out who was taking cars to West Virginia and maybe the Fox Weather people might not be getting that new studio until we could get costs down.
TARLOV: Do you know that this is tactless like what we're doing right now? We're on T.V.
WATTERS: It's an analogy, you get it. They're still going to be able to watch programming.
GUTFELD: Do you think "FOX & FRIENDS" is too long?
WATTERS: It's going to two hours now. This is what they're doing. They're all freaking out, but you're still going to be able going to be able to watch the news, Jessica. And can you believe, Judge, 50 million for condoms in Gaza.
PIRRO: Sounds reasonable to me.
WATTERS: I ran the numbers --
PIRRO: By the way, who's in Gaza?
WATTERS: There's less people (INAUDIBLE).
TARLOV: The largest concentration of childhood amputees in the world are in Gaza.
PIRRO: Thanks.
WATTERS: That means -- that means a thousand condoms per man.
PIRRO: Yes, thousand condoms.
WATTERS: Are they worried about safe sex? Because you know what they're doing with the condoms, they're making condom bombs. That's right, Hamas floats these things up with bomb-making materials, and then kaboom, booby- trapped condom. Look it up. It's a dual use technology. Thank God they got rid of that.
PIRRO: I don't even know what to say. Jessica, would you like to respond to that?
TARLOV: Absolutely not. I will not respond to that. Sandra, you said there's no confusion. There's widespread confusion in all 50 states across the country.
I mean, Karoline Leavitt have us believe that it's just a wild coincidence that they initiated across-the-board freeze and the Medicaid portals have gone down everywhere. Do you know what that's like to go to log in to access the system?
(CROSSTALK)
TARLOV: I don't think actually there are a backup. She also did --
PIRRO: Kathleen Sebelius (ph), remember her?
TARLOV: Yes, I do, but she -- the Obama administration didn't initiate an across-the-board freeze, and by the way, she also didn't know how to answer whether 72 million Americans still had their health care. She said, oh, ask the unconfirmed head of OMB.
What's going on is that President Trump doesn't like sharing power with anyone else. He thinks that Congress is irrelevant, and he wants to run all over us. He doesn't believe in the separation of powers. He doesn't care that Congress appropriates money and that that actually is meaningful. These are three co equal branches.
So, we already talked about Medicaid. What about the Head Start pop ups that people are getting when they're trying to access funds? You think that doesn't affect individuals, low-income families that have their kids in school? You've got school lunches getting caught.
And then Congressman Rick or Rich McCormick, who was on with Pam Brown, embarrassing himself, saying, Oh no, school lunches, no big deal. These kids should go out and get a job. Stop mooching off the government. Do you know who gets school lunches?
PIRRO: Nobody agrees with that.
WATTERS: Did anybody missed lunch today?
TARLOV: Well, I actually didn't get a lot to eat. OK, opioid prevention funding, suicide prevention funding, HIV AIDS treatment, they're just throwing crap at the wall and seeing what sticks. You guys didn't say anything on the DEI front at DOD. Did you see when they for a few hours, took down the promotional video about the Tuskegee?
GUTFELD: I can't believe you're bringing that up.
TARLOV: I am bringing it up, because when people pay no attention to the details.
GUTFELD: That was on purpose.
TARLOV: Really?
GUTFELD: Yes, you know it. That's why it was totally reversed. You're better than that, Jessica.
TARLOV: And what about firing 18 inspectors general, so now you have Dick Durbin and Chuck Grassley.
PIRRO: I think that's a great idea.
TARLOV: Well, guess what, it's illegal. They didn't give the 30 days.
PIRRO: How about indicting President Trump on non-bond.
(CROSSTALK)
TARLOV: Judge, you are a Lady of the Law, Congress gets 30 days to evaluate. This is about Trump is executing a power grab. He is waiting for people to smack him on the wrist and tell him to stop.
GUTFELD: This goes back to what I said before, you had somebody like Hegseth, these make it some very practical solutions. And you go, ah, Tuskegee. No, that was a -- that was designed to do that, and they caught it. And that's when you -- with the lack of ideas, that's all you could do. You brought up three co equal branches, and I'm glad you did.
PIRRO: Me too.
GUTFELD: I believe that they are the executive, the legislative and the judicial, Jesse. But that's not what this is about. This is about three other branches, the legislative, the administrative and the regulatory.
You know, we do make laws in the legislative branch, but almost all of the thousands and thousands of rules that we are pummeled with are regulations, laws that are never voted on. Instead are created on behalf of the administrative arm, a bloating tumor of rent seeking survivalists who are only interested in feathering their nest.
So, when you hear the outrage, you are hearing the monster in fear, crying that they maybe -- they may lose five percent, oh my god, they might get two percent off.
Look, the people freaking out about the freeze. They didn't spend one moment freaking about the thing that is going to destroy us, debt, trillions and trillions and trillions. That's the cliff we're heading out. We're not spending like a drunken sailor. We're spending like the whole damn destroyer.
TARLOV: How much did Trump add to the debt?
GUTFELD: I don't know how much.
TARLOV: I think, like eight trillion. Were you mad then?
GUTFELD: Yes. Why do you do that? Why do you do that?
WATTERS: Why do you do that? Why are you the way you are?
PIRRO: Up next, John Fetterman shocks the lefty ladies of "The View" by telling them the unthinkable, President Trump's actually not such a bad guy.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
SMITH: Could John Fetterman be the savior Democrats have been looking for? While most of his party vows to fight President Trump every step of the way, the maverick Democrats senator from Pennsylvania is taking a different path, meeting with 47 down at Mar-a-Lago, and shocking the ladies of The View after telling them that President Trump isn't such a bad guy.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. JOHN FETTERMAN (D-PA): I think overall it was a positive experience. I mean, he was -- he was kind, he was cordial. It wasn't in any kind of theater. It wasn't trying to get your picture taken to kind of put something out on social media. It was just really a conversation.
I'm in the business of finding wins for Pennsylvania and for the nation, and engaging the President I think I see that as doing my job.
ANA NAVARRO, POLITICAL STRATEGIST AND COMMENTATOR: I understand the need for bipartisanship. I didn't love the optics of you going to Mar-a-Lago.
FETTERMAN: I think it's pretty reasonable to have a conversation.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
SMITH: I mean, and Trump has called him a common sense person. I mean, it's refreshing, Greg.
GUTFELD: It really is. You know, do stroke victims lose the sense of smell? I hope for his case being at The View. But I do -- it is amazing. Here -- I mean, think about this. You have a stroke victim teaching talk show hosts how to communicate. It kind of should be the reverse except The View's ability to engage normal human beings has gone out the window. They lost it a long time ago. They can't even engage with a guy who's just saying, hey, maybe we should engage.
I think the Dems need to learn three words. I don't care. Or two words. So what? Or one word. So? So when Ana Navarro or anybody like that says something like, you know, I don't like the optics of you going to Mar-a- Lago. And you just go, so? And then they go like, oh, geez. Because, you know, who gives a shit whether you don't like the optics of anything. This is -- I'm going back. This is the problem with the party.
You know, I don't love the optics of my colonoscopy, but I do it every two years.
PIRRO: Two?
GUTFELD: Yes.
TARLOV: Why?
GUTFELD: Yes. You should -- it's beautiful. It's the best colon you'd ever see, Judge. The Dems have to grow some cojones and say, you know what? We don't care if you don't like the optics. We're past that. We're now entering the present day world. I apologize for swearing but I don't mean it.
SMITH: And talking about your colon. So, on the show, Jesse, it was a remarkable moment when he said, I'm not interested in freaking out over Trump. But I am in the business of finding wins. Imagine that.
WATTERS: I think if you get a colonoscopy that much, you like it.
PIRRO: Oh, no. Stop it.
GUTFELD: And I do it with anesthesia.
WATTERS: It's not what I heard.
GUTFELD: At least that's her name.
PIRRO: Stop.
WATTERS: The Democrats are always saying, well, let's have a conversation. And then they never want to have a conversation. The guy that we didn't think was capable of having a conversation is actually doing it better than they are.
GUTFELD: Yes.
WATTERS: They, the Democrats won't talk to Putin -- they talk to Putin, Cuba -- what -- Hamas they talk to. They talk to the Taliban but you can't talk to the President of the United States. The last time we stop talking to each other as a nation, it was a civil war. Do the Democrats want to lose another civil war? I doubt it.
Trump -- and Greg brought this up earlier -- has split the Democratic Party. If you now have 35 percent of the party agreeing with Trump on trade, crime, foreign policy, the border -- and abortions kind of off the table. That means every election going forward, Democrats are just going to be running towards the right. What does that do to the Democratic Party? It weakens it and it makes the Republican Party the party of the people. So, until they figure out a better strategy, this is a party that is lost.
SMITH: You know, Jessica, maybe you could respond to that while also responding to Fetterman directly addressing the audience to everyone who is watching. He said, I hope maybe you who are watching are tired of the venom and the hate. And maybe you want bipartisan kind of things. Do you think more in your party can get behind that sentiment that Fetterman shared?
TARLOV: Absolutely. And there are a bunch of them like Tom Suozzi, Pat Ryan who are out there having this conversation. And anyone who want to --
SMITH: Are they in trouble with the media too?
TARLOV: I don't think so. And John Fetterman is not in trouble with the media. He's in trouble with a few huge, you know, left-leaning accounts.
GUTFELD: They're not that bad.
PIRRO: Stop.
GUTFELD: Geez, Jessica fat-shaming The View.
SMITH: Greg?
TARLOV: I still think everyone needs to continue apologizing for the crappy stuff you said about Fetterman when he was "vegetable."
GUTFELD: I already did.
WATTERS: I did.
TARLOV: Everybody, more people than just you.
SMITH: I didn't say anything bad.
TARLOV: You know, he was elected to represent the people in a state that also voted for Donald Trump. And I'm a firm believer -- you always take the meeting, you take the opportunity, you go, you talk about what you see at home. I mean, he also said in the interview, people have been starting rumors that, oh, he's going to become a Republican. I saw that there were people on the right saying rumor is there's a big defection next week.
He said, I'm not going to become a Republican. I would make a pretty terrible Republican, pro-choice, pro really strong immigration, pro-LGBTQ. I don't think I would be a good fit. You know, leave people alone to cope and to manage, especially when they're representing people who like the other guy in this election. And it doesn't mean, by the way, that they're going to like the Republicans in 2028.
Donald Trump is very much a singular figure. I don't know if J.D. Vance appeals in the same way that Donald Trump does or whoever is at top of the ticket when that comes around.
GUTFELD: He's no Tim Walz. That's for sure.
TARLOV: Sure. We're not running tomorrow.
SMITH: Judge, I mean, he even seemed to puzzle his -- the ladies there when he suggested that Trump's trial was politically motivated.
PIRRO: Oh, and they freaked out. I'm not sure which one. It was Sunny.
SMITH: It was Sunny.
PIRRO: You mean, the 34 crimes that he -- the financial crimes who he's convicted of. I bet she doesn't know what crimes they were because the verdict she didn't have the name of a crime on it, Sunny. But they're ready to go in there and say, yes, he's been convicted.
Look, they are so full of hate and anger and jealousy. It is disgusting, OK. And I'm tired of giving them any attention at all. The truth is that after four years and losing this election, they haven't learned a damn thing. And for them to give a United States Senator criticism for speaking to the Commander-in-Chief and trying to find common ground tells me that they're not interested in America. They're interested in their own political ideology, whatever that is and however crazy that may be.
And, you know, the optics of going to the palace at Mar-a-Lago, when was the last time Joe Biden invited anyone to dinner anywhere at the White House or at, you know, anyone of his homes, the several homes he had? That poor guy who worked for the government his whole life and had all these beachfront homes. I'm just sick of it.
And, you know, Kamala Harris was all about joy and unity. And they're like, you go Kamala. But they're not about joy and unity. They're about giving Liz Cheney and Adam Kinzinger, you know, medals of honor or whatever medals they gave him because they hated Trump. It's about hate. And I'm done with them.
SMITH: Greg, is your frequent visit has something to do with your mug change? I just noticed it's not a unicorn.
GUTFELD: You didn't ask to touch my --
PERINO: Up next, a new era in the briefing room, Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt takes on the media.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GUTFELD: Karoline Leavitt making her debut. The T is silent -- Trump's White House Press Secretary -- and warning reporters. She ain't no binder.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: We welcome independent journalists, podcasters, social media influencers, and content creators to apply for credentials to cover this White House. We know for a fact there have been lies that have been pushed by many legacy media outlets in this country about this president, about his family, and we will not accept that. We will call you out when we feel that your reporting is wrong or there is misinformation about this White House. So yes, I will hold myself to the truth and I expect everyone in this room to do the same.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: Sandra, in the green room, you were telling me that this girl did a terrible job.
SMITH: No, she did -- she did a fantastic job. We carried this live during "AMERICA REPORTS." And she came in there prepared. You can -- I don't think you can argue that. She took questions. She took questions from the front of the room. She took questions from the back of the room. She laid out a couple changes that could be interesting.
In fact, she said one of the seats that has historically been a seat for a White House staff member is now going to be a new media seat. She wants more representation from podcasts and social media influencers in all these other areas where people in modern days get their news so that it's not just the legacy media from whom she also took questions in that room. She did a great job. Great job.
GUTFELD: Yes, she's still not a, you know, lesbian woman of color but I'm OK with it, Jessica, because she has a diversity of opinion.
SMITH: She's a new mom.
GUTFELD: You and I probably would agree that you were listening to a person that had direct access to the President.
TARLOV: Yes.
GUTFELD: As opposed to KJP. Is that how you say it from the corps?
TARLOV: I don't --
SMITH: Karine Jean-Pierre, KJP.
GUTFELD: Yes.
TARLOV: If you're abbreviated.
GUTFELD: So, it's nice to see that. You can tell that she talks to the guy.
TARLOV: For better or for worse, this is a very outwardly transparent administration in that way. And yes, she definitely talked to him. I think it was important for her to not have notes for today to send the signal. Like, I'm going to do my homework, even though Kayleigh, who I think did a very good job in the first Trump Administration, did have a big binder, and I think she was effective that way.
I agree with you. I like the new media seat. She was, you know, a little scrappy with some of the reporters getting into it. One who was saying very specific things. He was asking that. She's like, I need some specifics. And he's like, I'm saying the specifics. But I think all in all that she would be thrilled with this as a first day.
SMITH: She's thorough.
GUTFELD: You know, Judge, it's interesting because her only competition is Trump. Like, she's got a president -- her boss is almost as accessible, if not more accessible than her.
PIRRO: And it's interesting. That's my point. That this transparent -- transformative press conference today was preceded by a non-stop daily serial pressers by the President since he put his left hand on the Bible. I mean, how many times a day have we seen President Trump? And there's no question that she and President Trump are close. They travel together. They're together. I mean, they have been together for years. I mean, she's very familiar with the family and with the president.
So, I'm thrilled. I'm thrilled with the idea of the podcasters and social media, the content creators. And I think that this administration is so far ahead of the other administration in terms of its forward-thinking and how it capitalizes on everything, whether it's, you know, the podcasters and social media and the legacy media, not being the only media allowed to come into these things.
And, you know, like even the President with the with the dump truck and McDonald's. I mean, they just see and they capitalize on everything and it's transparent. And I think she was -- she was young, competent, confident, very credible.
GUTFELD: Plucky.
PIRRO: And by the way, they're going to restore press passes to 440 journalists who had their passes revoked wrongly by the Biden Administration, including one guy in particular, Simon Ateba. And I don't think she was plucky at all. I thought she said, this is where I work.
GUTFELD: Plucky is a compliment, Judge.
PIRRO: Yes.
GUTFELD: I would like to move on to Jesse. Jesse, yet another female press secretary, which I love. I hate male secretaries.
WATTERS: I have one.
GUTFELD: Oh, I know.
WATTERS: His name is Johnny. And by the way, things are going. We can get Johnny credentialed for the briefing room.
GUTFELD: Yes.
WATTERS: This is a good thing.
GUTFELD: That's how low the bar has gone.
WATTERS: I wouldn't say that. It's expansive. We've expanded it. She's so young. I feel proud of her. That's how -- I feel proud of her. Everybody was impressed. It was a great debut. And she led off brilliantly with the drone story.
PIRRO: Yes.
WATTERS: Very smart tactically. And she said, yes, the drones were American government drones. We were doing research on drone technology. And Joe Biden lied to you.
PIRRO: Yes.
WATTERS: He lied to us. Why didn't he just tell us what the truth was about the drones? Why lie, Jessica? I'm talking to you, Jessica.
TARLOV: I'm intentionally not talking to you.
GUTFELD: The drone -- lied about the drones. OK, ahead, Google bends the knee to the Gulf of America.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
TARLOV: Welcome back. Google is going MAGA. They will update the Gulf of Mexico to Gulf of America on its maps for users in the United States. And the Denali Mountain in Alaska is back to Mount McKinley.
Sandra, you have been pressing refresh. We're not quite there yet on the map. It's quite a process.
SMITH: Well, why did you say it's changed? Kudlow just did this to me on his show. We all went on there and looked and it wasn't changed. I don't know. I guess they said they're still changing it. I don't know. I don't have strong feelings either way on this. I think -- I don't know. We can change street names. We can change gulfs. That's my thought.
TARLOV: Judge, do you feel strongly? Are you a --
PIRRO: Yes.
TARLOV: -- a McKinley girl?
PIRRO: Yes, I'm a McKinley gal. It's in the national interest to promote the heritage of our nation, OK. And Google will change when the U.S. updates based on the Trump border. Apparently, they haven't updated it yet.
TARLOV: Maybe when Medicaid gets updated, they'll go do it.
PIRRO: Yes.
TARLOV: Jesse, what you got?
PIRRO: It's Biden's website.
SMITH: It's fully operational right now, by the way.
WATTERS: Many Fox News personalities -- and I call them personalities on purpose -- lobbied President Trump during his first term for this and that. This term, I will be lobbying for a body of water named after me. It doesn't have to be an ocean. It doesn't even need to be a sea. I'll take a lake.
TARLOV: Watters Lake?
SMITH: Does it have to be wide?
WATTERS: Lake Watters. Lake Watters. And then we'll update. It'll be why "ONE MORE THING" once he names it.
TARLOV: Oh, that's big.
PIRRO: Oh, that's wonderful.
WATTERS: All right. I'll do a ribbon-cutting ceremony.
PIRRO: What do you think the chances of that happening?
WATTERS: High.
TARLOV: I mean, look what's going on. It's totally feasible.
WATTERS: We're renaming large bodies of water. What do you think? I can't get a lake, Judge?
PIRRO: Yes. No, I'm not sure.
TARLOV: Greg, what would you be lobbying for?
GUTFELD: I want revenge for all the statues, all those harmless statues. I think that Trump should rename all the cities that progressives destroyed. I'll start with San Francisco. Call it Cock Cock Cove.
WATTERS: Cock Cock Cove.
GUTFELD: Cock Cock Cove. Think about it. Los Angeles. You can call that Asheville at this point. That's on the Dems.
TARLOV: It would be really popular. Someone has to live in Robert E. Lee town.
GUTFELD: Not that way. The name would have to apply to what the progressives have done to the city.
PIRRO: Yes.
GUTFELD: So, like Portland would be Junkietown.
PIRRO: Yes.
TARLOV: Oh, I see. OK. "ONE MORE THING."
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: It's time now for "ONE MORE THING." Greg.
GUTFELD: Oh, we got a great show tonight. We got Emily Compagno. We got Jim Breuer, who's very funny -- Kat Timpf and Tyrus. That's tonight at 10:00. Let's do this new thing.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: Gus' Daily Diary.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: ALL right, because I'm at work, I got a professional dog walker and I get his diary every day. Let's read this one. With a shift in temperature, Gus was an enthusiastic walker who was very easily redirected. He didn't stop once all walk unless it was something to sniff or another dog. But even with another dog, he quickly shifted gears and continued walking. You know, I'm happy it's getting warmer and that he seems to enjoy it so much more.
SMITH: I love that.
TARLOV: That's so nice.
SMITH: That's not -- that's lovely.
GUTFELD: Thank you, Sandra.
WATTERS: Easily redirected, just like you.
TARLOV: That's normal walk (INAUDIBLE).
WATTERS: Go that way. He does wear a leash off-air.
GUTFELD: I do. I do. Me and Larry.
WATTERS: He loves it. All right, we got a bird bandit in Jersey. Police on the hunt for this crook who smash and grabbed the parrot from a local pet shop. It wasn't just any parrot. This thing was a seven-grand African Gray Parrot.
TARLOV: Wow.
WATTERS: It's the most illegally trafficked bird in the world, these African Gray Parrots. They live 40 to 60 years, very rare. Big black market pet trade though. If you have any information, call the cops.
Tonight, "JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME," Inside the Democrats' Shady Snitch Line," tonight at 8:00.
TARLOV: Great.
WATTERS: Judge.
PIRRO: All right, my new special, Karen Read: Killer or Convenient Outsider, just dropped on Fox Nation. Some say she's a cold-blooded killer. Others think that she's being framed by the police. She heads back to court for a retrial on her case. And I look into the conflicting theories, into the evidence, and the allegations, and the defense. And I got to tell you, you got to watch it now on Fox Nation. This is a doozy.
WATTERS: All right. Speaking of doozies, let's throw it over to Bret Baier at "SPECIAL REPORT." Hey, Bret!

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
