




Newsweek.com
January 30, 2025 Thursday 5:10 AM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 936 words
Byline: Ewan Palmer
Highlight: Democrats previously hit out at the president's federal hiring freeze for hindering the "number one safety issue" in aviation.
Body


Social-media users have said that President 's freeze on hiring federal employees included air traffic controllers in the wake of a passenger jet colliding with a military plane near Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport.
There is currently no indication that Trump's executive order played a role in the  carrying 60 passengers and four crew members.
Newsweek has contacted the White House and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for comment via email.
Why It Matters
Trump has faced several legal challenges following the sweeping executive orders he signed on his first day back as president. Many of his critics are pointing to the federal hiring freeze and the aircraft collision as a sign of the potential impacts the orders could have.
What To Know
Dozens of people are feared dead after a PSA Airlines Bombardier CRJ700 regional jet approaching Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport collided midair with a Sikorsky H-60 military helicopter, with both aircraft falling into the Potomac River.
American Airlines confirmed that American Eagle Flight 5342 was en route from Wichita, Kansas, to Washington D.C., when the collision occurred. The helicopter was on a training flight, an official told The Associated Press.
Precise details surrounding the cause of the crash remain unknown. Multiple , though the exact number is unclear as the rescue operation continues, The Associated Press reported, citing a person familiar with the situation.
In the aftermath of the collision, many Trump critics suggested that the president risked a security incident  an executive order on January 20 implementing a freeze on hiring federal civilian employees. This was an effort to downsize the federal government and remove diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) initiatives.
As , no federal civilian position that was vacant at noon on January 20 would be filled, and no new positions would be created unless required by law or under the president's orders. Trump's order does not apply to military personnel or positions related to immigration enforcement, national security, or public safety.
It is unclear whether the freeze prevents the FAA from hiring new air traffic controllers or if these roles fall under public safety professionals.
In a January 22 statement, Democratic Washington Representative Rick Larsen, the ranking member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and Democratic Tennessee Representative Steve Cohen, ranking member of the Subcommittee on Aviation, issued a joint statement condemning Trump for allegedly freezing the hiring of air traffic controllers and other safety-critical positions.
The  added that the hiring freeze violates the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2024, which mandates hiring the maximum number of air traffic controllers.
Democratic California Representative Norma Torres shared the joint statement following the collision on social media, adding: "Praying for the families and demanding answers."
Several social-media users have also accused Trump of enforcing a federal hiring freeze on air traffic controllers in the wake of the crash.
Trump said in a statement that he had been "fully briefed on the terrible accident" involving the two aircraft. In a further post on Truth Social, the president said the crash 
What People Are Saying
Film director Princella D. Smith posted on X, formerly Twitter: "This is why who you vote for matters. Just a week ago, Trump put a freeze on the hiring of air traffic controllers."
Washington Representative Rick Larsen said in a January 22 statement: "Hiring air traffic controllers is the number one safety issue according to the entire aviation industry. Instead of working to improve aviation safety and lower costs for hardworking American families, the administration is choosing to spread bogus DEI claims to justify this decision. I'm not surprised by the president's dangerous and divisive actions, but the administration must reverse course."
Tennessee Representative Steve Cohen, in a January 22 statement: "Our top priority must be the safety of the flying public, so an order freezing the hiring of air traffic controllers is a misguided decision and goes against the directives of our FAA Reauthorization bill. The aviation community will speak with one voice in condemning this shortsighted policy and reaffirm our commitment to hiring the critical personnel necessary for ensuring public safety."
Bonchie, an online pseudonym for a writer at the conservative news site RedState, replied to Torres: "Unbelievable. This is a U.S. congresswoman spreading a debunked conspiracy. There was no hiring freeze for ATC, and even if there had been, none of the controllers working the most senior airspace in the system would have been hired eight days ago."
President Donald Trump posted on Truth Social: "The airplane was on a perfect and routine line of approach to the airport. The helicopter was going straight at the airplane for an extended period of time. It is a CLEAR NIGHT, the lights on the plane were blazing. Why didn't the helicopter go up or down or turn? Why didn't the control tower tell the helicopter what to do instead of asking if they saw the plane? This is a bad situation that looks like it should have been prevented. NOT GOOD!!!"
What Happens Next
Authorities are continuing the large search-and-rescue operation in the Potomac River following the collision between the two aircraft near Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport.


Graphic

 
Donald Trump in the White House
Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images
President Donald Trump speaks to reporters after signing a series of executive orders in the Oval Office of the White House on January 23, 2025 in Washington, DC.

Load-Date: January 30, 2025


End of Document
