




The Northerner: Northern Kentucky University
January 30, 2025 Thursday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 604 words
Byline: Emory Davis
Body


Confusion was amplified after the Trump administration rescinded a memo freezing federal loans and grants. 
The memo, released by the Office Management and Budget on Monday, announced a plan  to freeze federally funded assistance programs. On Tuesday, a federal judge blocked it only minutes before it was set to take effect. Early Wednesday afternoon, the Trump administration withdrew the memo.
Memo that was rescinded by OMB.
The  OMB said it rescinded the memo to "end any confusion". But this by no means ends the administration's intention of uprooting federal assistance programs by executive order .
"The President's EO's on federal funding remain in full force and effect, and it will be rigorously implemented," said White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt.
A second federal judge cited a similar tweeted statement from Leavitt when indicating he is likely to issue a restraining order against the freeze, which has been requested in a lawsuit by 22 states.
The original memo had said more than 30% of federal spending last year came from financial assistance like grants and loans. This shapes out to around $3 trillion. 
That memo didn't provide much detail on which  programs would be impacted by the freeze but mentioned "financial assistance for foreign aid, nongovernmental organizations, DEI, woke gender ideology, and the green new deal." 
Leavitt on Wednesday said this will not affect federal programs like SNAP or Medicaid.
This is all coming after President Donald Trump offered federal workers a buyout in an attempt at government downsizing. The Trump administration is looking to scrape away federal spending to afford the flurry of executive orders he signed.
But how will this affect NKU?
At the moment, it isn't certain what programs are going to feel a disruption and we won't be able to say with certainty until Monday at the earliest. That's when the first federal judge who blocked the plan ordered a hearing on the matter.
Craig Holloman, director of the Office of Research, Grants & Contracts, sent out an email to faculty late Tuesday. 
"I would like to assure you that RGC is closely monitoring and adhering to any executive orders, guidance and memos issued by the White House and/or Federal agencies regarding the temporary pause on the processing of Federal grant payments for active projects across all Federal agencies." Holloman said.
This leaves researchers on campus with high levels of uncertainty. Dr. Michael Guy, director of the NKU Pre-Medical Pathways Program, receives funding from the NIH (National Institutes of Health) for his research in biochemistry.
"Things feel a bit up in the air right now for me because I don't know whether the one year grant I was promised to continue the work will be funded in May. I also don't know if the grant that I usually apply for that funds the lab for three to four years will even be available when I try to apply this summer."Guy said.
His research is centered around tRNA: Understanding how proteins in yeast transfer information in order to get a better understanding of how those proteins also function in humans.
NKU President Dr. Cady Short-Thompson sent an email after the initial memo was rescinded echoing Holloman's remarks.
"As changes arise that affect our campus, specific individuals, programs or activities, we will provide timely updates to the campus community and those directly impacted," she wrote.  "At NKU we remain committed to keeping our community informed about developments that may impact our students, faculty and staff. We wanted to share this important update with you and will continue to monitor any further changes."

Load-Date: January 30, 2025


End of Document
