




The Quad: West Chester University
February 3, 2025 Monday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: OP-ED; Pg. 1
Length: 828 words
Byline: Emily Rutz
Body


Image: Christina Keeffer with a protest sign that reads "Let Us Work!" via Los Angeles Department on Disability
DEI, which stands for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion, has long been perceived as a controversial buzzword and a stand-in for the discrimination against white, able-bodied men. But in reality, it's to make sure that people across all genders, religions, sexualities, nationalities and abilities get hired and are represented in the fields they are in, as diversity in companies is crucial to understanding the scope of the human experience. 
Donald Trump therefore began his second presidential term cracking down on these DEI policies via executive order, shutting down organizations in the executive branch and federal government, and has now issued a statement ending DEI hiring policies in the Federal Aviation Administration while specifically targeting disabled people:, "FACT SHEET: PRESIDENT DONALD J. TRUMP ENDS DEI MADNESS AND RESTORES EXCELLENCE AND SAFETY WITHIN THE FEDERAL AVIATION COMMISSION."
The 45th and 47th president of the U.S. has stated that President Joe Biden's hiring of a wide range of disabled people somehow caused disaster, and that  is "requiring that FAA hiring be based solely on ensuring the safety of passengers and overall job excellence." Trump then wrote that this reflects what he said during his inauguration: that American society will be non-discriminatory after achieving a merit-based and color-blind outlook. But how can a society be merit-based when it is color-blind? 
When people look at a disabled person, whether it be an autistic person like me and my friends, a person with a cane or a wheelchair or someone with Down syndrome, people automatically assume that they are less than and are not as worthy as everybody else. They brush us off and think that hiring a "normal person" is less worth the trouble because giving accommodations would simply be too much work. But maybe that autistic person has a special interest in writing that makes them great at journalism. Maybe that person with cerebral palsy created a new computer code that fixes a problem at the company for which they work. Maybe that person with Down syndrome needs accommodations but is also a great public speaker and a master of debate. 
Donald Trump, you assert that hiring disabled people brought the company to ruin. But truly, who is to blame? Maybe the FAA gave disabled people tasks they couldn't do without help, as many disabled people need extra help and should not be written off for it. Maybe these intellectually disabled and psychiatrically ill people Biden hired were not in positions suited for them. Maybe the disabled person did mess up, and I wouldn't be surprised, whether it be due to their disability or not. Everybody messes up at some point in the workforce. But why does one disabled person's mistake determine the value of the biggest marginalized group in the world, while if ten "normal," able-bodied people make a mistake, it's just a mistake? And why is there this wide assumption that having a disability equates to not being good at your job? 
"Americans deserve a government committed to serving every person with equal dignity and respect, and to expending precious taxpayer resources only on making America great," says our highly esteemed president. Yet, he cuts the initiatives that would get one of the most discriminated groups in the world a place in the world. In fact, disabled people are already severely underrepresented in the workforce. Only 37.1% are hired, which is "less than half the rate" compared to their nondisabled counterparts. And this likely contributes to social isolation, as 40% of disabled people report feeling lonely and isolated in their communities. As of 2022, it is reported that 26% of disabled people are living in poverty, compared to 11% of nondisabled people. There is much to critique about Joseph Biden, but his programs to get disabled people out of poverty and isolation are not one of them! 
Equal dignity and respect, he said. Yet, our society does not treat disabled people with dignity or respect, and now Trump plans to strip away the dignity of so many in the FAA. And this is going to set a precedent for other companies outside of a federal level to discriminate based on disability. In another executive order, he revoked a bedrock civil rights law, Executive Order 11246, which made it illegal to discriminate on the basis of sex, gender, religion, sexuality and national origin. The only group left of which he can make discrimination legal is not included in this order: disabled people. While it will be harder to fight this law, he can quickly reverse executive orders that help people with disabilities thrive in the workforce, and this stunt proved just that. 
What will happen next? Only time will tell. But one thing is for certain: disabled people need to be fought for more than ever.
Emily Rutz is a first-year English major. 

Load-Date: February 3, 2025


End of Document
