




Commonwealth Times: Virginia Commonwealth University
February 12, 2025 Wednesday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 541 words
Byline: Lauren Prattis
Body


Lauren Prattis, Audience Editor 
In the time that has passed since the election in November, the anger I once held has turned into numbness. I don't even know how I'm supposed to be feeling, especially in regards to what seems like a new executive order a day from the current presidential administration. One of the first executive orders that President Donald Trump unveiled was "to end government DEI programs and preferencing," according to the White House website.
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion programs were intended to promote the fair and equal treatment of all; one of the alleged foundations of this democracy. I'm finding myself having a hard time looking for "valid" reasons for government agencies to get rid of those amazing programs and an even harder time wrapping my head around the fact that more people aren't as outraged as I am. What is so scary about making sure that everyone, regardless of class, race, gender and everything in between, has a fair chance? 
The more time I spend thinking about it, the more I understand that the reversal of these "wasteful programs" is to maintain a power imbalance in this country. This administration is celebrating the fact the path to equity just got harder. 
They make it seem like getting rid of DEI, which they call "shameful discrimination,"  is an essential change to get the workforce back on the right path - one where straight white men remain in power and everyone else just has to accept it as the way things are. 
The claims that these rollbacks are in order to level the playing field are simply untrue - they're just digging a bigger hole on our side while piling more dirt onto theirs. It is going to be so much harder for me and others like me to dig ourselves out of this hole. All progress that was previously made is actively becoming unraveled. 
Needless to say, I am disappointed, but not surprised, that this is how the president is choosing to spend his first few weeks in office. Throughout Trump's 2024 presidential campaign, continuous promises to put an end to illegal DEI in the name of "protecting civil rights" were made. Ironically, the current administration is doing the opposite of protecting civil rights. It is so obvious that all of this was never about fair and equal treatment - it is about maintaining the "status quo." 
It is crazy to me that dismantling DEI was one of the first things on the presidential to-do list instead of addressing the prevalent issues that this country is facing. For example, the president promised to "make America affordable again," but my gas and grocery bills have remained the same. 
I am a Black woman in the second half of my college education. I am in the process of applying for summer internships and jobs and I have my heart set on a law degree. Waking up every day to check the news makes everything I have worked so hard for seem pointless at times. 
Right now, the future is so unclear, and I wonder if I'll ever actually be able to make a difference. I don't know what kind of world will be waiting for me when I walk across the stage with my diploma, and I have to admit that it is a scary feeling. 
However, I know that I need to turn these feelings and fears into fuel for the future. I refuse to let them win.

Load-Date: February 12, 2025


End of Document
