




The Daily Telegraph (London)
February 12, 2025 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Pg. 6
Length: 548 words
Byline: Benedict Smith
Body


DISNEY has scrapped its trigger warnings for children's cartoons such as Dumbo in a bonfire of diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) policies.
The entertainment giant is removing disclaimers on classics such as Peter Pan and The Jungle Book that warned viewers the films promoted racism and contained "harmful" stereotypes.
Disney announced it would abandon a series of DEI policies, in keeping with a broader movement among Fortune 500 companies. It marks a major shift by the firm, which has previously been criticised by Republicans and sued by shareholders for what they claimed was its "woke" agenda.
In the wake of the Black Lives Matter protests in 2020, the company announced that it would flag "negative depictions" in films on its Disney+ streaming platform, some of which are more than 80 years old. "These stereotypes were wrong then and are wrong now," the company wrote on a webpage, which has since been deleted but was widely reported at the time.
Peter Pan, released in 1953, included a trigger warning that its depiction of Native Americans "neither reflects the diversity of native peoples nor their authentic cultural traditions".
The Jungle Book (1968) was labelled with a racism warning amid criticisms that King Louie, the jazz-singing orangutan, was intended as a racist caricature of African Americans.
Viewers were also warned that the crows in Dumbo (1941) "ridiculed enslaved Africans on Southern plantations" while in The Aristocats (1970) the Siamese cat Shun Gon was "depicted as a racist caricature of East Asian peoples".
Disney will now run a shortened description in the "about" sections of old programmes which states: "This programme is presented as originally created and may contain stereotypes or negative depictions", sources told Axios.
Sonia Coleman, Disney's chief human resources officer, said yesterday that the company would scrap a series of DEI initiatives in a note to employees seen by the news outlet. Its "diversity and talent" metric has been replaced by a "talent strategy". Ms Coleman also said that the "Reimagine Tomorrow" initiative, which was used to highlight stories from under-represented communities, was abolished in December.
Bob Iger, Disney's chief executive, has sought to tone down its political image since returning to the company in 2022 after a two-year absence. In 2023, he told shareholders that he wanted the company to be "entertainment-driven" instead of "agenda-driven".
Nevertheless, the following year Disney was sued by the conservative organisation America First Legal, which employed allies of Donald Trump, which claimed that the entertainment giant had hurt its bottom line by pushing "anti-white" and "woke" content.
In 2022, Disney found itself drawn into a war with Ron DeSantis, the Florida governor, when it declared its opposition to his "Don't Say Gay" bill banning lessons on sexual orientation.
In response, the Republican revoked the Disney's self-governing powers at the Walt Disney World theme park in Orlando, which exempted it from state rules and gave it a special tax status. The company subsequently sued Mr DeSantis, claiming it was being punished for airing its opposition to his policies. It settled the case in March last year.
Disney has been independently approached for comment by The Telegraph.

Load-Date: February 12, 2025


End of Document
