




telegraph.co.uk
February 18, 2025 Tuesday 8:15 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: TV; Version:2
Length: 1667 words
Byline: By Liam Kelly
Highlight: Prompted by Trump’s anti-DEI stance, Disney has toned down the ‘content guidance’ on older films. Is this the end of the trigger warning?
Body


It’s an understatement to suggest that Donald Trump has had a large impact on the world since returning to the American presidency.  , the people in Gaza and the two million US Government civil servants encouraged to resign can attest to that.
The Trump effect is also making itself .  In the latest apparent sop to the new reality in Washington, Disney has jettisoned a raft of diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) policies but – in a move more visible to its viewers – is also   in the wake of the Black Lives Matter protests of 2020.
People watching classic films such as Dumbo (1941), Peter Pan (1953) and The Jungle Book (1968) on the  + streaming platform have for years been confronted with a warning before they start that they include “negative depictions and/or mistreatment of peoples or cultures”. For instance, Peter Pan included a trigger warning that its depiction of Native Americans “neither reflects the diversity of Native peoples nor their authentic cultural traditions”, while viewers were warned that the crows in Dumbo “ridiculed enslaved Africans on Southern plantations”.
Yet now, though – cometh The Donald, goeth the trigger warnings. Instead, such films will include a blander notice (“This program is presented as originally created and may contain stereotypes or negative depictions”) in the details section on the streaming service, and not played automatically to all viewers, according to the American news website Axios.
Disney has found itself at daggers-drawn over culture war issues with Republican politicians in the US for years, starting with its opposition to Florida governor Ron DeSantis’s “Don’t Say Gay” bill, which would have banned discussion of sexual orientation and gender identity topics from the state’s classrooms. Disney got into a tit-for-tat battle with DeSantis, which culminated with him revoking the media giant’s ability to self-govern a district around Walt Disney World in Orlando. This spate was widely seen as being partly responsible for the return of Bob Iger as Disney chief executive in 2022 less than a year after retiring. He later said that the company’s “primary mission needs to be to entertain” and it should not be “agenda-driven”.
From plays to books and films, trigger warnings have been one of the most controversial cultural debates in recent years. To their supporters, they let audiences make an informed decision about whether they want to engage with something that could be traumatising; to their detractors, they infantilise and are a reductive way of thinking about complex dramas. Those who have opposed them in recent years include Ian McKellen (he said he liked being surprised by “outrageous behaviour on stage”), Ralph Fiennes (who said audiences should be prepared to be “shocked and disturbed”) and Matt Smith (“I worry everything’s being dialed and dumbed down. We’re telling audiences they’re going to be scared before they’ve watched something”).
It has also seemed, in recent times, that producers have been vying to create the maddest trigger warnings possible. Wicked, the blockbuster starring Cynthia Erivo and Ariana Grande, was   that it contained discrimination against a “green-skinned woman” and the persecution of “talking animals”; author Joanne Harris is writing her own trigger warnings to retrospectively add to her novels; and the Royal Shakespeare Company was criticised for telling audiences that The Merry Wives of Windsor featured the bodyshaming of the notoriously fat Sir John Falstaff.
So, will the apparent sea-change in America make waves on this side of the Atlantic? Michael Simkins, currently on stage as the Duke of York in the new Bridge Theatre production of Richard II, tells me that “the pendulum has swung too far”, with trigger warnings being extended even to pantomimes.
“I’m hoping that it’s reached its end now, perhaps there’s a slightly greater balance being struck,” Simkins says. “Most actors are kind and understanding, but we do have this idea of, ‘Look if you don’t want to be surprised by anything, please don’t come to see the play because that’s the whole nature of the beast.’”
He adds: “It’s very much a legacy of the whole woke thing – now everybody is warned about everything. As I’m sure Disney has found, it can come to the point where, actually, it can be counterproductive because anybody with the slightest sort of hang-ups read the thing and they think, ‘Well, I’d better not go there.’ The theatre is a place of danger and excitement and for new stories to be told. If you want to see a Shakespeare play and you’re worried about seeing somebody murdered, well, apart from A Midsummer Night’s Dream, there’s not a lot left.
Richard II is a particularly bloody play, even by Shakespeare’s standards, marked by the titular king’s tyranny over his people, the momentous struggle between cousins and, eventually, regicide. “We all have to take personal responsibility for what we do, and if you’re going to be in the theatre in the first place, there has to be some expectation that you’re going to be taken down roads which are challenging and exciting and dramatic,” Simkins says. “It’s not supposed to be tea at Fortnum & Mason, is it? It’s supposed to be a dramatic exercise.”
It is unclear whether trigger warnings actually work. There have been few robust studies on them, with anecdotes largely prized over data. One scientific study, led by the Australian researcher Victoria Bridgland in 2023, found that they did not stop people from viewing whichever content had been labelled as potentially triggering (in fact, they were more likely to engage with it) and they did not feel distressed when they saw it. Participants did, however, feel anxiety after seeing the trigger warnings themselves, perhaps because they were told that they may feel distressed. Stefan Rennick-Egglestone, principal research fellow at the Nottingham Institute of Mental Health, has long studied trigger warnings and says that, in the arts, they have a dual purpose. The first is to actually alert audiences that something may distress them. But they may have another motivation, too, he notes: “they were [also] being used to show the values of the organisation.” And when it comes to Disney, “those values have changed”.
The history of trigger warnings in the arts is a long one, dating back more than a century and the foundation of the British Board of Film Censors (now the  ) in 1912. The film trade set it up in order to self-regulate, rather than be censored by the state. There were, at first, just two certificates (Universal, meaning anyone could watch, and Adult, which advised it was more suitable for grown-ups). An X certificate, meaning only those aged 16 or over could be admitted to the cinema, was added in the early 1950s; the age-based classification system as we now know it came into being in the 1980s.
The birth of the internet made trigger warnings more widespread, with the first on feminist message boards where women discussed issues such as sexual assault or eating disorders. But the debate over their use became much more prominent, and heated, during the coronavirus five years ago.
“When I was working at the Bristol Old Vic and we were emerging from the pandemic, what we found was that the whole of society was kind of quite sensitised,” says Tom Morris, the theatre’s former artistic director. “I think that for many, many people, the experiences of illness, bereavement and lockdown, combined to put people in a very unsettled and in some ways, vulnerable frame of mind.”
Morris, who is directing the National Theatre’s touring production of Michael Morpurgo’s War Horse, tells me that in Bristol “we thought very hard and spoke to our audiences about how to let people know in the right level of detail what those what the content was in the in the plays they were coming to see”. Rather than holier-than-thou directors imposing their views on audiences, Morris says that the way trigger warnings are applied is a “sophisticated and subtle and overwhelmingly a productive and rather beautiful process: a real dialogue”.
A “fundamentalist approach” is not useful, he adds. “Some audiences want to be aware if there’s content in the work that they’re watching which might upset them or their guests, and at the same time, any work of art is likely to be taking its audiences into areas of human experience that are extreme and unpleasant.”
He argues that, just because the second coming of Trump has seemingly prompted a rethink of trigger warnings in the US, it does not mean that there will be an immediate change in Britain. “I think it’s really important that we don’t just go, ‘Oh, look what is being said in the States. Therefore, we have to stop thinking about these questions.’ I think it’s very, very important that we keep thinking about what is special and what is unique about our society, and having the conversations that our society will welcome and benefit from and engage with the people.”
He continues: “That’s one of the things that theatre does, brilliantly and uniquely. It has a live relationship with its audience. This isn’t the moment for copycat arts policy.”
The vibes have clearly not shifted on this side of the Atlantic just yet. At the same time as it was revealed that Disney is reducing the prominence of its trigger warnings, it emerged that Channel 4 has slapped them onto a 27-year-old episode of the sitcom Father Ted on its streaming service
Are You Right There Father Ted?, the classic episode in which the eponymous priest gets himself into trouble for doing a dodgy impersonation of a Chinese person, carries a new warning. “This episode was made in 1998 and contains language and racial impersonation which some viewers may find offensive.”
The Trump effect has been wide-ranging, but appears not to have reached Craggy Island – yet.

Load-Date: February 18, 2025


End of Document
