




MailOnline
February 12, 2025 Wednesday 10:34 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:2
Length: 481 words
Byline: Ryan Hooper
Body


Disney is ditching its severe woke warnings on family favourites such as Dumbo and Peter Pan.
The American entertainment giant becomes the latest to quietly tweak disclaimers on its decades-old films featuring themes of racism or relying on ethnic stereotypes in the wake of US President Donald Trump's return to the White House.
Tech behemoths Google and Meta, which owns Instagram and Facebook, and retail powerhouse Amazon have all relaxed elements of their own diversity schemes in recent weeks after President Trump signed an executive order ending 'radical and wasteful' state DEI programs as a signal of his stance on culture wars.
Disney is reported to be watering down its current disclaimers about 'negative depictions and/or mistreatment of people or cultures' in favour of the milder warnings on some of its films.
Those currently carrying autoplay warnings include the Jungle Book, a 1967 adaptation of Rudyard Kipling's novel criticised for its depiction of the ape King Louie, Dumbo, the 1941 picture which references to racist segregationist laws in the deep south and uses affected African-American voices, and 1953's Peter Pan, which featured contentious depictions of Native American Indians.
But they will soon be accompanied by shortened descriptions stating simply 'This programme is presented as originally created and may contain stereotypes or negative depictions,' it was reported.
It came as one of the creators of beloved 1990s sitcom Father Ted described Channel 4 as 'morons' over the decision to slap a trigger warning on an episode it deemed to be racist. 
Graham Linehan, who helped create the award-winning series starring Dermot Morgan and Ardal O'Hanlon, hit out at the decision to include a warning that one particular episode 'was made in 1998 and contains language and racial impersonation which some viewers may find offensive'.
The series three opener, Are You Right There Father Ted, features the title character performing impersonations of Asian people while he is later pictured at a dirty window gesturing - giving the false impression he is a Nazi.
The episode deals with his attempts to convince the local community he is not racist by hitting out at all forms of bigotry.
Another episode, from 1995, features a lookalike talent show in which three white members of the cast impersonate Diana Ross and the Supremes.
A disclaimer again states that the episode was made many years ago and 'contains a scene of black face, which some viewers may find offensive'.
Both warnings have been in place for years.
But the debate around audience sensitivity has thrust the Father Ted advisories into the spotlight again.
Mr Linehan, who is noted for his outspoken views on so-called culture wars, wrote on social media yesterday: 'And just like that, Channel 4 has made an anti-racist episode racist. Morons.'
Channel 4 and Disney have been approached for comment.

Load-Date: February 13, 2025


End of Document
