




The Independent (United Kingdom)
February 10, 2025 Monday 6:15 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Independent Print Ltd  All Rights Reserved


Section: WALT DISNEY COMPANY NEWS, Movie business news & MEDIA CONGLOMERATES NEWS
Length: 448 words
Byline: Mike Bedigan
Body


Disney appears to be rethinking some of i after subtly dropping one of its initiatives from a recent company investor report.
In an  report filed in November of last year, the Walt Disney Company did not , which aims, among other things, to amplify " underrepresented voices and untold stories."
Disney shortened its DEI section i, including just three initiatives and programs; an "executive incubator program," an initiative aimed at U.S. military veterans, and employee-led groups.
"Our DEI objectives are to build and sustain teams that reflect the life experiences of our audiences, while employing and supporting a diverse array of voices in our creative and production teams," the filing stated.

Fox Business reported that Reimagine Tomorrow was previously touted in Disney's 2023 SEC reports.
The change comes as  continues to wage war on DEI programs, including the signing of an executive order to end such initiatives in the federal government. Some companies, including Meta, have publicly announced an end to their own programs.
Disney came under fire from  boss and head of the newly created Department of Government Efficiency, , who accused the company of "mandatory, institutionalized racism and sexism" that was enforced by the "DEI Gestapo."

"No wonder most of their content produced over the past several years has sucked. Just trying to navigate the DEI minefield is going to crush the creative process!" Musk wrote on X.
Reimagine Tomorrow's website, which was still online as of Monday 10 February, describes it as "our way of amplifying underrepresented voices and untold stories as well as championing the importance of accurate representation in media and entertainment. 
"Because we are all greater than a single story and we all deserve to feel. seen, heard and understood." 
The program previously drew criticism in 2022 after hosting an "all-hands" meeting in which a Disney executive touted her "not at all secret gay agenda."

"In my little pocket of Proud Family Disney TVA, the showrunners were super welcoming... our leadership over there has been super welcoming to my not-at-all-secret gay agenda... they're going hard," executive producer for Disney Television Animation Latoya Raveneau said, in a leaked recording of the meeting.
"I don't have to be afraid to have these two characters kiss in the background. I was just, wherever I could, adding queerness."
The Independent has reached out to the Walt Disney Company for comment about the apparent dropping of the Reimagine Tomorrow program.

Load-Date: February 11, 2025


End of Document
