




telegraph.co.uk
February 18, 2025 Tuesday 7:00 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: MONEY; Version:3
Length: 683 words
Byline: By Tom Haynes, Money Reporter
Highlight: Private and public sector employers turn their backs on progressive hiring policies
Body


Britain is “well past peak woke” as hiring for diversity equity and inclusion (DEI) roles has plummeted 70pc in the last three years, figures show.
Dedicated   boomed in the aftermath of lockdown, as companies scrambled to meet diversity targets imposed by regulators. But in the last three years, employers in both the   have turned away from DEI.
However, the   diversity officers on £90,000 salaries, despite orders from Wes Streeting, the health secretary, to stop “misguided” DEI jobs.
Data compiled for The Telegraph by job site, Adzuna, found that vacancies for dedicated DEI roles had fallen by a third since last year – plummeting from a peak of 677 in February 2022 to 208 in January this year.
The decline of DEI hiring was even more severe in the US, where vacancies in diversity and inclusion roles fell by 88pc from their peak three years ago, well before   in corporate America.
On both sides of the Atlantic, roughly half of DEI jobs advertised in January were in teaching, and a fifth were in human resources. However, the average pay for diversity officers in Britain is up 15pc year-on-year to £42,084.
Nigel Farage, leader of Reform UK, said he was “delighted” at the decline in DEI roles in both public and private sectors. But he added that the “madness is still alive and well” in the financial and health industries.
He said: “I hope the banks follow suit – especially after what NatWest did to me.”
Mr Farage was at the centre of a national scandal over debanking in 2023 after it emerged that his accounts with NatWest subsidiary Coutts had been 
He said: “If you look at guidelines published by the Financial Conduct Authority, you’ll see they’re still insisting on all this rubbish.
“In financial services and health, DEI madness is still alive and well, but I predict not for much longer. We’re well past the point of peak woke and within another few years we will be completely free of all this insanity.”
Analysis by Adzuna found a significant decline in DEI hiring from its peak at the start of 2022, dropping at an even faster rate than the macro decline it observed in total vacancies.
James Neave, the platform’s head of data science, said: “Diversity, equity and inclusion used to be a huge focus in recruitment, with companies funnelling millions into their DEI initiatives and creating roles solely dedicated to facilitating DEI in the workplace.
“But the tide seems to be changing, with President Trump attempting to roll back on DEI and tech giants such as Meta and Amazon announcing plans to cut DEI jobs.”
Despite this, jobseekers can still apply for DEI roles paying six-figure salaries, Adzuna said.
One recruiter posted vacancies in January for an engagement and inclusion lead at a London-based bank, with an advertised salary range of £100,000 to £120,000, and a DEI project manager at a law firm also based in the capital paying up to £100,000.
Though fewer in number, DEI roles were still available in the public sector. NHS North East London posted a vacancy in January for a diversity officer paying up to £90,000.
The job description states the ideal candidate will “drive forward our DEI agenda and support us to develop a culture of belonging”.
North Staffordshire Combined Healthcare Trust similarly advertised for an inclusion and belonging lead to integrate “inclusion and belonging into everything we do”.
The role would pay the successful applicant up to £60,000 a year and offer flexible working.
An NHS spokesman said: “There is no doubt the NHS needs to take action to reduce health inequalities, but equally trusts must not simply make tokenistic gestures that don’t ultimately improve patient or staff experience.
“Specialist roles to address diversity, equity and inclusion should be focused on boosting staff retention and organisations must ensure that every penny of taxpayer money is used wisely to the benefit of patients.”
                     Recommended                   
Trump has fallen short with his war on DEI

Load-Date: February 18, 2025


End of Document
