




thetimes.co.uk
February 10, 2025 Monday 12:01 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 1114 words
Byline: Trevor Phillips
Highlight: Donald Trump is trampling DEI initiatives but, virtue-signalling silliness apart, companies see value in reflecting changing Britain
Body


‘Just because the Devil’s whistling a tune doesn’t make it a bad tune,” my grandmother used to say. It was her optimistic take on the warning by the founder of the Salvation Army, William Booth, in 1882 that “the Devil has all the best tunes but they are only the bait to catch us”.
I don’t think either General Booth or Grandma Mabel would have fallen under the spell of America’s new president, but they might have cautioned listeners to make a careful distinction between loving the song and becoming bewitched by the singer; not to confuse “Trump has a point” with “Trump is right”. Some are in danger of doing so on the divisive topic of diversity and inclusion.
There are many who reckon the mood music flooding out of 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue could only have been arranged by Satan himself. Well, yes and no. 

 may be the world’s noisiest one-man band, but buried in the cacophony is a nagging earworm that plucks at the strings of what we feel are our darker instincts.

At least one aspect of Mr Trump’s genius is to awaken the part of the liberal mind of which we are secretly a little ashamed. He calls us to compromise with the selfishness in our own natures. When push comes to shove, most people, most of the time, place the interests of their own families, communities and nations ahead of the abstract, amorphous mass of people we don’t know.
Yesterday, talking to the former MP Jack Lopresti who, after losing his seat has signed up for duty in Ukraine’s equivalent of the Foreign Legion, was humbling. He rightly says “the defence of Europe starts in Ukraine”. But were I at an age and in the shape to be anything but a liability in combat, would I risk my family life for that noble cause? Unlikely.
Trump understands human weakness better than most, and is ruthless in exploiting it both for political advantage, churning out political hit after hit. The success of his 2016 “Build the Wall, Keep Them Out” spawned cover versions all over Europe. In the past week we’ve heard a couple of new bangers: “Gimme Gimme Gaza” and “Bye, Bye, Third World (feat. 

)”. But the Trump wall of sound always contains a grain of common sense that forces thoughtful people to think twice.
Of course, America is not going to own Gaza, and the international community will clutch its pearls at the notion of human displacement. But does anyone really think it compassionate to fund diplomats in five-star Gulf hotels to debate who threw the first stone while Palestinian leaders haggle over who gets the reconstruction contracts and children camp out for a decade in a bombed-out hellscape?
The withdrawal of USAID will cause suffering. But many Americans and Europeans suffer too; and surely, the first port of call for the global poor should include the Saudis and Qataris, who have all the money in the world. And so on.

Some think Trump’s next hit will be a tune he has been trying out for weeks: “Time to Die, DEI”. Some organisations — Mark Zuckerberg’s Meta — who seem all too eager to dance, however awkwardly, to any tune coming out of Mar-a-Lago, have capitulated instantly, sacking DEI (diversity, equity and inclusion) advisers and closing down the very programmes about which they were boasting a year ago.
As I have written before, no one should be forced to bow to fashionable adolescent nonsense about dozens of “genders” being available to men and women. My own employees and staff know I won’t be putting pronouns on my emails; there is no reason why a message I send to Martha should be different to one meant for Arthur. Discriminating in that way would fly in the face of everything I’ve fought for my whole life.
But in spite of the many widely recycled examples of progressive overreach, DEI is seen as a plus by most employees. Recent research by the polling company More In Common found that by a margin of 46 per cent to 28 per cent, British workers thought DEI programmes delivered fairer outcomes. Even among “Backbone Conservative” voters, DEI is supported by 39 per cent to 29 per cent.
That is probably why 6,000 organisations with upwards of 5 million employees signed up to a five-day challenge last week run by the not-for-profit campaign arm, Race Equality Matters, of Green Park, the executive recruitment company I chair. Jamie Dimon at JP Morgan and David Solomon at Goldman Sachs have reaffirmed support for their DEI initiatives. I think they see this as classic Trump: Technicolor demands that require a corrective but in shades of grey.

Most people in western societies can see the writing on the wall. Over the next seven years the UK population will swell by 5 million, virtually all from overseas. The centre-right think tank Policy Exchange has put forward some creative proposals to slow the flow: for example, the auctioning of visas, forcing market discipline on the immigration system. But the impact of such measures will be modest.
We are old. We need young immigrants. By the middle of the century more than half of those who produce our wealth will have been born abroad or else be the children of people born abroad. There are already 30 national communities in the UK of more than 100,000 people. Every workplace will need to acknowledge the background and preferences of a nation that is both objectively and subjectively more diverse than it has ever been.
Trump is a realist who made his fortune as a builder in New York, one of the most multiethnic cities in the world. The website of one of the world’s biggest construction companies, Bechtel, states: “We believe diverse and inclusive companies attract and retain strong talent.” It supports networks for black, Asian, Hispanic, LGBT, disabled and women employees. The premier US engineering firm AECOM boasts of its commitment to “diverse teams [and] an inclusive workplace”. Its awards for diversity are displayed alongside its multibillion-dollar financial results.
I suspect Trump recognises that diverse workforces have to be catered for; he just wants it done with less lefty agitprop and fewer parades. He may be right. At the very least the rhetoric of DEI needs to become less about doing down white men and more about creating better businesses.
We need to put every talent to work wherever it comes from and whatever sex, colour or shape it is. To that extent, Donald Trump is doing us a favour. His anti-DEI campaign is less a klaxon warning us to turn around and head back to the 1950s and more an alarm call to drop virtue-signalling silliness and focus on a future that is inevitably more diverse.

Load-Date: February 9, 2025


End of Document
