




The Independent (United Kingdom)
January 30, 2025 Thursday 7:35 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Independent Print Ltd  All Rights Reserved


Section: ENTERTAINMENT: LATEST
Length: 397 words
Byline: Kevin E G Perry
Body


DL Hughley has spoken out about 's  to after performing at the Crypto Ball, which celebrated the election of.
The Original Kings of Comedy stand-up and actor, 61, suggested the rap icon needed to "have a conversation with the man in the mirror."
On January 20, the rapper born Calvin Cordozar Broadus Jr, 53, was filmed performing his classic hit "Nuthin' But a G Thang" at , former PayPal COO and newly appointed White House AI and crypto czar.
Many of Snoop's fans were appalled at his decision to appear, accusing him of selling out and claiming they would no longer listen to his music.
In the wake of the controversy, Snoop shared a video on Instagram in which he said: "Y'all can't hate enough, I love too much. Get your life right, stop worrying about mine. I'm cool, I'm together. Still a Black man. Still 100 percent Black."
Speaking on his podcast  the comedian took issue with Snoop's position. "We decided that this was a man who was bad for our community, we stuck together," said Hughley of Trump. "We wouldn't try to tear each other apart. We tried to protect each other. And the very man who we knew would do the very things he's doing, you decided to entertain."
He continued: "It isn't anger or hate, it is honestly people being disappointed. But why is the most common refrain whenever somebody gets to a situation like that, you tell us we can't stick together?
"It isn't us that you have a problem with, it is you. The 2025 version of you is at odds with the 2017 version of you. So it ain't the us that gotta get it together, it's the you. You need to have a conversation with the man in the mirror. What is so different about the 2017 Snoop, and the 2025 Snoop? It ain't us. We ain't in it."
Hughley argued that Trump and his administration are targeting the Black community through their legislation.
"It is not us who are tearing down affirmative action," said the comedian. "It is not us who is tearing down DEI. It is not who are tearing families apart. It is not us who have decided that affirmative action and rollbacks that precedent for 50, 60 years are gone. It is not us that is doing it. It is the man you decided to perform for."


Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
