




Fox News JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME 8:00 PM EST
February 11, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6506 words
Byline: Jesse Watters
Guests: Glenn Greenwald, Josh Hawley, Gad Saad, Chris Hansen
Body


LAURA INGRAHAM, FOX NEWS HOST: But Jimmy, I want everyone to grab tickets for your Jimmy's "Everybody Calm Down" Tour in Royal Oak, Michigan, Friday, February 21st at FoxAcrossAmerica.com. So everyone go get it.
Thank you, Jimmy, as always.
That's it for us tonight. Make sure to follow me on social media. Big snow storm is at least three inches here in Washington.
Jesse Watters next.
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS HOST: Welcome to JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME.
Tonight --
ELON MUSK, CO-DIRECTOR, DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT EFFICIENCY: So if people receive money, they don't complain, obviously. But if people don't receive money, they do complain, and the fraudsters complain the loudest and fastest.
WATTERS: DOGE-ing out in the Oval.
MUSK: It's mind blowing.
PETE HEGSETH, US DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SECRETARY: It's not that long ago that I was right there with them. When I can get down, do push-ups, dead lifts with the troops, I love that.
WATTERS: Talk the talk and walk the walk.
(PROTESTERS chanting "Trump's coming for our unions. He wants us all to fail, but we want him in jail.")
WATTERS: Democrats going, going, gone.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (Bleep) Trump.
WATTERS: Plus --
JOY REID, MSNBC HOST: Take a deep breath for just a moment and ponder Big Balls.
WATTERS: She should have taken the buyout. Mary Comans just got DOGE'd.
The CFO of FEMA got caught going behind Trump's back. 47 signed an executive order that was very clear, and this lady says, watch this. I'm going to send 60 million bucks to Manhattan so Biden migrants can keep staying at luxury hotels. Musk caught her red handed.
Mary should have known FEMA was on shaky ground. Trump just said the agency should be terminated. Just last year, FEMA got caught skipping homes with Trump yard signs, and Mary thought it'd be a good idea to sneak 60 million to migrants.
Trump is famous for saying "You're fired." This lady is out of her mind, and now she's out of a job.
Read the room, Mary. The whole government is being audited. The Department of Education is being actively dismantled. The DOGErs are in the building on the sixth floor, canceling grants and contracts. Nearly a billion dollars of wasteful contracts were ripped up yesterday, like this one, a contractor was paid $1.5 million to observe mailing and clerical operations at one mail center.
This guy was observing mail being opened and being sent for 1.5 mil. This is the kind of no show job a mob boss gives their cousin.
DOGE also terminated 29 DEI training programs at the Department of Education worth over $100 million. That comes to $3.5 million for each training program. Most of you have gone through DEI training programs or what -- in with HR for an hour? Maybe it's just an online course cha-ching three-and-a-half mil. What?
I should have been a DEI consultant. One DEI session train teachers to force students to recognize their privilege and their history of oppression. Half the classroom can't read, but this is what they're doing.
DOGE just shredded 18 contracts at the Department of Agriculture. One of them was for Central American Gender Assessment Consultant services. We were paying a guy in El Salvador to assess gender. What does that have to do with agriculture?
Here's another one, Forest and Gender Consultant Services in Brazil, or this the Women in Forest Carbon Initiative Mentorship Program. You go, girl.
Elon says DOGE also canceled a $17 million contract to provide tax policy advice to Liberia. $17 million to help Africans do their taxes. We even paid college tuition for al-Qaeda. We gave a jihadi a full ride to Colorado State.
Here's how the shell game works. You get taxed. Congress sends your money to a federal agency. The agency sends it to a Democrat nonprofit. The nonprofit president takes a fat salary, sends some of it to a subcontractor and donates the rest to Democrats.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: I see a lot of kickback here --
MUSK: A lot of kickbacks.
TRUMP: Tremendous kickbacks, because nobody could be so stupid to give out some of these contracts. So he has to get a kickback.
So that's what I got elected for that and borders and military and a lot of things, but this is a big part of it, and I hope that the court system is going to allow us to do what we have to do. We got elected to, among other things, find all of this fraud, abuse.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: We're $36 trillion in debt. Money is flying out the window. None of the departments can pass an audit.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MUSK: The reason that departments can't pass audits is because the payments don't have a categorization code. It's like just a massive number of blank checks just flying out the building. So you can't reconcile blank checks.
You've got comment fields that are also blank so you don't know why the payment was made. And then we've got this truly absurd a Do Not Pay list, which can take up to a year before an organization to get on the Do Not Pay list.
And this -- we're talking about terrorist organizations. We're talking about known fraudsters, known aspects of waste, known things that do not match any congressional appropriation. It can take up to a year to get on the list and even what's on the list, the list is not used.
It's mind blowing.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: We're literally sending out blank checks that no one can track with no explanation. It's like the system is designed to perpetuate fraud from USAID to Social Security.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MUSK: There are crazy things like just cursory examination of Social Security, and we've got people in there that are 150 years old. Now, do you know anyone who is 150? I don't, okay. They should be on the Guinness Book of World Records. They're missing out.
So, you know, that's a case where, like, I think they're probably dead, it's my guess, or they should be very famous, one of the two.
And then there's a whole bunch of Social Security payments where there's no identifying information. Well, why is there no identifying information?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Why did it take Musk to find out all this fraud? Social Security administrators are dealing -- how should I say this nicely -- with people who are about to die, shouldn't they know around when people usually die? If you're still sending checks to 150-year-old, nothing rings a bell? If the check hasn't been cashed in 50 years, that's a problem, and if the check has been cashed, that's a problem. Here's why nothing is ever done. Listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MUSK: Really, everything is geared towards complaint minimization, so then you understand the motivations. So if people receive money, they don't complain, obviously, but if people don't receive money, they do complain, and the fraudsters complain the loudest and the fastest.
They approve all the payments at Treasury, because if you approve all the payments, you don't get complaints. But now, we're saying that, no, actually, we are going to complain. If money is spent badly, if your taxpayer dollars are not spent in a sensible approval manner, then that's not okay.
Your tax dollars need to be spent wisely on things that matter to the people.
I mean these things are like, it's just commonsense.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: The complaint system runs Washington, and any time you try to cut anything, the Democrats, the media, the lobbyists, the NGOs, they all complain. So for about a century, Washington is basically like, okay, okay, okay, we'll just keep sending the money.
Washington forgot how to say no, and now every woman in the Amazon rainforest who claims they're a climate consultant gets your money. Do you ever wonder how people work for the government and get so rich?
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MUSK: We do find it sort of rather odd that, you know, there are quite a few people in the bureaucracy who have ostensibly a salary of a few hundred thousand dollars, but somehow managed to accrue tens of millions of dollars in net worth while they are in that position, which is, you know, What happened to USAID. We're just curious as to where it came from.
Mysteriously, they get wealthy. We don't know why, where did it come from? And I think the reality is that they're getting wealthy at the taxpayer expense. That's the honest truth of it.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Millions of bureaucrats were working for the federal government, working from home, and they never wanted to leave. I wonder why. One reason is because they have it too good, but there was another reason, they weren't allowed to leave.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MUSK: This is actually a great anecdote, because we were told that the most number of people that could retire possibly in a month is 10,000. We're like, well, why? Why is that? Well, because all the retirement paperwork is manual, on paper. It is manually calculated and written down on a piece of paper.
Then it goes down a mine and like, what do you mean a mine? Like, yes, there's a limestone mine where we store all the retirement paperwork. And the limiting factor is the speed at which the mine shaft elevator can move determines how many people can retire from the federal government, and the elevator breaks down sometimes, and then you can't -- nobody can retire.
Doesn't that sound crazy? There's like a thousand people that work on this. So, I think if we can take those people and say, like, you know what, instead of working in a mine shaft and carrying manila envelopes to boxes in the mine shaft, you could do practically anything else, and you would add to the goods and services of the United States in a more useful way.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Here's the government mine where we house our paperwork because we won't computerize it like the rest of the world.
We have 700 people working in an underground tunnel. What are we Hamas? It's not like it's a top secret bunker. It's just where we keep Mark McGonigal's retirement folder from the Department of Commerce.
How are we just finding out about this? There wasn't one whistleblower who was like, hey, "Washington Post," I commute to work down a 200-foot mine shaft every day, and there's no computers down here. We do everything with a Bic pen. I can't breathe and my hand is falling off. I'm literally being shafted.
Didn't we pass labor laws in the 40s against this? And Democrats are supposed to be pro-labor. Shouldn't they want to save these workers from these backwards conditions? No, the Democrats want to keep the limestone mine open.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
(PROTESTERS singing "Which side are you on? We'll fight against DOGE. We'll fight Elon Musk. Now Elon has got within our walls. We'll fight from dawn to dusk. Oh, which side are you on? Which side are you on? Which side are you on? Which side are you on? Trump's coming for our unions. He wants us all to fail. He wants us to bow to him, but we want him in jail."
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Musk wants to rescue these government gremlins from working underground. And what do they want? They want to throw him in jail, or they just scream.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. AYANNA PRESSLEY (D-MA): We are all willing to work with anyone who is serious about doing the work of censoring the American people and advancing progress.
SEN. ELIZABETH WARREN (D-MA): And for every American who doesn't want some weird Elon Musk suck up.
PRESSLEY: That Elon Musk needs to keep his grubby hands, his greedy grubby hands off of our government.
REP. HAKEEM JEFFRIES (D-NY): Situation seem hopeless in the heart of the Jim Crow, so KKK was very active, situation seemed hopeless.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And I'll tell you, I'm from Jersey, so I look a little differently. I say (bleep) Trump.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I don't swear in public very well, but we have to (bleep) Trump.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: The Democrats just came out as pro-mine shaft and pro-terrorist tuition and pro-blank check.
Musk and his teenage deputy, Big Balls are saving us a billion dollars a day, a billion a day, and have uncovered what could be the biggest kickback scheme in American history, and the media wants his head on a platter or something else on a platter.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOY REID, MSNBC HOST: Democrats are in the minority, so you have only so much leverage. Have you all essentially made it clear to Mike Johnson that until they allow you all to subpoena Big Balls and the normalized Indian hate guy, at least subpoena them and/or subpoena Elon Musk.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Democrats are judge shopping and getting liberal justices to rule against Trump for finding fraud.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: Billions and billions of dollars in waste, fraud and abuse. And I think it's very important, and that's one of the reasons I got elected. I say we're going to do that. Nobody had any idea was that bad, that sick and that corrupt. And it seems hard to believe that judges want to try and stop us from looking for corruption, especially when we found hundreds of millions of dollars' worth, much more than that in just a short period of time.
We want to weed out the corruption, and it seems hard to believe that a judge could say, we don't want you to do that. So maybe we have to look at the judges, because that's very serious. I think it's a very serious violation.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Bill Clinton, Al Gore, Barack Obama -- Democrats used to be about modernizing government and fighting corruption. So did the media.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JON STEWART, "THE DAILY SHOW" HOST: If I give you a billion dollars and you can't tell me what happened to it, that, to me, is wasteful, that that means you are not responsible. But if you can't tell me where it went, then what am I supposed to think and when there has been reporting?
I mean, this is not -- look, I'm not -- I'm not saying this is on you and that you caused this, but I think it's a tough argument to make that --
REP. DEBBIE MUCARSEL-POWELL (D-FL): I am pretty sure, I am positive.
STEWART: An $850 billion budget to an organization that can't pass an audit and tell you where that money went like, I think most people would consider that somewhere in the realm of waste, fraud or abuse, because they would wonder why that money isn't well accounted for.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Anyone standing in the way of DOGE tells me they might be on the take, or they're benefiting from a wicked system. Democrats just got slaughtered in every battleground for putting illegals over citizens, teacher unions over students, criminals over victims, transgenders over girls, and the first war they wage against Trump puts corrupt bureaucrats over hard working taxpayers.
Good luck with that.
Glenn Greenwald is the host of "System Update" and he joins me now So Glenn, the Democrats want to keep sending checks to 150-year-olds?
GLENN GREENWALD, SUBSTACK COLUMNIST: I think -- I think the dynamic here, Jesse, is that there is this part of our government that is completely unaccountable to the elected officials who are supposed to govern our country that you call the administrative state, you call the Deep State. Really they are both of them, and they operate completely unto themselves.
This is why when DOGE shows up at USAID, their argument and posture is how dare you from the White House come and try and scrutinize what we're doing. And this is the way that Washington really runs.
You can vote for one party or the other, and the same agencies are off on their own, doing the real business of the government without anyone really knowing. And this is what is being threatened. And I think this is the reason why Democrats are so upset and so angry, because so much of this is now being exposed, and this is what has been so crucial to carrying out an agenda that has nothing to do with the American people or what they vote for, which is this huge part of the government that just does what it wants without accountability.
Having said that, I do think that in terms of the savings part of it, Steve Bannon makes a very good point, and it's what Jon Stewart alluded to in that clip you just showed. Steve Bannon says, Unless you cross the Potomac and go to the Pentagon, where we spend about a trillion dollars a year in completely unaccounted for money, you're never going to really save the kind of money that would make a dent in the American debt or the American deficit.
But this is the framework that we're starting with that will show how that can be done.
WATTERS: Well, we're going to get to the Pentagon. I want to get to the Pentagon. Pete Hegseth says, come on in. We want to pass an audit. Will open the books. Medicaid, Medicare -- we know how much further is there.
But are you saying the government wants to keep a thousand government employees working in an underground mine, pushing papers without any sunlight? They want them in the mine. They don't want them rescued.
GREENWALD: I think that when you have a ruling class power center that hasn't been challenged for decades, they expect that they will be able to continue to exercise power without anyone really stopping them. Look at how many campaigns we've had -- presidential campaigns where the winning candidate has promised to come in and change the way Washington works. That was Bill Clinton's appeal, that was Barack Obama's appeal, that was Donald Trump's primary appeal.
And up until now, people promise it, and even if they try, it really never gets done, because these institutions are more powerful than our elected officials.
This is the first time where somebody ran for president and said they were going to do things and actually seems to have meant it and is determined to get it done. And that is what is causing so much upset in Washington.
This whole -- it's not really about the mines or the payments to 150-year- olds. It's about the fact that as long as this system gets to function with nobody trifling it, with nobody bothering with it, think about the power that best they stay outside of the democratic system, and it gives immense power to Washington, and that's what's being disturbed.
WATTERS: Yes, they want to run on change and then not change anything, and Trump screwed up that whole proposition.
All right. Glenn, it's great to talk with you. We're going to send Johnny down the mine shaft to rescue some of those workers. We really care about working conditions in this country.
GREENWALD: That's very generous, Jesse. Thanks.
WATTERS: Thank you so much.
Breaking news on the JFK assassination coming up.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: World leaders are visiting the White House, hoping that the Golden Age is contagious. A week after Trump said he was going to take Gaza, the King of Jordan, is sitting in the Oval.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ABDULLAH II, KING OF JORDAN: I truly believe that with all the challenges that we have in the Middle East, that I finally see somebody that can take us across the finish line to bring stability, peace, and prosperity to all of us in the region.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Russia is starting to behave a little better, too. After a meeting with Trump's team, Russia released an American hostage, Marc Fogel, who is right now on his way to the White House. Biden tried freeing Marc back in August, but couldn't get the deal done. Trump is cleaning up four years of Biden messes in four weeks.
Joe tried banning plastic straws. Now, Trump is bringing them back, even Democrats are happy.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
STEWART: Okay, he's right on this one. He is right on this one. Those straws are (bleep) terrible.
Objectively, I'm supposed to have some weird tissue paper dissolve in my mouth just because turtles can't figure out straws aren't food. No, don't eat the tubes, you stupid turtles.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: And if you like his regulations on straws, wait until you hear this. Trump is killing Biden's annoying regulations on showers, washing machines and dishwashers, Let the water flow.
And let there be light, incandescent light bulbs are back. Now, we can all go back to looking like sexy movie stars.
Trump spends a lot of his day just reversing Biden policies. Joe changed the name of Fort Bragg so Trump sent in Hegseth.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
HEGSETH: There it is, pursuant to the authority of the Secretary of Defense Title 10 United States Code of Section 113, I direct the Army to change the name of Fort Liberty, North Carolina to Fort Bragg, North Carolina.
That's right, Bragg, he's back.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: We haven't seen a guy like Hegseth run the Pentagon in a while. He's still on the "Fox & Friends" schedule waking up at the crack of dawn to work out with the troops.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
HEGSETH: It's not that long ago that I was right there with them. I probably -- no offense, General, I probably connect more with those guys than I do with four-star generals. But now I get the chance of working with four stars and others who are committed to the troops.
But when I can get down, do push-ups and dead lifts with the troops, and just hear from them, what's working, what isn't, how do you see your mission set? I love -- I love that. So there was never a doubt, even though we got in at two in the morning, that we are getting up a couple of hours later to go do PT. It's a reminder that --
You guys, the press in Washington might think I'm young, but in military terms, I'm old, and that showed this morning with these young guys who ran circles around me in that parking lot.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Lloyd Austin walks around with a mask and a face shield. Pete Hegseth dead lifts with the rank and file.
This administration is young, sharp and fast. From the top to the bottom, they're about action.
Vice President Vance is in Europe. He met with French President Macron and Indian Prime Minister Modi. Vance went to tell the world that when it comes to AI, it's America first, and he sounds a lot different than our last AI czar.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JD VANCE (R), VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: The US possesses all components across the full AI stack, including advanced semiconductor design, frontier algorithms and of course, transformational applications.
KAMALA HARRIS (D), FORMER VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: AI is kind of a fancy thing. It's -- first of all, it's two letters. It means artificial intelligence.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: AI makes a lot of people nervous. Nobody wants to lose their job to a super computer. JD is telling us, he understands AI and won't let it be used against us. That's all we want from the government. Let us know you have things under control. Don't steal our money and then leave us alone, and please don't speak to us like children.
Missouri Senator Josh Hawley is here.
All right, so Pete Hegseth working out with the soldiers, a lot different than Lloyd Austin. What kind of message does that send?
SEN. JOSH HAWLEY (R-MO): Well, I think it sends a message that we finally have an administration that is ready to work, that can do the job and that understands what the American people send them there to do.
I look at what Trump has done, Jesse, in his first three weeks. He is eliminating the corruption, and he is exposing the propaganda. And you look at what Joe Biden used this government to do, corruption, corruption, corruption.
Those USAID dollars flowing to everything America is against -- trans comic books in Peru, trans operas in Colombia, undermining us interests and then the propaganda that Joe Biden pushed using our tax money, and Trump is just uprooting it. It is amazing to see he's giving this country back to the American people. It's what he ran on Jesse, and he's doing it.
WATTERS: Yes, he is doing everything that Biden didn't do, or just reversing it and he has never been more popular. That tells you pretty much everything you need to know about Joe Biden. You can also see the difference in the vice presidential people. I mean, I don't think Kamala knew what AI was, and Vance goes over to Europe and explains the US policy.
That's the kind of leadership we expect. But we weren't getting it. Why not?
HAWLEY: Well, because, listen, you had in the last administration of Joe Biden and Kamala Harris, people who just weren't up to the job. I mean, Joe Biden, the guy was barely sentient. Kamala Harris, she can't put a sentence together. They embarrassed us overseas time and time again, and you know that they weren't respected.
Look at what happened in Ukraine. Putin goes into Ukraine. Why? Because he doesn't respect Joe Biden. You look at what China did. They walked all over us, cheated on trade. Look at what Mexico did under Joe Biden. Took away even more of our auto jobs.
Nobody respected us because nobody respected them. But now you've got a president in Donald Trump who reflects the strength of the American people, and he's saying we're not going to be pushed around anymore. America is back. We know what we're doing. We're going to lead the world, and we're not going to be pushed around.
And Jesse, I love it. I think the American people love it. They're ready for a strong leader, somebody who's going to stand up for the United States of America.
WATTERS: And that United States might include Greenland very soon. So let's all get ready for that. Thank you so much, Senator, good to see you.
HAWLEY: Thank you.
WATTERS: Illegal alien Super Bowl sex stings, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: The results are in, no one likes Biden. He has the lowest favorability of all living presidents at 39 percent, even the late night hosts who propped Joe up for years are getting their jabs in.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JIMMY KIMMEL, "JIMMY KIMMEL LIVE" HOST: Trump wrote that Biden suffers from poor memory, and even in his prime, couldn't be trusted with sensitive information, if that isn't the pot calling the kettle on National Security. He kept classified documents in the toilet at his golf course.
But this is going to be tough news for Joe Biden. They haven't even told him he lost the election yet.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Biden greased the skids for a Democrat blowout. Now, they're in shambles. Knives are out for Hakeem, because he's not hitting Trump hard enough, and the president is dominating the airwaves.
The left's busted media machine is slowly coming back online. Trump ripped a couple of judges over some rulings he didn't like, and voila, constitutional crisis is the phrase of the week.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN ANCHOR AND CHIEF CORRESPONDENT: We are three weeks into the second Trump presidency, three weeks and tonight, there are warnings that the US is dangerously close to a constitutional crisis.
REP. PRAMILA JAYAPAL (D-IL): That is a constitutional crisis, that is a crisis for our democracy.
SEN. ELIZABETH WARREN (D-MA): We've got our toes right on the edge of a constitutional crisis here.
REP. ILHAN OMAR (D-MN): What we are witnessing is a constitutional crisis.
SEN. CORY BOOKER (D-NJ): To defy court orders brings about a constitutional crisis.
DAVID JOLLY, MSNBC POLITICAL ANALYST: We've moved from a constitutional crisis to a constitutional collapse.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Constitutional crisis is not a new talking point. It's the exact same one they used in the first term.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
NICOLLE WALLACE, MSNBC HOST: Open warfare between the Trump administration and Congress has Democrats declaring that a constitutional crisis is upon us.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I think if the president takes too many more actions here, he's on the precipice of, well, prompting a constitutional crisis.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The problem is, as was just described, we're heading rapidly towards a constitutional crisis.
SEN. DICK DURBIN (D-IL): I'll just tell you, this could precipitate a constitutional crisis.
JOE SCARBOROUGH, MSNBC HOST: Nobody's saying it's going to be okay, Mika.
MIKA BRZEZINSKI, MSNBC HOST: Okay.
SCARBOROUGH: Okay. In fact, this is a constitutional crisis, which is why we said this is a constitutional crisis.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: The left's dictator hoax is getting awfully stale, but that's not stopping them from reheating their leftovers.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOHN OLIVER, HOST, "LAST WEEK TONIGHT": Don't fight being a monarchy, Jon, embrace it. Kings get (bleep) done. Now, is it stuff that you want done, not necessarily, but they do move quick.
They taste cumin at lunch and have taken over an entire continent by dinner time. That is how the British rolls, Jon. (Bleep) everyone else, they're not like us. In fact, if I might sing a line from Mr. Kendrick Lamar --
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: And if the monarchy doesn't make you nervous, what about death of democracy?
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. CHRIS MURPHY (D-CT): I mean, this isn't hyperbole to say that we are staring the death of democracy in the eyes right now. The centerpiece of our democracy is that we observe court rulings. This is a really dire moment.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Wait, if Trump winning the election was going to kill democracy and he won? Why is it still a threat?
Constitutional crisis, monarchy, dictatorship, death of democracy. It's all the same. The jig is up. The left needs to get it together or suffer the possibility of political extinction.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOE ROGAN, PODCAST HOST, "THE JOE ROGAN EXPERIENCE": They're not course correcting at all. You know, they're saying stupid (bleep). It's all nonsense.
We don't trust "The New York Times," we don't trust "The Washington Post," we don't trust CNN or any of the MSNBC, they're all full with propaganda.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes.
ROGAN: And so that's why the internet rose. It's not because there was some sort of (bleep) right wing conspiracy and heavily funded. No, you guys suck. You guys (bleep) suck, and you're not real people.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Gad Saad is a visiting professor and a global ambassador at Northwood University.
Professor Saad, they say insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result. Isn't that insane then what the Democrats keep saying over and over?
GAD SAAD, AUTHOR, "SAAD TRUTH ABOUT HAPPINESS" AND "THE PARASITIC MIND": So there are two features that are really regrettable when it comes to the architecture of the human mind. Number one is how difficult it is to get someone to change their anchored position. I could show you a tsunami of evidence, and yet you'll still go, la, la, la, I don't want to hear it. That's exactly what the Democrats are doing.
Second regrettable feature of the architecture of human mind is something called the self-serving bias, which is we tend to attribute successes internally and failures externally. So if I did well on the exam, it's because I'm smart. If I did poorly on the exam, it's because Professor Saad is a mean professor. That's exactly what the Democrats are doing, which is none of their failures stem from their failed policy positions. It must be outside to them.
So they are just exactly engaging what a psychologist as myself would expect.
WATTERS: That was a brilliant piece of analysis, and it explains why I have such a hard time changing my mind and blaming other people. How do you and I'm not asking for me personally, but how does one Professor Saad, grow up and get over this?
SAAD: You know Thomas Sowell, the famous economist used to be a Marxist, and then once he was asked later in his life, what is it that made you realize that your Marxist views were wrong and you should be for free markets? He gave a one word answer, "facts."
So it requires intellectual humility and intellectual honesty, to at least allow for the possibility that if information comes in that contradicts your position, you're at least willing to entertain a change.
So I think, though, regrettably, for most people, as I have found out being a professor for over 30 years, most people just go la, la, la, I don't want to hear it, so it's a tough battle.
WATTERS: All right, so we're governed by people that go, la, la, la, that's great. That makes me so optimistic. I thought we had a chance, and now I don't think so.
All right, Professor Saad. Great to talk to you. As always, I will send you a check in the mail.
SAAD: Cheers. Thank you so much.
WATTERS: Those illegal alien Super Bowl sex stings right around the corner with Chris Hansen.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: Fox News Alert: The House Oversight Committee has just launched a new task force aimed at uncovering the truth behind some of America's biggest mysteries. The task force on the declassification of federal secrets is being led by Florida Congresswoman Anna Paulina Luna, and they'll be looking into the assassinations of JFK, RFK, and Martin Luther King, as well as releasing 9/11 files and Jeffrey Epstein's client list.
Up first, the JFK assassination. Luna is confident Lee Harvey Oswald didn't act alone.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. ANNA PAULINA LUNA (R-FL): Based on what I've been seeing so far, the initial hearing that was actually held hear in Congress was actually faulty in the single bullet theory, I believe that there were two shooters, and we should be finding more information as we are able to gain access into the SCIF, hopefully before the files are actually released to the public.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Big events like the Super Bowl bring out America's seedy underbelly in every city. Bad actors look at these major events as opportunities to take advantage of large crowds and operate in the shadows.
Chris Hansen went to a parish outside of The Big Easy and took down a bunch of would be child predators, including a migrant who wanted to sexually exploit a 14-year-old.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
CHRIS HANSEN, HOST OF "TAKEDOWN" WITH CHRIS HANSEN ON TRUBLU: You talked online about having oral sex with this boy.
(UNIDENTIFIED MALE speaking in foreign language.)
TRANSLATION: Yes, but no.
HANSEN: Yes, but no, I'm not going to do anything. Just friends, nothing else.
HANSEN: Por favor.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Hansen also busted a perv who had been in New Orleans Police Academy until he resigned after getting caught shoplifting. This time, he was trying to send an Uber to pick up a young teen to start a "master-slave relationship."
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
HANSEN: What happened when you sent the first Uber over to pick her up?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I was rejected.
HANSEN: You were rejected. And why were you rejected?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They said that she was too young to travel.
HANSEN: What do you do after that?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I guess, I sent another one, right?
HANSEN: Another Uber.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I was -- I was actually done after the first one, but she kept on egging me on.
HANSEN: She egged you on.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You got the paper, tell me, if I'm wrong.
HANSEN: You're wrong. I've got the paper.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Chris Hansen is the host of "Takedown" with Chris Hansen on TruBlu, and he joins me now. So this guy says she egged him on.
HANSEN: She egged him on. And we saw this over and over again during the three days we spent with Livingston Parish Sheriff Jason Ard and his team. Eleven guys, Jesse, showed up in the span of three days. Three of them were here in this country illegally, from Columbia -- excuse me, from Guatemala, Honduras, and Mexico.
One of them tried to grab one of the deputies guns and had to be tased when he was arrested.
WATTERS: So these guys are from another country. Is this surprising to you when I don't know, 30 percent of the guys you're busting are illegals?
HANSEN: Not anymore. We see it in every single sting. You know, there are categories that are shocking, the guy who was going to be a cop in New Orleans, the illegal immigrants. And of course, we saw a guy who had been busted before in a very high profile case in Baton Rouge, where he videotaped himself having sex with an underage girl in a classroom.
So this guy gets a break, and suddenly, all of these years later, he shows up in our state.
WATTERS: What kind of break did that guy get?
HANSEN: He got probation and deferment as a young guy.
WATTERS: So this guy is sexually assaulting someone in a classroom.
HANSEN: Fourteen years old.
WATTERS: Fourteen years old. He's a teacher. So he was --
HANSEN: No, he was another student.
WATTERS: Okay.
HANSEN: But he was 18.
WATTERS: Okay. So this is a huge crime.
HANSEN: Yes, it made the news in Baton Rouge.
WATTERS: And so he didn't learn a lesson. He went back out and got busted again.
HANSEN: Right. So to those who are critical of us exposing the younger guys, I say, well, maybe they need to be busted, because otherwise there's a chance they will offend again. And we saw that right here.
WATTERS: What about these guys you're getting -- where were they from again? Honduras?
HANSEN: Honduras, Guatemala, and Mexico, and so think about it this way. You know, there's been a lot of talk about USAID money being spent, wasted in 2023, the last year, I could get records for, USAID gave Honduras $193 million; Mexico, $232 million; Guatemala, $229 million what did we get in return? William, Francisco and Carlos.
WATTERS: And that money is supposed to keep that economy stronger, so those people don't need to come up here.
HANSEN: And that's just 2023.
WATTERS: Right.
HANSEN: Now, if you look back over time, of all USAID payments, we're talking about trillions of dollars.
WATTERS: Yes.
HANSEN: Over the last 20 years.
WATTERS: It's an obscene amount of money, and they're not sending their best. And we have the proof.
HANSEN: Absolutely.
WATTERS: Chris Hansen, TruBlu, "Takedown with Chris Hansen." Great job. Thank you.
HANSEN: Thank you, sir.
WATTERS: Watch a Fox's host embarrass themselves. Not me. Right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: All right, so I told you about the Eagles-Chiefs bet I had with Doocy from "Fox & Friends" and he finally came clean this morning. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
AINSLEY EARHARDT, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST, "FOX AND FRIENDS": All right, so what would you like to say to Jesse Watters? You have a message for him?
LAWRENCE JONES, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Yes.
EARHARDT: Just dance moves.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Better luck next year, Steve. You're a man of your word. Appreciate it.
Let's do some texts.
Howie from Ontario, Canada: Could you please send Elon to our country once he is finished with yours.
I don't think he'll ever be finished. I think this is going to take a long time to root out.
Sean from Elmira, New York: DOGE Democrats officially getting exposed.
Jennifer from Macungie, Pennsylvania: How do I apply to watch mail being opened? I'd crush that job.
Not only mail being open, mail being sent, 1.5 mill a year.
Jim from Easley, South Carolina: Look at the bright side. At least no money was wasted on singing lessons.
The Democrats are just singing. They're singing and swearing. That's all they've got.
Sherry from Massillon, Ohio: Did I just butcher that? It looks like we found next year's halftime show.
Mary from Pennsylvania: Keeping paperwork and a mine shaft is better than an open garage.
Good point, Mary.
Eric from Spirit Lake, Idaho: Easy on the hard working underground miners. We help Trump get elected.
But you don't store paperwork in the mine. You're actually getting coal out of there.
Dan from Seneca, Pennsylvania: Hey, I used to work in that mine. It's not a bad place.
We have your texts. We want you on the show tomorrow.
Matt from West Virginia: While you're down there, see if that's where Hillary's 33,000 e-mails went.
Yes, we're going to send Johnny.
I'm Watters and this is my world.

Load-Date: February 12, 2025


End of Document
