




Business Insider
February 16, 2025 Sunday 11:40 AM EST


Copyright 2025 Insider Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 1065 words
Byline: eic@businessinsider.com (Jamie Heller)
Highlight: In this Sunday edition of Business Insider Today, we are finding out more about Elon Musk's DOGE plans.
Body


This post originally appeared in the BI Today newsletter.
You can sign up for Business Insider's daily newsletter here.
Welcome back to our Sunday edition, where we round up some of our top stories and take you inside our newsroom. Still unsure how to get the most out of AI? We asked AI leaders at top consulting firms , including the prompts they find most beneficial.
On the agenda today:
Meta's job cuts surprised some who said they weren't low performers.
From Amazon to YouTube, MrBeast is forging a media empire.
Inside a retreat for billionaire heirs looking to give away their money.
How severed undersea cables could be a .
But first: Meet the people shaking up the government.
If this was forwarded to you, . Download Business Insider's app 
This week's dispatch
DOGE's helpers
Elon Musk has been questioning - and dismantling - the workings of the United States of America Inc.
Who is helping him with the job?
This past weekend, one of our reporters saw a list of people tapped for Musk's Department of Government Efficiency, including four whose names had been previously unreported. Our reporters set out to learn more. Who was seen as qualified to help execute this historic and controversial undertaking?
On Tuesday, we published our findings. Of the approximately 30 people on the list, most are early-career professionals in their 20s and 30s. They have backgrounds in tech, finance, law, and politics. They include software developers, former Supreme Court clerks, and a former McKinsey consultant.
, which offers an exclusive look at the people executing Musk's overhaul of the federal government.
The changes are also having an immediate impact on people who work for the federal government. This past week, BI got first-hand accounts of the abrupt firings of some probationary workers at the  and .
Thousands of probationary employees across multiple federal agencies .
We are helping our readers keep track of DOGE-induced changes broadly, including .
Some people are excited about what DOGE is doing. Others are horrified. Many feel a bit of both. Whatever your view, our job is to bring you the facts. We're staying on this mammoth story.
Please as always, let us know what you think. .
Meta's layoffs left some workers 'blindsided'
Meta's recent job cuts were part of the social media giant's plans to trim down 5% of its workforce by focusing on the lowest performers. But some terminated employees told BI they were shocked they were being let go given their track record.
Internal guidance from Meta's director of people experience - viewed by BI - said managers were allowed to cut higher-performing employees if they couldn't meet their reduction targets. That left some workers who were impacted feeling misrepresented by Meta's stance on layoffs.
.
Also read:
Meta CTO says employees who think 'everyone has to like' its policy changes should 'quit' and 'consider working elsewhere'
Internal memo: Meta is betting on humanoid robots and hires the former CEOs of Cruise and The RealReal
The MrBeast media model
From his stunt videos to a dozen of his channels dubbed in different languages, MrBeast has attracted an audience of hundreds of millions of viewers by optimizing for YouTube's algorithm.
Even after signing a deal with Amazon, the king of YouTube has held on to creative control through a hyperfocused founder-mode ethos. As traditional media companies lose eyeballs to creator-led platforms like YouTube and TikTok, the MrBeast model, as untamed as it is, can offer Hollywood some useful lessons.
.
Living with a 'wealth shadow'
Not everyone wants to be uber-rich. Some heirs are rejecting their fortunes and redistributing them to causes they care about. But the red tape of trust funds can get in the way.
One retreat is trying to help by offering its clientele - mostly young, white, queer women - financial advice on how to get rid of their millions and billions. The conference also has workshops that attempt to grapple with the big question: What does it mean to be a "good" rich person?
.
Wall Street's floundering underwater lifeline
The backbone of the financial ecosystem isn't on land. Undersea cables, which often aren't thicker than a garden hose, relay $10 trillion in daily transactions and play a major role in transmitting international data.
The undersea cable network is vast - and so are its threats. There have been mysterious cases of cable damage that can disrupt financial firms, and some officials are accusing China and Russia. Even islands the size of Taiwan have felt the impact, losing internet access following some cable snaps. Severed cables aren't easy - or cheap - to repair, either.
.
This week's quote:
"When you do robotics right, it allows us to be more human."
- Amazon Robotics Chief Technologist Tye Brady talking to Business Insider about the impact robots will .
More of this week's top reads:
How standing in line has become a competitive - and lucrative - gig.
It's official: Egg prices are at all-time highs after the biggest spike in 10 years.
The DOGE Playbook for taking over an agency.
Silicon Valley's next act: bringing 'vibe coding' to the world.
What we know about Avantyr Capital, the newest Viking Global spinout from its former top investor Ning Jin.
Brands feel like 'collateral damage' after Trump delayed closing the de minimis tax loophole.
Startups are showering employees with wild perks, from MRIs to 'pawternity leave.'
Fox bets on podcasts - and former Fox News stars like Tucker Carlson and Megyn Kelly.
America's biggest companies are waging a stealth campaign to dismantle DEI.
MBA grads are struggling to find work. Here's why it's unlikely to get easier anytime soon.
YouTube is watched more on TVs than phones. A top exec explains what videos do best on the big screen.The BI Today team: Dan DeFrancesco, deputy editor and anchor, in New York. Grace Lett, editor, in Chicago. Amanda Yen, associate editor, in New York. Lisa Ryan, executive editor, in New York. Elizabeth Casolo, fellow, in Chicago.
Read the original article on


Load-Date: February 16, 2025


End of Document
