




Newsweek.com
February 5, 2025 Wednesday 4:09 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 359 words
Byline: Anna Commander
Highlight: Musk's announcement follows a tragic time in aviation after the fatal midair collision near D.C.'s airport last week.
Body


The Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) will be making "rapid safety upgrades to the air traffic control system,"  said on Wednesday. This announcement follows two deadly aviation crashes last week.
Newsweek reached out to the Department of Transportation (DOT) via email Wednesday for comment.
Why It Matters
Recent airplane incidents and close calls nationwide have raised concerns about safety protocols. In a news conference after the fatal midair collision last week, President   may be partly to blame for the collision near Ronald Reagan National Airport near D.C.
Trump also questioned during the press briefing the capabilities of the air traffic controllers and the path of the Black Hawk helicopter involved in the crash.
In a Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) report obtained by The Associated Press (AP), officials say  was overseeing both helicopter traffic and planes arriving and departing Reagan National at the time of the collision. The FAA report said that personnel configuration was "not normal" but overall staffing was typical, the AP reports.
In a news conference by the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB), officials confirmed interviews are underway with the air traffic controller who was working during the collision.
What To Know
In posts on X (formerly ), recently sworn-in Transportation Secretary Sean Duffy said, "Big News - Talked to the DOGE team. They are going to plug in to help upgrade our aviation system."
Musk followed up on X saying, "With the support of President @realDonaldTrump, the @DOGE team will aim to make rapid safety upgrades to the air traffic control system. Just a few days ago, the FAA's primary aircraft safety notification system failed for several hours!" Musk then linked to Duffy's earlier post noting the NOTAM system's temporary outage.
Since Trump's inauguration last month, the DOGE team has sparked intense backlash and praise for sweeping cuts to the federal workforce and programs.
 This is a developing story that will be updated with additional information.


Graphic

 
Air traffic control
Air controllers can be seen in the control tower of Ronald Reagan International Airport as recovery efforts by authorities for the remains of a commercial liner and a military helicopter that crashed earlier in the week continue on the nearby Potomac River in Arlington, Virginia, on February 2, 2025. (Photo by ROBERTO SCHMIDT / AFP) (Photo by ROBERTO SCHMIDT/AFP via Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 5, 2025


End of Document
