




The Independent (United Kingdom)
February 11, 2025 Tuesday 10:10 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Independent Print Ltd  All Rights Reserved


Length: 486 words
Byline: Kelly Rissman
Body


It's raining cats and DOGEs as Republican-led states are pushing for copycat versions of the federal government's .
President  ordered the creation of  on his first day in the . With world's richest  at the helm, the "outside of government" agency has its sights set on reducing , dismantling federal agencies, and terminating . 
In the weeks since its creation, some governors have launched new departments that mimic Musk's  while state legislatures have backed measures to establish them. 
Oklahoma Gov. Kevin Stitt launched the Division of Government Efficiency, also known as  New Hampshire announced the creation of her state's offshoot: COGE.
"We are going to have to look to find better ways to do things with fewer dollars," Governor Kelly Ayotte said last month in her inaugural address. "Because I know nothing is harder than getting politicians to not spend money, today I am announcing the creation of the Commission on Government Efficiency, or as I like to call it - the 'COGE.'"
Georgia's Senate Majority Leader Steve Gooch, who is  that proposes agencies consider more cost-effective alternatives every four years.
"What we're seeing with the Trump administration doing right with Elon Musk is exactly what we need to do at every level of government around the country," Gooch told the .
Similarly in Texas, lawmakers are hoping to establish a 13-member Delivery of Government Efficiency, which aims to eliminate "inefficiencies" within state agencies, reported. Lieutenant Gov. Dan Patrick  the  bill among his top priorities for the legislative session.
Legislators in South Carolina have introduced measures to create the Commission on Fiscal Restraint and Government Efficiency. "We don't have an Elon Musk in South Carolina, but it'll be similar to what's going on in Washington," the bill's House sponsor, Majority Leader Davey Hiott, told the 
In Missouri, lawmakers established the Government Efficiency Committee to investigate where the state's government could cut back. The committee's chair even launched a  for the public to "report any instances of government duplication, waste, or inefficiencies."
Democratic Minority Leader Rep. Ashley Aune warned  that the effort to find so-called inefficiencies could get political: "I think that what we're going to likely see are folks identifying and targeting programs they simply don't agree with politically."
Iowa Governor Kim Reynolds praised her home state's small government and cost-cutting efforts that were in place before Musk's agency was formed during a Congressional panel. Iowa has been "doing DOGE before DOGE was a thing," she said, according to the .

Load-Date: February 12, 2025


End of Document
