




Fox News THE FIVE 5:00 PM EST
February 14, 2025 Friday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6805 words
Byline: Jesse Watters, Jeanine Pirro, Harold Ford Jr., Kennedy, Greg Gutfeld
Body


WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: -- it's Task Force Pineapple not "Pineapple Express", which was a movie starring Seth Rogen.
So, you know, you get some right, you get some wrong when you do live television.
Thanks for joining us where we get to the heart of the matter from the heart of America. I'll see you next week. Now we give you THE FIVE.
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Hello everybody. I'm Jesse Watters along with Judge Jeanine Pirro, Harold Ford Jr., Kennedy and Greg Gutfeld. It's 5:00 in New York City, and this is THE FIVE.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I will lift you up when they push you down. I will raise my voice and stand my ground. And it looks like it might be a hard road but I'm going to walk it with you.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: The Democrats' anti-DOGE choir is back with a fresh new track that's almost as painful as Greg's bump in music. Those liberal lunatics capping off another week of anti-Elon rallies raging against the waste management wizards.
DOGE now has a website that's keeping score in all the government slop their digging up. Case in point, the Department of Education just had to slash grants to four equity Assistance Centers, blowing $33 million of your taxpayer cash on things like this, workshop on whiteness.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Today's virtual roundtable is entitled identifying and disrupting your whiteness, a workshop addressing power and privilege toward anti-racist spaces.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: And we just got an exclusive clip, Sean Hannity sitting down with President Trump and Elon Musk for their first joint interview. Let's watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: You're both aware. You have to be keenly aware that the media and the punditry class, not that you know, I think you've proven, they have no power anymore, because they threw everything they had at you and they didn't win. And that was, you know, the New York Times, Washington Post, three networks every late night comedy show, two cable channels. They just drew -- they drew everything lawfare, weaponization.
And now I see they want you two to start -- they want a divorce. They want you two to start hating each other, and they try, oh, President Elon Musk, for example. You do know that they doing that to you?
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Oh, I see it all the time. They tried it, then they stopped. That wasn't -- they have many different things of hatred.
Actually, Elon called me. He said, you know they're trying to drive us apart. I said, absolutely. No, they said, we have breaking news. Donald Trump has ceded control of the presidency to Elon Musk. President Musk will be attending a Cabinet meeting tonight at 8:00.
And I say, it's just so obvious. They're so bad at it. I used to think they were good at it. They're actually bad at it, because if they were good at it, I'd never be president. Because I think nobody in history has ever gotten more bad publicity than me.
I could do the greatest things. I get 98 percent bad publicity. I could do outside of you, a few of your very good friends. It's like the craziest thing.
But you know what I have learned, Elon, the people are smart. They get it.
ELON MUSK, CEO, TESLA MOTORS: Yes, they do.
TRUMP: They get it. They really see what's happening.
MUSK: Yes.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: That interview airs next Tuesday at 9:00 Eastern. All right, Judge Jeanine, more singing from the Democrats. Are you enjoying that?
JEANINE PIRRO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL LEGAL ANALYST: Yes. I have to tell you that there is no better way for the Democrats to continue to destroy themselves than to continue on this mission that they have with the F Trump and F Elon and the singing. When the American people are like, we get this, just the way the President Trump is saying, we get this. We want to know where all the expenditures are going.
I just said to someone, did you know that $22 billion went to illegals from Joe Biden over two years, I think actually a year and a half for them to buy a house and buy a car and start a business when senior citizens and veterans are, you know, homeless or trying to figure out medication or food.
So, I just hope the Democrats continue to go down that road.
Now, 14 attorney generals across the country are now suing, saying that Elon Musk doing this is a violation of the appointments clause, and he lacks Senate confirmation, and he's got too much private information at his hands. You know what? It's nothing more than politically motivated attempt to destroy and hide.
Because as a prosecutor, I say to myself, like, who is against exposing fraud and corruption? OK, the ones who are at risk of being charged with fraud and corruption.
And you know, the ones who favor a bureaucracy and let the Dems do it, they'll lose again.
WATTERS: We're seeing polling in Arizona from swing state people. Kennedy, they want them to keep going. They say, keep cutting. They love it.
KENNEDY, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: And it was actually a very interesting polling group because it was people who had voted for Biden in 2020 who then switched their votes to Trump in 2024 because Bidenomics, as was the case for most people in the country, it didn't work out for them.
So, it didn't work out for them because their taxes are too high. Eggs are too expensive. People still are having a hard time making mortgage payments and paying the rent and affording college and everything else. So now they're realizing where that hard-earned tax money is actually going.
And the more we hear about $160 million going to a Canadian electric school bus factory that has now declared bankruptcy and never made good on their promise to deliver school busses, 100 million of them, to 55 school districts in the country. Like, that's where my money is gone. They actually want more of it.
Because the feeling is, if you cut out entire departments, and if you shed sunlight on all of this waste and abuse, then maybe taxes will finally come down. Then maybe federal expenditures will come down,.
And I'm shocked that Democrats haven't gotten on board with this and gone, you know what, we're not helping people if we're swirling this money away to projects that do absolutely nothing. We're Democrats. We're the party of the working man. So, let's ferret out the abuse and find better, less expensive ways to truly help people. But they're not doing that, and that's dumb.
WATTERS: Why can't they just have a reasonable position, Harold, where they thread the needle and say, Yes, we don't need the sex changes for the Guatemalans, you know, we don't need the DEI operas, but maybe we could just do this in a little bit of a more constitutional way.
HAROLD FORD JR., FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: Good to be with you, Kennedy, good to see you. I think -- and Happy Valentine's Day. I think a couple things.
WATTERS: Well, Harold, thank you. I didn't think -- I didn't think we were at that level.
FORD JR.: Nor will we ever be. (INAUDIBLE) the viewers Happy Valentine's Day. I'd say to -- I think that Kennedy touches on something with the Arizona swing voters. The Democrats say to be mindful, these were Democrats, or at least voted Democrat, then voted Republican this last go round, how they're perceiving this and how they're -- how they're valuing this is the group that Democrats, I think, those that are singing outside the agencies and outside the capitol.
I think this is the group they're trying to appeal to, but they're not. A separate survey that Gallup conducted showed that 45 percent of Democrats think that Democrats need to be more moderate, 11 point increase from just three or four years ago. These are the things we should be taking note of.
Now, what President Trump and Mr. Musk and others are doing with this DOGE and some of the other things, this is -- this is not a sprint, this is a marathon. This is only four weeks in here. We've got a long way to go. Democrats, if you are serious about wanting to reform government, then offer your own ideas. Offer other ideas to make government operate more efficiently. Offer more ideas to help cut spending and to bring our deficit down, to help tackle this enormous $36-37 trillion deficit that we have.
I think Donald Trump knows something as well, if we're six months from today or when we're six months from today, and he is still not engaging Congress, I think right now, not engaging Congress is serving him well. A Democrat, Republican alike, they can't wrap their heads around the speed and the scale in which he is operating at this point.
But if you -- in that same poll of Arizona voters, it showed that people are giving the president a little latitude and benefit the doubt on inflation. If we find ourselves with high prices like we have today, six months from now, eight months from now, and Republicans can't come together in the House and the Senate around a border security bill, which you seem to be squabbling about right now, even a long term budget deal. We may have a different conversation.
But as we sit here today, Jesse, I agree with you and I agree with Kennedy, this is a -- this is not a moment to be singing outside of agencies. This is a moment that gets serious about a plan, about a set of ideas, and frankly, how we would make government operate more efficiently.
WATTERS: If you could DOGE one thing at this table, Harold, would it be Greg's caller?
GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: I'd let him DOGE. I'd help him.
WATTERS: DOGE, DOGE. Greg?
GUTFELD: Jesse.
WATTERS: How are you feeling today?
GUTFELD: I'm feeling great, thank you.
WATTERS: You're welcome.
GUTFELD: And thank you for the chocolate.
WATTERS: You're welcome.
GUTFELD: Yes, thank you.
WATTERS: I know Belgian's your favorite.
GUTFELD: You know, you asked Harold about you know, can they do a reasonable position? It's hard because that lane is taken. When you say reasonable position, you mean common sense, so that's the high ground, and there's nothing around a high ground.
I'm not interested in saying the Democrats suck. Leave that to "OUTNUMBERED." I say -- I say, right now you suck. But here's what you got to do to get out of it. I think a lot of Dems, you know, people watch this show, Democrats -- there are more Democrats watching the show than CNN and MSNBC combined.
So, they come here for some kind of free therapy, and I'm here to give it to you because I actually want them to join us. And the Democrats have a choice to join the good guys or become a Bond villain.
Actually, it's worse than that. Good guys or become a Bond villain, because if you're going to defend waste, fraud and abuse, you are basically embracing the life of a Bond villain.
Actually, it's worse than that. It's like it is, you ever watch a zombie movie and you go like, you know, it would be just so much easier to get bitten and become a zombie, because then you're no longer terrified?
WATTERS: If you ever consider that?
GUTFELD: Yes, I do that, I feel like just get bitten. That's what I think a lot of Dems are doing, is that they're embracing a role that is just easier, but it forbids them from ever becoming the good guy. They're becoming a zombie.
And I think this is a bigger moment than maybe most people realize. This is the -- I think the biggest political moment since the fall of communism. In that case, that end was definitive. The wall comes down. USSR dissolves. Suddenly communism just evaporates, except in colleges.
For the Democrats, the wall has come down, and many of their leaders sense that the Democrat Party of before is dead. It's not in need of a rebrand. It's in need of a full body and mind transplant, and it's really hard to do that when you still have that stuff, the singing, the equity, the DEI. I don't think you can underestimate how wokeness, which is fueled by identity politics, essentially Cultural Marxism, infected the party and ate it out, devoured it from the inside. In a way, it's very similar to what happened to USSR, except it happened to a party, not a country.
So, I think that the Dems, my advice is to stop thinking about the role as an adversary to Trump, you have to ask yourself, what are we. You may find out that you're not anything anymore, and then they have to decide, what does that mean? Do I leave this party? Does -- do we start something new? What would that new thing be? Because it's really hard to find an oppositional point to Trump, because he's neither conservative, right? He's neither liberal. He's basically a populist. And it's hard to get footing when the guy is picking 80-20 popular issues, it's like, like when you said, a reasonable position, every one of them is taken.
WATTERS: And you're welcoming Democrats to go on this road of self- discovery here on THE FIVE.
GUTFELD: I think that it's -- I think that it's very hard to join the good guys if it's a blow to your ego and the opportunity costs that you've already dropped into your side.
FORD JR.: Greg, I give you even more credit. I think it's the Republican Party and Democrat Party as we know it today that is flummoxed, and frankly, has to reinvent it.
GUTFELD: I think you're right.
FORD JR.: And it's Trump that's going to organize it.
GUTFELD: It's bigger than we ever thought.
WATTERS: Well, if you want more of that beautiful interview between Elon Musk, Sean Hannity and Donald Trump, 9:00 Eastern Tuesday, check it out.
But up next, Democrats did less Chuck Schumer and more Chuck Norris, we'll explain.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
PIRRO: Democrats need to pair -- Democrats -- because I was going to say it, Democrats need to grow a pair if they want to start winning again. According to a new poll, liberal women are the most unhappy and lowly group, only 12 percent of them claim to be completely satisfied with their lives, and it's because all the manly men that flocked to President Trump. The Republican Party is capitalized on masculinity thanks to Democrat's obsession with catering to wimpy beta males. Clay Travis summed it up perfectly. Watch, this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Trump's like a grandpa.
CLAY TRAVIS, FOUNDER, OUTKICK: Well, hold on. Trump took a bullet in his ear and immediately stood up and said, fight, fight, fight. Every man in America, and most of the women out here were impressed by that, even if the women won't admit it, she's shaking her head strong. And second part of this basically summing it up, Democrats for men are (EXPLETIVE DELETED) and Republicans aren't.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PIRRO: Perhaps the left should take some notes from our Secretary of Defense. Pete Hegseth set was up at the crack of dawn working out with U.S. forces in Poland, despite freezing cold temperatures.
All right, so if -- I'll start with you, if progressive, Kennedy, ideology is supposed to empower women, why does it seem that so many of them are feeling miserable and alone and unhappy?
KENNEDY: Judge, you are a self-made woman, and you know what that takes. It takes hard work and self-belief and empowerment. You know, it comes by the grace of God, but it comes from within.
So, that means you are constantly looking at your life. You're going inside, you're trying to figure out, what will it take for me to do better? How can I work harder? How can I be more effective? And when you become a mom, it gives you even more of those refined superpowers.
But when you are conditioned to think that the outside world is the thing that controls your life and controls, you know, this empowerment center, then you are now the object of victimhood.
So, you now think that it is the external world that is creating your reality. So, you are constantly mad at the external world, instead of thinking of yourself as an empowered individual with agency who has choices to make based on, you know, her own volition and her own needs, instead of the world just screwing the pooch on my behalf.
PIRRO: I like that analogy. If you were advising a Democratic candidate, Harold, would you tell them to man up and start talking about issues like crime, economic stability, opportunity?
FORD JR.: Yes, I am a Democrat. So, I do see those things.
PIRRO: If you're advising a Democrat.
FORD JR.: If I were advising, I would do that. So I like Clay. I think that's a little oversimplification. I think as we look back at this last race, voters did what they did every time in a presidential race, they make a basic calculation about who can best make their lives better. Are they better off than they were a few years before if someone is running as an incumbent, and though Kamala Harris was not an incumbent, she was essentially running as an incumbent on a record that she had built as vice president.
Democrats had a clear and persuasive answer on how to secure the border, how to tackle and reduce inflation, if we'd applied common sense to cultural issues, we did it with abortion, but we didn't do it with little boys and little girls and bathrooms and sports, there might have been a different outcome to the race.
I'm not -- I'm not caught -- as much, caught up in some of the language, and manning up and all those kind of things. I mean, I get -- I think I get what they're saying. But if we -- again, we find ourselves six months from today -- from today, and prices are not coming down, and people don't feel more confident about the country's future, politics has a funny way of the pendulum coming back.
But unless we do these things, Judge, I don't mean to minimize or belittle this point or this moment, unless Democrats take note of where we are and what the country is expecting from politicians, we won't find ourselves in a majority anytime soon. We have to do that to win back the confidence of America.
PIRRO: You know what Kennedy was talking about, Jesse, is so true. And my question is social media. I mean, how much of this is social media? How the liberal women are kind of plugged into this toxic online spaces that fuel the victimhood and the anxiety?
WATTERS: Well, it reinforces the victimhood and the anxiety when you stare at that screen all day. But the Democrats haven't nominated a real man since Bill Clinton. Then they nominated Kerry, who was into kitesurfing and bicycling and Botox, and married an heiress. And then they had Obama, indecisive, aloof, not going to get into his marriage, not my role.
FORD JR.: Good for you.
WATTERS: Then they nominated Hillary Clinton. No man wanted to vote for Hillary Clinton, no man would be proud to vote for Hillary Clinton. And then Joe Biden, he was falling, he invited an invasion into this country, and he was scared of a virus. And then they put up Kamala. And even Black men were like, I've had it.
So, at this point too, you get these cultural currents coming in with the Me Too movement that made a lot of men scared and submissive, and then the pandemic, which made them conformist and lazy, and then DEI just made them apologetic.
So, then you have society conditioning men's testosterone down, and women see men with low testosterone, and they resent that, because they don't like that. So men just tried to get lucky by being feminists, and that's even more of a turn-off, and it's just a vicious cycle.
But the final straw was the transgender mania. Because real men, they know this destroys their families. It hurts their children, their sons and daughters, but they still submitted to it. And that's when the Democratic Party broke man.
And then there was a revolt. You got unions, you got blacks, Hispanics, millennials, they were like, I am out of here. And that left who? Chuck Schumer, tampon Tim, the mayor, Pete. And so, everybody was like, I don't want to be at this table where it's tampon Tim and a bunch of angry women screaming, we're going to go over here, we're going to tell jokes, we're going to get things done, just don't give us any grief. And that's where we are now.
PIRRO: Thank you for that.
WATTERS: You're welcome.
PIRRO: Greg, wrap it up.
GUTFELD: Yes. I mean, it is obvious that men are driven by the idea of security and protection. It's why we are always interested in self-defense, action movies, Second Amendment, law and order, secure border.
But Jesse, as much as it pains me, is right that the breaking -- the breaking point was trans, and when you get in the argument of trans, it's a tiny population. Well, then why is the needs of a tiny population being placed on us, and why are we supposed to remain silent and sympathetic to something that is so clearly wrong?
What we noticed among women and women are tend to be the tendency to be more compassionate and empathetic, were being exploited by autogynephiles, men that like to dress up as women as a fetish and then prey -- then they preyed upon the compassion of women to defend them and other -- and it was just a matter of time where men were like going, you know what? This just isn't right, you know?
And then, suddenly, you looked at all the policies and the attitudes, and it made actual men feel unwanted. And there's one thing about men, they don't like being where they aren't wanted.
So, it wasn't like the Republicans really had to court them. They were being uncorked by the Democrats. They were saying, we think you are a sub species, you can still hang around here. But then what kind of man hangs around like that?
And I'm not talking about men -- like the problem with the Democratic Party as you don't see Harolds. The people you see are the David Hoggs. I don't believe that all Democrats are David Hoggs. I would like to think there are more Harold Fords, but we just don't see -- you only see them -- you only see them on THE FIVE, which is a real bummer, you know?
But I guess my point is, I think the Democrat Party, and this is my advice, I would give to them, you know, when the part -- when the only men you elevate are men who say they're women, you got to stop that, and you got to depoliticize life.
Sometimes a game is a game. A bathroom is a bathroom. A woman is a woman. And most guys would rather talk about the game than they would talk about trans. And I think that what has happened is the politicalization has driven men out to the arms of the Republicans.
WATTERS: Did you see the game last night?
GUTFELD: Oh, it was amazing. I love a good game of Yahtzee.
PIRRO: All right, ahead, ditch the Doritos and throw on some slacks. Jamie Dimon ripped deadbeat workers for refusing to come back to the office.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
FORD JR.: Corporate CEOs are sick and tired of seeing you on Zoom picking your nose and chowing on Doritos. JPMorgan boss Jamie Dimon scolding his workers in a leaked audio obtained by Barron's after they signed a petition demanding to be exempt from the company's return to the office mandate. Take a listen to this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JAMIE DIMON, CEO, JPMORGAN CHASE: A lot of you were on the (BLEEP) Zoom and you were doing the following, OK, you know, look at your mail, sending text to each other when (BLEEP) the other person is, OK. Not paying attention, not reading your stuff, you know. And if you don't think that slows down efficiency, creativity, creates rudeness, it does, OK.
And when I found out that people are doing that, you don't do that (BLEEP) in meetings. And don't give me that (BLEEP) work from home Friday works. I've had it with this kind of stuff. And you know, I come in -- you know, I've been working seven days of (BLEEP) week since COVID. And I come in and I was, where's everybody else?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
FORD JR.: Judge, I know that language is offensive to you but when you hear that, do you -- do you hear the message, the substance?
PIRRO: Darn right it's about time. Look, Jamie Dimon, OK, is right. I mean, apparently 1300 employees petition they want to stay home and all this nonsense. And you know, he came out -- whether or not he leaked that information to -- you know, because he was not in such good stead with President Trump. So, maybe he wants to be part of the gang again.
But look, he said there's no more debates, no more petitions, return to the damn office, get your button gear and start working like everybody else. But it's typical. It's like the boss is there longer than most people are there. And now, this whole mentality of you don't have to go to work is nonsense. And by the way, did you know that in-person work doubled in the last year? In-person --
FORD JR.: Double?
PIRRO: Yes, in-person work doubled in the last year. So, it's a good thing. It's motivating.
FORD JR.: You think that that thing was leaked intentionally by Mr. Dimon or you think that it just happened to get out there?
WATTERS: It made him look like a tough guy. And when I heard that --
FORD JR.: He is a tough guy now.
WATTERS: I wanted to quit this job and work for that guy. I'd probably sync the company because I can't do basic math, but good thing I'm at Fox. I remember having my first babies and I told O'Reilly I was going to take paternity. And he said, what are you going to just sit around and watch the kid spit up on itself? He had no tolerance for this kind of stuff.
I worked Thanksgiving. I worked Christmas Eve, July 4th. I think I missed funerals for my own family because this guy was such a hard ass. And I was scared to miss a day. It was like -- it was like two feet of snow, I went into the office, no one else was here. I was the only one here. But I was just terrified and that's what people should be.
They're paying these people a lot of money at JPMorgan. They get stock options. They get all this kind of health benefits. I don't feel sorry for Wall Street bankers that have a hybrid schedule where they get Fridays and Mondays off. They're saying it disproportionately pushes out women. OK. Well, women sometimes have to take care of the children. That's life. It says it pushes out senior employees. OK, if you're 80 and you can't make it to work, maybe you should retire.
PIRRO: Oh.
WATTERS: And if you have disabilities, you were getting to work with a disability before the pandemic. I know it's tough. We're not going to make allowances for everybody. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
FORD JR.: Kennedy, building on those points, the surveys show that there's a good number of people --
WATTERS: What points?
FORD JR.: On your great points.
KENNEDY: Oh, you mean the O'Reilly pinata?
FORD JR.: There are number of workers who are willing to take a pay cut in order to stay home. But I think Jamie Dimon has a point. Does this -- does this reduce the nation's productivity, reduce our ability to compete on the global stage if people are willing to take 15 to 20 percent pay cuts to be able to stay home?
KENNEDY: Yes. But you know for a long time --
FORD JR.: How do we reverse it?
KENNEDY: -- especially during the pandemic, the employment trends were on worker sides. So, they could do that, and they decided they liked staying home, and to them that became an entitlement. So, they wanted to keep it that way and they could because it was so hard to find good people.
You know, the labor force was such that they were the ones holding all the cards. That has now shifted. And now, employers they're the ones who are having to cut jobs pretty much across the board in every sector. And so, they are deciding that they want people to collaborate. Collaboration on Zoom, it's not the same thing as sitting down with a group of people in a room and talking about ideas and building those ideas one off the other.
And that is how you increase productivity. That is how you boost the bottom line. And if we are letting people stay home because it makes their feelings better and more cozy, then we're making people soft. And you know, you've got an entire generation sandwiched in between Gen Zers and Gen Xers -- because Gen Xers are closer to the grave, who are soft and they do feel entitled.
And I actually am optimistic about the future because there's so many parents -- and Jesse can attest to this, of young kids who are not going to let them have phones. They are not going to let them get addicted to social media. That means that they're going to be better at in-person contact and looking people in the eye and allowing people to stay home completely neuters that ability which is critical if you are going to crush the world in hedge money.
FORD JR.: Greg, I wonder if your answer to this question would have been different six months ago before the birth of your first child. In light of what Kennedy is saying and what we want this next generation, do -- does it -- does it -- has it changed your view at all? Has it made you harder about it?
GUTFELD: God, I totally forgot I had a kid. Wow. You know who hates --
PIRRO: I believe him.
GUTFELD: You know who really hates Zoom? Jeffrey Toobin. See, when you're home, you kind of let yourself go. You forget about certain kinds of things like putting on your pants.
PIRRO: Your pants.
GUTFELD: You know, you don't want to whack off in front of your co-workers.
KENNEDY: Oh, my. He just got a job at the New York Times, by the way. You know, this is more evidence that -- of the Trump effect that suddenly you're hearing people express things they wouldn't say before. All the preference falsification is falling away. And Jesse kind of hits on it that, you know, why didn't people -- why didn't Jamie Dimon say this before? Why haven't people spoken out about things like this? It's because whenever you do, there are a group of people that will make the exception to the rule and enforcing behavior on the masses.
So, let's say you have this discussion. You know, it'd be really good for everybody to come back to work for office morale and productivity, and then someone will say, well, what about Madge? She's an agoraphobic with carpal tunnel syndrome. And then you go -- you go -- you're the manager, you go, well, you know what? She's an exception but offices are here for people to work in them. And then that person will say, you don't care about the disabled. You don't care about parents with babies. You don't care about women with cats. What about the those people?
And so, every issue -- this is another problem with the Democratic Party -- every issue ruled by common sense runs up against the exception argument whether it's deporting illegals. Well, what about the little children. Or the homelessness -- oh, that's a homeless family. You can't get them off the street. Or incarceration -- oh that person, he has a heart of gold. Everything is an exception and that ends up hurting the masses in the long run, Harold.
And you, my friend, are the exception. You're an exceptional man. Happy Valentines!
WATTERS: Oh, don't say it.
FORD JR.: Coming up --
WATTERS: Don't say it.
FORD JR.: Coming up, grab your Valentines because a flaming hot asteroid is barreling towards Earth.
GUTFELD: Flaming hot.
FORD JR.: "THE FASTEST is up next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
KENNEDY: Hi, baby! Happy Valentine's Day, America! But you better find that special someone quick because a city-killer asteroid is hurdling toward Earth. Chilling animations depict the devastating damage it would cause upon impact. But don't panic yet, there's only a two percent probability the enormous rock strikes in late 2032. So, fellas, better get a rock on that lady's finger ASAP.
Every kiss begins with K, Jesse.
WATTERS: So, I can't take Emma to a Valentine's Day dinner because I have to eat a very romantic dinner with Johnny upstairs in my office before the show at 8:00. So, we had a sexy breaky -- that's sexy breakfast. And that was my way of saying I love you, just not enough to take the day off and do a dinner.
PIRRO: Did you buy her something?
WATTERS: I bought her breakfast.
PIRRO: That she cooked?
WATTERS: No, no, I bought her the breakfast. Someone else cooked it.
KENNEDY: I'm glad we're talking about the asteroid, Harold. Is there something comforting about everyone being mowed down all at once in a cataclysmic celestial event beyond our control?
FORD JR.: You know, I go to church and I just kind of let my faith guide me on this thing. If this thing does happen, so be it. I'm happy I got my kids, I got my wife. What I've learned on Valentine's Day, I try to teach my kids that the importance of kindness and love and compassion. We're talking about kids giving gifts at school and boys giving girls and girls giving little girls and boys. I think it's a wonderful thing for them to use the holiday to do that.
And I hope they didn't show this asteroid at school today. They're going to come home -- they're going to come home --
KENNEDY: I mean, 2032. It feels like long ways away. You know, that's seven years.
FORD JR.: I'm old. So, 2032 is really far away.
KENNEDY: Judge, what do you think about it?
PIRRO: About the asteroid or Valentine's?
KENNEDY: What about the asteroid forcing people to couple quickly and maybe make some bad decisions?
PIRRO: Yes, well a couple quick -- couple quickly, watch a movie, order some takeout. Have at it, honey. It's all good with me.
WATTERS: We only have seven years left. It's not really the pressure cooker.
KENNEDY: How can they predict the exact moment an asteroid will hit the Earth but they can't predict the weather and they've been wrong about climate change?
GUTFELD: You know, this is my point. You know, they tell you -- they tell you it's two percent to make you feel good. It's 50 percent. Either you get hit by an asteroid or you don't. It's like if -- it's -- how is that two percent? Don't do the math. You either get hit by it or you don't. That's 50-50.
By the way, who are we to say that we're getting hit by an asteroid? We could be hitting the asteroid. That is so Earth Centric of ourselves.
PIRRO: Yes.
GUTFELD: By the way, the government will be building an asteroid protective shield. It should be ready on 2033.
WATTERS: Yes.
GUTFELD: So, I'm a little bit worried about that. Yes.
KENNEDY: Not if Pete Hegseth has anything to say about it.
GUTFELD: Yes.
KENNEDY: We will -- we will absolutely defeat that. And "FAN MAIL FRIDAY" is up next. Stay with us.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GUTFELD: For Red Eye. It's "FAN MAIL FRIDAY." This is an interesting question, so I'm going to read it slowly. Have you ever had a thought that you were positive no one else has had ever?
WATTERS: Nope, never.
FORD JR.: Have you ever --
PIRRO: Yes.
GUTFELD: You know what? I believe you, Jesse.
WATTERS: Yes. I know. You always say, Jesse, if I've heard it from him, I've heard it before.
GUTFELD: It is so true. It's a tough question.
FORD JR.: I don't understand the question.
PIRRO: Yes, I did. Can I answer it?
GUTFELD: Have you ever -- yes.
PIRRO: OK. So, I eat a lot of ginger.
GUTFELD: Yes?
PIRRO: And I figured out a way to peel the ginger without killing yourself for -- you know where the bumps and lumps and everything else. And I said no one has thought of what I'm thinking of now. And then they -- it was a tele -- commercial on television, somebody had a patent on it.
GUTFELD: Well, you almost had an invention. Kennedy, you have a lot of interesting thoughts. Care to share one?
KENNEDY: I'm about to expose myself as a dumb-dumb, but I'm confident enough in in my own abilities to do that. So, I was eating, you know, chips and guac at a wonderful Southern California Mexican restaurant. And I put two of the tortilla chips together. And I said holy crap, do you realize tortilla chips are tortillas that are cut into quarters? And everyone looked at me like, how did you not know that?
WATTERS: I didn't know that. I didn't know that.
KENNEDY: Neither did I.
PIRRO: I didn't know that either.
KENNEDY: Yes.
PIRRO: I mean, I never thought about it.
KENNEDY: Yes. You put tortilla chips together.
GUTFELD: That's -- it's fun to see how things get made and then you go, oh, my God. That's where -- that's where babies come from. Harold?
WATTERS: It's not the story.
FORD JR.: I don't fully -- I don't fully get the question.
GUTFELD: Of course you don't.
FORD JR.: You got -- ever since you got the -- Judge, you got me a record player, a new record player --
PIRRO: Yes.
FORD JR.: -- and you got me albums. And I have 45 still, so I try to put the thing down on it without that little yellow thing you put in the middle like you're supposed to. Does this make any sense to you all?
GUTFELD: Yes.
PIRRO: Yes, yes, yes.
FORD JR.: And I didn't do.
PIRRO: The disc, that makes it fit.
FORD JR.: So, I got it and I got it to able to play the record for like --
PIRRO: Without the disc.
FORD JR.: Without the disc.
PIRRO: Oh, my God. You're in the wrong decade.
GUTFELD: You're a crazy person. You know, I would have got -- the tortilla thing. Do I -- do you remember -- were you here on THE FIVE when I revealed that I didn't -- I thought veal was a separate animal?
WATTERS: You didn't know what veal was.
GUTFELD: No. I thought veal was an actual different animal.
WATTERS: Oh, yes, yes. Like -- yes. It's just a baby cow.
PIRRO: Next question.
(CROSSTALK)
GUTFELD: I didn't know it was a baby cow. I thought it was like its own. Hey, like let's go shoot some --
WATTERS: I felt so smart that day.
GUTFELD: -- let's go shoot some veal.
PIRRO: OK.
GUTFELD: Do I have one more question or no?
FORD JR.: Yes.
GUTFELD: What would be your expert category on Jeopardy? I'm going to go to you, Harold.
FORD JR.: Southern history.
WATTERS: Northern history.
GUTFELD: Kennedy?
KENNEDY: Ancient Greek philosophers.
GUTFELD: Really?
KENNEDY: Yes.
GUTFELD: Wow.
PIRRO: Wow.
GUTFELD: Judge?
PIRRO: Can I be very basic?
GUTFELD: Yes.
PIRRO: Shoes.
WATTERS: Nice. I'll take shoes for $1000, Alex.
GUTFELD: I'm going to go with the history of sanitation.
WATTERS: Oh, gross.
GUTFELD: "ONE MORE THING" is up next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: Give him a cookie.
FORD JR.: Oh, God. Give him a cookie.
WATTERS: It's time for "ONE MORE THING." Judge.
PIRRO: All right, everybody, take a look. The nexio, guys. All right, so celebrate Valentine's Day, our friends at Chip City Cookies sent us some of their new limited time cookies --
FORD JR.: Oh, God.
PIRRO: -- along with special Valentine tins.
WATTERS: OK. Graceful.
PIRRO: The new flavors include Hershey's chocolate covered, strawberries, red velvet, hot cinnamon, red velvet -- oh, anyway, they look good. Everybody, help yourself. If you want it, you can get it at Chip City stores or by shipping nationwide on Goldbelly.
WATTERS: Goldbelly.
PIRRO: You ever heard of Goldbelly? I haven't.
FORD JR.: It's a shipping --
WATTERS: Shipping.
FORD JR.: Shipping platform.
PIRRO: Yes, you didn't know that until I told you.
WATTERS: Greg?
GUTFELD: I want everybody to say Chip City 10 times fast.
WATTERS: Chip City, Chip City, Chip City, Chip City.
PIRRO: Chip City.
KENNEDY: Chip City.
GUTFELD: All right. Tonight, we've got Jon Taffer from Bar Rescue, Andrew Gruel, the great chef, Timpf, and Tyrus. That's tonight of 10:00. Let's do this.
PIRRO: Is this still working?
GUTFELD: Yes. Greg's Sexy Bear News. Check out.
WATTERS: Oh, yes.
GUTFELD: Yes. This is Jenny. The 17-year-old Syrian brown bear knows how to work that tongue.
KENNEDY: Oh, my God.
GUTFELD: Yes. Loving her time in the sun at the Orphaned Wildlife Center just waiting for the right cub to come along. Check out her soft nails gently glide against the cold smooth ice. You know that bears in captivity don't normally hibernate. But with her, why would you want to? I'd like to be out with her all day. We'll be right back.
WATTERS: Jenny. Let me pull myself together here. You guys know how much I like the Japanese? Well, this thing really tickled my fancy. 120 teams met a throwdown in Japan's largest organized annual snowball fight. The rules are like dodgeball. If you get hit, you're out. The team with the last man standing wins. But the lights aren't bright enough for the tourney organizers. They're trying to get snowball fighting as they say in Japan into the Winter Olympics. Something says the Americans would win that.
Tonight, "JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME," Obama's Valentine's Day plans.
GUTFELD: Wow.
WATTERS: 8:00.
GUTFELD: Interesting.
WATTERS: Harold?
FORD JR.: Jesse, this is for you. Imagine pulling up to one of your favorite fast food chains and you see your hero. People in Philly and Bucks County got a chance to see Saquon Barkley serving at Raising Cane's. Raising Cane's got good chicken by the way. The championship running back for the Eagles -- obviously played for the Giants, now with the Eagles. Congratulations to him. He talked about his philanthropic plans for the summer. And fans couldn't be -- couldn't have been happy to see him. Congratulations!
WATTERS: And Johnny was at the parade in Philly today for the Eagles and we're going to have that on Monday, so definitely watch. Kennedy?
KENNEDY: Yes, James Howells lost $800 million in Bitcoin on a hard drive. He threw it out in 2013. He's now trying to buy the landfill in the U.K. to retrieve it. They're about to shut it down. He wants to buy it before they do so he can find his almost $1 billion. Get it, James.
PIRRO: Oh, my God.
WATTERS: It sucks to suck, James.
PIRRO: That's incredible.
WATTERS: Good luck with that.
PIRRO: Yes. That's it for us. Have a great night, everybody. And we'll see you back here on Monday.

Load-Date: February 14, 2025


End of Document
