




Newsweek.com
January 20, 2025 Monday 7:35 AM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 1030 words
Byline: Chloe Mayer
Highlight: Government says a tough sentence that will serve as a deterrent is needed because Ryan Samsel "was the first rioter to breach the restricted perimeter."
Body


The U.S. government wants a January 6 ringleader to be locked up for 20 years after he was convicted of a string of felonies relating to the storming of the Capitol in 2021.
Ryan Samsel, a barber from Pennsylvania, had brandished a huge flag depicting President-elect  as Rambo when he helped lead a mob to storm police barricades after becoming enraged that Trump had lost the 2020 election to President .
Samsel was found guilty back in February 2024 of assaulting Capitol police officer Caroline Edwards, as well as being convicted of felony counts of civil disorder and obstruction of an official proceeding.
Now, the  (DOJ) has submitted a sentencing memorandum requesting that Samsel face significant prison time, with "240 months of incarceration."
Why It Matters
Samsel's conviction was a key part of justice proceedings because he was one of the central players involved in the Capitol riot, an event that has had . Samsel's case is a part of a broader effort by law enforcement and the legal system to hold accountable those who participated in the riot before Trump returns to power on Monday—and potentially pardons all of them.
What To Know
Samsel's actions on January 6 were caught on camera, giving prosecutors plenty of video evidence during his trial. His face was uncovered and he wore a red MAGA baseball cap, the acronym associated with Trump's rallying cry to "Make America Great Again," while waving a flag depicting Trump as Rambo, the avenging action hero played by Sylvester Stallone in the movie franchise.
Some images of Samsel were shared on X (formerly ) by  journalist Scott MacFarlane in May 2021, which can be viewed below:
Footage showed Samsel engaged in conversation with  leader  after his seditious conspiracy conviction—at Peace Circle near the Capitol. Shortly afterward, Samsel went to the police line, removed his jacket and turned his hat backward, then began ripping down the bike racks that were being used by officers to form a line of defense. As Samsel attacked the barricades, Officer Edwards flew backward and struck her head on a metal banister and some concrete steps, which briefly knocked her unconscious. She has suffered from debilitating migraines ever since, she told lawmakers in 2023.
During his trial, it emerged that Samsel had a history of violence, particularly against women. He had a conviction for beating and choking a woman until she lost consciousness, and another conviction for brutally assaulting his pregnant girlfriend which culminated in holding her head underwater in a canal.
Regarding the January 6 convictions, the government filed its sentencing memorandum on Sunday, January 19, calling for a tough sentence, although noting that its "recommended sentence is at the midpoint of the Guidelines range (of 210-262 months' imprisonment), as calculated by both Probation and the government."
What People Are Saying
, the U.S. government "requests that this Court sentence Ryan Samsel to 240 months of incarceration, three years of supervised release, $2,000 restitution, a fine, and the mandatory assessment of $100 for each felony conviction and $10 for each class B misdemeanor conviction (totaling $520)." The document stated this was within the "midpoint" of possible sentences for the charges involved.
Describing the crimes in the memorandum, the government said: "Ryan Samsel participated in the January 6, 2021 attack on the United States Capitol—a violent attack that forced an interruption of the certification of the 2020 Electoral College vote count, threatened the peaceful transfer of power after the 2020 Presidential election, injured more than one hundred police officers, and resulted in more than 2.9 million dollars in losses. Samsel was the first rioter to breach the restricted perimeter on January 6, 2021."
The document described how Samsel had caused injuries to Edwards, then added: "Samsel spent the next hour and a half terrorizing the police on the West Front. He assaulted the police with his flag, grabbed another officer's shield, tore at scaffolding, flashed officers, grabbed a 2x4 plank and hurled it at the police line, and threw a pole at a different police line."
The document added that Samsel had shown no remorse, and instead was "proud" of his actions. It went on to state: "A significant sentence is needed [...] The need to deter others is especially strong in cases involving domestic terrorism, which the breach of the Capitol certainly was."
And the government's sentencing memorandum said that Samsel had "fundraised aggressively off his notoriety" online, saying: "It would be a grave injustice to permit Samsel to enrich himself not only from his conduct on January 6, but from his widespread lies about his conduct and what took place on January 6. A substantial fine is warranted in this case."
Incoming President Donald Trump has previously said he will begin  on his first day in office. He has said he will look at individuals on a case-by-case basis, because there may be "some exceptions"—for example, if "somebody was radical, crazy." But he , such as assaulting police officers.
Vice President-elect JD Vance said on January 12: "I think it's very simple. Look, if you protested peacefully on January 6th, and you had 's Department of Justice treat you like a gang member, you should be pardoned. If you committed violence on that day, obviously, you shouldn't be pardoned. And there's a little bit of a gray area there."
What Happens Next
All eyes will be on Trump, who will receive the keys to the White House on Monday. He has vowed to hit the ground running with a raft of executive orders on his first day in office, including actions on border security and ending diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) programs throughout the federal government.
It remains to be seen whether pardons for January 6 rioters will be on his to-do list.


Graphic

 
Jan 6 riot
JOSEPH PREZIOSO/AFP via Getty Images
Trump supporters clash with police and security forces before storming the US Capitol Building in Washington, DC, on January 6, 2021.

Load-Date: January 20, 2025


End of Document
