




USA Today Online
February 13, 2025 9:05 AM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Section: US NEWS & MEXICO NEWS
Length: 592 words
Byline: Nicole Russell, USA TODAY
Body


President Donald Trump has changed the national conversation in America in less than a month.
Ever the provocateur, Trump has issued a rash of executive orders that range from  to . The  (diversity, equity and inclusion) have been stripped from federal agencies. And even Google Maps has bowed to Trump's influence, now labeling the Gulf of Mexico as the .
What a time to be alive.
But these are for the most part small-scale adjustments. I hope the best is yet to come, with transformative changes that really matter and that America needs.
Trump and Congress, for example, must extend his first-term tax cuts, tame our massive federal deficit, modernize the federal government and rebuild our manufacturing base.
Trump can do more than DOGE

I've made a big deal out of what , and those efforts to cut waste and fraud are important.
Nonetheless, Trump needs to do even more to make government work for the American people on a large scale. Does anyone really believe that government agencies are as efficient and effective in delivering services to the public as we should expect?
In yet another executive order, Trump on Tuesday vowed to "" by cutting it significantly. The  about 3 million workers and operates more than 400 agencies. 
The sheer size and reach of the government helps drive an annual  last year and a national debt that now .
Opinion: 
It's not just about cuts, however. The government also needs to make better use of technology, including artificial intelligence. 
Trump also should take a transformative approach to the tax system. Extending his , set to expire this year, is a no-brainer. More than , according to the Taxpayers Protection Alliance.
And because they've helped small businesses, the cuts have fostered stronger economic growth.
Trump has the chance to transform our economy
It's fine I suppose for Trump to rename bodies of water, but there are bigger oceans to explore. 
Can Trump and Congress balance the budget, a feat not accomplished in ? 
Opinion: 
Can they overhaul the tax code? 
And rebuild an economy that has left behind millions of working-class Americans?
How great would those accomplishments be for all Americans. 
Opinion newsletter: Sign up for our newsletter on conservative values, family and religion from columnist Nicole Russell. .
I understand Trump's decision to take on DEI and to stop making pennies. I don't even mind renaming the Gulf of Mexico. 
But he must resist the urge to splash about in shallow waters just to make waves.
Nicole Russell is a columnist at USA TODAY and a mother of four who lives in Texas. Contact her at  and follow her on X, formerly Twitter: . Sign up for her weekly newsletter, .
You can read diverse opinions from our  and other writers on the , on X, formerly Twitter,  and in our .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: February 13, 2025


End of Document
