




Fox News FOX SPECIAL REPORT WITH BRET BAIER 6:00 PM EST
January 21, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7395 words
Byline: Bret Baier, Aishah Hasnie, Peter Doocy, David Spunt, Rich Edson, Brooke Taylor, Jennifer Griffin
Guests: Larry Ellison, Sam Altman, Masayoshi Son, Matt Bennett, Mary Katharine Ham, Josh Holmes
Body


DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I think it was a nice letter. I think I should let people see it, because it was a positive for him in writing it, I appreciated the letter.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Mr. President, were security concerns at all after when deciding to move your inauguration indoors?
TRUMP: No, not at all. No, not at all. It was just cold, if we would have - - you know, I just went out to the helicopter right to -- we said, goodbye. That's a tradition, as long as helicopter -- before, it used to be a stage coach, and then helicopters came along.
But that's been a tradition. You go out and you do that. And we stood there for 10 minutes. And I'll tell you what, people would not have been able to get through that day. That was cold. It was sort of interesting. Don't let the sun fool you.
Tell me something, sunny days can get very cold, can't they, because that was so freezing yesterday, you couldn't have gotten through it. It would have been -- and the answer is no, not it wasn't security.
With that being said, I thought the Capitol, the rotunda was beautiful. 72 degrees. Unbelievable sound. You know, it's like being in an opera house. I could see people wanting to do it there, rather than outside.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Why did they remove John Bolton's security clearance, sir?
TRUMP: Because I think there was enough time. It's -- we take a job, you take a job, you want to do a job. We're not going to have security on people for the rest of their lives. Why should we? I thought he was -- I thought he was a very dumb person, but I used him well, because every time people saw me come into a meeting with John Bolton standing behind me, they thought that he'd attack them because he was a warmonger. He's the one that got us involved, along with Cheney and a couple of others, convinced Bush, which was a terrible decision, to blow up the Middle East.
You know, we blew up the Middle East and we left. We got nothing out of it, except a lot of death. We killed a lot of people, and John Bolton was, you know, one of those guys, a stupid guy, but no, you can't have that for life. You shouldn't expect it for life.
(CROSSTALK)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Sir, you have a meeting mentioned with President Zelenskyy, will that take place here and when and where will you meet?
TRUMP: I don't know. I mean, look, President Zelenskyy would like to have peace. He's told me that very strongly he'd like to have peace, but it takes two to tango. We'll see what happens.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: When will you meet with President Putin?
TRUMP: Anytime they want I'll meet. I'd like to see that end. Millions of people are being killed, and they're being killed. It's a vicious situation, and they'll now largely soldiers. A lot of people's -- people have been killed in the cities, they look like demolition sites, buildings, massive buildings, bombed and coming down.
The thing with Ukraine is that many more people died than you're reporting. You're not reporting the real numbers, and I'm not blaming you for that. I'm blaming -- I'm blaming, maybe our government, for not wanting to release those numbers. Many more people died than what you know about.
When those big buildings come down and they say two people were injured, no, no. Many people, thousands of people are being killed.
But the people, the real killing now is on the war front. It's a very flat land, and the only thing that stops a bullet is somebody's body. And you have young soldiers. So, Russia has lost about 800,000 soldiers now, Ukraine has lost about 600 or 700,000 I think the numbers are low that they're giving out.
And but they've lost massive numbers of young soldiers, and that war should stop. It's very flat, you know, it's beautiful farmland, and it's flat and really beautiful in a different kind of a way. But they don't have any protection.
The only thing that stops a bullet is a body, and those bodies are stopping a lot of bullets, and they're getting -- they're being decimated both sides.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: When you have your conversation with President Xi, what did you tell him in terms of when to expect tariffs, and what can he do to avoid?
TRUMP: About which one?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Tariffs.
TRUMP: About tariffs? We didn't talk too much about tariffs, other than he knows where I stand.
Look, I put large tariffs on China. I've taken in hundreds of billions of dollars. Until I was president, China never paid not $0.10 to the United States. With me, they paid hundreds of $600 billion or so, or more, might more than that, even of tariffs.
And if I didn't do that, you wouldn't have a steel mill open in the United States right now. You wouldn't have one steel mill open in the United States. So, what I did is I saved the steel industry. I saved other industries too with other tariffs.
Other countries are big abusers also, you know, it's not just China. China's an abuser, but the European Union is very, very bad to us. They treat us very, very badly. They don't take our cars. They don't take our cars at all. They don't take our farm products, essentially, they don't take very much. We have a $350 billion deficit with the European Union. They treat us very, very badly. So, they're going to be in for tariffs.
The only way you're going to get back, it's the only way you're going to get fairness. You can't get fairness unless you do that. But the European Union treated us very badly.
But essentially, everybody treats us badly. You know, everybody treats us badly. Yes, go ahead, because we allow them to. Because we've had stupid people doing this, and we can't have -- I wouldn't have -- I'd like to have these three people negotiate for us just for one week, and would be a rich country again, but we'll be rich.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Mr. President, on A.I. data centers, will you rescind President Biden's executive order that opens up federal land?
TRUMP: On which centers?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: On data centers, will you rescind President Biden's executive order that opens up federal lands for data centers and energy production?
TRUMP: No, I wouldn't do that. That sounds to me like it's something that I would like. I'd like to see federal lands opened up for data centers. I think they're going to be very important.
Again, we have a lot of competition for that, so it's an honor to have these three great people, great great CEOs and great geniuses, all three. It's an honor that they want to come to our country, but we're going to make it as easy as we can for them, because other countries want them to.
I'm going to have to go now. Thank you all very much. Thank you.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: President Donald J. Trump, talking for about 55 minutes there, the 47th president in the first full day in the Oval Office announcing a project called the Stargate Project. Let's listen and hold on.
Missed that as he's heading to the Oval Office with these three executives, we're going to talk to all three of those men here on the show about a $500 billion project for infrastructure in artificial intelligence being built in the U.S. over the next four years.
Good evening, I'm Bret Baier for SPECIAL REPORT, reporting tonight from the White House on this the first full day of President Trump's second term.
You know, the president shaking things up at the border. A look at how his new immigration policies already having an impact. The president's nominee for Pentagon chief is facing some new allegations tonight that Democratic senators are jumping on. We'll lay out those allegations and the pushback.
Meantime, his pick for Secretary of State receives unanimous Senate confirmation and gets ready for some big changes at the State Department.
President Trump already making some big moves, as we just said, he announced this partnership with tech leaders to invest tens of billions of dollars in artificial intelligence infrastructure inside the U.S. Again, we'll talk to those gentlemen in just a minute live here on SPECIAL REPORT.
The president also revealing moments ago what could be next, saying he's met with the owners of TikTok, and that he is also open to Elon Musk buying the social media platform. President Trump also teasing another executive order on California's water supply.
Earlier in the day, he huddled with Republican congressional leaders eager to proceed with his legislative agenda up on Capitol Hill.
Senior White House Correspondent Peter Doocy starts us off tonight, just down the row here. Good evening, Peter.
PETER DOOCY, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Good evening, Bret. President Trump says this is his first day back after having a very nice life. And the newsiest part was this announcement from Oracle, OpenAI and SoftBank that they're going to spend $500 million on data centers, A.I. data centers, beginning in Texas, and these things could be the cure to -- could be part of the cure for cancer.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
TRUMP: It's the largest A.I. infrastructure project by far in history.
DOOCY (voice over): The joint data center project is called Stargate.
SAM ALTMAN, CEO, OPENAI: I believe that as this technology progresses, we will see diseases get cured at an unprecedented rate. We will be amazed at how quickly we're curing this cancer and that one and heart disease.
DOOCY (voice over): President Trump hosted Republican lawmakers at the White House today.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He's going to wear us out. He's going to wear us out.
DOOCY (voice over): And the new president's team is teasing new tariffs.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: In our view, tariffs are tax cuts.
DOOCY (voice over): Coming as soon as February 1st.
TRUMP: We're thinking in terms of 25 percent on Mexico and Canada because they're allowing vast numbers of people.
DOOCY (voice over): A plan is also taking shape to confront Chinese influence in this hemisphere.
TRUMP: China controls the Panama Canal. We're not going to allow that to happen.
DOOCY (voice over): President Trump and Vice President Vance attended a prayer service this morning and wound up getting an earful from the reverend.
BISHOP MARIANN EDGAR BUDDE, EPISCOPAL DIOCESE OF WASHINGTON: There are gay, lesbian and transgender children in Democratic, Republican and Independent families, some who fear for their lives.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Not too exciting, was it?
TRUMP: I didn't think it was a good service.
DOOCY (voice over): The first press briefing of the new administration will happen at a time to be named later.
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY DESIGNATE: I might bring some notes with me, but my binder is in my brain because I know President Trump's policies, and we have truth on our side at this White House.
DOOCY (voice over): The new president picked up where he left off with a lengthy Oval Office Q and A that included the dramatic reveal of a letter from former President Biden.
TRUMP: He may have. But don't they leave it in the desk? I don't know. Oh.
DOOCY: What's in there?
TRUMP: Thank you, Peter, it could have been years before we got it. Wow. Thank you.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
DOOCY (on camera): And he just told us a few minutes ago that he did finally open the envelope, and it was an inspirational letter with Biden telling him that he hopes he does a good job.
The president also revealed a few minutes ago that on Friday, he's going to travel to western North Carolina, which he says was abandoned by the Biden administration after Hurricane Helene. He's then going to go and tour wildfire damage in Los Angeles, and he's telling us that he thinks tying wildfire relief to a spending bill that's packed with his other priorities is a good way to get Democrats to back it, Bret.
BAIER: Peter, as this transition has happened the first full day, you've made a transition from covering the Biden administration to the Trump administration part two, he has taken more questions in 24 hours, arguably, than President Biden took in the last year. Is that fair?
DOOCY: That is a very fair, if not more questions than the same amount or close. And it is just a completely different feeling.
Anytime that we would go into the Oval Office, for example, like I was for almost an hour last night with President Biden, the staff would be in such a hurry to get us out, and President Biden would just smile, and there were people yelling. They didn't want him off script. They wanted him telling us whatever was on a note card that they had printed for him.
Whereas last night, President Trump seemed willing to talk about anything. You could have asked some stuff from the news page, the gossip page, the sports page. He wants to put his fingerprints on everything. And his staff seemed like they were happy just to sit back and let it happen, Bret.
BAIER: Did it again this afternoon taken live here on Fox. Peter, thank you.
One of the first items for the U.S. Senate in this new era is to confirm President Trump's cabinet selections. The first such move done last night with Marco Rubio sworn in as Secretary of State.
Tonight, there is a new issue with another one of presidents -- the president's National Security nominees. Senior National Correspondent Aishah Hasnie tells us where things stand tonight from Capitol Hill.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
PETE HEGSETH, DEFENSE SECRETARY NOMINEE: It was an excellent meeting.
AISHAH HASNIE, FOX NEWS CHANNEL SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Tonight, new allegations against President Trump's defense secretary nominee Pete Hegseth. Fox News obtained an affidavit from Danielle Hegseth, who was formerly married to Pete Hegseth's brother, alleging that Trump's pick for the top job at the Pentagon is erratic and volatile and has an alcohol abuse problem and that his ex-wife, Samantha, feared for her safety. Hegseth denied similar claims at his hearing last week.
SEN. TIM KAINE (D-VA): Did you ever engage in any acts of physical violence against any of your wives?
HEGSETH: Senator, absolutely not.
HASNIE (voice over): On the new allegations, his lawyer says, Sam has never alleged that there was any abuse. She signed court documents acknowledging that there was no abuse, and recently reaffirmed the same during her FBI interview.
And Samantha Hegseth told NBC, I do not have representatives speaking on my behalf. I do not believe your information to be accurate. There was no physical abuse in my marriage.
The Senate Armed Services Committee is now taking a look at the document, but it's unclear if it jeopardizes any Republican votes.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: My Republican colleagues will review these allegations, consider them before the vote.
HASNIE (voice over): Also today, Trump's Secretary of State nominee Marco Rubio was sworn into office.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Congratulations, Secretary,
HASNIE (voice over): But some Senate Republicans are frustrated more haven't been confirmed.
SEN. RICK SCOTT (R-FL): Here's what's ridiculous. Under Obama, he got seven done the first day.
HASNIE (voice over): Monday night, three nominees are voted out of committee, setting them up for a full floor vote.
And Trump's pick for U.N. ambassador, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik had her hearing today, but the president's controversial picks to lead National Intelligence and Health and Human Services don't even have hearings scheduled yet.
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): Too many have troubling backgrounds. Too many seem unprepared for the job, and prove so during testimony.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
HASNIE (on camera): And Bret, Attorney General Nominee Pam Bondi will be getting her committee vote next Wednesday. It's the same day that FBI Director Nominee Kash Patel will officially finally get his confirmation hearing. Things are actually getting very tense on the Senate for right now, Bret, we were expecting John Ratcliffe for CIA director to get a vote tonight, but Democrats are delaying that right now, and GOP leader John Thune just told Fox News that he believes that the Senate will be in session this weekend to be able to process these nominations because of these delayed tactics, Bret.
BAIER: That's interesting, we'll follow all of that. Aishah Hasnie live on Capitol Hill. Aishah, thank you.
President Trump is criticizing the last minute preemptive pardons by his predecessor as a bad precedent. The new president has issued about 1,500 pardons of his own covering the 2021 capitol riot participants which has sparked its own criticism here in Washington.
Correspondent David Spunt is at the Justice Department with that tonight.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: At least the cases that we looked at, these were people that actually love our country, so, we thought a pardon would be appropriate.
DAVID SPUNT, FOX NEWS CHANNEL JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT (voice over): President Trump, late today, defending his decision to pardon some 1500 people charged and convicted with storming the U.S. Capitol on January 6th, 2021.
The president also commuted the sentences of 14, including leaders of the Proud Boys and Oath Keepers, and he may go a step further.
TRUMP: Maybe it will stay that way, or it will go to in a faux pardon.
SPUNT: Stewart Rhodes, released overnight. The former Oath Keepers' leader was serving 18 years for seditious conspiracy.
STEWART RHODES, FOUNDER, OATH KEEPERS: President Trump did the right thing by letting these guys out and pardoning them, because they did not get a fair trial.
SPUNT: Trump's sweeping pardon undoes the largest prosecution in DOJ history, and includes those who physically attacked police officers. Earlier this month, Trump's vice president and attorney general nominee said this.
J.D. VANCE, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: If you committed violence on that day, obviously, you shouldn't be pardoned.
PAM BONDI, ATTORNEY GENERAL NOMINEE, FLORIDA: I condemn any violence on a law enforcement officer in this country.
SPUNT (voice over): In the final 20 minutes of his administration, then- President Joe Biden announced preemptive pardons for several family members: brothers Frank and James, sister Valerie, and their two spouses. Pardon for any nonviolent offense going back to 2014.
General Mark Milley, Dr. Anthony Fauci and members of The January 6 committee, including former Congresswoman Liz Cheney, also pardoned.
In 2020, Biden had a different take on preemptive pardons.
JOE BIDEN, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: It concerns me in terms of what kind of precedence sets.
You're not going to see in our administration that kind of approach to pardons.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
SPUNT (on camera): Bret, these novel pardons apply to people who have not been charged with federal crimes. In the meantime, it does set some sort of precedent, though there is precedent. President Gerald Ford pardoned his predecessor, former President Richard Nixon, following Watergate.
But the question now that former President Biden did so, it sets it wide open in the future for President Trump to possibly do the same. Bret.
BAIER: David, you're at the Justice Department tonight, and you're learning about career officials at DOJ, who are expected to stay in their post, they have been removed now.
What can you tell us about that?
SPUNT: Yes. Yes, several, Bret. At least a handful of top career officials in the criminal division and the national security division, who have worked at DOJ for years, they have been reassigned.
Firing or getting rid of a career servant at the justice department, is not that easy, but reassigning them is something that can happen much quicker. I'm told more could also be on the way. Bret.
BAIER: David Spunt at the Justice Department. David, thanks.
Coming up here at the White House, we talk with the three executives joining forces with President Trump's new artificial intelligence infrastructure project right here, live at the White House.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: This monumental undertaking is a resounding declaration of confidence in America's potential, under a new president.
This is, to me, a very big thing. $500 billion Stargate Project. I think it's going to be something that's very special. It will lead to something that could be the biggest of all.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: President Trump, just moments ago, here at the White House, announcing this new project for infrastructure inside the U.S., for artificial intelligence.
And three men are teaming up with the president in this, in this public, private partnership, and that is Sam Altman OpenAI CEO. Larry Ellison, Oracle, founder, chairman, and the board Chief Technology Officer. And Masayoshi Son, SoftBank chairman and CEO. Gentlemen, thanks for being here.
It's exciting. I heard what you made -- the comments you made inside. First, let me talk to you, Sam, about what this means for A.I. in the future for the U.S. investment here.
SAM ALTMAN, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, OPENAI: This means we can create A.I. and AGI in the United States of America. Wouldn't have been obvious that this was possible. But I think if a different president, might not have been possible. But we are thrilled to get to do this, and I think it'll be great for Americans, great for the whole world.
BAIER: And Masa, you said that this is the Golden Age. You used President Trump's phrase. Why is the -- this administration that can do it, do you think?
MASAYOSHI SON, FOUNDER, SOFTBANK: Because we can make deal happen. You know, it's all energized. Approval come much faster, much bigger, and more meaningful way.
BAIER: Larry, you talked about what can come out of this, as far as health care and other things, people are starting to get their head around A.I., but not fully.
LAWRENCE ELLISON, CHIEF TECHNOLOGY OFFICER AND EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN, ORACLE: Well, when you go to the hospital these days, if you are -- if you are using a modern system -- excuse me.
Using it -- using a modern system, the doctor will get a little note written by A.I. describing what the purpose of the appointment, and then, that note will have your latest lab tests and your -- and before so the doctors prepared -- when they meet with the patient.
The A.I. will actually listen to the conversation between the doctor and the patient and make recommendations and improve the likelihood that the patient's going to get a high quality of care.
It's easier for the doctor, it's better outcomes for the patient. It's really a revolution in medicine, but it's a revolution in many other industries as well -- as well. Medicine just touches us all.
BAIER: Sam, for the people who are concerned about A.I. on either the work and job front or just it's scary, what do you say to them that there are rails to make sure that it doesn't go out of bounds?
ALTMAN: Yes. There are hundreds of millions of people using these tools today. It will go to billions. People are using it and really depending on for all sorts of great things in their lives. Like any new technology, we do have to put some rails on it. You can imagine ways it could go wrong.
But if you look at the safety record, what we've been able to ship so far, what I think we'll be able to do in the future, the benefits of this tremendously outweigh the downsides.
We have to be responsible how we do this, we have to build it carefully. But I think people are really good, and people will do, on balance, incredible things with this technology.
The scale of this investment, obviously, is huge, and what I think that says about the likely progress of the technology, at least, what all of us believe is correspondingly huge. But I have enormous faith we'll figure it out.
BAIER: And the first one in Texas?
ALTMAN: First one in Texas, already going.
BAIER: Yes, and that's a big project. Masa, I want to ask you about in money and public private partnerships. Before President Biden left, in his farewell address, he expressed concern or warnings over an oligarchy, the fact that guys with a lot of money would have a lot of influence on policy. You guys obviously have a lot of money, but you're putting it together with President Trump. How do you respond to that criticism about big money and its influence in U.S. government?
SON: Well, for the better humanity of our future, we need big capital to invest into the project, you know? We cannot do it with a small money. We have to do the big investment for the good of humanity.
BAIER: And it creates jobs.
SON: Yes, create lots of jobs.
BAIER: Larry, why on this day one, do you think you decided to do this? I assume you working on it for a long time.
ELLISON: We have been working on it for a long time. The first data centers are actually under construction in Texas already, and we'll be turning them over to Sam to start training the next -- their next model.
The data center we already built, it was the largest computer ever built. The data center -- data center we're building will surpass it.
(CROSSTALK)
ALTMAN: Is very big.
ELLISON: And be the largest computer ever built, which enables this A.I., which will allow personalized medicine. This is going to touch all of us. Yes, it takes a huge investment, but the result of the investment will be vaccines that prevent cancers, personalized medicine, where we never again run into a problem like COVID-19 before, because we had an early warning. We know when COVID starts when there are a handful of patients, rather than having to wait until it's become an epidemic and very difficult to control. This is a very large investment that affects all of humanity.
BAIER: Can I ask the three of you just really quickly to get a sense of where you see the economy? There seems to be this optimism, or like the yoke is being released as far as regulation and business to flourish. Is that fair? Is that a fair assessment? How do you see it?
ALTMAN: You know, I think so.
SON: Yes. This is a beginning of Golden Age, you know. America will be great again.
BAIER: You're using the president's words, it means he's get -- he's got you.
SON: Yes. Yes.
BAIER: You said you were going to invest, you know, $100 billion. He said, come back with $200 billion. You can --
(CROSSTALK)
ALTMAN: The think of Hamas (PH) is you can always negotiate him up. Always.
BAIER: He's got policies, he's get him up, now you're $500 billion.
SON: Yes, yes, yes.
BAIER: And you think more is coming.
SON: Yes.
BAIER: Gentlemen, thank you for standing there out in the cold.
ELLISON: Thank you very much.
BAIER: We look forward to seeing what you all produce. Thank you.
ALTMAN Thank you, Bret.
SON: Thank you very much. Thank you.
BAIER: Come back to the White House. We'll take you the state department as well. The first day over with Secretary of State Marco Rubio.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BAIER: Welcome back to the White House. Harvard University has agreed to provide additional protections for Jewish students to settle two lawsuits accusing the Ivy League school of becoming a hotbed of rampant antisemitism. A settlement announced today says Harvard will adopt the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance definition of antisemitism when evaluating whether alleged discrimination or harassment violates the university's nondiscrimination and anti-bullying policies.
A prisoner swap between the U.S. and Afghanistan's Taliban has freed two Americans in exchange for a Taliban figure. Ryan Corbett was detained by the Taliban in August of 2022 while on a business trip. The Corbett family in a statement thanked both President Trump and President Biden for their efforts in freeing him. It's not clear what William McKenty was doing in Afghanistan when he was detained. The Taliban prisoner Khan Muhammad had been sentenced to two life terms in California on drug trafficking and terrorism charges.
America's top diplomat on his first day on the job. Marco Rubio was confirmed by the Senate last night as the secretary of state. Big changes expected at Foggy Bottom. Senior national correspondent Rich Edson is at the State Department tonight.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The yeas are 99. The nays are zero.
RICH EDSON, FOX NEWS STATE DEPARTMENT CORRESPONDENT: After a unanimous Senate confirmation on Inauguration Day, Secretary of State Marco Rubio introduced himself this morning to department employees.
SEN. MARCO RUBIO, (R-FL): My sincerest hope and my prayer is that we will as a nation be able to leave the future generations with a country and a planet safer and better than the one that was left for us.
EDSON: Hours earlier, Rubio took the oath of office and then spoke in two languages.
RUBIO: I just said I saved a bunch of money by switching to Geico. That's what I said.
(LAUGHTER)
EDSON: Getting to work already, Rubio met today with the foreign ministers of Japan, India, and Australia, the so-called quad. It's a group designed largely to counter China. FOX First reported last week that the transition immediately moved dozens of Trump allied officials into key operational roles here at the State Department. Officials say scores of senior career diplomats stepped aside after receiving instructions to do so.
Before Inauguration Day, Trump transition officials told FOX News they wanted to ensure Rubio had a staff ready to enact Trump's foreign policy agenda from the outset.
DONALD TRUMP, (R) U.S. PRESIDENT: We will be the envy of every nation, and we will not allow ourselves to be taken advantage of any longer.
EDSON: Also out, an architect of the Iran maximum pressure campaign in the first Trump administration, and the official in charge of the State Department transition for the second administration, Brian Hook. Just after midnight Trump posted that he was dismissing Hook, quote, "from the Wilson Center for Scholars. You're fired."
(END VIDEO TAPE)
EDSON (on camera): For Rubio, much of his focus at the State Department will likely be on China. During his confirmation hearing last week before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Rubio called China a potent and dangerous adversary. Bret?
BAIER: Rich Edson live at the State Department. Rich, thank you.
There will be major changes at the Pentagon and in Pentagon policy under President Trump after his first day. Active duty troops are being ordered to the southern border, which was expected, and the head of the Coast Guard has been fired, which was not. Here is chief national security correspondent Jennifer Griffin.
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
JENNIFER GRIFFIN, FOX NEWS NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Coast Guard Commandant Admiral Linda Fagan was relieved of duty by President Trump's acting Homeland Security secretary due to a failure to address border security threats and an excessive focus on DEI. Fagan was the first woman to lead any branch of the U.S. military. The Pentagon is now accelerating deployment orders after President Trump ordered active duty troops to the border.
PETER DOOCY, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: If cartels are now going to be seen as foreign terror organizations, would you think about ordering U.S. special forces into Mexico to take them out?
TRUMP: Could happen. Stranger things have happened.
GRIFFIN: Trump has not ruled out using the military to reclaim the Panama Canal.
TRUMP: China is operating the Panama Canal, and we didn't give it to China. We gave it to Panama.
GRIFFIN: Panama's president pushed back. Quote, "I must reject in its entirety the words expressed by President Donald Trump. There is no presence of any nation in the world that interferes with our administration."
President Trump removed former Joint Chiefs Chairman General Mark Milley from DHS's National Infrastructure Advisory Council today. General Milley was appointed by President Trump in 2019, but numerous books have detailed Milley's private criticism of President Trump. With no explanation, General Milley's new portrait as the 20th chairman of the Joint Chiefs was removed Monday from the hallway where it was unveiled 11 days ago. This morning, maintenance workers were busy taking the hooks off the wall that held the portrait and painting over the holes.
(END VIDEO TAPE)
GRIFFIN (on camera): We asked them who gave the orders for them to do that, and they said it was above their pay grade. But one worker told us they were, quote, "told to make it look like the portrait was never there." Bret?
BAIER: Jennifer Griffin at the Pentagon. Jennifer, thanks.
Up next, President Trump's sweeping actions on immigration, and later, the panel on the first full day of the new Trump administration and what's ahead as we come back here live to the White House.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BAIER: A FOX weather alert now. A powerful storm prompting some pretty unusual forecasts for the south that includes the first ever blizzard warning along the Gulf Coast. Blizzard -- that's the Gulf of America, by the way. Blizzard are expected across portions of the southeastern Texas and southwestern Louisiana. Subfreezing temperatures in the south ushered in this storm system. Snow, sleet, and freezing rain all possible for states from Texas to Florida and northward into the Carolinas. Millions of people in cities like Houston, New Orleans, Charleston, are expected to be impacted.
A major focus of the new administration is border security. President Trump has already signed executive orders making sweeping changes to immigration policy. Correspondent Brooke Taylor is in El Paso, Texas, with that tonight.
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
BROOKE TAYLOR, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Migrants finding out their appointments through the CBP One app have been canceled after President Trump ended the controversial program that critics have dubbed a concierge service for migrants.
According to U.S. Customs and Border Protection, about 280,000 migrants tried making appointments daily, with thousands scheduled into February.
(APPLAUSE)
TAYLOR: some locals in El Paso just minutes from the border thrilled about Trump's executive orders and the reversal of Biden's programs.
EDWARD PRZYDZIAL, EL PASO, TEXAS, RESIDENT: I want people to come legally. They don't have a right to violate our sovereignty.
GILBERT ESTRADA, EL PASO, TEXAS, RESIDENT: People coming here illegally, they are breaking the law. And that's one of the things that I do not like, is people to break the law.
BROOKS COLEMAN, EL PASO, TEXAS, RESIDENT: I do think there's changes that need to be done. But I just think that people need to come here legally.
TAYLOR: While some are celebrating, Democratic leaders are already fighting against some of the executive orders President Trump signed on day one. Among them, an order to end birthright citizenship for children of illegal migrants. New Jersey is among 22 states suing to stop the policy.
MATTHEW PLATKIN, (D) NEW JERSEY ATTORNEY GENERAL: It's an attack on the very fabric of this nation, this diverse nation, a nation of immigrants.
TAYLOR: Tonight, the White House responding saying, quote, "These lawsuits are nothing more than an extension of the left's resistance."
(END VIDEO TAPE)
TAYLOR (on camera): And as for those mass deportations, Border Czar Tom Homan says his ICE agents are already out on the streets. They are targeting illegal migrants who have been convicted of serious crimes. Bret?
BAIER: Brooke Taylor in El Paso. Brooke, thanks.
President Trump will give his first interview since the inauguration to Sean Hannity tomorrow. You can see it tomorrow night on "HANNITY," 9:00 p.m. eastern time. That will come from the Oval Office.
Positive profit reports and perhaps the start of this new administration sent stocks up, way up. The Dow surging 538, the S&P 500 finishing ahead 53, the Nasdaq jumped 127 today.
Up next, the panel on the first full day on the second Trump administration.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is an executive order taking in a large number of executive actions to secure our southern border.
DONALD TRUMP, (R) U.S. PRESIDENT: OK.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Withdrawing from the World Health Organization.
TRUMP: Oh, that's a big one. What's this one?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: That's unleashing American energy.
This is about reforming the system of hiring in the federal government to ensure that merit is the lodestar of hiring.
TRUMP: As per the Supreme Court.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: But this is an order creating and implementing the Department of Governmental Efficiency, known as DOFE.
TRUMP: OK. That's a big one.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: That's a big one. President Trump in the Oval Office signing executive orders last night. The major papers summing up this transition "Return to office, Trump proclaims the golden age of America begins right now." "Wall Street Journal", "For Trump, a vindication for the man and his movement." "New York Times," "The Washington Post," "Trump moves quickly to enact big changes, but this is only the start."
Maybe big changes, but there could be a delay as far as confirmations. Here is the Senate majority leader.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. JOHN THUNE, (R-SD) SENATE MAJORITY LEADER: We have now wasted a whole day where we could have been acting on that nomination. And so really, I think the question before the House is, do we want to vote on these folks on Tuesday or vote on them on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday? Because that's what we're going to do. This can be easy, or this can be hard.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: This can be easy or hard. He's going to press the Senate to get it done.
Let's bring in our panel, Matt Bennett, former deputy assistant to the president for intergovernmental affairs under Bill Clinton and cofounder of Third Way, Mary Katharine Ham, columnist for "Outkick", and Josh Holmes, co-host of "The Ruthless" podcast, former chief of staff to Senator Mitch McConnell.
Mary Katharine, what about, first of all, the confirmation delay game up there and what Democrats are doing? Only one confirmation so far in Secretary of State Rubio.
MARY KATHARINE HAM, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Well, can I say first off, kicking off the second Trump administration, I had forgotten the pace of Donald Trump, and it is like going from droopy the dog to sonic the hedgehog. It's definitely an adjustment. So where there are delays, they are not with the president. They are over in the Senate where it was heartening to see Senator Rubio confirmed 99 to zero. We can do a few things bipartisanly.
But yes, for national security concerns, I would like to get these moving. And I think the American people would like to get these moving. Trump is having a honeymoon that he did not have, frankly, the first time around. So I think he has got the American people on his side on that point as well.
BAIER: Josh, it is like drinking from a fire hose, and the fire hose keeps on going, because there's a lot of news made every moment. He's, as I said with Peter, answered more questions in the last 24 hours than Joe Biden did for months and months.
JOSH HOLMES, "RUTHLESS" PODCAST CO-HOST: Just a shocking departure from where we have been over the last four years. I think what's so unique and interesting about this second Trump administration is how much of his campaign and his promises to the American people that he made that could be effectuated on day one with these executive orders. Typically, you hear a whole bunch of things that require acts of Congress, legislative machinations that can take years to actually come to fruition, and a whole lot of ugly business in between.
But what he was talking about was securing the border. Boom, you've got a whole bunch of executive actions on that. Energy, virtually every aspect of the economy, executive order, executive order, executive order. He is fulfilling all of these promises right away, and I think that really bodes well for what his voters think he's doing up here.
BAIER: Yes. Matt, what about the focus on the pardons. Obviously there was a focus on the preemptive pardons and the Biden family pardons, but then a lot of Democrats and news media jumped on the pardons of the January 6th rioters, including some that included the people who committed some criminal actions up on Capitol Hill. What about that, the pardon back and forth between the two presidents?
MATT BENNETT, FORMER BILL CLINTON ADVISER: Look, I don't think Joe Biden should have done what he did at the end, pardoning his family. That was wrong. But these are not violent felons that were beating police officers. And you don't have to take Democrats' word for it. Don't listen to me. Listen to the vice president who was on FOX's air just a week ago saying that people that beat up police officers should obviously not get pardoned. So you heard that from Pam Bondi, the attorney general nominee. Have you heard it from dozens of Republican senators who all of a sudden are very quiet about this because the president just went ahead and pardoned all these guys anyway.
I think it's outrageous. These are people that viciously attacked police officers for hours with all kinds of weapons. They did incredible amounts of damage to their bodies and to the Capitol. These are not people who should ever even have been considered to be given pardons, and yet, they are walking the streets today.
BAIER: Mary Katharine, he has answered a number of questions. I think he took three of them today from NBC. He took a bunch of them last night about this very topic, saying that they've served three years in prison, and that he made the decision he made.
HAM: I agree with Matt and with Vance in the past that there should be a distinction between violent and nonviolent criminals from January 6th. Let us not also forget that Biden pardoned a man who murdered two FBI agents. So both of these guys have sort of cornered themselves on making criticisms about folks who go after cops in particular.
But there are some civil liberty concerns in the January 6th cases, particularly for nonviolent folks who were overcharged, who have been held without bail. And consistent civil libertarians have been complaining about it. They've had their information data from their phones dragnetted in ways that were really unorthodox and aggressive, and many of them have served a lot of time. But I think clemency or commutations versus pardons, certainly for violent criminals, would have been more appropriate, and it was wrong to do the other.
BAIER: You know, Josh, we do get a lot of news. We heard the president is going to travel to North Carolina first before he goes out to see the fire devastation in California. Feels that North Carolina has been given the short shift from the last administration. He continues this flow executive orders while he's meeting with legislative leaders to push the legislative agenda.
HOLMES: Yes, absolutely. Look, he's walking and chewing gum at the same time, obviously. I thought this stood out from his inaugural speech as well. So much about the previous administration, when they did something wrong, they basically put their head down, relied on a compliant sort of corporate media to turn the page and focus on something else, and basically ignore the existing problems that they had.
Trump is not doing that. He used the inaugural speech to talk about North Carolina, still very much a big problem. You wouldn't know it, because the Biden administration hadn't talked about it. But that's a big deal. He mentioned the fires as well.
Meanwhile, he is doing all of the things that he said he would do with these executive orders. And, again, it's not like the previous administration where you have a president that can only focus between 10:00 and 2:00 on good days.
BAIER: Yes. I will tell you this, that the White House briefing room is buzzing. Everybody is trying to digest it all as it's coming in, like the old days. So, panel, thanks so much.
HOLMES: Thanks, Bret.
BENNETT: Thank you.
BAIER: And finally tonight, from the White House, a special day. We thought that maybe everybody didn't see all of the moments from last night, some lighthearted moments from yesterday's inaugural events.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Are you going to behave or not?
DONALD TRUMP, (R) U.S. PRESIDENT: Nope.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This is better because we can drink here. And we can't drink at the Capitol.
(CHEERS)
(MUSIC)
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(LAUGHTER)
BAIER: He stole the show there.
Tomorrow on SPECIAL REPORT, President Trump says China controls the Panama Canal. We will take you there.
Remember, if you can't catch us live, set your DVR, 6:00 p.m. in the east, 3:00 p.m. on the west coast. You can follow me on Instagram and X @BretBaier for exclusive behind the scenes content. Every once in a while, we'll be here on the north lawn of the White House.
Thanks for inviting us into your home tonight. That's it for this SPECIAL REPORT, fair, balanced, and still unafraid. THE INGRAHAM ANGLE starts now.

Load-Date: January 22, 2025


End of Document
