




Fox News FOX SPECIAL REPORT WITH BRET BAIER 6:00 PM EST
February 11, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7328 words
Byline: Bret Baier, Jacqui Heinrich, Chad Pergram, Alexandria Hoff, Nate Foy, Mike Emanuel, Mike Seidel, Lucas Tomlinson, Greg Palkot, Harold Ford Jr.
Guests: Dave McCormick, Josh Holmes, Olivia Beavers
Body


JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS HOST: That was the best. That was the best. That's when we peaked with our ratings. That's it for us. Have a great night.
BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: My favorite was Steve Buscemi tonight. Thank you, Jesse. Appreciate it.
WATTERS: That was great.
BAIER: Good evening. I'm Bret Baier, an American detained in Russia, is free nearly four years after his arrest, we will speak with the Republican Pennsylvania Senator Dave McCormick, he has been working on this for a while about this.
FEMA faces the latest round of firings and funding cuts relating to President Trump's immigration agenda.
And Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth heads overseas to meet with foreign leaders and foreign based troops.
But first, breaking tonight, a busy day in the Oval Office, appearing alongside President Donald Trump, Elon Musk says he thinks it is possible to cut the U.S. deficit in half, half by finding waste, fraud and abuse. They are defending the Department of Government Efficiency as some directives face protests, court, battles and criticism.
Earlier today, a key ally from the Middle East met with President Trump in the Oval Office as the president reiterates his plans to control and develop the Gaza Strip. Senior White House correspondent Jacqui Heinrich is following it all live in the North Lawn. Good evening, Jacqui.
JACQUI HEINRICH, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Good evening, Bret. Elon Musk speaking with president in the Oval Office responded to criticism, saying that worker buyouts and funding cuts are not a hostile takeover, but they are the big government reform that the American people voted for. He warned the country would go bankrupt if changes were not made, and the President said that he will comply with court orders as legal challenges continue.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
HEINRICH (voice over): President Trump compelling agencies to work with the Department of Government Efficiency to begin large scale reductions in the federal workforce. The executive order limiting one new hire for every four employees that depart from government service, and keeping new hires to essential positions.
Musk taking questions on some government payments DOGE has sought to block.
ELON MUSK, CEO, X: It's not draconian or radical, I think. It's really just saying, let's look at each of these expenditures and say, is this actually in the best interest of the people?
HEINRICH (voice over): But DOGE plans have been held up by court orders. The president saying he will comply.
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I will abide by the courts, and then I'll have to appeal it. But appeals take a long time, and I would hope that a judge, if you go into a judge and you show him, here's a corrupt situation, we have a check. I would hope a judge would say, don't send it, give it back to the taxpayer.
HEINRICH (voice over): And expressing optimism Congress will grant him more authority if needed.
TRUMP: Congress, if we do need a vote, I think we get a very easy vote, because we have a track record now. We've already found billions of dollars of abuse, incompetence and corruption, a lot of corruption.
HEINRICH (voice over): The earlier Oval Office meeting also tense. The King of Jordan dodging questions on President Trump's ask to resettle Palestinian refugees so the United States can take over and revitalize Gaza, their meeting one day after Trump signaled USAID to Jordan and Egypt may hang in the balance.
ABDULLAH II BIN AL-HUSSEIN, KING OF JORDAN: We will be in Saudi Arabia to discuss how we can work with the president and with the United States. So, I think let's wait until the Egyptians can come and present it to the president and not get ahead of ourselves.
HEINRICH (voice over): King Abdullah agreeing to take in 2000 sick Palestinian children to start.
TRUMP: What you just said about the 2000 is fantastic. It's so beautiful. It's music to my ears.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
HEINRICH (on camera): Now, seizing the territory and blocking Palestinians from returning would be a violation of international law. Many legal experts have warned, but White House aides have walked back some of the details in the president's proposals, which have shifted a few times.
Meantime, the White House is celebrating the return of Mark Vogel from a Russian prison. The president calling this a positive signal from Russia about the direction that we are headed as efforts to end the war in Ukraine continue, Bret.
BAIER: Jacqui Heinrich live on a snowy White House lawn. Jacqui, thanks.
As congressional Republicans work to finalize a budget, those in the Senate want additional funding for border security now. It comes as Democrats criticize the executive branch's spending power.
Senior Congressional Correspondent Chad Pergram explains the battle over the power of the purse.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
SEN. LINDSEY GRAHAM (R-SC): We're not building a wall, folks, we're hitting a wall. They need the money, and they need it now.
CHAD PERGRAM, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): A White House plea for border security. New budget director Russ Vought, and Border Czar Tom Homan demanding $175 billion to bolster the border.
GRHAM: If the Republican Party cannot provide the money to the Trump administration to do all the things they need to do to make us safe, we have nobody to blame but ourselves.
PERGRAM (voice over): The Senate leapfrogging the House's plan, which only cuts taxes and spending.
PERGRAM: What do you make of the Senate move?
REP. JODEY ARRINGTON (R-TX): We're not focused on the Senate. We're focused on the House bill.
PERGRAM (voice over): House Speaker Mike Johnson dismissed the Senate approach.
REP. MIKE JOHNSON (R-LA): I'm afraid it's a non-starter over here. I told my good friend Lindsey that I have to manage the House. And the best and only way it can be managed, and that they're going to have to give us a little more patience.
PERGRAM (voice over): Meantime, Democrats dogging DOGE and President Trump.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They want us to step back. We're here to push back.
SEN. ANGELA ALSOBROOKS (D-MD): This is about his co-president, Elon Musk and the billionaire boys and the way that they can expand their fortune.
PERGRAM (voice over): Vice President J.D. Vance defends DOGE, saying judges can't harness the executive branch, but Democrats reject that.
REP. TED LIEU (D-CA): What J.D. Vance said, which is clearly insane. If he really wants to eliminate the third branch of government, I think this will be enormous pushback from both Republicans and Democrats.
PERGRAM (voice over): The GOP finds Democratic criticisms rich.
JOHNSON: They've latched on to this new shiny object called the rule of law. Well, we'd like to welcome them to the concept.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
PERGRAM (on camera): Marjorie Taylor Greene shares the first DOGE hearing tomorrow. Texas Democrat Jasmine Crockett called DOGE, "The Devil." She is predicting "full on combat."
And just in here, Bret, just a couple of minutes ago, the snow storm in Washington, D.C. it is postponing the overnight confirmation vote of Tulsi Gabbard to be the Director of National Intelligence. The Senate will vote tomorrow morning at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time, instead. Back to you.
BAIER: And Chad, after that comes Robert F. Kennedy Jr., right?
PERGRAM: Right. A vote to break the filibuster on his nomination comes immediately after that probably noon Eastern Time.
BAIER: OK, Chad Pergram live on the Hill. Chad, thanks.
Several East Coast courts have taken up challenges to new Trump administration orders. A federal judge in Boston has temporarily blocked the president's plan to buy out tens of thousands of government workers, and tonight, an appeals court says it will not halt another Rhode Island judge's order to unfreeze federal funding. You need a white board to follow it.
Correspondent Alexandria Hoff has one. She looks at what's next in these cases. Good evening, Alexandria.
ALEXANDRIA HOFF, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: I definitely need one, Bret. Yes, the Trump administration had appealed the Rhode Island judge's order claiming that it was a "extraordinary and unprecedented assertion of power."
Well, the First Circuit Court of Appeals disagreed with that writing that, "We are confident the district court will act with dispatch to provide any clarification needed with respect to, among other things, the defendant's contention that the February 10th order bars both the president and much of the federal government from exercising their own lawful authorities."
So, with that, the order for the administration to comply with unfreezing billions of dollars from federal funding across the government stands. Trump officials have paused the funding to look for fraud, and the Rhode Island judge said that fraud has to be found first.
The Trump administration has been hit with dozens of lawsuits in response to executive action, most center around Elon Musk's reach and the government of the Department of Government Efficiency. The battle significantly slowing down the president's efforts to downsize the government.
Now, in Boston, a federal judge sided with a group of labor unions by extending a pause on President Trump's federal worker buyout program, the decision came just hours before the sign up deadline.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ELENA GOLDSTEIN, DEMOCRACY FORWARD: We hope that this decision today will provide civil service workers with the assurance that the American people have their backs.
HOFF (voice over): So far, approximately 65,000 government employees have accepted the offer to resign while retaining pay and benefits through September 30th, their status is in limbo until a final ruling is made. President Trump says the offer is a win-win.
TRUMP: I got elected on making government better, more efficient and smaller, and that's what we're doing. And I think it was a very generous buyout, actually.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HOFF (on camera): Now, almost every challenge for the administration's agenda has been filed in a Democrat led state. And although not every judge was Democrat appointed, President Trump tonight called the whole highly political, Bret.
BAIER: Alex, thank you.
Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell emphasized the Central Bank was in no rush to cut rates, but wants to make more progress on inflation. He did not discuss President Trump's tariff policy during a hearing with the Senate Banking Committee. There you see the stocks mixed today. The Dow up 123, the S&P 500 gained two. The NASDAQ was down 70 as big tech stocks lagged behind.
FEMA says it will end payments to house migrants in New York after Elon Musk criticized the spending. The city telling Fox it has paid billions to address the migrant crisis, but officials claim most of the funds dedicated for hotels are overwhelmingly helping migrant families with children.
Correspondent Nate Foy takes a look at the numbers.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This is a misappropriation of funds.
NATE FOY, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): The Federal Emergency Management Agency fired four workers today for sending $59 million to New York City to care for illegal migrants. The Homeland Security Department says the now dismissed workers circumvented federal leadership and "Include FEMA Chief Financial Officer, two program analysts and a grant specialist."
The Department of Government Efficiency discovered the payment that New York City received last week, the acting FEMA administrator suspended them.
Elon Musk first exposed the transaction on X writing, "That money is meant for American disaster relief and instead is being spent on high end hotels for illegals."
New York City Hall tells Fox it's part of the $237 million previously allocated under the Biden administration. Of the $59 million installment, 19 million went to hotels for migrants. 26 million paid for food insecurity, and 13 million covered migrant services and city shelters.
While those devastated by Hurricane Helene are left wondering why Americans received less help.
MATT VAN SWOL, WEAVERVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA RESIDENT: We drove by people living in tents for months and months, and these people depended on FEMA. It is mind blowing to me that we are giving out $60 million to someone that did not pay into the taxpayer system.
FOY (voice over): Congress approved $49 billion to respond to natural disasters, including hurricanes Helene and Milton. 1.5 billion went directly to survivors, while Congress approved more than a billion dollars to house illegal migrants over two fiscal years.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
FOY (on camera): Today, President Trump said again that FEMA should be "terminated." While City Hall confirms with Fox News tonight, at this point, there has been no federal effort to retrieve the $59 million received by New York City last week, Bret.
BAIER: Nate, thank you.
Up next, an American held hostage in Russia is heading home. We'll talk with a U.S. senator who's been fighting for that to happen for some time.
First, here's what some of our Fox affiliates around the country are covering tonight. Fox 10 in Phoenix an update to a story we brought you last night. At least one person is dead after Motley Crue's singer Vince Neil's jet collided with another private plane at Scottsdale airport. Neil's jet veered off the runway as it landed, hitting a parked plane. The spokesperson for Neil says he was not on board the aircraft during that collision.
Fox 11 in Los Angeles, where a teenager has been sentenced to four years in prison for making hundreds of swatting calls around the country. The 18- year-old pleaded guilty in November to charges he made prank phone calls to emergency services in an attempt to get a large number of police officers dispatched to different locations. His targets included religious institutions, government officials and schools.
And this is a live look at New York from Fox 5, one of the big stories there tonight, seven canines compete for Best in Show. Among the finalists are a whippet named Bourbon, Comet the Shih Tzu and Mercedes, a German Shepherd who came in second last year, quite the competition. You can watch the final round of judging on Fox Sports 1.
That's tonight's live look outside the Beltway from SPECIAL REPORT. We'll be right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BAIER: U.S. Appeals Court granted prosecutors' request to drop the criminal case against two associates of President Trump, accused of mishandling classified documents. That move marks the end of federal cases brought against the president while he was out of office.
President Trump faced charges alongside his valet and Mar-a-Lago property manager. All three pleaded not guilty.
Steve Bannon has pleaded guilty to a fraud charge relating to a scheme to generate money for a private effort to build a border wall. As part of the plea agreement, he will not face jail time. The campaign was launched in 2018 raised more than $20 million. It eventually came under federal investigation and drew criticism from President Trump.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MALPHINE FOGEL, MOTHER OF MARC FOGEL (via telephone): When he called this morning, it was just a total shock, first of all, because of the time he called, and with the news. So, it's just, you know, an unbelievable situation right now. We're just waiting and waiting to get him into the U.S.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: Malphine Fogel, the mother of Marc Fogel, on his way back to the U.S. Free Beacon writes it this way, "Trump secures Americans released from Russian prison after Biden's failed attempts: Former President Joe Biden's administration long claimed it was working to secure Fogel's release, but failed to make progress, even as it struck deals to free other Americans held by Russia. Though Fogel began serving his sentence in June 2022, the Biden administration did not designate him as wrongfully detained until late last year, despite multiple calls from lawmakers and Fogel's family."
With that, let's bring in Republican Pennsylvania senator, Dave McCormick.
Senator, thanks for being here. A big day, obviously, for the Fogel family. Also, you've been working on this for a while.
SEN. DAVE MCCORMICK (R-PA): Hey, this is a great day. Really something to celebrate in western Pennsylvania. And, you know, I first met Malphine Fogel in Butler as the same day President Trump met her the day that he was shot. And during that visit, President Trump promised her that if he was elected, he would do everything he could to bring her son home, and I promised I'd do everything I could.
And since then, there's been a huge amount of focus. When Secretary Rubio came through the Foreign Relations Committee, I.
Bring her son home, and I promised I'd do everything I could. And since then, there is been a huge amount of focus. When Secretary Rubio came through the Foreign Relations Committee, I asked him, as a first question about this. He, and the president, and the national security advisor have been focused on it. And this is what America first means.
President Trump got out there 22 days, and we have a Pennsylvanian and American coming home from being wrongfully detained. It's a -- it's a great day and a great leadership moment.
BAIER: You know, a lot of people were asking, what was the other side of the deal? What was the U.S. part of the deal? And President Trump in the Oval Office was asked that today. Take a listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Mr. President -- in return?
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Not much. No, they were very nice. We were treated very nicely by Russia, actually. I hope that's the beginning of a relationship where we can end that war and millions of people can stop being killed.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: I mean, he kind of forecasted that with me as well in that interview for the Super Bowl that I did down in Mar-a-Lago. That there is the ire on the cusp, at least, he suggests that of some kind of deal between Ukraine and Russia.
MCCORMICK: Well, listen, I wasn't privy to those conversations. I know what the president said during the campaign and what he said since then, and I think he's in a unique position. I think he is on the move. He is showing a lot of leadership. I think there is a real opportunity to find a peaceful solution and an end to this terrible war in Ukraine. If anybody can do it, President Trump can.
And I think you're seeing him -- what happened here was focus and leadership. And you know, there is thousands of hostages or people wrongfully detained across the world, and President Trump is bringing real focus to this. We see this with the hostages in Gaza. We see this with Marc Fogel. And this is what leadership looks like.
And, you know, it makes a big difference when president -- the president of the United States, tells the mother of Marc Fogel, I'm going to do this, and he gets in office and he does it.
That's what the American people are looking for.
(CROSSTALK)
BAIER: Yes.
MCCORMICK: And that's what this is all about.
BAIER: You are now in office, a new senator. We covered your campaign, which was very tough in Pennsylvania. Now you're in position. What are you working on most pressingly for you, and what are you hoping to accomplish?
MCCORMICK: Well, there is -- there is clear promises that President Trump made, and I made during the campaign. It was to close the border. It was a stop the flow of fentanyl in our communities that killed 4,000 Americans. It's -- make it easier for working class families by bringing down prices, and its unlocked energy, because Pennsylvania is a huge energy state.
Those are the kitchen table issues that I ran on. That's what I'm focused on. Presidents put a lot of executive orders in place that are moving in that are moving in that direction, we'll need good legislation to close the deal, and there's a real opportunity in the coming months to make a huge difference for Pennsylvania and the country and, and I think my vote is going to be an important.
BAIER: Very quickly. It doesn't seem like the president's nominees are going to have trouble. Might have snow delays, but it seems like there are the votes there on the Republican side.
But as far as the one big beautiful bill or two bills, the Senate seems one way, and the house seems another way.
MCCORMICK: Well, on the president's nominees, you know, he's nominated a set of folks, many of them disruptors. These are not going to be traditional candidates, and I do think his nominees will be confirmed, and I want to help him do that, while also exercising my responsibility of advice and consent.
Listen, I'm a business guy. I don't really care whether it's two or one. I just want the results. That's what the president wants. That's what the American people want and that's what we're going to do in the Senate and the House, and we got to deliver for the American people. It's a change election. We're all committed to that.
All right, Senator, thanks so much. I know you'll be with the Fogel family as he arrives back to D.C. Thanks a lot for the time.
MCCORMICK: Thank you.
BAIER: Up next, a stark warning from the vice president on artificial intelligence. And then, the latest forecast as much of the country, including D.C., races for this winter weather.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BAIER: The State of Missouri is suing coffee giant Starbucks over its diversity equity and inclusion initiatives. Missouri accuses the company of discriminating based on race and gender in training, job advancement, and board membership.
Starbucks called the lawsuit inaccurate and said its programs are lawful.
Meantime, Disney has dropped some of its DEI initiatives, according to its latest SEC filing. The report showed Disney ended its Reimagined Tomorrow program, which focused on story telling for what the company called underrepresented voices.
Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport has reopened two runways, allowing additional aircraft to fly in each hour. The runways had been closed since the January 29th midair collision that left 67 people dead.
Restrictions on helicopter traffic around the airport remain in effect.
The Education Department is urging the NCAA and high school athletics to change any records, awards, and titles that may have been given to transgender women and reassign the accolades to biological female athletes. Last week, the NCAA announced a new policy that limits competition in women's sports to student athletes assigned female at birth only.
Vice President J.D. Vance is criticizing excessive artificial intelligence regulation while meeting with European officials who designed some of the first overarching restrictions for A.I. Chief Washington correspondent Mike Emanuel looks at how the vice president plans to sell the U.S. strategy while warning against China's plans.
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
SEN. J.D. VANCE, (R) VICE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: The United States of America is the leader in A.I., and our administration plans to keep it that way.
EMANUEL: On his first overseas trip as vice president, J.D. Vance warned European leaders against overregulation of artificial intelligence.
VANCE: The Trump administration is troubled by reports that some foreign governments are considering tightening the screws on U.S. tech companies with international footprints. Now, America cannot and will not accept that.
EMANUEL: At a critical stage when the world is watching to see if the United States or China will lead on A.I., Vance told European leaders not to collaborate with Beijing.
VANCE: I would also remind our international friends here today that partnering with such regimes, it never pays off in the long term. From CCTV to 5G equipment, we are all familiar with cheap tech in the marketplace that's been heavily subsidized and exported by authoritarian regimes.
EMANUEL: Experts note while the United States is seen as the leader on A.I., China is not far behind.
ALEXANDER WANG, SCALE A.I. CEO: There is a race going on between the U.S. and China on A.I. And President Trump has directed his administration to achieve American A.I. dominance, Just like we won the space race.
EMANUEL: One tech executive warns there is potential for danger if A.I. is misused by our adversaries.
JEREMIE HARRIS, GLADSTONE A.I. CEO: You think about what the kind of offensive potential that these things could have, when you think about offloading potentially entire cyberattacks to these systems.
EMANUEL: Being in Paris also provide the opportunity for Vance to meet face to face with French President Emmanuel Macron. The vice president also held a bilateral meeting with India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
(END VIDEO TAPE)
EMANUEL (on camera): While President Trump in Bret's interview not ready to say Vance should be successor, saying it's too early, these kind of trips offer a young vice president an opportunity to look presidential and edge over other potential rising star Republicans by handling major issues on the world stage. Bret?
BAIER: Mike, thank you.
FOX Weather alert now. More than 80 million people are under winter weather alerts. Snow already falling across the mid-Atlantic and additional storms are expected into the weekend. FOX Weather storm specialist Mike Seidel is Washington, D.C., with what you need to know as the first round of winter weather for the week bears down on the nation's capital. Good evening, Mike.
MIKE SEIDEL, FOX WEATHER STORM SPECIALIST: Hey, Bret. Here just outside the capital, the second snowstorm of the season here in Washington. This is going to be different than the one in January because it's going to warm up tomorrow. The last one it turned cold and school was closed for a weeks.
Speaking of that, schools today went in late or canceled and some schools have already canceled tomorrow. Already a couple of inches of snow here at the capitol. South of D.C. they have had upwards of four to five inches, and in southwest Virginia, we've had a foot of snow.
Let's first go to the current radar. You can see the snow, D.C., Baltimore, Philly, the Jersey Shore, and inch or two expected around New York City tonight. This is all going to wind down by tomorrow morning in most areas. And south, where it snowed earlier, Richmond and Roanoke, they are now getting freezing rain on top of the snowfall.
As far as the forecast snowfall totals, we're looking at five to six inches here in Washington, lighter totals as you go up towards Philly and New York City, as I mentioned, and the snow winds down. Temperatures right now just at freezing at Reagan National, Bret, where they canceled about 200 flights today. Tomorrow, about 65 at this point canceled. That's just four percent of their flow tomorrow. Today it was about 20 percent.
Roads, well, there's snow covered and slushy. The D.C. Department of Public Works threw tons of salt on these roads last night and through today. But, when it snows an inch an hour and the temperatures are below freezing, and you don't have daylight, then you get this. So, again, in the morning, a slushy commute, but temperatures will get above freezing pretty quickly. And whatever falls after midmorning, Bret, in this area will be rain and not snow into Thursday.
The next storm right on the wings tomorrow, Kansas City, Des Moines, Chicago, Detroit, all in line for six or more inches of snow, and then there is another one coming up over the weekend. A very action-packed jet stream and a lot of winter weather on the way from the plains all the way to the northeast to New England. Bret?
BAIER: Kind of messy all over. Mike Seidel, thank you.
Up next, we head overseas as Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth meets with European leaders and U.S. troops.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BAIER: Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth is working to deliver President Trump's foreign policy agenda during his first trip abroad. Much of today's discussions focused on defense spending and the war in Ukraine. He also spent time meeting with troops overseas. Lucas Tomlinson is traveling with the defense secretary and reports from Brussels.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PETE HEGSETH, DEFENSE SECRETARY: I'm still upright and fairly smoked from this morning. A little P.T., but just great to be here.
LUCAS TOMLINSON, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth joining American troops in Germany for physical training hours after arriving on first overseas trip, visiting the commanders of the U.S. military's European and Africa commands. President Trump recently said each NATO member should spend five percent of its gross domestic product to beef up their forces. Hegseth is pledging an increase in U.S. defense spending.
HEGSETH: I think the U.S. needs to spend more than the Biden administration was willing to.
TOMLINSON: The secretary was also met by some protesters on base, outraged over the scrapping of diversity, equity, and inclusion policies in the military. There are 78,000 troops in Europe, including those deployed to shore up NATO allies bordering Ukraine. Hegseth says those forces will remain for now.
HEGSETH: There are no plans right now in the making to cut anything. We're not sending U.S. troops to Ukraine.
TOMLINSON: Hegseth says he want to focus on another trouble spot closer to home.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Is China the biggest threat to the United States?
HEGSETH: Well, right now, the biggest threat was securing our own border. As far as external threats, there is just no doubt the Communist Chinese ambitions are robust.
TOMLINSON: President Trump recently said he wants Elon Musk's DOGE team to look at the Pentagon.
HEGSETH: We welcome DOGE to the Pentagon. And I hope to welcome Elon to the Pentagon very soon.
(END VIDEO TAPE)
TOMLINSON (on camera): Defense Secretary Hegseth has arrived here in Brussels ahead of meetings with his NATO counterparts as the three year anniversary of Russia's war in Ukraine approaches. Bret?
BAIER: Lucas Tomlinson live in Brussels. Lucas, thanks.
Fighting could soon resume in Gaza as Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu orders additional troops to the region and Hamas threatens to call off a scheduled hostage release. President Trump expressed doubt over whether the exchange would happen by Saturday. Senior foreign affairs correspondent Greg Palkot looks at whether the peace deal can be saved.
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
GREG PALKOT, FOX NEWS SENIOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: A tense Middle East region tonight as a ceasefire and hostage deal between Israel and Hamas hangs in the balance. The last hostage release fresh in minds, gaunt figures who were held captive under terrible conditions. Hamas threatening not to release the next group of captives, claiming Israel is reneging on the deal. After more than a four-hour meeting of his security cabinet, Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu said he welcomed President Trump's tough demand for the release of hostages Saturday or else, saying more troops are being deployed around Gaza, but being careful not to say how many hostages need to be freed this coming weekend.
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER (through translator): If Hamas does not return our hostages by Saturday noon, the ceasefire will end and the IDF will resume combat until Hamas is decisively defeated.
PALKOT: Underscoring the danger the captives are in, word from the IDF that 86-year-old Shlomo Mansour, thought taken from the kibbutz on October 7th, 2023, is in fact dead. Others did survive, though, including 24-year- old Romi Gonen. She was released last week but suffered from a dangerous arm injury and months of malnutrition. Her sister Yardan told us she is coming back but doesn't think there is a minute to waste to save those still being held by Hamas.
YARDEN GONEN, SISTER OF RELEASED HOSTAGE: I wish that everyone would be released together one day. We don't need to stress it more.
(END VIDEO TAPE)
PALKOT (on camera): And just to continue the high stakes finger-pointing, Hamas saying in a statement tonight it remains committed that the ceasefire deal and it holds Israel responsible for any, quote, complications or delays. Bret?
BAIER: Greg Palkot live in Tel Aviv. Greg, thank you.
Up next the panel on President Trump's two public Oval Office meetings alongside Elon Musk, and his sales pitch to develop the Gaza Strip alongside the king of Jordan.
First, Beyond our Borders tonight. A London court has issued a ruling that removes a vetting clearance for a sergeant facing rape allegations and other conduct accusations. Great Britain's most senior policeman is criticizing that decision, calling it absurd that he could not fire serving officers who failed vetting reviews.
Palermo's police force has arrested about 180 people in major anti-mafia operation in Italy. Around 30 suspects were already in prison on other charges. The investigation also revealed an encrypted communication system that mafia clans used both inside and outside of prison.
And this is a live look at Japan. One of the big stories there tonight, Iraq's foreign minister announces the recovery of several artifact and textured paintings from Japan and Switzerland. The antiquities date back to ancient Mesopotamia and the Assyrian civilization. Archeological sites in Iraq have little or no protection, but the government has been slowly recovering relics in recent years from around the world.
Just some of the other stories Beyond our Borders tonight. We'll be right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, (R) U.S. PRESIDENT: And with the United States being in control of that piece of land, the fairly large piece of land, you're going to have stability in the Middle East for the first time. It's going to be something that's going to be magnificent for the Palestinians. They are going to be in love with it.
KING ABDULLAH, JORDAN: There is a plan from Egypt and the Arab countries. We are being invited by Mohammed bin Salman to discussions in Riyadh. I think the point is how to make this work in a way that is good for everybody.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: King Abdullah in the Oval Office there. "The Washington Times" says, writes it this way, "King of Jordan says he will take sick kids from Gaza." He said "he is open to taking sick kids from Gaza into Jordan but the rest needs to be discussed. He said the next move after that would be to wait and see what plan Egypt presents in response to Mr. Trump's calls for the two countries to take in refugees from Gaza." President Trump calling it a beautiful gesture.
However, after that meeting, the king posted on X, "I reiterated Jordan's steadfast position against the displacement of Palestinians in Gaza and the West Bank. This is the unified Arab position. Rebuilding Gaza without displacing the Palestinians and addressing the dire humanitarian situation should be the priority for all."
Let's start there with our panel, Josh Holmes, co-host of "The Ruthless" podcast and former chief of staff to Senator Mitch McConnell, Olivia Beavers, congressional reporter for "Politico," and Harold Ford Jr., former Tennessee Congressman, co-host of "THE FIVE." Harold, obviously, the king was very circumspect and he was very diplomatic in the way he talked about it in the Oval Office. But that post is pretty clear of where Arab leaders, he says, are as they consider this plan by President Trump.
HAROLD FORD JR., FORMER TENNESSEE REPRESENTATIVE: Well, thanks for having me. I think his text, or I should say tweet or X right after that, I think, probably speaks for the region as much as he said it did and as much as I think we should all understand.
I think President Trump, who has proven to be a pretty adroit negotiator here at home and here abroad, I know it has to be in the back of his mind if we push too hard the wrong way with our friends and allies in the region, you open the door not only for Russia but for China to be more of a player. The president has his way of negotiating. The Jordanian king has been a great ally of the United States, along with Egypt. And we will continue to need them if we want to bring about the kind of new security, peace, and economic arrangements there in the Middle East which I think all of us covet, regardless of party.
BAIER: Meantime, Olivia, the fighting could resume on Saturday. Originally it was President Trump that set the 12:00 noon deadline Saturday for all the hostages to be released. And then the Israeli prime minister reiterated that, saying they are moving troops to around Gaza.
OLIVIA BEAVERS, "POLITICO": Certainly, and I think that the prime minister indicated that he was very much open to that. And I think one thing that's interesting, also, about the president's suggestion about Gaza, I have been talking to House Republicans, and they aren't entirely taking his suggestion about building in Gaza seriously. And some are even raising national security concerns, saying what if we put the time into rebuilding it after displacing the Palestinians, and then the terrorists then decided to attack it. So right now even Republicans, although it's privately are pushing back, they sound a little bit skeptic about this plan.
BAIER: Yes. Josh, it is -- you know, the White House is suggesting it's changing the paradigm. It's talking about something different, and it is putting the onus on the Middle East leaders to come up with their own plan.
JOSH HOLMES, "RUTHLESS" PODCAST CO-HOST: That's exactly right, Bret. Look, if you are trying to resolve an intractable problem, like this one, the first step is trying to get the attention of all the players involved that there needs to be a solution that looks a lot different than what they have come up to at this point.
On this score, Donald Trump in the first three weeks has done more than the Biden administration was able to do in four long years. And he has got people like King Abdullah talking about taking in Palestinian children. That is a good first step.
As this goes forward, there's a whole bunch of leverage that the United States has in this region, whether it comes from funding, from aid, from security forces, all kinds of things that Donald Trump knows very well are his levers of negotiation. I think he feels very comfortable where he is at. I can say, like from my perspective, this looks like it's a lot better off than it was six months ago.
BAIER: You know, there is this thought, and he expressed during the Super Bowl interview with me, that he feels optimistic about different deals, the possibility of an Iran deal, possibility of a China deal. And on Ukraine, he is sending his treasury secretary Bessent to Ukraine. This comes after Zelenskyy, President Zelenskyy in an interview with "The Guardian" said this, "If Trump does manage to get Ukraine and Russia to the negotiating table, Zelenskyy says he plans to offer Russia a straight territory exchange, giving up land Kyiv has held in Russia's Kursk region since the launch of a surprise offensive there six months ago. "We'll swap one territory for another," he said, but added he did not know which part of Russian occupied land Ukraine would ask for in return." Here's that piece about Ukraine from the interview.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, (R) U.S. PRESIDENT: They have tremendously valuable land in terms of rare earth, in terms of oil and gas, in terms of other things. I want to have our money secured, because we're spending hundreds of billions of dollars. And they may make a deal, they may not make a deal. They may be Russian someday or they may not be Russians someday.
I told them that I want the equivalent, like $500 billion worth of rare earth, and they have essentially agreed to do that. So at least we don't feel stupid. Otherwise, we're stupid.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: Harold, it wasn't the equity part, the rare earth part, it was they may be Russians someday, they may not be Russians someday that I think caught some foreign policy experts' ears.
FORD: Two things. The Biden administration gave a lot of money in support to the Ukrainians. I don't think that the Biden administration was able to exert the influence that it seems like President Trump is doing now, but without the Biden administration we couldn't do this.
Two, I think the biggest part of all of this is how weakened the Iranians are. I think Josh is right, Olivia is right. Republicans are skeptical. We are in a much better position. We are in a transformational position right now. And I think President Trump understands, he recognizes that. And I hope he and his team, with the experience they've had from the four years first time in office, can act on it in a way that will prove to give us lasting results and lasting security.
BAIER: Meantime, Olivia, Elon Musk in the Oval Office giving some examples of DOGE and what it's finding. Take a listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, (R) U.S. PRESIDENT: I'm going to ask Elon to tell you a little bit about it, and some of the things that we found.
ELON MUSK, TESLA CEO: They there are quite a few people in the bureaucracy who have ostensibly a salary of a few hundred thousand dollars but somehow managed to accrue tens of millions of dollars in net worth. If you look at Treasury, for example, basic controls that should be in place, the payments don't have a categorization code. It's like just a massive number of blank checks just flying out the building.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: His son X may have been the star of that, Olivia, in the Oval Office. Thoughts?
BEAVERS: Very cute. Very cute little son.
With Elon Musk, Republicans are pretty excited about what he's doing. They say he is finding costs and scaling down the government and the federal workforce. Democrats, meanwhile, who have felt like they haven't really found their footing, they don't know how to attack President Trump, and especially after their losses, think they have the perfect villain in Elon Musk. And they say he is overreaching. They think that he is -- alleging that he is accessing private information across different agencies and across the government. And they are going to be messaging strongly against him. This is him defending his actions after you have seen a plethora of headlines about his actions.
BAIER: Yes. He did bring up, Josh, and this is quickly, he put up a picture of this mine, this limestone mine that keeps actually manila paper folders and paperwork of people retiring from the government. They can only do 10,000 a month because it literally is a paper process with an elevator. Some of the stuff is he talking about is crazy.
HOLMES: It's wild stuff. I can't imagine there is better politics than transparently dismantling the administrative state. He's doing all that and he's found opposition from Democrats while is he doing it. It's good politics for the administration.
BAIER: OK, panel, thanks so much.
All right, it's time for "Tuesday X-Tras." Lex Luthor says, "Is there a follow up interview with Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman in the works?" And yes, it is in the works. We're going to see what happens. But we are working that. It could be interesting.
Braxton Jackson asks, "What or who influenced you most to pursue a career in news?" You know, I think it was an internship I had in Atlanta that really got me going. But as far as in news, Brit Hume my mentor and friend, and Tim Russert. I was always a big fan of his interviewing style and got to know him before his passing.
Mark Milligan wants to know, "What is President Trump like behind the scenes? Anything interesting or unique?" Well, yes, he just likes to talk. He likes to talk off the record, share his thoughts about everything under the sun. So, much of what you see on the interview you continue to hear off the record in different ways.
Finally tonight, a record 127.7 million people watched Sunday's Super Bowl on FOX Sports, and thanks to those that tuned in early for our exclusive interview with President Donald Trump.
Tomorrow on SPECIAL REPORT, the House subcommittee overseeing DOGE holds its first congressional hearing.
Remember, if you can't catch us live, set your DVR, 6:00 p.m. in the east, 3:00 p.m. on the west coast.
Thanks for inviting us into your home tonight. That is it for this SPECIAL REPORT, fair, balanced, and still unafraid. THE INGRAHAM ANGLE is next.

Load-Date: February 11, 2025


End of Document
