




telegraph.co.uk
January 20, 2025 Monday 8:00 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: US; Version:1
Length: 730 words
Byline: By David Kaufman
Highlight: The President’s speech showed he wants to return to the basics of strong growth and security, after the excesses of the Biden years
Body


Donald Trump is once again President – and his second administration promises to be more Trumpian than ever.  – both the inauguration ceremony and his stick-swinging inauguration speech shielded from the cold inside the Capitol Building – he is essentially picking up where he left off. This time, however, Trump & co have far more experience of how to navigate Washington’s corridors of power. They’re already showing it.
The past few weeks have seen Trump’s transition team prove its deftness in everything from foreign policy –  – to a domestic agenda rife with executive orders promising to  network that former president Joe Biden and the Democrats had assembled with such alacrity. And as Trump’s second inauguration speech made clear, he is only just getting started.
Eight years ago, Trump raised eyebrows – and ire – with his now infamous inauguration warning   he believed had overtaken the nation. It “stops right here, right now,” he said, “from this day forward, a new vision will govern our land. From this day forward, it’s going to be only America first. America first.”
Today’s speech was t, only wrapped in a more sanguine bow. “The golden age of America begins right now,” Trump said. “From this day forward, our country will flourish.”
So what does it mean for America to “flourish” during Trump 2.0? As he detailed on the campaign trail, immigration will be Trump’s most immediate priority, necessitating   – and potential troop deployments – along the US-Mexico border to deport “criminal aliens” and halt the “emergency at our Southern border”. He framed his migrant policy as one of “common sense,” which drove the crowd wild as he went on to exclaim “all illegal entry will immediately be halted”, while Mexican drug cartels will soon be considered “foreign terrorists”.
But his plans for immigration were just the beginning. At times, Trump’s address read like a laundry-list of the policy promises he has provocatively touted since his November election victory. There was the Panama Canal,   – both, it seems, from the Panamanian government as well as their alleged patrons in Beijing. DEI is also on Trump’s radar, most notably gender ideology. “As of today … there are only two genders,” he declared under the Capitol’s rotunda.
Trump also attacked the state of America’s public health system as one “that does not deliver”, and the nation’s education system as teaching children to “hate” their country. Under Biden, America “has given unlimited funding to the defence of foreign borders but refuses to defend American borders,” Trump added. This will now change, ending “America’s decline” and ushering in a new “golden age” that he believes began the moment he took the oath of office.
The speech was classic Trump, strident and aggressive – macho and worthy of a fact-check or three. But mostly the President delivered exactly what his supporters wanted (and expected) to hear – even the minority voters who turned out in record numbers on election day and for whom inauguration day holds extra importance arriving, as it has, 
Invoking the language of King himself – and his quest for African-American equality – Trump branded today “liberation day” and committed to making Dr King’s dreams come true. Some might think it a curious commitment considering that Trump is immediately intending to slash so many of the programmes intended to protect minority rights. But his supporters would argue that going to war on critical race theory and the diversity industry is consistent with his support for a colour-blind society.
With Joe Biden now on a helicopter and headed for a long-overdue retirement, America is a nation fundamentally and forever changed. The progressive agenda launched by President Obama and most fully-realised under Biden has been proven both ineffective and unpopular. America wants a return to the basics – lower costs, safer streets, conventional cultural norms, and a semblance of racial harmony. Trump believes he can deliver it. Many Americans appear to agree.
                     David Christopher Kaufman is a columnist for the New York Post                   

Load-Date: January 20, 2025


End of Document
