



Fox News THE FIVE 5:00 PM EST
January 31, 2025 Friday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 8477 words
Byline: Jeanine Pirro, Jessica Tarlov, Jesse Watters, Katie Pavlich, Greg Gutfeld
Body


WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: And finally, Mr. Safety says, why does your voice seem deeper and not as treble? What goes? Well, unfortunately, this deep baritone will go, eventually. I'd like to keep that part of having a cold.
All right, thanks for joining us as we get to the heart of what matters from the heart of America. We hope you have a great weekend. Here comes THE FIVE.
JEANINE PIRRO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL LEGAL ANALYST: Hello, everyone. I'm Judge Jeanine Pirro along with Jessica Tarlov, Jesse Watters, Katie Pavlich and Greg Gutfeld. It's 5:00 in New York City, and this is THE FIVE.
OK, we are getting shocking new details on the deadly midair collision between an American Airlines jet and an army helicopter, which costs the lives of 67 people. It looks like there is a crane on the scene right now. Transportation Secretary Sean Duffy announcing that the FAA will restrict helicopter traffic around Reagan National Airport airspace.
And for good reason, military helicopter flights reportedly forced at least two planes to abort landings at the airport in the week before the deadly collision, one of those close calls came just 24 hours before the collision.
Additionally, it has been revealed that air traffic control staffing was, "not normal" at the time of the collision, and one of the controllers was apparently allowed to leave their shift early right before the fatal crash.
President Trump is vowing to fix the DEI rot at the FAA by ordering a review of all federal aviation hiring and safety decisions in response, here's the president.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: This was all caused by bad rules, regulations and other things by Biden, the Biden administration. And when you look at the way they ran things, in fact, if you look, we hired -- one of the first things I told them to do is get talented people in those - - in those beautiful towers overlooking runways. You better get them in there fast, because we don't have people there that are qualified. And you knew that because planes were landing very, very late. This was all because of weak rules in the Biden administration
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: During the crash, do you have any concerns that your commentary about things you have described as common sense, or your observations could in any way interfere with the thorough investigation of the crash?
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: No, I think they'll do an investigation. It'll probably come out the way I said it. I was right on all of it, but they will still do an investigation just to check it out.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PIRRO: But instead of conceding that the president has a point on raising standards for people who help fly our planes, all the liberal media wants to do is attack, attack, attack.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: When you talk about DEI and Trump, it means despicable and enraging idiocy.
REV. AL SHARPTON, MSNBC HOST: He does three minutes of let's pause and silence, and then let's blame the Blacks. Let's blame the disabled.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: That's what diversity is, and that is what the president said, that Black, Brown people, women and people with disabilities, caused this crash.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What he is saying is that the only people who are competent to run anything in this country are white men.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: His instinct is never to bring people together, but even in some stunning fashion, try to blame others.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PIRRO: I got to tell you, Jesse, the claim that when he talks about DEI and lower standards, their interpretation is that what he's saying is that only white people are competent. Are they stupid? Do they not know what DEI is about?
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: They know but they can't admit it, because it was their idea. The politicians demanded that Reagan add all these extra flights to this airport, because they all need to get home to their districts to have three and four day weekends. But the politicians didn't staff Reagan. Reagan wasn't staffed. It's the busiest runway in the country, and they don't have enough people, but they have enough people at the Department of Veterans Affairs, where they're having orgies. They have 60 DEI employees at the V.A. but they don't have enough at a control tower at Reagan, the busiest runway.
They could have had enough, but Biden wouldn't let white guys in. According to a lawsuit, a thousand white guys who had perfect scores. One guy had a hundred percent on the entrance exam to be an air traffic controller. Biden said, no, that's still in litigation.
I had a guest on last night who flies these army choppers, and she said that the air traffic control communication was bad. It was poor, it was vague, and that could have caused this crash. And no one knows why this Black Hawk was flying in this flight path anyway.
But why don't we have enough guys? Also, not only the staffing was because of the pandemic, we stopped for two years training these guys. How is that not an essential worker?
So, we have no one to go on to these towers and control this. Only one percent of air traffic facilities in this entire country have hit their staffing targets. That was last year, that was under Mayor Pete.
So, this is poor management, poor priorities, and if they have a problem with it in the media, it's called constructive criticism.
PIRRO: You know, Katie, the truth is that they're making DEI about race when it's about intelligence. It's about competence. It's about recognizing that we need the smartest people doing surgery, flying aircraft, protecting the American people.
We know certain things. We know that the helicopter was at 200 feet, was supposed to be and that it was at 350. We know Jesse is right about the controller saying, do you see a plane without identifying which plane it was, because there was one landing and one taking off. So, that's a problem.
Now, we hear today that there was a controller who left early.
KATIE PAVLICH, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: Yes. Well, Washington, D.C. and Reagan National have been managing these types of flights with the different elevations, the planes, commercial planes and the helicopters for years, there's been tens of thousands of flights in and out of Reagan without having this problem. So, the question is, what has changed?
I mean, if you live in D.C. and you fly in and out of D.C. all the time, you see these helicopters all around town. And the question is, well, why is it there are helicopters in these paths anyway? They're doing military training, they can't -- there's no other place in the whole country they can do military training that's not literally in the pathway of these commercial airline flights.
Also, these helicopters are there because high profile politicians or cabinet members or people who want to get out of traffic and get somewhere quickly, they want a helicopter ride from the Pentagon to the White House to Langley, to the CIA, etcetera.
So, that's why these fights are taking place. It's not that they're necessary, but they have been able to manage them.
And so, you have to ask the question of what has changed here, and Jesse's right. You know, there's this class action lawsuit against the FAA for turning away thousands of highly qualified individuals who applied for these FAA jobs because they weren't the right skin color.
So, when you talk about the diversity and the inclusion and equity, it's actually a violation of Civil Rights Act, first of all, it's a discrimination, and second of all, it's dangerous.
And maybe you know, we still need to know what happened in this situation, but it's clear that when you're hiring people for very sensitive jobs based on skin color or gender or whatever else rather than merit or 100 percent scores on an FAA test, there's going to be a problem somewhere at some point.
PIRRO: You know, Greg, one of the things that we found out is that there are three people on the Black Hawk. One is, I think they call him a crew chief, and then they had the one pilot with a thousand hours, the other with 500 hours.
One of the families is saying we don't want the name of our family member identified. Why do you think that is?
GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: I don't know. I don't want to answer that question, because I -- that to me, it's not my area of expertise. I think that the topic that interests me is, can you blame the Biden administration, and can you be suspicious about the competency of the FAA?
And I say you can blame the Biden administration and you can be suspicious because you brought the suspicion on. Well, the Democratic Party covered up an incapacitated president. That is the most important office in the land, and it was deliberately compromised.
So, why shouldn't you wonder about every single institution underneath that? If they were that cavalier about the president of the United States, we should be worried.
I said this before, there is a crisis of competence, and we saw it in that debate. We had also a guy in charge in what nuclear safety, who was a kleptomaniac, fetishist. We -- there was no one at the wheel. So this goes back to like, why is Trump succeeding? Because He's establishing order among disorder, whether it is crime, immigration, foreign policy, and that appeal to order comes from this overwhelming sense of chaos, which comes from the top down.
The hood ornament of chaos was the president of the United States. He reflected the incoherence and the confusion and the absence of leadership that spread out throughout the entire governmental system. Trump is the realignment, and he's doing it through a very simple prism America first driven by common sense, could be applied to every segment of the government and almost every segment of society, especially when there's a segment that feels that it might be in disarray, and you see this accident, you wonder, how does that happen? How does somebody leave early with somebody inexperienced?
You have every right to be suspicious, because it may be connected to the overarching -- the overarching crisis of competence. It's a crisis of competence. It causes a lack of confidence. And the solution that Trump is offering, it may not be right in this case, it may not be DEI, but you sure as hell can ask that question, because it seems to us that every institution has been degraded in the last, I don't know, four years. You can go back even further.
When Trump came in, he didn't know what he got. He didn't know what he got. You can go, oh, but this was in -- this was under him. He didn't have a clue. The government was already screwed. We were screwed. Now he's doing the unscrewing.
WATTERS: The unscrewing.
GUTFELD: Yes.
PIRRO: Unscrewing, that's good to know. But what you've got now is, once we find out the facts, and I think the facts are going to be pretty easy to find out. I think we may already know them. It's the why. You know, why do we have so many vacancies in the FAA?
JESSICA TARLOV, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: I would love to know the answers to that. I think the NTSB representatives have seemed really good in these press conferences, very authoritative, talking about the time that they need, but saying, I'm going to be as transparent as possible, they get their investigations done usually in less time than they allot themselves to do it.
So, hopefully, we get answers. And I don't think that there's anything wrong with asking questions about our procedures. That ended up with a completely cataclysmic American horror story in what happened. Yes, we all agree on that.
But when Jesse says that President Trump is offering constructive criticism, it is not constructive criticism to say this is Joe Biden's fault, or this is Pete Buttigieg's fault.
WATTERS: Why not?
WATTERS: Because that's just blaming your political adversary. It's not taking any responsibility, it's not sharing the risk.
WATTERS: He was blaming the guy that was there before.
TARLOV: You know what, actually, the nifty part of it about being the 45th and 47th president is, as you were also the guy before.
And Greg is right. These policies were in place under Trump. I went to try to find out about your dwarf recruitment and that existed under the Trump administration.
WATTERS: The dwarf quota?
TARLOV: Yes, actually, it's up from June 2017 to June 2021st, there's even a post from April 2019, FAA provides careers for people with disabilities. The list.
PIRRO: Give them a job, don't put them in a control tower. I mean, we're talking apples and oranges.
TARLOV: Do you realize how -- no, we're not, we're talking about --
GUTFELD: That's not what it's about. It's about the fact that you're explaining why DOGE is necessary. Trump didn't know about that. Let's be obvious.
TARLOV: So, then Trump doesn't know what he is in control of. At least for the first four years.
PIRRO: Why didn't Biden filled the jobs?
WATTERS: He knows what he's getting rid of, because I don't think there's going to be a dwarf quota after this.
GUTFELD: By the way, lay off the little people.
WATTERS: Sorry, Greg.
PIRRO: Go ahead.
TARLOV: You know that you're being hypocritical about this. I started with there should be a full investigation. I want this, and there will be.
But you cannot deny the fact that when Trump came in to give the press conference, the first one yesterday, he did the nice part. Then he found himself again. He immediately said, DEI, DEI. Then the support staff, Duffy, Hegseth said, DEI.
Then, the picture came out, and it was a white guy who had done a thousand hours. So, we moved on to incompetence, right? If that had been a minority person or I heard, I mean, they're trying to say that this pilot --
WATTERS: That's speculation.
PIRRO: But DEI is about incompetence. That's the point.
TARLOV: But you don't think that there is a reason that he shifted gears after he saw? You're not -- no, you're never mind readers with Trump.
GUTFELD: Yes, I don't read minds.
TARLOV: You're just mind readers with Biden when --
GUTFELD: That's why -- that's why the left lost. They thought they could read people's minds, and you felt -- you felt prey to --
TARLOV: You know what I don't have to mind read about? When you say that everyone loves this because it's so streamlined and he's been so successful, I know that there is chaos because of this. So, send me a message saying --
GUTFELD: Because you read Peggy Noonan's piece?
TARLOV: No, because I saw portals being down. I saw e-mails going out to people saying, oh, you could take a buyout. I saw e-mails going out you're going to be fired tomorrow. I saw --
PIRRO: You know what, I'm worried about more people coming out of the frigid water, and why they're in that water. Then whether or not you're going to be -- you know, you got a job.
TARLOV: But you're only worried at it if it's Joe Biden's fault, you're not --
PIRRO: No, I'm not. I'm worried about you -- this is the worst -- this is the worst crash since 2001.
GUTFELD: I don't think you interpreted that correctly.
PIRRO: All right, coming up, they just can't help themselves. The geniuses who want to run the Democrat Party are still blaming Kamala's lost on racism and misogyny.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: Democrats still have no clue why they got their butts whooped in November, candidates who want to be the next DNC chair attending a forum to pitch why they're the one who could pull the party out of their Trump depression slump and start winning again.
Unfortunately, they just can't seem to get it together on why identity politics is a loser. Check out this amazingly stupid moment.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So, I'm going to have a show of hands. How many of you believe that racism and misogyny played a role in Vice President Harris's defeat?
OK, so that's good. You all passed.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: And the guy they're trying to replace who presided over the loss of the Senate, House and presidency, Jamie Harrison, not only thinks Joe Biden could have won, but that Kamala could stage a comeback.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Should Kamala Harris run again?
JAMIE HARRISON, PARTY CHAIR OF THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY: If she wants to.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You think she could win?
HARRISON: I believe she can. Donald Trump and Barack Obama are just enigmas in politics. I think they do something different to the electorate every time they run.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So, you're saying Donald Trump was unbeatable?
HARRISON: No, not he was -- Joe Biden figured out how to, right? But you know, Kamala Harrison could have used more time and other things.
But in the end of the day, Trump won't be on the ballot. He's a lame duck now.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Well, against my better judgment, I'll go to you, Jessica, since you're the Democrat, we'll just get you out of the way quickly. This is your party. How do you think the fight for leadership is going?
TARLOV: There was more to the forum, obviously, than that question.
WATTERS: No, that was it. That was it.
TARLOV: Yes, it was one question, and then everyone went home.
I think that you could obviously make a case. There are some voters out there who don't want to vote for a woman, there are some voters out there who don't want to vote for a person of color, but generally speaking, that wasn't the cause of our loss for sure.
If Biden had been the candidate, I'm pretty sure Trump would have won over 400 electoral votes. So, we're putting that to the side.
What I found most interesting, and this is in line with Bernie Sanders orthodoxy, is one of his senior advisers, Faiz Shakir was up there, and he was not playing around with the identity politics at all. He is the only one who wouldn't commit to increasing the at large DNC seats for trans people or creating a Muslim caucus. He said, I'm frustrated by the way in which we utilize identity to break ourselves apart.
Now, I think that is the right message for the moment. Though Bernie Sanders always had trouble building a coalition beyond white voters, like Black voters in particular were never into him in 2016 or 2020 but I do think that injecting that kind of thinking into whatever the next stage of the DNC is, whether it's Martin O'Malley or Ben Wikler when they elect someone else, is going to be really important. And I hope that consultants who work with progressive candidates that have a populist working-class message, like Bernie are taken seriously.
WATTERS: Jeanine, well, I have to -- I have to respond to something that Jamie Harrison just said when he talked about Kamala in that -- in that sound, he said Kamala could have used more time, but suggesting that if she had more time, she might have won. She had four years, Jamie in the White House, four years to make herself a start.
So, look, I'm tired of all of the arguments that they're using. They have to rationalize in their own minds why they lost, and they come up with these universal excuses without identifying what it is that the American people want.
We want a good economy. We want the border closed. We want crime to be -- you know, criminals to be locked up after they're arrested, if they can't make bail, or if they're from another country. They lied to us about a radical agenda and all of -- and their lazy and inarticulate, OK, that's who Kamala was anyway.
So, stop with the -- with the generalizations. There's a million reasons why, and they're so smart, they should analyze them.
WATTERS: Katie, we sometimes joke about, you know, I have advice for the Democratic Party. No, don't tell them advice. Do you think that the country and the party system is healthier when you have two competent parties? Or do you enjoy the Democrats suffering for long periods of time?
PAVLICH: I think it's fun to watch them, you know, having to wait around in the problems that they created for themselves.
You know, this forum, you know, if Democrats want to find a future for themselves, they cannot do it in a place like Washington, D.C., with MSNBC and with Jonathan Capehart, who, after everyone raised their hand, said, you answered the right way, he's at the Washington Post. They have to get out of this D.C. bubble with the media there, which is the most far-left radical faction that we have in this entire country. They are concentrated there.
But the bigger problem for Democrats is that for the past decade, really, it started under Obama. They have -- they've only built their entire strategy on divisiveness, on saying, if you want criminals off the street, you're a racist who wants to put minorities in jail. If you want closed borders, you're a racist who doesn't want people to come in, you're xenophobic.
So, they're going to come with a whole entirely different argument structure, because they've completely relied on identity politics to try and win. It failed in 2016 with Hillary Clinton. It failed again with Kamala Harris. And while they're preaching all of this to the country, they're the ones who put Joe Biden in the White House, the white guy.
So, they've got to get out to the steel mills, to the places that they've lost, with the minorities, with the union voters. They can't be doing these seminars in the heart of D.C. and expecting to get some kind of different result.
WATTERS: Greg, what if the Democrats just learned how to say, no? No, you can't come to the country. No, you can't play women's sports. That would be a nice start.
GUTFELD: No. I wanted to keep going. By the way, let's not forget they do control the cities. So, we're great nationally, but we got to remember the fact that our cities are still run by libs.
But got to remind the dams that they didn't lose to a garden variety Republican like a Jeb Bush or a Mitt Romney. They lost to what they deemed was the worst ever human being in recent history.
So, think about that, with your messaging and your personnel, you lost the popular vote, the electoral vote, you had the House, the Senate to Adolf Hitler squared. What does that say about you and your strategy and your values and your messaging? If you're less popular than Genghis Khan with syphilis.
The fact is, you're still doubling down. We watch that embracing what the world repudiated, and you're right. Inevitably, identity politics results in cannibalism. You run out of external targets. You chase out people in the party who wise up, and so you have to turn on each other, because ultimately everybody becomes a party of one when it comes to wokeism.
So, in a weird way, I think what you're seeing and I don't know if they'll wake up to it, but they're like the classroom bully who wonders why no one came to his birthday party when they said that they would, you know now the bully is sitting by himself with an untouched ice cream cake because the bully created the largest preference falsification in political history. No one wanted to tell them that they suck. So they thought they were ascended. They thought they were loved, they thought they were admired, and people just nodded along because they didn't want to talk to you. Everybody around you lied to you because you're an insufferable shit.
WATTERS: And no one's coming to your party.
GUTFELD: Yes.
PIRRO: I'll eat the cake.
(CROSSTALK)
WATTERS: Ahead, grab the maple syrup and the avocados, President Trump is about to unleash the first tariff war.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
PAVLICH: Well, load up on the maple syrup and avocados because President Trump confirming he will be going forward with his long-awaited 25 percent tariffs on Canada, Mexico, and a 10 percent tariff on China.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Anything China, Canada, and Mexico can do tonight to forestall your implementation of tariffs tomorrow?
TRUMP: No.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Not a negotiating tool?
TRUMP: No, it's not -- no, it's a pure economic. We have big deficits with -- as you know with all three of. And in one case, they're sending massive amounts of fentanyl. So, why should we be subsidizing Canada? They -- you know, it's wonderful. I have so many friends in Canada. It's a great place.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PAVLICH: But Oh Canada, the 51st governor is vowing he will fight the tariffs.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JUSTIN TRUDEAU, PRIME MINISTER, CANADA: If the president does choose to implement any tariffs against Canada, we're ready with a response, a purposeful, forceful, but reasonable immediate response. It's not what we want, but if he moves forward, we will also act.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PAVLICH: So, Jesse, did the -- are the sled dogs ready to defend Canada on the tariffs?
WATTERS: No, no. And they don't have to if they just become a state. We can drop the trade war right now. So, Canada plays games with dairy. They invoke all these barriers, so are people that want to sell milk and cream and cheese into Canada, they can't do it because they're violating the spirit of the USMCA. They're also dumping all this cheap lumber into our country. They subsidize their timber industry and then come down and they undercut our timber industry here.
Mexico is playing dirty with corn. They import all of their corn, and they import it from us. They love tortillas, tacos. It's in everything down there. And they say we will not take your corn if it's -- what is it -- a GMO, genetically modified corn. And we're losing a lot of money.
They're also sneaking in Chinese cars. The Chinese are brilliant. They're just sending parts into Mexico and then they're just assembling in plants and then it made in Mexico and then they can sell them here. That's got to stop.
PAVLICH: So, Judge, this isn't just about the economics which the President laid out. He also wants more cooperation on fentanyl and tariffs coming across the northern and southern borders.
PIRRO: To be honest with you, 25 percent tariff isn't enough for the harm that has been caused by Canada and Mexico by the open borders. And to be honest with you, the overrun borders and the crime and the fentanyl and the deaths when it would be very easy for them to control the border.
Unfortunately, you've got the cartels that are running the Southern Border. They're literally -- there's what is it, rifle cover for the cartels to be able to come across to the -- to the United States. And it is stunning that they are able to get away with this. And so now, they've been -- the cartels are now foreign terrorist organization. We can affect their money. But we really have to get Mexico to pay up for what they've done. And Canada as well for not protecting the border. And we are trying to protect it but they are not doing anything.
And the truth is that fentanyl is coming from China. It's being manufactured and imprinted in Mexico. The money laundering is going down there and they're just pushing it into the United States. So, you know, the tariffs are more than just about tariffs. They're about our way of life and protecting Americans.
PAVLICH: Yes. And Greg, this is a president who believes in tariffs to get certain policies changed towards the U.S., but he also believes in eventually getting rid of the income tax for Americans and making the country richer through tariffs. So, there are lots of strategies at play here.
GUTFELD: I love that strategy. I'm not sure if it's possible but I did my homework. That's the thing about Trump. He forces you out of your comfort zone of ignorance. My default system being that, you know, as a Libertarian Republican for free trade, I'm against tariffs, even though I really never read about it. It's just something that like I believed in because it's a free market libertarian, tariffs are bad. Government -- you know, you can't -- don't mess with the prices, you know. You got to set -- you know let the prices set themselves.
But I understand how tariffs can be used as a tool at your disposal especially when I go back to the A block, the realignment that Trump is doing with his prism of America first, suddenly tariffs are not off the table, they're but a tool to realign America as the priority. And he's -- it's no bluffs given. It's like I may do this, I may not. Starting tomorrow, the 10 percent on China. That's a that's going to be a tough one because that -- you know we buy a lot of crap from China -- and emphasis on crap.
But you know, if you have a problem with that, we've had over -- I don't know -- I don't -- it has been going down the deaths from fentanyl but 100,000 -- it was over 100,000 people dying from fentanyl. No tariff is small enough to deal with that, you know. I mean, it's affected everybody's lives. It comes from -- it comes from Russia -- I mean, China. We have to do something about that.
PAVLICH: So, Jessica, we've got about a minute until this new briefing from the NTSB, but your thoughts about the tariffs.
TARLOV: Tariffs are attacks on the consumer and President Trump admitted as much when he was talking to reporters today where he said that it sometimes passed on to the consumer. Don't worry, just a short-term disruption. And Donald Trump promised all of his voters that everything would be better when he got into office.
So, Tuesday went by, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday. The weekend maybe you take a break. He has to golf a lot. Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday again and now we're talking about 25 percent tariffs on some of our biggest trading partners. Eggs, hot topic, so now we've got bird flu, plus we got a ton of eggs from Canada.
You talk about the cheap lumber of flooding the zone. If we are going to deal with our housing problem, you got to get more supply up. He's taxing you.
PIRRO: All right, there's Fox News Alert. The NTSB is now giving an update on the deadly plane crash in D.C. Let's listen in.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
TODD INMAN, 48TH MEMBER, NTSB: I'm the board member on scene and we'll be briefing tonight where we're at in the investigation in regard to the CRJ accident with the Sikorsky helicopter.
Let me just start with, as usual, our hearts go out to all the families of the victims. In fact, I just spent the last several hours with them before we came here. And I apologized that we had to move this back, but they are one of our primary concerns along with making sure we get factual information out. They are having a very -- it's a hard time for them obviously. We want to do everything we can to make sure they get the most accurate information and factual. And it's always been at the core of the NTSB mission, our job is to just come out with the probable cause but then more importantly make recommendations so that this type of tragedy never occurs again.
So, today -- I know yesterday you saw the chairman myself and all the board members here, I just want to let you know they are still actively involved with this. We're just trying to make sure we're dividing and conquering. The chairman and I have had multiple conversations today. She's helped out a lot in making sure we're getting the investigative needs we have. And she's at the command post right now working with some of our people.
I'd like to start by just thanking the first responders. When this first happened, a unified command was set up and we had a lot of important people that came and worked with us. In Virginia, the Fairfax County Fire and Rescue -- Fairfax County Fire and Rescue Department, Arlington County Fire and Rescue, Arlington County Emergency Management, Arlington Police, Alexandria City Fire, Alexandria Police, Virginia State Police, the NCR Incident Management Team, the Virginia Department of Emergency Management, the Virginia Department of Transportation, the Virginia Senator Warner's office, MWAA's Fire and Rescue Team, MWAA Police.
A special shout out to every one of them. MWAA has been amazing and helping and working with us, and we're truly appreciative, along with D.C. Fire and Rescue just extraordinary taking the lead. Prince William Fire and Rescue, in Maryland the Montgomery Fire and Rescue, Prince George's Fire and Rescue, Charles County Fire and Rescue, Baltimore Fire, Baltimore Police, Anne Arundel Fire Department, Maryland State Police, Maryland Natural Resource Police, MPD, DCFD, and from the federal side, the U.S. Coast Guard, U.S. Army, U.S. Air Force, FBI, Secret Service, Customs and Border Patrol, Park Police, DOD, Naval District Washington, American Medical Response, and yes the U.S. Department of Labor.
All of those have been amazing partners and are one of the reasons why that this investigation continues to progress the way we want it to. As I said, we did family briefings last night. And today, there are over 100 family members that are now in the area receiving briefings, and as part of a legislative requirement, receiving family assistance.
They have been briefed by the medical examiner, the fire chief, the NTSB Chairman and myself, along with the Family Assistant Unit from PSA Airlines. In regard to NTSB staff, all staff are now unseen that have been requested. And I want to point out one specific staff member because we're doing a joint NTSB and DOD investigation. The NTSB actually has a Blackhawk certified pilot on staff, on our personal staff, based out of Alaska.
Once we realize the dynamics and the intricacies of the Blackhawk, we have brought that member in. They are on scene now providing direct technical assistance to NTSB. Now, it does not mean that the DOD is not working and helping with us, but in order to maintain our independence, we have our own Blackhawk certified pilot in the working group for helicopters.
Regarding salvage at this point, the Navy supervisor of salvage is conducting salvage operations at the current time. Barges are in route from Virginia Beach and we anticipate them to be on scene early tomorrow morning. After their arrival, they will be secured, located, and then significant salvage operations will continue. They are ongoing right now but this will be the main lifting.
It's being done in conjunction with the D.C. Medical Examiner's Office in order to make sure simultaneously that any additional victims are recovered and immediately turned over to them for identification and return to their families.
SUPSALV, which is the Supervisor of Salvage, is also conducting a debris mapping right now. This will help in our post-accident analysis of how the machine actually reacted to the incident. It'll also help us with understanding some of the airworthiness and crashworthiness and human factors.
We have right now two distinct debris fields. One that houses the Sikorsky which is in comparison to the CRJ, a little bit smaller, to -- the CRJ is in another distinct area and we consider a little bit larger. The good news is based upon the initial mapping, while there are some small aspects of that debris field, there are large chunks that will be easily recoverable, and it will aid in the investigation when we bring it into the secured facility that will be located here on MWAA. That will help us in the close proximity to be able to review and evaluate.
Yesterday, we outlined for you a number of groups that have been stood up. A few of them in particular I want call out, although every one of them have been working very hard. For your edification, the ATC group, Air Traffic Control, has been conducting interviews today. They're ongoing tonight. They'll be ongoing for probably the next few days. We've had full cooperation in getting the witnesses that we need to gain those interviews. We will then take that information and match it with other data that we're receiving, and if necessary, conduct follow-up interview use at a later time.
Our operations group now has on site an Exemplar airplane similar to the CRJ700. It's on a hard stand here at MWAA. They will use that to evaluate cockpit configuration, seating, things like that. So, whenever the salvage comes up, we're able to use an Exemplar aircraft to match it against -- examples, such as where maybe switches are, navigational aids, electronics. It is almost the exact same configuration as the incident aircraft.
I want to clarify one thing. There's been a lot of questions and discussion regarding manifest. Let me make this very clear. The NTSB will not and has not released a manifest. We have not in our history, not in our past, we will not be in this accident. In fact there's specific Congressional language that whenever it is in our possession, it is not available through the Freedom of Information Act. It will not be included in our report. We will not be putting any names of any of the victims. Any release of that information will come from other individuals or groups.
Regarding the recorders, as many of you saw last night, we recovered from the CRJ two separate recorders. One was a FDFR. That is a flight data recorder -- FD. That was actually in what we consider good condition. As part of that process, it was soaked in alcohol overnight. It was then opened today. And we have a high level of confidence that we will be able to get a full download in the very near future.
Now, once we do have that download, we will not be releasing immediately the information regarding it. We will have to go through, correct the data sets, make sure they're synchronized. This has approximately rough up to possibly 2,000 data points. Is it right? So, all of that has to be synchronized and looked at. It's a very laborious practice. It takes a lot of time.
Regarding the CRJ's cockpit voice recorder, once it was recovered and opened, we found that it had water intrusion. That is not uncommon. It is not an unusual event for us to receive a recorder with water intrusion. We deal with that all the time. Our recorder division is one of the best in the country, in the world actually. We have recorders sent everywhere, so there's a step.
The CVR was soaked overnight in ionized water. At which point the team put the CVR into a vacuum oven in order to extract moisture. They are still checking electrical connections to determine if they're ready to try a download. It is one step of many steps that we will take in order to get that data. But we have a very high level of confidence that we will have it. We just have to work through a number of steps.
Lastly, on recorders, the Sikorsky where the CRJ has two separate recorders, the Sikorsky has a combined cockpit voice recorder and digital flight data recorder. It's in one box. I can report to you now we have recovered the Sikorsky black box. It is safely at the NTSB headquarters. It will begin an evaluation just as the other two records did last night to determine when and how to take action.
I can tell you from a visual inspection, we saw no exterior damage that would indicate that it was compromised at this time. So, we have a high level of confidence that we will be able to have a full extraction from that as well.
Those are some of the significant updates we have right now. obviously, we'll be doing some more .In the essence of time and making sure our team gets back, I think we're going to be able to take maybe four or five questions. I'll call on you and I'll repeat it. So, we'll try to play that game a little bit please. Right here. Your name and Outlet please.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (INAUDIBLE) Captain Sully Sullenberger in one of the heroes off the in on the that
He said we absolutely should be reviewing the airspace not just here but in other places where there's a complex mix of traffic. Is he right? Is there time for a permanent change in D.C. and across the country to keep airspace safe and separate between military and civilian?
INMAN: So, the question for those watching, is it this time now for us to possibly deconflict or change some of the airspace where military aircraft operate with commercial aircraft?
I can't give you a definitive answer on that. What I can say is in this incident it should not have happened. We have a in aviation what's called a Swiss Cheese Approach wherein if something fails, a backup should catch it, multiple layers of redundancy.
It's been a very long time since we've had a major aviation incident in the United States, and that's the reason why it's one of the safest forms of transportation in the country. But the only way they do that is by investigating what happens now and then making recommendations in the future.
Again, the NTSB has made -- done 100,000 aviation investigations. We've issued 15,000 recommendations, over 84 percent have been accepted. Once this investigative report comes out, we will be advocating probably be advocating probably for years for changes that need to be made, but we'll not speculate on what needs to be done until we have the facts.
Hey, I'll call on, people. Sorry.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (INAUDIBLE). Can you talk about how long you think it would take to recover the debris? How long you plan to be on site? Have you got any early data yet off the ATC tapes?
INMAN: I think that was three or four together. How long the debris will take, how long we'll be on site, and if we got any information off the Air Traffic Control tapes. The debris we are hopeful once the mapping is done, that it will be done in what I will call quick order -- and I can make no guarantees of that because first and foremost we need to make every effort and to make sure we're recovering every one of the people that perished in this accident.
We'll have some cranes that'll be coming up. And once that happens, you'll see a lot more activity and we'll be moving that in. But I don't want to give you a definitive time. I would say it we'll start an earnest probably on Sunday, and it will go through next week, and some of that is contingent upon weather and other things.
Regarding the ATC tapes, we've received a lot of different information on ATC. And so, I'm going to be -- let people -- I'm just going to preempt it. Off-the-shelf software programs are not always as accurate as the data we specifically get from ADS-B, from the blackboxes. All of that are factors that come into our investigation. So, we will not speculate about ATC tapes that you may have heard and seen online or snippets.
We are getting the full cooperation that we need to be able to make an accurate assessment and to make sure what we are saying is factual and that it will help and aid in the entire investigation. You.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Channel 7 Boston. Is there anything glaring from the videos that we've all seen that would tell you that the pilot in the Blackhawk helicopter made a mistake?
INMAN: The question is based on the videos, have we drawn any conclusions? We have not. We know that there was a significant incident in which the two aircraft collided, a pretty significant fireball. If you will recall even after the first day, we only had maybe one or two grainy images that were coming out. We're seeing more and more at this time. So, we're still collecting data but we are not going to opine until we see a lot of other things. And there -- a couple more? Yes, sir.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (INAUDIBLE) with CNN. How critical is it to interview the controller in the tower cab? And how concerning is it to you the reports that that controller is working two positions at the same time?
INMAN: So, the question was how critical are the Air Traffic Control interviews and basically staffing. So, Air Traffic Control interviews are critical. That's the reason why there's a process in place. That began immediately after the accident. It was preservation of that evidence. It was immediately taking down notes, getting logs, all that information.
We will go back and look at any air traffic controller that was involved in this. We'll go back and look at their past probably 72 hours, even two or three weeks. We'll look at their training, their hiring, everything, what they probably ate that day. But it is not one point that tells us everything. It's layered into a lot of other information that's very critical.
Regarding staffing, the FAA has had a very robust plan in looking at staffing. Obviously, we'll be looking at not only staffing that day but progressively staffing. How many people, what job functions they were doing, were they being combined, were they not, what was the weather outside, what was the number of landings.
I recall back during COVID, one runway was being used, runway one. That was the only one. 33 as traffic came back, started being opened up. So, we would look at changes in traffic patterns, construction at the airport, all of that. It all paints a very big picture.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Just follow up on that. Have --
INMAN: What's your name? I'm sorry.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Oh sorry. (INAUDIBLE). Have investigators interviewed Air Traffic Controllers at the scene.
INMAN: The question is have we interviewed air traffic controllers? Yes. I think I started with --
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: That were working at the time.
INMAN: Sorry.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: That they were working at the time.
INMAN: I'm sorry. Clarification. Was it an air traffic controller that was working at the time of the accident? Yes. Yes. Now, I'm not going to speculate -- sorry -- nope, sorry. I'm not going to speculate. The next question is was there one, two, three? I don't have the answer for that right now. I know that the controller that was working at the time has been interviewed and is -- interviews are ongoing throughout the day. Yes, ma'am. Last one.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (INAUDIBLE). Has President Trump reached out to you personally or anyone else in the White House to you or anyone else (INAUDIBLE). Can you describe the (INAUDIBLE).
INMAN: The question is, is anyone from the White House reached out to me or other board members? I won't speak for other board members. I know that the chair did a briefing yesterday. It was publicly discussed and gave some information. I have not received any contact. I'm going to go back to something we talked about earlier.
The NTSB is an independent bipartisan board, 58 years as the gold standard. Our job is to find the facts. But more importantly, our job is to make sure this tragedy doesn't happen again. Regardless of what anyone may be saying, our investigators never want to see this happen again and I never want to have to go back and brief another set of family like that.
Thank you.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you very much.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
PIRRO: All right, we've just heard from one of the members of the National Transportation Safety Board who has indicated that number one they found the black box on the Sikorsky on the helicopter that apparently they didn't have earlier. And that they are now in the process of interviewing the air traffic controllers who were working on the night that this happened.
He talked a lot about debris patterns and a lot of other information making it very clear that there are a lot of nuances to this investigation and all of the people involved. So, I'm going to take it around the table. Your take?
TARLOV: I always appreciate transparency and that he was out there. I feel like there are basically the same number of questions that we had going into that press conference as we have coming out. But I think it's a good thing that he's, you know, facing the public and also talking about how many different agencies are involved in this. You can understand the breadth and depth of the challenge ahead of them and hoping, you know, it's a quick conclusion.
PIRRO: Jesse?
WATTERS: Well, they've already interviewed the air traffic controller and they said it's going to be such a thorough investigation. They're going to go back two to three weeks, what did he eat, what was on his phone, what was he watching on T.V., what was he reading, who he was interacting with. So, that makes me feel better about this investigation. It's going to be very, very thorough.
PIRRO: Yes. Go ahead, Katie.
PAVLICH: When he first came out to the cameras, he talked about how they were late because they were meeting with a lot of the families and that it's nice to know that they are prioritizing the human side of this as well as the investigation. And he again, reiterated that they are dedicated to making sure they can get the families as many answers as they can given that these types of investigations especially with how complicated this is and all of the moving parts, how long it will take.
So, it's good to know that the families are being prioritized. And he also was very ad it that no names of the victims will be given out to the NTSB. They will not release a manifest. So, some online speculation about who exactly was on the plane, he shot that down. So, it's good that the families are at the forefront as well.
PIRRO: Yes. And you know, the interesting part of this is that they make it very clear that they will go back into the history of everyone who was involved in touching or being involved in this crash.
The sad part, Greg, is there are still bodies in that frozen water.
GUTFELD: Yes, I don't really have much to add to this. I mean, it's such an unusual -- I don't know. It's such an unusual event that, you know, you have to figure out what's going on and you have the time and the willpower to do it. This is about real safety. This is about -- you know, this isn't some kind of like, you know, I don't know like, fake safety, you know, where you talk about what it means to be safe from words or beliefs or pronouns. This is about real safety people dying.
PIRRO: You know, Katie, one of the things that I want to ask you is you flew out of Reagan today or you left from Washington.
PAVLICH: I fly in Reagan all the time and I was there today this morning.
PIRRO: Tell us about that that.
PAVLICH: You could see the rescue boats in the water. There's only one runway open. There was an eerie feeling among everybody who was working there and the people who were going to catch their flights. It was much quieter. Yesterday, when I was walking my dog, usually you hear the flights coming in and out of the airport. But the ground stop happened yesterday, so that was a different change from people in the area to experience.
But yes, I mean, to be sitting there watching the boats, knowing that there are people still trapped in the river and what they went through was just absolutely horrific. And when you go into the airport, and a number of people who have watched this, lawmakers who want answers. Sean Duffy the new Transportation Secretary saying when you walk onto an airplane, you have to be able to trust that you're going to get to your location safely. And that's what you can do.
You know, people tell you to travel safe, and it's like, oh, thanks. But you really don't have a lot of control over that when you get on a plane. You have to be able to trust that the training and the competence is there because it's a life or death situation as we've seen.
PIRRO: There will be discussion about the issue of the jet being on instrument rating and the helicopter on visual rating. And so, there's going to be a lot of talk about the ability to see at night.
Anyway, thank you for joining us today. Hopefully, we'll be getting more information over the weekend about what exactly cause this crash and why. Thanks for joining us.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: SHOW

Publication-Type: Transcript

Transcript: 013101cb.258

Subject: ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (90%); NEGATIVE NEWS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MISOGYNY (78%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (78%); TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAW & LEGAL SYSTEM (75%); Donald Trump (%); DEI (%); Aviation (%); Democrats (%); Racism (%); Misogyny (%); Airlines (%); Helicopter (%); FAA (%); Identity Politics (%); Kamala Harris (%); Joe Biden (%); Jamie Harrison (%); Tariff (%); Canada (%); Mexico (%); China (%); Washington, D.C. (%); NTSB (%); Investigation (%); Salvage (%)

Company:  FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (95%);  AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%)

Industry: NAICS516120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (95%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (95%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); AIRPORTS (90%); HELICOPTERS (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (89%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (89%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); AIRSPACE (78%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (78%); TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); AIRLINES (73%)

Person: DONALD TRUMP (90%); JOE BIDEN (89%); KAMALA HARRIS (79%)

Geographic: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); WASHINGTON DC, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); MEXICO (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
