




MailOnline
February 3, 2025 Monday 2:39 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: SHOWBIZ; Version:2
Length: 977 words
Byline: Jacqueline Lindenberg For Dailymail.Com
Body


Have YOU got a story? Email 
                     Donald Trump's ex-wife, Marla Maples, made a surprise appearance on the 2025 Grammys red carpet on Sunday as her former husband was blasted by stars during the night. 
The actress, 61, joined other celebrities at the annual event including Chappell Roan, Gracie Abrams and Taylor Swift. 
During the evening, music artists shared their opinions about the U.S. president's deportation policies and his recent remarks over DEI hiring practices following the tragic American Airlines and Black Hawk crash in Washington D.C. 
Maples strutted on the red carpet before the main ceremony commenced while donning a sleeveless, purple gown that clung to her frame and fell into a short train behind her. 
A slit could be seen at the front of the dress to easily reveal that Marla was wearing a pair of closed-toed, black heels. 
The star - who was previously married to the current 47th President of the United States from 1993 through 1999 - allowed her blonde locks to flow down past her shoulders in elegant curls. 
She accessorized the look with a pair of dangly, purple earrings as well as a chunky ring on her right hand for a flashy flare. 
Maples easily carried a shimmering, black clutch bag in her hand to hold a few items she needed during the evening. 
The Righteous Gemstones actress flashed a cheerful smile as she posed for a brief photo session upon arriving to the Crypto.com Area in Los Angeles where the event took place. 
Marla accompanied Indian musical composer, Ricky Kej, who had been nominated for a Grammy Award. 
He garnered a nod for his album Break Of Dawn in the Best New Age, Ambient or Chant Album category. 
Maples and Trump had initially tied the knot in 1993 before separating four years later. In 1999, their divorce was officially finalized. 
During the course of their relationship, the former couple also welcomed daughter Tiffany Trump, 31.
Amid the 67th Annual Grammy Awards over the weekend, some Hollywood stars made a few digs at Trump over his deportation polices. 
At one point during his monologue, host Trevor Noah stated, 'There's been a few changes in Washington.'
'So I'm gonna enjoy tonight because this may be the last time I get to host anything in this country.'
The South African comedian then said 13,000 members of the Recording Academy cast their votes to determine the winners as well as '20 million illegal immigrants.'
Shakira later jumped onto the stage to accept the Grammy for Best Latin Pop Album for Las Mujeres Ya No Lloran. 
During her speech, the songstress expressed to the crowd, 'I want to dedicate this award to all my immigrant brothers and sisters in this country, you are loved. You are worth it, and I will always fight with you.' 
'And to all of those women who work really hard every day to provide for their families, you are the true shoes. So this is for you, too.' 
Alicia Keys was another celebrity that shared comments on DEI as she accepted the Global Impact Award. 
The No One hitmaker stated, 'This is not the time to shut down the diversity of voices.'
'We've seen on this stage talented, hardworking people from different backgrounds with different points of view, and it changes the game. DEI is not a threat, it's a gift.' 
Keys further added, 'And the more voices, the more powerful the sound.'
'When destructive forces try to burn us down, we rise from the ashes like a phoenix and as you see tonight, music is the unstoppable language that connects us all. It's so beautiful.' 
While accepting the award for Best Pop Duo/Group Performance with Bruno Mars for their hit track Die With A Smile, Lady Gaga gave a shout out to the LGTBQ+ community. 
'It's such an honor to sing for all of you. I just want to say tonight that trans people are not invisible.' 
The singer continued, 'Trans people deserve love. The queer community deserves to be lifted up. Music is love. Thank you.' 
Despite their divorce 26 years earlier, Maples has since shown her support for her ex-husband, especially during the recent U.S. presidential election. 
Following their split, the businessman tied the knot Melania Trump in 2005 while Marla never remarried. 
During an interview with The Standard UK last year in July, Maples expressed, 'Anything from the past I've forgiven.' 
'That is a conversation that Donald and I have had: forgiving each other. Marriages are challenging, especially when you play them out in the media.' 
In regards to her ex-husband's involvement with politics, Marla told the outlet, 'I've never been a fan of politics. I see how it can separate and divide us.' 
'At the same time, I found myself in the throes of it,' she added, referencing to her daughter Tiffany Trump who had helped with her father's 2016 presidential campaign. 
Before Trump was re-elected late last year in November, Maples revealed that she was interested in being more involved. 'I'm ready. I am available if needed and I'm not sitting back anymore.'
'I want to step out more, share more and not be afraid of positive or negative outcomes that come from speaking out.' 
She later added, 'I've been in the caregiving mode. Now my mother and father have each passed, and my daughter's happily married. It's time I can really be more on point with what I may be called to do.' 
In regards to claims by sources that she would be interested in the role of vice president, Marla said, 'Someone would have to ask my ex-husband about that.'
'I'm open. I'm open to whatever way that I can serve. Right now everyone [in the Trump family] is just seeing how we can help.' 
A few months earlier in November, Maples took to social media to share moments from Trump's election party in Mar-a-Lago after his win. 
And a couple days before Trump's inauguration, she uploaded a snap with her daughter Tiffany as the pair glammed up in Washington D.C. for festivities ahead of the big day.

Load-Date: February 9, 2025


End of Document
