




Fox News THE FIVE 5:00 PM EST
February 18, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7241 words
Byline: Greg Gutfeld, Jeanine Pirro, Harold Ford Jr., Jesse Watters, Dana Perino
Body


WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: No single one person makes that call. And I can promise you, we're not going to make the right call at all times, but that was the call today to try to bring you some of what we had booked and some of the best we could do for you today, we will always put as a priority the President of the United States.
Thanks for joining us as we get to the heart of the matter from the heart of America, THE FIVE.
GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Hi, I'm Greg Gutfeld, along with Judge Jeanine Pirro, Harold Ford Jr., Jesse Watters and she took her driver's test in a Hot Wheel, Dana Perino, THE FIVE.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: When you look at some of the waste, fraud and abuse that's being uncovered by DOGE, and the people at DOGE, these are young, often young, but super brilliant people, incredible computer scientists and other things, and they're finding levels of fraud and waste and abuse like I think nobody ever thought possible.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: President Trump praising the super brilliant people at DOGE as the cost-cutting crew put Uncle Sam through a financial colonoscopy.
DOGE now estimates they've saved taxpayers $55 billion in counting. The brains behind the operation, Elon Musk and President Trump chatting with a man named Sean Hannity in an exclusive interview that airs tonight at 9:00 p.m. Musk noting how he went from a liberal saint to the anti-Christ.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ELON MUSK, CEO, TESLA MOTORS: I used to be adored by the left, you know?
STEVE HARRIGAN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Not anymore.
MUSK: Lesser these days.
They call it like Trump Derangement Syndrome. And you don't realize how real this is until, like -- it's like you can't reason with people. And so, like, I was at a friend's birthday party in L.A., just a birthday dinner after mentioning the president's name, and it was like they got shot with a dart in the jugular that contained, like, methamphetamine and rabies. OK?
I'm like, what is wrong? Guys, like, you can't have like normal conversation. And it's like -- it's like that become completely irrational.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: Proving Elon's point about methamphetamines and rabies, Democrats are still going after DOGE like a bunch of frothing animals.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: DOGE, I call the Department of Government inefficiencies is causing a reign of terror, chaos across the federal government.
NICOLLE WALLACE, MSNBC HOST: If it's an emperor Republicans want this Presidents' Day, maybe it's about time they just say that. Drop any and all pretense, because Donald Trump sure has.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: D-O-G-E and Elon Musk and his army of hackers pose a grave risk.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And there's such a difference, though, between perhaps trimming government, reshaping government and dismantling government.
MARA GAY, MEMBER OF THE NEW YORK TIMES EDITORIAL BOARD: Nothing is secure right now, and the government is not being remade to be efficient. This is an effort to destroy it.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: Well, at least she's not doing math anymore. Remember that? Yes, look it up. What's her name? Mara Gay.
DANA PERINO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Mara Gay.
GUTFELD: Mara Gay and math. All right, so, Harold, what's interesting about you is you do not have the reaction that other Democrats and liberals have towards Trump. You're not irrational and you're not emotional.
I'm always curious. Is that your own personality, or have you applied a filter to your mind that makes you navigate this so you don't go crazy? I think you could help your peers by explaining how you look at Trump and perhaps Musk.
HAROLD FORD JR., FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: Maybe a little bit of both. Hope everybody had a great weekend, it's good to be back -- good to be back around the table.
The -- I tried -- I tried not to be hysterical about things regardless. And there have been times in my life I've had things presented at me when probably should have -- should have been more hysterical, but I try not to be.
I think you said it well, the $55 billion that Mr. Musk and his group has found so far. I put that in the context. One, that's probably $50-60 billion we should not be spending a week and say, you don't -- you won't find any American, I think, Democrat or Republican, who is advocating for waste, fraud and abuse.
So, there's that one category of people. A great friend of mine over dinner was sharing this with me how he looks at this.
Two, you have to look at whether or not we're going to reduce our debt and deficit. And it doesn't seem that 55 billion is a great number. We have 36 trillion. So, if you -- if you hundred times 55 billion, that's 5.5 trillion, and we'd still have $32 trillion in debt. I think when you get serious about it, you have to look at Social Security and Medicare and defense spending, which, hopefully, Mr. Mr. Musk will get to.
But your larger point, Bret -- I mean, you're like Bret, your larger point, Greg, is that, I don't -- I think Democrats, they are -- they're still punch drunk. And you've said this before, from the race. The race was just a few months ago. President Trump has only been in office for less than six weeks.
And remember, and you all said it best around the table, and some agreed, some disagree, but you were right. We never saw Joe Biden.
So, you see this president once or twice a day, maybe more, and he is saying things that if you disagree with him, it's infuriating, because you have to see him twice a day, doing it over and over again.
I watched Jesse, I think it was last night, and he talked about the way Republicans are doing it. This president doing his media, and how it's a 21st century media strategy. You get the president the morning. Joe Rogan, you got a bunch of other influencers and people on social media.
Democrats, if you're serious, think about that. If you get angry, think about how you can counter that with ideas. But just being hysterical about President Trump or Elon Musk, you're only enabling them. You're only empowering them, and you're only making people realize that they don't like fraud, waste and abuse.
GUTFELD: Yes, you know, well put, Harry. Jesse, one of the things that I've been thinking about is that Democrats assume that we are as addicted to praise as they are. But as a Republican, we are used to be being called Hitler. We're used to being called everything so they don't know how to fight people who are immune to their constant smearing.
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: When I get praised in the press, I don't trust it. If the New York Times says something good about me, I figure I must be doing something wrong.
And if I knew you were watching last night, Harold, I would have had a much better show.
JEANINE PIRRO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL LEGAL ANALYST: I was on.
WATTERS: You were on.
FORD JR.: It was a great show.
WATTERS: You're watching for the Judge, probably, I got it. You guys have a thing.
You know, you're hearing about the Trump Derangement Syndrome. And you know, Greg, what you put inside your body with food, you kind of what you put in, what you get out. Same thing with your media diet.
The Democrat media diet is ultra-processed news. You get mad Al, "60 minutes", New York Times, and it makes them sick.
What they need is a healthy, balanced diet. Little filet of Fox, side to Joe Rogan. Sprinkle a little Musk on top. You'll feel better and you'll think better.
And right now, they're not getting the news and information that we're getting. If you just think about the government for a second, Nancy Pelosi is making more money than Warren Buffett. SEC is asleep at the wheel. The DOD is losing $6 billion in Ukraine. Catholics are harassed. Pete Hegseth just got audited.
You go down the list, it's a mess, and if you touch it, they're scared, because it's they think it's their government, and they think it's their money.
The way they talk about it, it's like the DNC is being audited. And in a way, they're right, because everybody that works in the government is a Democrat.
So, the way they recycle money is they tax it, they take it and they give it to the Democrats, and then the Democrats win elections, and then they hire more people to work for the government.
Have you noticed any Republicans complaining about not getting federal money? Where are all the right-wingers that are getting $40 billion for a study? Where are the Second Amendment groups are getting $13 million for a hub for Second Amendment rights? It doesn't exist.
GUTFELD: Or what about the countries that are supposedly getting help from USAID? They're not complaining.
WATTERS: No one's complaining. It's almost like they don't even notice the money is gone, because a lot of it's stolen.
If you're at CNN and you slash 10 percent of the CNN head count, what would happen, you turn on to see Wolf Blitzer, you wouldn't see bars (ph) in time. You'd see handsome Wolf Blitzer doing the news.
You could cut 10 percent from any company, and it probably wouldn't --
PERINO: Not this one.
WATTERS: We are so lean and (INAUDIBLE).
PERINO: This is the leanest -- this is the leanest company I've ever seen.
GUTFELD: You've overstepped the line.
(CROSSTALK)
WATTERS: Well, "GUTFELD!" staff could lose a few headcount.
Other than that, if you're $36 trillion in the hole, you can't tax your way out of it. You got to do something else.
GUTFELD: You did say something that is rare for you, brilliant. Ultra processed news, which means you need raw, organic news. That's the solution.
Judge, you know what I loved about Musk, he was talking about his former popularity, and it's almost like he saw his praise and popularity as expendable. I'm going to spend this in order to make the world better. He knew this was going to happen.
PIRRO: Yes, he did know it was going to happen. And you know what? But my understanding of what he did with the patent for the electric vehicles is that he gave it away.
You know, once he discovered it, once -- even though he had a patent, he said, here, take it, you make one too. You know, that's the kind of guy that he is. And, you know, I think it's really hysterical.
I mean, these Democrats, when you talk about Trump to them, it's like they go feral, you know, like a cat, it just goes wild and blows their brains.
And Musk gets it. He understands it. But I think that what Musk has done is he's doing something that no one else wants to do. He's doing something that Congress was never able to do.
And then you get these MSNBC hosts like Nicolle Wallace who say that, you know, President Trump is being an emperor and the congressional oversight is the way to go, as if that worked. Nobody wants to do this job. This is a challenge for Elon Musk. This is a guy who's up for the challenge, is smart enough, who knows how to do it, knows how to get it done, and is getting it done in Trump time. OK?
And I just want to say one thing about this, Congressman Vindman saying it's a reign of terror for these federal employees. How absurd is it that, because you have to go to the office, they're saying, you're being -- you know, they're watching you, and it's a reign of terror, as if working in the office means you're subject to surveillance.
I mean, these people think they're entitled to a job. They think they have the right to work from home, and it is a manufactured narrative, and these people are making themselves crazy when, right now, a federal judge has just ruled that DOGE is just fine, and this is a judge who doesn't have any favoritism toward Donald Trump. She said, I'm not going to give them a temporary restraining order, the 14 attorney generals. You don't -- you haven't showed me imminent damage, imminent harm.
GUTFELD: Dana, it is interesting. It's like, I think that Musk is gravitating towards the kind of the Republican world, because it's an acceptance of unpopularity. You don't get lavish praise for doing making adult decisions. You have to like in your government, you take other people's money and you give it to people, and you get praised.
PERINO: Well, a conservative, no matter who you are. You start with a credibility deficit in the legacy media, right? So, then you have to kind of crawl your way up to maybe get to where Jesse can get praised in the New York Times and then smack you back down into your hole.
The last four years, the Democrats were able to use like EPA and Department of Education and USAID to put money in that helped groups that supported them. And that's not a conspiracy theory, that was reported in the AP as part of the ultra process news diet.
But when you said that, Jesse, it really made me think about sometimes when you're talking to somebody on the other side, it is shocking the things that they don't know.
Now, maybe they think the same thing is about is true about us, but I feel I read a lot.
GUTFELD: No, we have to read both. They don't.
PERINO: We have to. It's a -- and there's no shortcut. You have to read it all.
GUTFELD: Yes, that's what you notice if you -- if you're following Bill Maher's project -- trajectory, it's him discovering the other side of the news, and he's like, oh, I didn't know that. I didn't know that. And that it's interesting to see that gradual enlightenment.
Isn't that great? Wonderful. I thought that was a great segment, much like my new clipboard. Thanks, Cole (ph).
PERINO: From Cole?
GUTFELD: Yes, no, from Cole. It's a Midwest engravery. Where am I? Yes, Midwest engraver. He's got seven kids, so buy stuff.
Ahead, Democrats tap Soros and other billionaire buddies to build their own Joe Rogan.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Stop the fascist now. Stop the fascist now.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: That, my friends, is the sound of a defeated party. Democrats once again breaking out the off key protest tunes wailing against Elon Musk and President Trump as they stare down political extinction.
But there may be a way out of the wilderness. The Democrats gathered a bunch of their super rich billionaire buddies and left wing influencers, reps from Soros Fund Management and the company behind the Obama pod bros to Frankenstein themselves a left wing Joe Rogan and fix their media game that's getting beat by the Republicans.
And Jen Psaki thinks the party's problem is that they all talk like your creepy left wing college professor.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JEN PSAKI, FORMER WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: Which drives me crazy is the way sometimes Democrats talk. It drives me insane. It's like we're in a PhD thesis on political academia, which is not how you win elections.
But you said it's like, so funny, because I wrote it down. Democrats talk like we are adjunct professors at a small liberal arts college of the Midwest. Which I'm sure I would love a small liberal arts college of the Midwest, but like, that's not how most people talk.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: I've heard her talk like a creepy college.
GUTFELD: Circle back. That robotic, raggedy aunt forced circle back into our lexicon. Try using circle back at the hardware store. He'll circle you back out the door.
What was I going to say? Here we are. You know, they're complaining about not having their own Joe Rogan and building a new one. But they were chasing smart, free thinking people like Rogan out of the party. Musk, RFK, Tulsi, you know, why bother creating a new Joe Rogan, if you're going to chase them out?
Worse, whoever is going to meet your criteria, which is going to be this narrow -- this narrow little box, because you're severely emotional about everything, it's not going to be Joe Rogan. It's going to be like David Hogg, you know, something so pathetic, zeta male.
So, my advice is, you can't do Rogan. You can't do your own five if you adhere to a structure dictated by this hyper-emotional militancy. You know, how can you have a conversation with anyone if pronouns are litigated, you know, you seem what thinking -- what this kind of thinking, this woke thinking has done to sports, entertainment, even relationships. You can't have a "conversation" that you always want if no one wants to talk to you.
WATTERS: And it is hard, Dana, if you're going to hide the truth from everybody to do it on an hour to two to three hour podcast.
PERINO: Yes. Well, but also, why do they need to create a new media ecosystem? They already own the entire media ecosystem, unless they're saying that the ecosystem is dying, and maybe they are admitting that.
I remember during my White House days, they tried, I think was called Air America, right? It was like, Al Franken, Rachel Maddow, and everything, they tried this, and to your point, it didn't work.
But also, at least then you have to have somebody who is one, curious. What is -- Joe Rogan is curious. He can sit down for three hours and ask you questions, because he's like, what about this? And what about that?
I don't think there's -- I don't think there's anyone really on the left that comes to mind. I mean, maybe Bill Maher's separate, I don't put him really in that category, somebody who is interesting, who makes you think, who makes you go, oh, that's a good -- that's a good point, I haven't thought about it that way. If they could do that, then they might be able to appeal to more people.
WATTERS: Well, that's a good point, because there's so many third rails on the left, Harold. You know, you can't talk about corporate America. Can't talk about the Pentagon. You can't talk about gender. There's so many things you can't say.
FORD JR.: I think we need to get away from that paradigm. I think what we're saying, every president who is popular, who gets elected, has these kind of moments. President Trump is, I would argue, is more pronounced and how he has been able to take advantage of these five weeks.
In my lifetime, I'm not seeing a president do what he has done and is continuing to do, which is why I think Democrats have to be more patient.
But being patient doesn't mean you should be in a state of inertia. This idea about trying to find a new media means, or new media platforms, you first have to start with substance, and when you have substance, it's easier to find scale and a platform to be able to transfer and to communicate those ideas.
Imagine if Democrats began to think about a plan to reinvigorate and stimulate small businesses in rural and urban America and blue-collar workers. Imagine if we offered a 21st century Lift Every Child Act which empowered parents, gave kids real opportunities, reduced the power of teachers, and said we're going to do something, Dana, which you've talked a lot about, two year opportunities after high school, not just for college, but to give people skills and understanding.
If we're going to bring more jobs back to America, just saying, produce more things here, we have to have engineers and people with skill sets to be able to do it.
One of the worries I have is, if President Trump is successful with this tariff program, which I'm still not convinced he will be, but if he's can - - if he's able to bring all of these companies to produce things here, we're still going to have to import people because we don't have the resources to do it.
This is what Democrats need to be focused on. And I said one last thing. I watched the president, one thing that concerns me a little bit. I saw the president, and I saw Mr. Rubio and Mr. Witkoff, who I'm impressed with, and Mike Waltz there in Saudi Arabia. And I hope I heard something wrong, and I'm not hearing it all right.
It sounds like, without having the Europeans and Ukrainians and Democrats talked about this, Lindsey Graham talked a little bit about as a Republican. It sounds like we're trying to split the world up between China, Russia and ourselves. And I don't want that.
And if Democrats or some Republicans don't want it, or Democrats don't want it, these are the kinds of substantive things we should be saying. This non sense about how we talk. It doesn't matter if you don't have anything to say, it doesn't matter how you say it.
If we don't have anything to say right now. So, step back and get some ideas. Better ideas, beat stupid ideas. And right now we only have stupid ideas (INAUDIBLE).
WATTERS: Judge Jeanine.
PIRRO: You know, the irony is that Joe Rogan was a Democrat. They had him. He was in their tent, and now we've got the big tent. And in our tent we've got RFK, a Democrat, Tulsi Gabbard, a Democrat. And the Democrat tent has a bouncer in front. And if you're not so feral, you know, totally progressive, you're not getting in that tent.
And so, they can complain about the messaging, and they can say, you know, we don't have a right. Harold is right, it's all about the policy. It's not about the message.
So, as they decide, well, what we're going to do is we're going to get the billionaires together. We're going to create our own Joe Rogan. That's ridiculous, because Joe Rogan is authentic. He is genuine. He is curious. He has politicians, he has experts, he has controversial people, and he is someone who, you know, wants to have a real dialog.
The Democrats don't want to have a real dialog. They want to decide who is going to talk, what they going to say, what you are allowed to say, and God forbid you say something in a way that they don't think you should say it, then you're done.
So, they can throw all the money in the world at their next hopefully Joe Rogan. It didn't work for Hillary Clinton. It didn't work for Kamala Harris, and it's not going to work here, because the Democrats are out of touch, and Americans want real conversations.
WATTERS: I wish the Democrats talked about creating a Democrat Jesse Watters.
GUTFELD: What would that be?
WATTERS: I don't know, but --
GUTFELD: Who would that be, Keith Olbermann?
WATTERS: We could do better than that. Up next, the media is trying to pin the plane crash on Canada, on President Trump.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Don't take no video. Put that phone away.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Holy (EXPLETIVE DELETED). Holy (EXPLETIVE DELETED).
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERINO: Shocking video showing the moment when a Delta plane crash landed in Toronto, bursting into flames and flipped upside down. 80 passengers were on board. Miraculously, thankfully, nobody was injured or killed or injured too seriously. 19 of 21 have already gone home from the hospital. And while the exact cause it's still under an investigation, it did not take long for some in the media to blame President Trump.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TOM COSTELLO, CORRESPONDENT, NBC NEWS: Now, this is a Canadian air traffic control tower and this is under Canadian authority once it crosses the border, and yet as you know, there has been this talk about maybe staff cuts at the FAA as a part of President Trump's effort to trim down the federal workforce. This is going to feed into all of these recent incidents and the safety of the total air traffic system is going to be very much a part of the conversation as we go forward.
JOY BEHAR, CO-HOST, THE VIEW: Incompetence and chaos going on and we should not put up with it.
WHOOPI GOLDBERG, CO-HOST, THE VIEW: Well, I will --
BEHAR: And by the way, egg crisis are supposed to come down, not airplanes.
GOLDBERG: Well, let me --
DANA BASH, HOST, CNN: This is happening against the backdrop of massive cuts across the federal government including at the FAA. Hundreds of FAA employees have been laid off as part of Elon Musk going through all the federal agencies.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERINO: It's almost hard to believe, but then you watch it and you're like, I can't believe it. That immediately like this got to be Trump's fault.
GUTFELD: Well, you know what? I mean, obviously in this last disaster it looks like it was bad weather. So, what exactly are they saying? Now, I know Harold is totally into this. I -- you know, the Dems -- you know, I'm not saying the Dems are blaming the Jews indirectly through Trump because Ivanka converted to Judaism. I'm just raising the question. I'll let Harold pick up this tertiary antisemitism. Unconscious or not, it cannot be condoned, so maybe I am with you, Harold, on this.
I sound like a broken record but the blame doesn't stick because the wall of hoaxes has been sanded smooth. So, you listen to this -- and they can't get their footing. There was that old line, a lie travels around the world before the truth gets its boots on. Thanks to X, Musk buying Twitter, and the diligent work of a lot of dehoaxers. the lie doesn't even have a chance to get out of bed before the pillow of truth smothers it.
PERINO: And then it dies.
GUTFELD: And then it dies. And then Columbo shows up.
PERINO: I mean, Judge --
PIRRO: Kojak.
GUTFELD: Kojak.
PERINO: Judge, we had somebody on this morning -- so in that video, the flight attendant is saying put the phone down, but didn't he didn't. And we actually were able to interview that guy. He was so calm, cool, and collected. He was like, it was not that bad. Like, we were able to get out. It was fine. Thank God we have the video. In their minds, if you're on the plane, politics has nothing to do with that.
PIRRO: Politics has obviously nothing to do with it at all. But why did she want him to put the phone down?
PERINO: I guess because it was he needed to get off the plane. I guess -- it was rules, I guess.
GUTFELD: Yes, people behind him. There are people behind him that trying to get out.
PERINO: Yes.
PIRRO: I read that they were all hanging like bats because they were upside down.
PERINO: Yes. Thank God they had their seat belts on.
PIRRO: Yes. But you know what I think is amazing about this is that they say that this is Trump's fault and that it's really our FAA. And since Canada is not yet officially the 51st state, they can't blame us for that crash. But you're right, everybody came up with their own idea. Was it icy? Is it not icy? And it's just a classic example of something happening too quickly and people coming out and making statements like in New Orleans. Remember the FBI came out -- the woman came out and said this was not terrorism. You know, you got to kind of wait on all this.
But the level of delusion here is off the charts. And you know, this guy, Swalwell the congressman, you know, we remember him. He had -- he had that affair apparently with the Chinese spy.
PERINO: Fang Fang.
PIRRO: Yes, that's right, Fang Fang or whatever. He says that every crash, every incident is Donald Trump's fault. And we now know that Joe Biden had doubled the number incidents in the same amount of time that Trump did. So, you know, this is just an effort upon the -- they have nothing else to say other than everything is Trump's fault and they're sounding more and more ridiculous.
PERINO: What do you think of that?
FORD JR.: Everybody should take a step back. These are tragedies. Thank God there were not-- there was not a fatality here in Canada. Clearly, it was not President Trump's fault, just like it was no more DEI Democrats fault that the helicopter in the plane that tragedy there in Washington. I think we should let -- we should let -- well --
WATTERS: Let the investigation finish.
FORD JR.: Let the -- let the investigation -- let the -- let the investigation lead us to the facts. Hey, this investigation in Canada might show that President Trump had something to do with. I don't believe that is the case. I think just --
PIRRO: How?
FORD JR.: Judge, let me just make my point.
PIRRO: Well, you made a statement. How?
FORD JR.: I said it could. I don't know how. Just like do you know how DEI made the planes in the helicopter crashing.
PIRRO: Well, I'd have to look at the people and look at how they were hired, why they were hired, and whether they should have been in the position they were in. I don't know they yet.
FORD JR.: So, let the -- so let the investigation unfold. My only point is this. Everybody -- that's -- it's not just Democrats, it's Republicans. Everybody jumps and leaps to these silly self-serving self-politically conserving conclusions only to make a point. Everybody should show some restraint.
Thank God again there were no fatalities there in Canada. And obviously we suffered casualties amongst Americans here just a few weeks ago in Washington, D.C.
PERINO: Yesterday, it reminded me, Jesse, of remember when Obama was president and anything bad that would happen like, you know, you shrugged our toe and you're like, thanks Obama. It just was like a reflex, but that became a joke. Swalwell -- I mean, maybe he didn't really mean what he said, but he put it out there as if he was --
WATTERS: He did put it out there, you know what I mean, Dana?
PERINO: Yes, yes.
WATTERS: He sure put it out there. Joy had a good line. Egg prices are supposed to come down not airplanes. And it got me thinking, Joy Behar is the Democrat Jesse Watters.
FORD JR.: Oh, gosh.
WATTERS: She's got some good canned lines and she's a wicked partisan. And I hate to admit this but if this were happening under Joe Biden, I would absolutely be blaming Joe Biden. I'd be doing it sarcastically, but let's be honest it's cable, Harold. We can't just sit back and let the investigation finish. We're hired guns here, man. We got a spit fire.
GUTFELD: What has happened to you?
FORD JR.: This is -- this is the table I like to be around.
GUTFELD: You keep pulling the curtain back, we're going to have curtain lights.
PERINO: Wow. Come on. All right.
PIRRO: Yes.
PERINO: Hey, ahead, Whoopi Goldberg is shutting down the idea of talking to Trump voters.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
PIRRO: Whoopi Goldberg did her best "Hillary Clinton basket of deplorables" impression on The View laying out how she can't even talk to people who voted for President Trump. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ALYSSA FARAH GRIFFIN, CO-HOST, THE VIEW: You are going to find there are a lot of things Donald Trump does that I agree with. But then there are things I think are dangerous Reckless and want to call out. So, you have to be able to talk to people who -- it doesn't have to be all this or all that, but find move -- find movement on the things that matter.
GOLDBERG: Actually, it's hard to talk to people who support people who think you don't matter in the country.
GRIFFIN: But it's not supporting the person though.
GOLDBERG: No, no, but -- no, no, but it -- when you support that person, it brings --
GRIFFIN: Right, but --
GOLDBERG: Go ahead.
GRIFFIN: But I don't support that person. My point being that I don't disagree with everything Trump is doing, so we have to be able to have conversations. But we do agree on these things. How can we all get together on the --
GOLDBERG: Right. Well, when we find --
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PIRRO: OK, Dana. So, if Wy says she can't even talk to Trump supporters, how does she expect anyone to -- how does she expect to persuade anyone? And isn't that an admission that she doesn't have an argument?
PERINO: I don't -- I don't think they're attempting to. But also, I think she just said the quiet part out loud. Like, they -- it's pretty obvious that they don't talk to anybody outside of their social circles.
PIRRO: Interesting.
PERINO: Yes.
PIRRO: Interesting.
GUTFELD: I've never heard that phrase before.
PIRRO: That's a very good answer. OK. She doesn't want dialogue. How is that any different from bigotry that they accuse the conservatives of?
GUTFELD: Well, first of all, you are -- you believe Joy Behar is your version. I believe I might be Whoopi. I think I might be Whoopi. Isn't that interesting?
FORD JR.: We learn a lot here today.
PIRRO: Yes.
GUTFELD: I think so. You know, it does expose the fallacy -- and I always - - I always blow my -- blow my stack when I hear somebody say let's have a conversation because generally when somebody says we should really have a conversation, it's to end the present conversation because you brought up something that they can't counter. So, they go we should really have that conversation.
It is funny that it's called The View and it rejects every view but their own. It's like -- it's like a static picture. It's like five yule logs propped up around a table.
PIRRO: You know what? Yesterday, Harold, we talked about the fact that 45 percent I think of the repub -- of the Democrats want to be more moderate. Is Whoopi out of sync with her own party?
FORD JR.: Perhaps. I think -- I interpreted her to be saying what you -- what you all said. I think there's a -- there's an unwillingness to sort of be open-minded about some things. Again, I think it's still from being punch drunk from what happened in this last election.
One of the things that that I would recommend -- and I know Joy and Whoopi and I like them. And this young lady, Alyssa, who was talking, they had to listen to what she was saying. Which was she said, I don't necessarily -- I don't necessarily like everything about him, but I don't I don't disagree with everything. And I think if you look at the polling data, President Trump won more Black voters than most Republicans do, won more Hispanic voters, won more young voters, and won more blue-collar voters than Republicans normally do on the national ticket.
In order for Democrats -- to your point, Dana, in order for Democrats to win again, they've got to bring that group back to -- or bring that -- appeal to that group again. If I were The View -- you used to be on The View, I would take the show on the road. Get out and listen to voters.
PIRRO: They used to do it.
FORD JR.: Get out -- I mean, I'd take --
GUTFELD: I agree with you, Harold.
FORD JR.: I'd take five or six -- I'd take the next several months --
PIRRO: Why don't we? Forget them. Let's go out on the road ourselves.
FORD JR.: If they do, maybe we'll do it as well. I mean --
(CROSSTALK)
GUTFELD: Who are you, Harold?
PIRRO: Yes.
GUTFELD: Who are you? You're the professor from Gilligan's Island.
FORD JR.: I mean, you always --
PIRRO: OK. Jesse?
WATTERS: You know who he is? He is the --
FORD JR.: Oh, oh, be careful.
WATTERS: He's --
PIRRO: Don't say it.
FORD JR.: Let's --
PIRRO: It's dangerous.
FORD JR.: Let's take a commercial break, and then we'll see if it's acceptable for you to say it.
WATTERS: You were the Republican Alyssa Farah. I'm Joy, you're Whoopi, you're Farah.
FORD JR.: So, we're going with The View. We're going with The View.
WATTERS: Yes, what do you think I was going to say? What did you think I was going to say, Harold?
FORD JR.: I know you.
PIRRO: OK. Anybody else want to say anything or can we end this?
WATTERS: I was going to say one more thing.
PIRRO: Go ahead.
WATTERS: You know how Republicans have to watch what we say around Democrats but Democrats don't have to watch what they say around us? We have to fix that. We're so --
PIRRO: How?
WATTERS: -- sensitive to them. Because we don't take them that seriously. Like, OK, OK. Hitler, OK.
PIRRO: We do.
WATTERS: They freak out. If they just calm down, we could all talk.
PIRRO: Yes. OK. Calm down. Up next, Lord help us. Adults are proudly ordering off the kids' menu.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
FORD JR.: Oh gosh. Adults are ditching happy hour for Happy Meals. Research shows a number of kids' meals ordered last year was, get this, up 28 percent from 2019. Folks say the kids' menu is cheaper, fewer calories, and sometimes they're just enticed by the toy that comes with it. And it looks like here at the table we got a few Happy Meals around the table.
Judge, what are you holding up there?
PIRRO: Pokemon cards came in my Happy Meal. I ate the apple because Dana did. But I started with the French fries because Dana is really good. Here's the -- here's the thing. If they want to pay for a Happy Meal, let them. Who Cares?
FORD JR.: Dana, your name was invoked here.
PERINO: Well, I have a question. You know like if you go to a restaurant and you want to order something off the kids menu but you can't because you don't have any kids.
GUTFELD: Yes.
PERINO: That -- I mean, that's my problem. I don't -- but you want that because it's like usually a smaller portion or maybe you do want the chicken nuggets and they don't have that on -- I just wonder like if you go through the drive-thru, but you don't have a kid in the car, will they ask you if you have a kid in the car? I guess not.
WATTERS: You know what I like to do in that case? I open the door and I say -- I point to a random kid in the parking lot, and I say come here, little kid. I have some candy. And I lure them into my car so they can see me through the drive-through window.
FORD JR.: Here we go. And then I push them out of the car after I get my food.
PIRRO: Yes. And then the cops follow you as a pedophile. I got it.
PERINO: OK. That's an interesting -- I'll keep that in mind for the next time I go to --
WATTERS: Just borrowing, Dana. It's the only thing I like to get at the drive-through window is the Diet Coke because McDonald's has the best Diet Coke.
PIRRO: They do?
WATTERS: With the really --
PERINO: The best fountain ---
WATTERS: -- wide straws.
PERINO: Yes, the wide straws are great. But whatever sort of formula they have for the Coke, Diet Coke, it's the best.
PIRRO: Oh, I heard they have good coffee.
FORD JR.: They do. They have -- on both front, you're all right. Exclamation Point, what are your thoughts about this?
GUTFELD: Well, I thought they only had a kids' menu on Epstein's jet. I'll have one medium blonde from Estonia. Look, this is why I had a child because I wanted to order off the child's menu. And I was tired. I would have to go rent kids.
WATTERS: Yes.
GUTFELD: You know how when you were a teenager and you have to stand out in front of 7-Eleven to get somebody to buy you beer? Well, that -- I would just stand outside restaurants and try to get kids to get me the kids' meal. I was tired of that. I started selling blow up -- blow up children, but that didn't work out because the authorities, they didn't like that.
FORD JR.: So, what's your favorite fast food meal -- fast food joint?
GUTFELD: I got to go with McDonald's.
FORD JR.: D.P.? You got -- you got two --
GUTFELD: My stomach can't handle anything anymore.
PERINO: I don't know. It used to be Baja Fresh. I like that. I don't know what happened to it.
FORD JR.: What's your favorite?
WATTERS: What were you saying about the chicken the other day, Harold?
FORD JR.: I like Raising Cane's.
PERINO: Rasing Cane's.
WATTERS: You like Popeyes?
FORD JR.: I like Popeyes and Raising Cane's.
WATTERS: Popeyes. But Kentucky Fried is not the best.
FORD JR.: It just depends on your taste. I'm a Popeye's-Raising Cane's dude.
WATTERS: I'm a Popeye's guy.
FORD JR.: If I can only do two, I'd go Wendy's and --
GUTFELD: Wendy's?
FORD JR.: Raising Cane's.
GUTFELD: Interesting. Baked potato guy.
PIRRO: If you ask, I don't -- I cook. I don't eat this stuff.
FORD JR.: What do you hear people saying that they like?
PIRRO: I don't talk to people about this stuff, Harold.
FORD JR.: Order from the kids' menu. "ONE MORE THING" is up next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GUTFELD: Time now for "ONE MORE THING." Dana.
PERINO: Well, Greg you're holding a copy of -- an announcement I have, a new book. It's coming out in April but you can pre-order it now at foxnewsbooks.com. It's called, I Wish Someone Had Told Me. And it's a one- stop shopping place, the subtitle. The best advice for building a great career and a meaningful life.
I wrote about, I think, it's nine or 10 chapters, but then I supplement it by interviewing all of my great colleagues and friends about the best advice they ever got from starting -- deciding what you want to do, how to do the work-life balance. Judge, you were very helpful on that in particular.
PIRRO: Thank you.
PERINO: And even on into retirement and finances. And I didn't do it just for young women as I did the previous one. So, it was for everyone.
PIRRO: It's a beautiful book.
GUTFELD: I just --
PIRRO: Congratulations.
GUTFELD: I just opened it and it's like that day I stepped into the warm water, shirtless, he looked at me and I had an overwhelming sense, a loss of control if you will.
PERINO: Yes, yes.
GUTFELD: I knew Kudlow was different. But how different? I had no idea.
WATTERS: I wish someone had told me Dana wrote an erotic thriller. This is -- I'm going to buy this.
PERINO: I mean -- I mean, if it --
PIRRO: It's beautiful.
PERINO: -- if it could sell, indeed. But Dierks Bentley, Mike Rose, Salena Zito, or everybody's -- everybody is in it.
PIRRO: That's right.
PERINO: And many more, including Lauren Fritz.
GUTFELD: Yes, of course.
WATTERS: She's in it?
PERINO: She's in many more. There's a category of many more.
PIRRO: There's many more.
GUTFELD: All right, it's me. Tonight, we got a great show. Jamie Lissow, Paul Mauro, Timpf, Zack Levi. And let's do this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: In your face, Harold.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERINO: Oh, Harold.
GUTFELD: In honor of Zack Levi being on my show, did you know that he started in the 2024 hit film Harold and the Purple Crayon?
FORD JR.: It's a great film.
GUTFELD: You know, Harold, you've never been in a movie, and I don't think you'll ever be in a movie.
FORD JR.: Thank you.
GUTFELD: I don't think you have the acting chops to be a serious actor.
FORD JR.: Thank you.
GUTFELD: And I -- and I feel bad for you.
FORD JR.: Thank you. I appreciate that. It's consistent of being in my face.
GUTFELD: Stop being so -- stop killing me with kindness because it's working. All right, Jesse.
WATTERS: All right, big news as long as we're getting things off our chest. I believe in global warming.
PERINO: OK.
WATTERS: This convinced me. There was a dolphin swimming in the East River. Look at that.
FORD JR.: Wow.
WATTERS: I mean, we must be polluting the bejesus out of this place.
PERINO: That's not because the water is warm.
WATTERS: Why?
PIRRO: Yes.
PERINO: The water is cold.
PIRRO: What makes you think that's got something to do with global warming?
WATTERS: I thought dolphins are warm water fish.
PIRRO: It's freezing right now.
WATTERS: That's what I'm saying. It's so warm, the Dolphins are up here.
PIRRO: Oh, of course.
PERINO: No.
WATTERS: Can I not believe in global warming?
PIRRO: No.
GUTFELD: No.
WATTERS: I didn't want to. Tonight, "JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME," the DOGE dividend checks. I will be calling on the president to start giving us DOGE savings dividend rebate checks.
PERINO: Wow.
GUTFELD: Harold.
PIRRO: All right.
GUTFELD: Oh, Judge.
PIRRO: Judge. All right, check out the superstar boyfriend. OK. A heartwarming moment unfolds in Sydney, Australia. A man swapped shoes with his girlfriend after her heels become too painful to walk in. She wears his sneakers while he wears her high heels. Now, here's the kicker. He doesn't seem to be having any trouble striding in those heels. And to me, the moral of this story, find a girl with big feet.
PERINO: Also, I would be concerned if Peter could wear my shoes.
PIRRO: Yes.
GUTFELD: Where was that?
PIRRO: That -- well, Australia.
GUTFELD: He's trans.
PIRRO: Down under.
PERINO: Down under.
WATTERS: He's trans?
GUTFELD: He's in Australia. That makes him trans.
PIRRO: Harold?
WATTERS: Is it chivalrous to do that?
GUTFELD: No, it makes you trans.
WATTERS: It makes you trans?
GUTFELD: Harold.
PIRRO: Harold.
FORD JR.: The Placer County Fire Department rescued a young fellow, 16- year-old, who was out hiking with his friends, and they decided to do something they probably shouldn't have done. And he his rope broke. The friends were trying to rescue him. And thank and thank God the fire department came along.
PIRRO: Oh, my gosh.
FORD JR.: Congratulations again to first responders. Love you guys.
WATTERS: That's where they keep the retirement paperwork from government.
PIRRO: You know, what a great story.
GUTFELD: Thank you, Harold.
PIRRO: Harold only brings in good stories.
GUTFELD: That's it for us. Hi Bret!

Load-Date: February 18, 2025


End of Document
