




Fox News THE FIVE 5:00 PM EST
February 20, 2025 Thursday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6760 words
Byline: Jeannine Pirro, Harold Ford Jr., Jesse Watters, Dana Perino, Greg Gutfeld
Body


WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: -- and it's all cross borders in hockey. Mike Modano, you got 10 seconds, that's what I got left in the show. Who wins, USA or Canada?
MIKE MODANO, FORMER NHL CENTER: Boy, you know, you got to go with USA, but I lived and played hockey in Prince Albert Saskatchewan. So, I know how passionate Canadian fans are. So, I've lived it and went through it but I got to say --
CAIN: I got it.
JEANINE PIRRO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL LEGAL ANALYST: Hello, everyone. I'm Judge Jeannine Pirro, along with Harold Ford Jr., Jesse Watters, Dana Perino and Greg Gutfeld. It's 5:00 in New York City, and this is THE FIVE.
Time flies when you're kicking butt and taking names. Today marks President Trump's first full month in office, and it's been nonstop action of executive orders, open press availabilities and the most secure border in four years.
Axios points out how Trump's mega-MAGA month has transformed America. President Trump taking a victory lap on his progress during a Black History Month event at the White House.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: In four weeks, our new administration has achieved more than most administrations achieve in four years. We brought our country back. It's four weeks. Today is our fourth week. It's the end of the week.
We start our -- we are now starting our fifth and I think we've done more in four weeks, well, certainly, than the last administration did in four years. They actually went negative. They actually went in the wrong direction. Together we're going to be fighting long and hard for Black Americans and all Americans.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PIRRO: It's also been one month of President Trump running circles around the rudderless Democrat Party, and they are polling like the plague. Only 21 percent of voters approve of the way Democrats in Congress are doing their job, which is an all-time low, and the Democrats aren't helping their cause with lame messaging like this:
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. HAKEEM JEFFRIES (D-NY): Captain chaos and extreme MAGA Republicans spent last year promising to lower the high cost of living and running away from Project 2025 as if it didn't exist.
REP. JASMINE CROCKETT (D-TX): Soon you will understand why it's important to maybe have somebody that isn't loud and ridiculous and maybe sleepy Joe is what we wanted, because we could at least sleep at night.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PIRRO: But be careful what you wish for. We just got some new images of former President Joe Biden at a diner in Delaware this week, and it looks like he's getting the early bird special.
OK, all right, Dana, I'll start with you. You know, we just heard from the Democratic Congresswoman Jasmine Crockett and I said last month she's going to be the one to watch over the next four years, because she is very animated. And she says that the Democrats have no way to counter Trump, and Trump only has a high approval rating because Americans are just too stupid to understand.
DANA PERINO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Yes, OK, I love all of this. If Jasmine Crockett is the new one to look for, hardest hit AOC, she's like -- she's like, basically like, let off the gas, but maybe she's plotting something. We'll have to look.
I'm glad we saw President Biden, because I've been looking for proof of life video. It's really strange. They hadn't even put out anything except for a couple little videos here and there.
So, I also will say, if we didn't work at 5:00, I would absolutely be there for the early bird special. That is my time to eat. I really love it.
I think President Trump benefited not just from doing all sorts of things that people said they wanted him to do, and to do the common sense things like the straws we talked about my sister, she loves the whole thing about the straws. It's that he has terrible opponents, and they can't get their footing, and they have a 21 percent approval rating in Congress.
And Jasmine Crockett, she's dynamic. She is energetic, beautiful woman. I always want to listen to what she's saying, and she keeps telling them that they're stupid.
Like, if you say as a Democrat right now, if you say, you know, I don't know if we should just defend USAID spending as our total opposition to Trump. I don't think we should talk like liberal arts college professors. I don't think we should line up between 80-year-old House Democrats and sing outside of federal buildings. She goes on air and says, you're stupid, and she's getting all of the attention, so they've got a big problem on their hands, but their problem is benefiting President Trump.
PIRRO: You know what, Jesse, for years, the Republican Party was in disarray, and we would look at the Democrats and say, you know what, they circle the wagons, they're all together, you know?
But now, I think with the statement by Mitch McConnell that he's not going to run again. I think that that's the final nail in the coffin of the Republican RINOs. And now that you've got -- you've got Mike Johnson, President Trump, Thune as well as Laura Trump with the RNC, everybody's in sync.
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: More so, there's still going to be people. They're going to give you trouble, Judge Jeanine, but you can take care of them yourself.
You know, Dana had a point about Trump's enemies. Going after sleepy Joe was so great. It's like good service and bad service at a restaurant. When you went to the sleepy Joe's, you had to wait. People are getting their tables before you were, you finally got to the table, you're like, can I get some bread? Never came. It almost was such bad service. You know, when you think the waiter hates you, happens to me a lot. The service is so bad you think they hate you.
GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: And you're right.
WATTERS: I'm right, but that's kind of how you felt about Joe Biden. It's like he hates us. And then you go to the Trump grill, and they make you feel special. They bring you out. You know, the compliments of the chef, those little things. You don't know what they are, but they're delicious, and it makes you feel good.
Whatever he said, you know, those little bread blades, they scrape the crumbs off. They're just so civilized.
PERINO: At the grill?
WATTERS: White tablecloth service, damn it. So --
HAROLD FORD JR., FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: White table (INAUDIBLE)?
WATTERS: No, not racist.
GUTFELD: Go put them on your head. Greg, so you're basically now the country has very high expectations for the service we get. We have easy pass. You don't have to wait in a toll booth anymore. If you want anything, you click a button, Amazon delivers it to your house. You don't even have to go to a bank anymore if you don't want to.
Except the government. And so, you're looking at sleepy Joe, and you're like, poking him. You're like, dude, pizza is $30.00 and I'm drowning in a sea of migrants over here. Do something.
So, Trump comes along, and Trump's like, the democracy app. He's like, I want border, I want hostages. I want a $15.00 pizza. And Trump's like, sure you got it. This is what he used to joke about, modern-day presidential, this is it. This is representative government in real time, you get what you want, and he's now set the bar so high that any president after this that follows him, we're going to expect quick action like this.
PIRRO: Well, you know, Harold, given what Jesse has said, I mean, what strategy can the Democrats use? I mean, I know what you believe that, you know, the Democrats need to do. But if a Republican continues along with Donald Trump's policy of how he does things, how he does them quickly. I mean, I expect the Republicans will be in office for a long time.
FORD JR.: You may be right. You could absolutely be wrong. Good to be back with you. I think this is -- the president said this is four weeks. There's been a blizzard of activity from the president, a blizzard of executive orders.
But I would remind a few things, the president even Vice President Vance had acknowledged today that -- and he acknowledged it by saying that the Biden administration ran up inflation in such a grandiose way, it's going to take them a longer time to bring it down.
I would also argue that as much as he may be -- he thinks he's right about them and he could be, they're not helping with some of the uncertainty around tariffs, and even the uncertainty around some of the firing and the layoffs, as justifiable as some of them may be.
I'm curious, as the courts work through some of these things, the president got a victory today, I think, at a federal court saying that these layoffs were fine, that it was the wrong venue in his court.
But it's interesting to me, your story yesterday, Jesse, about your pal who and you talked about, even maybe thinking about veterans would not be laid off first, or some strategy, or some conditioning around that. The truth of the matter is that we may not know how ready we are for all of these cuts. Are these the right things to be doing?
But Judge, you're right. I'm not at all taking away from your points, your main point, which is, is this a recipe for the president stay in office for a long time?
Look, deportations are not going as well as they want, largely because the House and the Senate will give them the money. The president saying they need 175 billion and the House and Senate can't seem to agree on that.
We're four weeks in. We'll see where we are four weeks from today, and, for that matter, where we are in the first 100 days.
But if you're judging the president on the first four weeks, you have to give him a high grade, because we've not seen the kind -- this kind of activity from the president, certainly not when Biden was in office, and, I would argue, maybe not since Bill Clinton was elected the first 100 days.
PIRRO: That's right, all right, Greg.
GUTFELD: Well, I have three points I want to make. First of all, isn't that great? How I set it up that way?
What is the difference between this month and every other month in the history of politics? None of the stories about this White House are media- driven. They're Trump driven. Why are you getting all of this truth every day? The legacy media has no impact.
This is the raw truth, not the ultra process, drunk junk you get from angry hacks. A narrative used to be manufactured by once powerful media, but that beast is dead. America is red-pilled. It doesn't work.
You've had on the other side with the Dems, one month of tantrums, but when all these Dems are screaming about Trump, you have to be reminded they weren't screaming about Joe. And you can say, well, that's obvious, Joe is a Democrat. Trump is a Republican. That's not why they're screaming. The protest here is different. It's not about President Trump. It's about a president. It's about having a president.
When Biden was president, he wasn't a president, he wasn't there. So, that meant no oversight and no accountability. He functioned just like the legacy media. You know, he was just there on appearances, on behalf of the lib -- of the libs (ph).
So, now we have a president and a castrated media, right? And now the trans -- the transparency renders those in power absolutely powerless. No wonder they're freaking out.
Finally, about these nicknames you're getting from Hakeem Jeffries and stuff, those fail coming from Dems, because they're not tethered to any ideas. There's no ideas behind them. They're load bearing phrases, and those are words that do the work that are supposed to be done by the ideas.
So, now you know why the Dems are in trouble. They don't have any ideas because they depended on these load bearing phrases. Hitler, fascist, threat to democracy, follow the science, all of those load bearing phrases allowed them to ignore the idea of having an idea. We talked about weaponization. You remove that word from a sentence, the sentence collapses.
You know, how was it possible that men pretending to be women could be allowed in female safe spaces? If you insert one load bearing phrase, transphobic, you didn't have to defend the idea. You just said, if you disagree, transphobic. If you disagree with DEI, you are racist, but now none of those load bearing phrases have any power. If somebody calls Jesse racist, he just laughs, and that's from his wife.
So, what you're left with is a giant hole where ideas are supposed to be, and that is the hole where the Democrats are right now, and they don't have a ladder to get out of it. None of the -- none of these words work anymore.
PIRRO: Do you have to brush that shirt?
GUTFELD: Well, I do, it stiffens up, so I don't.
PIRRO: It's pretty cool. Up next, President Trump is backing up a game- changing DOGE proposal that could put more money in your pocket.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: Elon and his DOGE wrecking crew about to blow up the most despised government agency in the land. Word is the IRS is about to mass fire nearly 7,000 audit loving pencil pushing workers from their roster. Musk telling Hannity that he had no choice but to pursue the DOGE cuts.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ELON MUSK, CEO, TESLA MOTORS: As the president said, like this, there's a lot of rich people out there. They should be caring more about the country, because the reason they should be caring about more about our country. If America falls, what do you think is going to happen to your business? What do you think? Do you think you'll be going to be OK if the ship of America sinks? Of course not.
Like, what I'm doing here, what the president's doing is, it's just long term thinking, the ship of America must be strong. Ship of America cannot sink. If it sinks, we all sink with it.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: But there could be a big, beautiful payoff for the American people if DOGE is successful. Musk is mulling $5,000 DOGE dividend checks funded by the savings from his Department of Government Efficiency. 47 seems on board, but some Democrats aren't sold.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: There's even under consideration a new concept where we give 20 percent of the DOGE savings to American citizens, and 20 percent goes to paying down debt, because the numbers are incredible, Elon, so many billions of dollars -- billions? Hundreds of billions, and we're thinking about giving 20 percent back to the American citizens.
CROCKETT: We are not in the business of giving out money, and honestly, I don't know what $5,000 will do for you.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Now, Harold, that woman, Jasmine Crockett, praised the steamy checks back in the day, and now she says, what are you going to do with five grand?
FORD JR.: Look, I said yesterday that paying down the debt should be the first priority. If you pay down the debt, you actually make it -- make it more -- make it possible for more dollars to be lent to private companies, because they're not -- the public debt is not crowding that dollar. We pay a trillion dollars almost in interest on our debt. If you're able to reduce that, that reduces government spending. That's the third, fourth, most expensive thing government does.
The $5,000 checks. I love the idea. I think you should only send it to people who earn less than $150,000 a year. Sending $5,000 to a multi- millionaire here in New York or Boston or Philadelphia New Jersey, when we should be paying down our debt. That, to me, is a bigger priority than all. I appreciate --
WATTERS: You know what really reduces government spending? When the government spends less, Harold.
FORD JR.: I appreciate, right and when they save money, you should pay their debt. We had the conversation yesterday. I agree, I respected your opinion. Yesterday, I disagree with it totally. But that is an opinion. I don't think that paying down the debt should be second to anything. $36 trillion, your kids and my kids and our grandkids one day will be saddled, continue to paying this down.
Finally, on what Elon said about DOGE, it's unclear to me if the President and Mr. Musk are as thoughtful about -- I use the word thoughtful to describe my pal Greg Gutfeld and his great article in Variety here in the last days.
It's unclear if they're being thoughtful about some of these cuts, your buddy that got cut. CDC lost an office here in New York, 9/11 -- the survivors of 9/11 lost one of their offices here in New York. Republican and Democrat congressman in New York and New Jersey sent a letter to Mr. Kennedy today asking him to restore that and to open that office back up. Bipartisan. Why? Because I'm not -- it's not clear to me that they're looking at all of this in a way where they're analyzing readiness, whether analyzing whether or not these dollars are being spent effective. There's no doubt there's fraud and waste and inefficiencies. I just hope they're more careful and more studious and fastidious as they go about making some of these cuts.
But giving some money back to taxpayers earning under $150,000 a year, and then paying down the debt, that ought to be the priority.
WATTERS: All right, Judge Jeanine.
PIRRO: Well, that's what he wants. He said, that's what the president just said.
FORD JR.: He said to everybody.
PIRRO: 20 -- you know, here's the bottom line.
FORD JR.: And I like it. I like it.
PIRRO: I like the idea of giving $5,000 to everybody, not because I wanted or don't want it, but let's do something across the board for everybody, and let's, let's cut down on the debt.
The most important thing we've got to do is stop spending, stop funding programs, stop paying for things we shouldn't be paying for.
And today, the president signed an executive order that directs all of the federal agencies to identify and eliminate programs currently providing benefits to illegals. Do you know how much money that's going to save?
We have spent so much money on illegals and on USAID and on duplicity. I was a local D.A., I prosecuted Medicaid fraud.
Let me explain something to you, that was not my charge, but it was so unbelievable, I got hundreds or tens of millions of dollars, and it's just, it's low hanging fruit that you can't say, you have to make sure we don't do this and don't do that. Let's just start from square one and then decide what is essential, what is essential for the American government to survive.
And most of the stuff we have is just payback to people who did this for that person or this for another person, and we've got to stop doing that.
And you know, the IRS letting go 6,000 employees. I have no problem with that, because Joe Biden, between 2021 and 2024 put on 25,000 new IRS agents. The only reason we even needed them was because of COVID. Nobody could figure out there was so much corruption who was getting paid and not paid.
So, you know, we can't start crying and saying, oh, we can't do this. Let's just get it done. Go down to brass tacks.
FORD JR.: I'm not crying. I'm only saying your guy should not have been fired.
PIRRO: Well, wait a minute, why not?
FORD JR.: The low hanging fruit of Medicare is where they should have started. That's all I'm saying. There's a lot more money there, that's all. And I'm not crying.
WATTERS: Real men, don't cry.
PIRRO: OK.
WATTERS: The fired IRS agents, are those the ones with the guns, Dana?
PERINO: No, well, I don't know who they're -- one person I follow said that these -- roughly half of them are the ones that go after -- well, not go after, audit small business owners and the self-employed.
And so, but I just think -- I think we're kind of missing one point here that I would add to this discussion, which is that, don't forget, it was Biden's Inflation Reduction Act that added $80 billion in IRS funding and 90,000 more IRS agents.
So, even with what they're saying that they want to do with DOGE, the Biden IRA people still come out ahead for the IRS.
And the other thing is, you are about to watch the Democrats add to their list of priorities defending the IRS. They're like digging an even bigger hole for themselves.
PIRRO: Yes, Harold.
PERINO: I'm not saying that Harold's not doing it, but our new friend is.
WATTERS: Keep crying, Harold. Greg.
GUTFELD: Well, I mean, OK, so this dividend -- this dividend is not right, but it's persuasive. You know, DOGE wasn't supposed to be Robin Hood, but everybody loves Robin Hood, especially if he's robbing on behalf of you, and Trump understands, hey, if the government's been ripping you off and giving it to cronies. Maybe it's time we get in on the action.
Trump is like Omar and the wire stealing from the drug dealers. I get the idea, but it's not going to help solve the debt crisis unless you look at it long term. And this is where I straddle the fence.
FORD JR.: That's not you. That's not the way you role.
GUTFELD: OK, so looking at this long term, how do you keep the public supportive of DOGE over time? Because I'm suffering from dead DOGE exhaustion disorder. I wake up every morning. It's like getting a new puppy every day. I love it. But after 20 puppies, I mean, come on.
But you know what? You know, what's amazing, Trump fulfilled the most outrageous boast he ever made. You're going to win so much, you're going to get tired of winning, and it's actually happening.
I mean, maybe he knew that was going to happen. But so here's the deal, the dividend will keep supporters, so you can continue with DOGE after Trump. It's a bribe, but at least it's going to the citizens who've been ripped off, and not some graduate of Brown who's getting their, you know, student loan canceled in order to vote for Biden. We went through that.
So, it's not right, it's persuasive. You know, if it's right, you devoted to preventing financial ruin. If it's persuasive, you try to do that while giving the public a fat, green bone. That's what you want. That's what you want.
And back to you, there's no counter argument. Right now, you know, they're losing on DOGE already, you had a DOGE dividend. I mean, that's going to be more popular than women of the Bible cookbook.
WATTERS: Why is giving your money back a bribe?
GUTFELD: Well, I guess what I'm trying to say is, we are looking at the budget. We have to -- we have to shrink the government so you lower interest rates, so that you can jump-start the economy, and then they'll get their money back.
Sure, you can give them their money. It is their money. But you're not doing in 10 years when you know our expenditures will be seven times what we bring in, there won't be a country left, Jesse, how will you afford your hair gel?
WATTERS: You're talking about 55 billion that they saved, compared to the trillions Congress is spending. If Congress takes in $7 trillion in revenues and they spend $9 trillion. That's where the real savings are.
PERINO: Can I add one thing? It's like, if you have -- let's say that there's a person that has a lot of credit card debt, and then if they're at the office, they all of a sudden find out they're getting a bonus, and it's a $5,000 bonus. What you would tell that person is you should pay down credit card debt so that you can start getting ahead in the future. That would be --
GUTFELD: In your face.
(CROSSTALK)
WATTERS: You also -- you also -- you also need to spend less, Dana.
PERINO: Well, exactly, that's the point when you got to pay down your debt.
FORD JR.: But these numbers, he's talking about, in order to give everybody $5,000 that means you have to have $500 billion. So, that's 20 percent. That mean they think they're going to save 2.5 trillion. I'm just -- 100 million Americans at $5,000. That's $500 billion.
WATTERS: Now, I just -- I just lost you.
FORD JR.: If you give $5,000 to 100 million people, do it in a math, do it in the brain.
PIRRO: I don't know why we're even fighting about this. You know why? Because what the Democrats were doing, we were going under in a minute.
FORD JR.: But DEI Democrats are blamed for everything. But let's just look at this plan. This plan doesn't -- you have to -- you have to -- he has to save $2 trillion -- $2.5 trillion to do this plan.
PIRRO: At least, he's trying.
(CROSSTALK)
WATTERS: Up next, to MAGA sports takeover, Tiger Woods showing up at the White House today.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: Would you want to just say a couple of words? He doesn't. He's much more comfortable --
CROWD: Tiger! Tiger! Tiger!
TRUMP: Tiger! Tiger!
TIGER WOODS, PROFESSIONAL GOLFER: Hey, it's an honor to be here. It's honor to be here with you, Mr. President.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERINO: Golf Legend Tiger Woods joining President Trump at the White House for a Black History Month event. Another sign of a MAGA culture takeover in the sports world. One of the Obama Pod Bros thinks there's a lesson to be learned for the Dems.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TOMMY VIETOR, CO-HOST, POD SAVE AMERICA: Donald Trump is using sports in a really smart way politically. I think he went to college football games and UFC fights during the campaign. He went to the Super Bowl. He did a loop around the track of the Daytona 500 in his limo over the weekend. It feels like he's creating a bond with these audiences that that Democrats don't have. And how do you think Democrats can be a part of that conversation? I can't think of anyone who would go to a -- to a game like -- except for Barack Obama going to NBA games because he genuinely loved the sport. But like who else?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERINO: My favorite thing I've ever heard at this table is who's Tommy Vietor? He worked for Obama. And Harold, I go to you for no particular reason.
FORD JR.: There's no doubt people like sports. President Obama played sports. He connected with -- he connected with people on that. President Bush, your old boss took a loop around the Daytona there as well when the France -- the what the France family agreeing to it. I think it is -- this is -- anybody that sees that -- I don't know who that guy is but if he's -- he didn't realize that sports and politics go hand in hand, where's he been?
I mean, I think that it is smart. I thought the smartest thing the President did today was he called the USA Hockey Team and told him go beat Canada tonight as millions of us are going to watch and hopefully they don't get in fight like they did last time right from the start.
PERINO: I'm going to watch.
PIRRO: Yes, for split seconds.
FORD JR.: But we'll see. But go USA. But sport -- now, I was at -- I was at the national championship game when the president -- President Trump came when LSU played Clemson, and I've never heard an ovation. That was right before COVID really hit. I've never heard an ovation like that. So, I think it's smart for politicians to go to sporting events and there's no doubt. He's not the first one to do it.
PERINO: Judge, the biggest sports story during the Biden Administration was biological males being allowed to play in women's sports. That was the big sports story.
PIRRO: And therein lies the difference because you've got Donald Trump who is an authentic sportsperson. He's always gone to games and to fights and to matches and to races. I mean, I've done with him over the years. I mean, this is what he does. And he's always been someone involved in sports not just in terms not just in terms of watching but also when participating.
But when you get to the Democrats, they want men in women's sports, they're not authentic, and they bring out an assistant high school coach and make it like, you know, they don't understand why he gets booed Tim Walz at a -- at a football game. Donald Trump is authentic.
Donald Trump is like a sports person he plays hard, and he works hard, and he wins, and then he plays hard afterwards. It's not performative like the Democrats. You know, like, everybody should get a trophy. No. And that's why, you know, there's so much masculinity in terms of, you know, those people who focus on Trump and his connection to sports. It's like this is the way we want to win. We want to fight. We want to kill them. We're going to win.
PERINO: And maybe I'm wrong. I'm probably --
GUTFELD: I would never --
PERINO: I'm probably going to get crushed for this but it doesn't feel very partisan to me. Like, when he goes. Like, he -- like because he genuinely enjoys golf.
GUTFELD: Well, you know what they say about Tiger Woods.
PERINO: What?
GUTFELD: Terrible place for a picnic. You know, the Pod Bros are funny. It's like they look at these events that where Trump just walks and everyone is crazy and they go, how can we be part of that conversation? Oh what -- we should go to sporting event. It's like a big fat jobless sack of whatever walking down the street, looks over at a dog park and sees all these beautiful women walking their dogs, and says, that's the ticket, I'll get a dog, I'll get the ladies then. That's how I'll be part of the conversation.
No, no, no, no, no. See, the people get him, he gets the people. He Pod Bros, they don't get them and they don't get you, so it can never happen. I mean, what would be the corollary for Democrats -- Democrat leaders to find crowds that they can relate to, the Lilith Fair? I don't think that exists anymore -- a protest, a Planned Parenthood, you know, parking lot.
The Democratic Party is deliberately fractured. You know, they put box -- people into boxes, so it's really hard to find them all in one spot.
PERINO: Jesse?
WATTERS: I was just thinking about Greg and -- you know, like watching Mayor Pete try to go to a football game.
GUTFELD: Yes.
PIRRO: Yes.
WATTERS: Like, he just doesn't belong at a football game. Or Liz Warren trying to go to a basketball game.
GUTFELD: Yes. They can't even go to a pickle ball.
WATTERS: They -- I mean, I look at people -- when I see people, the first thing I look at if I look at a guy, is he an athlete? And you're either an athlete or you're not an athlete. That's just how I --
GUTFELD: Good for you.
WATTERS: -- look around.
PERINO: You're not judgmental at all.
GUTFELD: He beat up the guy who's not an athlete.
WATTERS: No, Greg. I'll leave you alone. But if you're not an athlete like Greg, like, we can still hang out. We can still get along.
GUTFELD: Oh, thank you.
WATTERS: You know, we're not going to like have a catch or anything or go to a game together, but Greg is cool.
GUTFELD: Thanks.
WATTERS: The problem is -- the problem is the Democrats the last three times nominated two women and an 80-year-old who couldn't walk. So, they're not going to games. They're not relating to this culture. And you're either in the culture or you're not. You can't fake culture.
GUTFELD: Just ask Rachel Dolezal.
PERINO: Up next, the king of trolling has spoken. President Trump pumping the brakes on congestion pricing.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GUTFELD: The king of trolling is putting an end to the tolling. President Trump taking steps to new congestion pricing in NYC declaring "Congestion pricing is dead. Manhattan and all of New York is saved. Long live the king." But New York's tax happy queen, Governor Kathy Hochul wasn't bowing. She was raging.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GOV. KATHY HOCHUL (D-NY): New York hasn't labored under a king in over 250 years, and we are not -- we sure as hell is not going to start now. This is an attack on our sovereign identity, our independence from Washington. Think about this the next time you're stuck in traffic.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: Well, there you go. Dana, is this more free money off the table for Trump because basically he just helped the plumber and the electrician who need to drive in because they can't afford to live in New York City and they need a truck or a van to haul their tools and their equipment. So, he just basically save those guys, I don't know, 50 bucks a week?
PERINO: I feel like -- just so that nobody has short-term memory about this, she's the one who knew it was a political loser, so she punted it until after the election. And then she put it in place. It went into place in January. Now, there has been less traffic and the Subways are packed. OK. I don't know if that -- it's a direct correlation, but always --
GUTFELD: I think January--
PERINO: Yes, there's always less traffic in January and February, so we don't exactly know. But she was the one who knew that it was a political loser, and she -- it wasn't about climate change, and it wasn't about the traffic in the city. Here's the other thing. If they really want people to feel better about taking public transit, fix it.
GUTFELD: Make it safe.
PERINO: And make it safe.
PIRRO: Yes.
PERINO: And make it work well, and on time, and then more people would take it.
GUTFELD: And don't make us pay for it with congestion pricing. If you can't do it -- you know, Harold, in the green room, you said to me I'm sick and tired of trump helping out the poor working classes. I was shocked by that.
FORD JR.: I was too. The -- I say a few things. First, whether you agree with Kathy Hochul or not in things that she's done -- and I agree with some things and disagree with some things, I've said on the show -- President Trump has no right to do this. She's exactly right.
Imagine if a Democratic president said to the states of Florida and Tennessee you guys have no state income tax so I'm going to punish you by reducing this or increasing problems for you in this regard. This problem that he -- that he feels in New York, this is solved electorally. If voters don't like her policies, they won't vote for her in the next election. She has done nothing illegal here. She followed the process and the Department of Transportation agreed.
Now, Secretary Duffy, my friend, decided at the at the request of President Trump to say that we're going to try to kill this. This will go before the courts. But can you imagine a Democratic president saying to a state that has an abortion ban, we are not going to let you have that abortion ban. The Supreme Court said it's the law. We can disagree with it. You can try to campaign against those governors and state legislators, but this is not the way to do it.
The President had to focus on his own province, and one of those provinces is his foreign policy. And I hope we get a good deal and we don't -- we don't we don't surrender to Russia and stand up for our friends in Ukraine.
GUTFELD: Wow. That was a left-turner.
PIRRO: Wow. That was a jump.
FORD JR.: Well, I learned from you.
GUTFELD: What do you think, Judge?
PIRRO: I'll tell you what I think.
GUTFELD: Harold said some things.
PIRRO: OK, a couple of things. Number one, as Dana has said, when Kathy Hochul paused the -- paused the congestion price thing, she -- the quote she used was she wanted to avoid an added burden on working class families, and that's a quote.
PERINO: Yes.
PIRRO: Now, all of a sudden, we're past the election, it's like you know, who cares, whatever. All right, now, as it relates to, sorry, Secretary Duffy, here's the bottom line. The authority of the President to halt congestion prices -- pricing is there because the Secretary of Transportation by rescinding its approval of the program and citing the concerns of working-class families and fairness them in small businesses. So, they have that right because they need Duffy's approval. So, the President said now you don't have our approval. If it didn't need their approval -- so it'll go to the courts. There's no question about it.
FORD JR.: And the President is going to lose.
PIRRO: Let me just tell you something. Donald Trump is about New York City. This woman is from Buffalo. While Donald Trump was building the skyline of New York City where he was born in Queens, she was a deputy county clerk in Buffalo, OK. So, the person who's going to defend New York and protect New York and the workers in New York is Donald Trump.
FORD JR.: You went to school in Buffalo. How could you trash Buffalo?
PIRRO: Yes, but -- well, that's because I was a skier, OK.
FORD JR.: I know.
PIRRO: That's the end of it. That's the only -- I'm not going to say it. It's the only thing Buffalo is good for.
GUTFELD: Jesse, this feels like a New York-centric segment, so can you bring it back to America at large.
WATTERS: Sure. Fine.
GUTFELD: And please work Jesse Jr's opinions on this.
WATTERS: Fine. Jesse said this is like Trump treating the media like his little sister. You know when you little sister, you're like always flicking her ear and stealing her food.
PERINO: I still feel bad about it.,
WATTERS: Teasing her about her boyfriend and sticking like a dead mouse on her bike. She falls for it every time. I only did that once. Trump has an arsenal of these little provocations that he uses with the media and every time it works.
PERINO: Yes.
WATTERS: Oh, I'm going to do another four years and then they go crazy, or he calls himself a genius or --
GUTFELD: 51st state.
WATTERS: 51st state. And the media, they think they're like the guard rails for the country when they like, go crazy. No. Trump is just throwing water balloons at you guys and we're all laughing at you.
GUTFELD: It's a great point. I'm lying.
Up next, is 30 grand enough cash for surviving a plane crash?
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
FORD JR.: Welcome back. Is this enough dough for surviving a fiery plane crash? Delta Airlines is offering $30,000 no strings attached to each of the Toronto plane crash survivors. Judge, what are your thoughts this?
PIRRO: Well, apparently, they're saying no strings attached but I would definitely not sign anything until I spoke to a lawyer. You can sue if you have more loss or damage. But if I'm hanging like a bat night and I see flames in a plane, it's worth more than 30,000 to me.
FORD JR.: Primetime, what are your thoughts about this?
WATTERS: I hire Harold Ford Jr. as my counsel. And I consider this the opening offer, and eventually I settle for six figures, right?
FORD JR.: Seven, seven.
WATTERS: Seven figures.
PERINO: And with that, do you pay down your credit card debt?
WATTERS: No. I spend it. I spend it like a madman, Dana.
PERINO: I don't know how they come up with this number, you know, the cost- benefit analysis, the risk analysis, and everything. I would love -- we interviewed a guy that took a lot of the video that we've been seeing. He's from Colorado originally. The guy is cool as a cucumber. I'd like to ask him if he thinks this is a good number.
FORD JR.: Primetime --
PERINO: Call me.
FORD JR.: Gutfeld, what would you say if you had these people on, four of them around -- three of them around you on the show. Would you tell them to take the 30,000 or not?
GUTFELD: I tell them to wait for a higher number. But I'm just wondering, who was the pilot? You know, let's be frank right here. Why don't we just say who was piloting that airplane? An Australian.
WATTERS: What was her name? Oh, oh.
FORD JR.: Oh, Lord.
WATTERS: We don't know if it was a man or a woman. Who knows?
PIRRO: We don't care.
WATTERS: Probably trans.
FORD JR.: "ONE MORE THING" before we -- is up next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
PIRRO: It's time now for "ONE MORE THING" and I go first. So, this video is sure to strike a chord in your heart. Yupia, the horse, loves to play the guitar with owner -- her owner. Every time a not is played, she chomps at the bit and strums a beat herself. Did you hear that? OK.
PERINO: Gus can watch this.
PIRRO: OK. Never underestimate the power of music and animals. Never. OK, Greg.
GUTFELD: All right, tonight, we got a banger of a show. Charlie Hurt, so good. Liz MacDonald, she's got a farm. Jim Norton and Emily Compagno. Let's do this. Greg's Fox News. There it is. There's a fox trying to get up on a car and Halifax, but it's snowing. He just keeps sliding.
PIRRO: Why does she want get up?
GUTFELD: Wait. He tried the second time. I don't know. Maybe he wants to drive that thing. Third time is a charge, once the -- charm, once the fox got up there, and then he had a blast jumping all over the hood. Yes, fun story at after this. He was shot dead by a hunter.
PIRRO: OK. Jesse.
WATTERS: All right, so this -- that's sad. This woman wrecked her car, flipped over. The car was on fire. This officer comes in with his billy club. It's another reason to use the billy club, just bash the window wide open. And then -- GUTFELD: What's the other reason?
WATTERS: Crowd control, Greg. It's called January 6. You never heard of it? And then the firefighter comes in and saves this woman.
FORD JR.: Gosh.
WATTERS: What great heroes.
PIRRO: God bless them.
WATTERS: Tonight, "JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME," Johnny went to an anti-DOGE rally. Look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOHNNY BELISARIO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL PRODUCER: How have you suffered from DOGE?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Everyone suffers from DOGE.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Please do not speak to this outlet.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: OK.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERINO: Wow.
WATTERS: Johnny got hurt. We'll show you his injuries tonight.
PIRRO: Oh, no.
PERINO: Well, that's a way to see --
FORD JR.: Go, USA!
PIRRO: All right, that's it for us tonight. Have a great night! And go, USA!

Load-Date: February 21, 2025


End of Document
