




Fox News FOX SPECIAL REPORT WITH BRET BAIER 6:00 PM EST
February 5, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6977 words
Byline: Bret Baier, Peter Doocy, David Spunt, Trey Yingst, Chad Pergram, Brooke Taylor, Alexis McAdams
Guests: Matthew Continetti, Kimberley Strassel, Robert Wolf
Body


JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: That's it for us, have a great night.
BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: I really enjoyed finding out where Gus politely peed. Thank you.
All right. Good evening. I'm Bret Baier.
Democrats say they are at war with President Trump and Elon Musk over the Department of Government Efficiency.
Attorney General Pam Bondi hits the ground running with a series of directives aimed at fighting violent crime.
And an investigative -- investigation into a theft ring at a New York City pawn shop could be linked to crimes targeting professional athletes. We'll take you there.
But first breaking tonight, President Trump says the war on women's sports is over. A short time ago, the president signed an executive order to keep biological males out of women's and girls' sports.
There's also new reaction tonight to the president's comments Tuesday about the U.S. "taking control of the Gaza Strip."
Senior White House Correspondent Peter Doocy starts us off tonight live from the North Lawn. Good evening, Peter.
PETER DOOCY, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Good evening, Bret. The president is going to try to pitch the U.S. takeover of Gaza to the King of Jordan next week.
Remember, so far, Jordan is one of the countries in the Middle East that has said they don't want Palestinian refugees.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: This is an out of the box idea.
DOOCY (voice over): The idea a U.S. takeover of the Gaza Strip.
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I don't want to be a wise guy, but the Riviera of the Middle East.
DOOCY (voice over): Democrats condemn the expansionist effort.
REP. PETE AGUILAR (D-CA): An invasion of U.S. troops into Gaza would not make Americans more safe. It would make Americans a target.
DOOCY (voice over): But that's not a sure thing.
LEAVITT: The President has not committed to putting boots on the ground in Gaza.
DOOCY (voice over): A Trump commitment on the campaign trail became the latest executive order today.
TRUMP: The war on women's sports is over.
DOOCY (voice over): Effective immediately, the new order prohibits biological males from competing against biological females for sports teams at schools at any level that receive federal taxpayer dollars.
TRUMP: If you let men take over women's sports teams or invade your locker rooms, you will be investigated for violations of Title IX and riskier federal funding. There will be no federal funding.
DOOCY (voice over): Shrinking federal funding overall, another top priority.
LEAVITT: The long list of crop that this administration is cutting.
DOOCY (voice over): A White House official tells Fox News, DOGE engineers are not uploading new code to government systems and have read only access but Democratic lawmakers want the whole project shut down.
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): We have to fight this in the courts. We have to fight this in the Congress. We have to fight this in the streets.
DOOCY (voice over): That will not include Pennsylvania Avenue.
DOOCY: Are any officials here preparing to fight Democratic lawmakers in the streets?
LEAVITT: Absolutely not. If you heard that type of violent enticing rhetoric from our side of the aisle, from Republican leaders on Capitol Hill, I think there would be a lot more outrage in this room today.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
DOOCY (on camera): The big concern Democratic lawmakers say they have is that this DOGE cost cutting project could somehow impact Social Security or Medicare payments, and we have no reason to think that that is going to happen.
But today, Elon Musk did say that the Medicare payment system is where he thinks the, "big money fraud is happening," Bret.
BAIER: More on this with the panel. Peter Doocy live on the North Lawn. Peter, thanks.
There is considerable reaction overseas, as you can imagine, to President Trump's statement about Gaza. Chief Foreign Correspondent Trey Yingst has that part of the story from Tel Aviv.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
TREY YINGST, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Diplomatic shock waves are reverberating across the Middle East after President Trump unexpectedly announced plans for a U.S. takeover of Gaza that would include forcing Palestinians out. The idea was quickly rejected by Jordan and Egypt, countries the president says would take in displaced refugees. Saudi Arabia also denounced the proposal.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): The Ministry of Foreign Affairs affirmed that the Kingdom's position on the establishment of the Palestinian state is firm, steadfast and unwavering, and that this firm position is not subject to negotiation or outbidding.
YINGST (voice over): That sentiment echoed on the ground inside Gaza, where Palestinian civilians spoke out about a potential forceful displacement of their people.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator): Donald Trump's remark are illogical. We have lived through war for a year and four months, and then he comes and says, we should leave our land? This is our land and the land of our ancestors.
YINGST (voice over): The new post war outlook for Gaza comes amid the backdrop of plans to curb Iranian support of its proxies like Hamas, Hezbollah and the Houthis. Iranian officials appear open to talks with the Trump administration, and through state media have praised Washington's revamp of USAID, signaling that even issues with the country's nuclear program can be resolved.
ABBAS ARAGHCHI, IRANIAN FOREIGN MINISTER (through translator): I think maximum pressure is a failed experience, and testing it again will lead to another failure. If the main issue is stopping Iran from pursuing nuclear weapons, well, this is something achievable. This is not too difficult.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
YINGST (on camera): Iran's willingness for negotiations comes after President Trump's executive order on Tuesday aimed at denying the Islamic Republic the path to a nuclear weapon and comments from Trump that he left instructions to obliterate Iran if they assassinate him, Bret.
BAIER: Trey Yingst live in Tel Aviv. Trey, thank you,
President Trump's choice to run the Justice Department on the job tonight, Pam Bondi was sworn in this morning as Attorney General following her Senate confirmation last night, and she got to work fast.
Correspondent David Spunt takes a look at some of the challenges she may face.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
PAM BONDI, ATTORNEY GENERAL NOMINEE: So help me, God.
DAVID SPUNT, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): With those words, Pam Bondi became the 87th Attorney General of the United States.
BONDI: I will restore integrity to the Justice Department, and I will fight violent crime throughout this country.
SPUNT (voice over): Bondi immediately ordered directives to fight what she calls weaponization of justice, eliminate drug cartels and lift a federal death penalty ban.
TRUMP: I'm supposed to say she's going to be totally impartial with respect to Democrats, and I think she will be as impartial as a person can be. I'm not sure if there's a possibility of totally.
SPUNT (voice over): Bondi will take over a DOJ plagued with uncertainty over the past two weeks.
Today, Acting Deputy Attorney General Emil Bove sent a follow up memo to the entire FBI workforce, criticizing acting leadership while addressing agents involved in January 6th investigations. Writing, let me be clear, no FBI employee who simply followed orders and carried out their duties in an ethical manner with respect to January 6th investigations is at risk of termination or other penalties. But he warned agents with, "corrupt or partisan intent to be concerned about their jobs."
Last week, Bove ordered the FBI to distribute more than 4,000 mandatory surveys to determine agent involvement in the cases. The organization representing more than 14,000 agents is suing.
NATALIE BARA, FBI AGENTS ASSOCIATION PRESIDENT: Because of a reckless decision, their names could be made public, putting them and their families in imminent danger. This is not about politics. This is about protecting those who protect us.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
SPUNT (on camera): There is a hearing tomorrow in federal court here in Washington D.C. relating to the FBI Agents Association trying to keep agents across the country from their names being on any public lists, Bret.
BAIER: David, thank you.
A federal judge is ordering a second nationwide pause on President Trump's executive order seeking to end birthright citizenship for anyone born in the U.S. to someone in the country illegally.
Judge Deborah Boardman calls citizenship a most precious right. She says no court in the country has endorsed the Trump administration's interpretation of the 14th Amendment. This could head to the Supreme Court.
The Central Intelligence Agency confirms to Fox News it is offering buyouts to its entire workforce. It's part of the president's deferred resignation policy unveiled earlier. A CIA spokesperson tells Fox the moves are part of a holistic strategy to infuse the agency with renewed energy, provide opportunities for rising leaders to emerge, and better position the CIA to deliver on its mission.
Virginia Democratic Senator Tim Kaine says there is no statutory authority that he can see for the President making this offer.
While President Trump and congressional Republicans are trying to advance his agenda with considerable speed up on Capitol Hill, Democrats are having a tougher time coming up with a cohesive message on how to oppose him.
Senior Congressional Correspondent Chad Pergram shows us tonight.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
CHAD PERGRAM, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Democrats are struggling to unify their opposition to the president.
SEN. CORY BOOKER (D-NJ): In the United States Senate, we will not cooperate. We will cooperate with no appointments when it comes to the State Department.
SEN. ED MARKEY (D-MA): There should be hundreds of thousands and millions of people descending on Washington, D.C.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We must resist. We must be in the streets.
PERGRAM (voice over): It only took two weeks for a Democrat to threaten to impeach President Trump. Texas Democrat Al Green prepped the first articles of impeachment against the president in October 2017.
REP. AL GREEN (D-TX): I did it before I laid the foundation for impeachment, and it was done. Nobody knows more about it than I, and I know that it's time for us to lay the foundation again.
PERGRAM (voice over): But two impeachments failed to suppress President Trump. Democratic leaders are leery of impeachment freelancing.
REP. PETE AGUILAR (D-CA): This isn't a focus of the Democratic caucus. We've laid out our strategy, legislative, litigation, outreach and communication, and that continues to be the focus.
PERGRAM (voice over): Democrats used to only have one target, President Trump.
REP. MIKE JOHNSON (R-LA): They have no rudder, they have no vision. They have no clear leader. The only message they have is anti-President Trump.
PERGRAM (voice over): But now there's a new foe who they peppered with inflammatory rhetoric.
REP. LAMONICA MCIVER (D-NJ): We will not take (EXPLETIVE DELETED) from Donald Trump and Elon Musk. We are at war.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We have got to tell Elon Musk, nobody elected your (EXPLETIVE DELETED).
PERGRAM (voice over): But at least one Democrat urges discipline in the line of attack.
SEN. JOHN FETTERMAN (D-PA): Going to be a lot of balls coming down the plate, and I'm waiting for a strike when I'm going to start to swing.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
PERGRAM (on camera): The latest democratic gambit, an all-night session, which delays the confirmation of Russ Vought as budget director. Democrats can hinder the vote until Thursday night, but all this really does is put off the inevitable, Bret.
BAIER: Chad Pergram live on the Hill. Chad, thanks.
Gains for most stocks outweigh the drops for the Alphabet companies and some other big name companies following their latest profit reports. The Dow was up 317, the S&P 500 gained 24, the NASDAQ finished ahead 38.
Up next, Brit Hume on President Trump's plans for Gaza and the speed at which he is implementing his agenda.
First, here is what some of our Fox affiliates around the country are covering tonight. Fox 28 in Columbus, Ohio, with the arrest of a suspect in a workplace shooting that left one person dead and five others injured. New Albany police accuse Bruce Reginald Foster the third of opening fire at a warehouse where he is employed.
Fox 5 in New York, is the National Women's Soccer League says it will establish a $5 million fund for players. It's part of a settlement stemming from allegations of emotional and sexual misconduct that rocked the league in 2021. The funds will go to players who experienced abuse.
And this is a live look at Pittsburgh courtesy of Earth cam. One of the big stories there tonight, the U.S. Golf Association announces exemptions into the U.S. Open tournament for some players on the rival LIV Tour. The move makes the tournament the first of golf's four majors to introduce a formal pathway for golfers on the Saudi backed circuit.
That's tonight's live look outside the Beltway from SPECIAL REPORT, we'll be right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BAIER: Investigators say the military helicopter that collided with that passenger jet last week was flying at an elevation of 300 feet at Reagan National Airport. A total of 64 people were killed on the plane, three in that helicopter.
That will be part of tomorrow's briefing to senators by the Federal Aviation Administration and the National Transportation Safety Board.
Two airliners collided on the ground in Seattle this morning. Officials in Seattle-Tacoma International Airport say the Japan Airlines plane struck the tail of a parked Delta Airlines jet while taxiing. No reported injuries there.
Meantime, tonight, researchers say they have found the first evidence that a spine stimulating implant, already being tested for paralysis, might also treat neurodegenerative diseases, such as spinal muscle atrophy.
They say the implant restores some muscle function, at least temporarily. They report three people with a muscle destroying disease were able to stand and walk more easily when an implanted device zapped their spinal cord.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We're here this afternoon to change the course of history. After decades of division and conflict, we mark the dawn of a new Middle East.
I hope that we could do something where they wouldn't want to go back, who would want to go back? They've experienced nothing but death and destruction.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Well, President Trump's comments about taking control of the Gaza Strip have prompted wide reaction. Let's talk about how the new president is implementing his agenda and the reaction to all of that.
Fox News chief political analyst, Brit Hume joins us tonight. Good evening, Brit.
(CROSSTALK)
BRIT HUME, FOX NEWS CHANNEL SENIOR POLITICAL ANALYST: Hi, Bret.
A lot of reaction there, people interpreting what the president said, and what it really meant. The Jerusalem Post, interestingly, wrote this. "Trump is beating the grass in the Middle East to startle the snakes in Gaza: If Gazans leave, then Hamas can't use them as human shields -- can't exploit, steal, and sell humanitarian aid. The concept of beating the grass will now stir up the Hamas snakes, and all the countries and NGOs and organizations that profit off the ruin of Gaza. They will come forward now, perhaps to fix the problem." How do you interpret it?
HUME: Well, I think it's such an exotic idea, and it's -- no, the obstacles are too numerous to mention, Bret. So, it may never come to pass, but it has had one notable effect, and that is, it has moved the discussion, at least for now, away from the idea of a two-state solution, which has been a dead end for a half a century or more.
Now, the reason principally being that, while it makes all kinds of sense on paper, the Palestinians have really never shown much appetite for the idea. Most of them, I think, want a one state solution, and Israel not a part of that.
And so, that, I think, is a great obstacle to peace. And, you know, Trump is offering something different, which he hopes would be an enticement to Palestinians to perhaps leave and or be made to leave and to turn the place into something that would be, you know, inhabitable, livable, and even a vacation destination.
(CROSSTALK)
BAIER: Yes.
HUME: I don't know how far it will go, but I think it's, you know, it puts some of those other countries into position they don't like it, right?
Saudi Arabia doesn't like it. The Egypt, and, you know, they are all complaining about it. The question then becomes, OK, that's our idea. What's yours?
(CROSSTALK)
BAIER: Right.
HUME: And maybe they'll come up with something.
BAIER: Yes. And listen, next week, King Abdullah of Jordan meets with President Trump. That's one of the countries, obviously, that would be taking in Palestinians from Gaza. He met today with Mahmoud Abbas, Jordan. Jordan's king did.
And the question is whether this was a signal to Jordan, to Egypt, come up with something, otherwise, this is the back end.
Obviously, there was a lot of reaction on Capitol Hill, Democrats, but also some Republicans.
HUME: Yes, that's right. You know, the idea was bound to be met with all kinds of resistance, simply because it's so far out of the box. And you know, you look at countries like Jordan and Egypt, which don't want any part of the Palestinians.
The reason, I think it's pretty clear, they saw what Palestinians have done in Gaza, and to some extent, in the West Bank, and they don't want those people on their land causing the kind of trouble they've caused there.
But it's a -- it's a bit of a problem for them in terms of world opinion, because, you know, these are the nearest neighbors, and if they were cared so much about the Palestinians and their cause, they -- you wouldn't think they would completely close their borders to them, which is basically what they have done.
BAIER: You know, since inauguration, we've had many talks like this about the drinking from the fire hose of all that's happening. Axios writes it this way, what Trump's thinking. "Chaos isn't an accident. Trump and his aides know that the tsunami of ideas, executive orders and proclamations makes it hard for opponents to unite around a single message."
Are you seeing that real time with Democrats and the opposition?
HUME: Well, there have -- Democrats having a terrible time for all kinds of reasons, not least of which, you know, their candidate lost in a very convincing way, which they did not really fully expect.
They have no clear leader right now, and they are going to need new ideas to combat this administration. As for the president and this blitz that he is embarked on, I think there are two things at work there, Bret. One is, of course, when you're in your second term, and he is now, it isn't long before you become a lame duck and your powers begin to leak away from him.
The other is, I think, that this administration, it's almost as if they were sitting there waiting to take power for four years. A lot of them were veterans of his first administration. They know how the government works far better than they used to. So, does he, I think, for that matter. And they arrive prepared to move quickly as indeed, they have done.
BAIER: Brit, as always. Thank you.
HUME: Thank you, Bret.
BAIER: Up next, we examine who is coming across U.S. borders into this country, and where they're coming from.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BAIER: Welcome back to SPECIAL REPORT.
This week, Mexico and Canada both agreed to work on efforts to ramp up border security, avoiding U.S. tariffs, at least for the time being, for 30 days. Take a look at border crossings from the last fiscal year. More than 2 million migrant encounters along the southern border with Mexico -- the Mexico border, nearly 200,000 in the northern border with the U.S. border with Canada.
As we look at the situation of where these folks are coming from, among countries that Customs and Border Protection keep data on, most crossing from the north are from India, actually, around 44,000. More than 36,000 were Canadian nationals.
Canada has promised $1.3 billion for border security. It includes new helicopters, technology, 10,000 front line personnel and also appointing a fentanyl czar.
Speaking of fentanyl. More fentanyl is seized at the southern border than the North. If you take a look at this. 21,000 pounds in the southern border and just 43 pounds of fentanyl, which is still significant, but much less than the southern border when it comes to fentanyl crossing., Cartels often purchase chemicals to make fentanyl from China, then, they smuggle that across the manufactured drug into the U.S.
That opioid is blamed for more than 70,000 deaths each year in the U.S., some say up to 100,000 or more.
Mexicans had the largest border crossing numbers in 2025 and 2024, with more than 600,000 encounters documented. They have agreed to send 10,000 troops to their border -- its southern border. Mexico and Canada are among the countries accepting deportation flights. Panama has also said they will have deportation flights using U.S. funds.
Secretary of State Marco Rubio viewed one of those flights which deported migrants from Panama to Colombia. El Salvador's president also saying yesterday that his country will accept deportees of any nationality from the U.S.
The U.S. is also dedicating more resources to the border, surveillance aircraft, collecting intelligence along the southern border in cities across the country. ICE raids that you are seeing day by day are ramping up as well.
And we are getting new information tonight about the initial response to President Trump's immigration reform policy. Encounters on the southern border, as we have been saying, are down significantly. Immigration enforcement, however, appears significantly up. Correspondent Brooke Taylor shows us tonight.
BROOKE TAYLOR, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Bret, DPS in Texas just released the number of illegal migrant encounters at the southern border overall in all nine sectors. That number continues to drop below 500. That is the first time in years.
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
TAYLOR: ICE raids hit Denver and Aurora, Colorado, this morning. More than 100 members of the violent Venezuelan Tren de Aragua gang targeted in Aurora, according to ICE.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You have the right to remain silent.
TAYLOR: Similar scenes playing out across the country, in Seattle and in southern New Hampshire. The DEA says their multiagency enforcement operation targeted criminal aliens trafficking drugs. At the southern border, illegal encounters continue to go down and powerful cartels are feeling threatened.
LT. CHRIS OLIVAREZ, TEXAS DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY: It's a very volatile situation along the border, because we know for a fact the cartels threatened law enforcement, especially when it comes to decreasing the number of people on the border, when you are going after drugs. That's going to impact their profits. That's going to impact the cartels, and with that we can expect do see escalation of threats from the cartels.
TAYLOR: The first group of 10 illegal migrants landed in Guantanamo Bay on Tuesday night. DHS says the illegal migrants are part of Tren de Aragua. They will be kept in an area used for migrants in the past, separate from the detention center where 9/11 planners are being held.
SEN. TOM COTTON, (R-AR): Just an example of the kind of creative, unconventional thinking that the president has brought back to Washington to serve American interest, to get dangerous and violent migrants off of our streets and back to their home countries.
(END VIDEO TAPE)
TAYLOR (on camera): And ICE officials tell FOX News that they did make a handful of arrest in Aurora, Colorado, today. But their operation targeting more than 100 TDA members fell way short, all thanks to media leaks. ICE officials, though, say they are not going to let this stop their effort. Bret?
BAIER: Brooke Taylor live in Dallas. Brooke, thanks.
Two men are in custody tonight accused of involvement in the increasing popularity of burglaries involving wealthy and often famous victims. Correspondent Alexis McAdams has details this evening from New York.
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
ALEXIS MCADAMS, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: This New York city pawnshop now at the center of an investigation into a south American theft ring as police say the two men who run this store were buying stolen luxury items from a group who investigators say were breaking into multimillion dollars homes across the country. Sources tells FOX one of those homes belong to Cincinnati Bengals quarterback Joe Burrow.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Someone is trying to break into the house right now. My daughter is there. This is Joe Burrow's house.
MCADAMS: Burrow was out in the football field when detectives say a group of Chilean migrants broke into his house, then took off with some of his valuable items.
JOE BURROW, CINCINNATI BENGALS QUARTERBACK: I feel like my privacy has been violated in more ways than one.
MCADAMS: Police say the crew was in the country illegally, later arresting them during a traffic stop. This police body camera shows one migrant wearing Burrow's stolen Bengals hat, telling police they were on their way to Florida.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Where are you guys heading to today, sir?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Orlando.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Orlando? Wrong way. You are going the wrong direction to get to Florida.
MCADAMS: Police say one of the owners of the pawnshop, Dimitriy Nezhinskiy, had been talking to some of those Chilean suspects. Now he and his co-worker Juan Villar, face federal charges for creating an illicit market and fueling demand for burglaries by these theft rings. As the duo remains in custody, the feds taking dozens of boxes of suspected stolen property in as evidence.
(END VIDEO TAPE)
MCADAMS (on camera): So here in New York City, Bret, those two suspects pled not guilty today in that court out in Brooklyn, but there's other open investigations into a theft ring that was targeting professional athletes for months. That open investigation includes Kansas City Chiefs star Patrick Mahomes and Travis Kelce. Bret?
BAIER: Alexis, thank you.
Up next, the panel on President Trump's Gaza plan and his executive order about biological males in girls and women's sports.
First, Beyond our Borders tonight. Ukraine brings back 150 troops from Russian captivity. President Volodymyr Zelenskyy announced the latest prisoner swap with Russia. The Russian defense ministry confirmed each side exchanged 150 prisoners of war and that the freed Russians were currently in Belarus.
And this is a live look at London. One of the big stories there tonight, scientists hope a mix of artificial intelligence with human expertise will help decipher ancient scrolls. The artifacts were carbonized by a volcanic eruption 2,000 years ago. Today researchers announced the generation of the first image of the inside of these one of these scrolls held at Oxford University.
Just some of the other stories Beyond our Borders tonight. We'll be right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: When we asked about your proposal, a lot of people are talking about obviously --
DONALD TRUMP, (R) U.S. PRESIDENT: Everybody loves it.
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: This is an out-of-the-box idea. That's who President Trump is. That's why the American people elected him. And his goal is lasting peace in the Middle East.
REP. PETE AGUILAR (D-CA), HOUSE DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS CHAIR: It is very clear that what the president talked about would make our country less safe, it would make Americans a target.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: Well, the reaction to President Trump's comments last night alongside the Israeli Prime Minister Bibi Netanyahu that you saw it right here on FOX, a lot of reaction both in this country and outside of it. The headlines run the gamut, "Trump's suggestion that the U.S. take over the Gaza Strip rejected by allies and adversaries alike." "Trump's Gaza shockwave stuns Middle East and some in the White House." "Trump campaign on ending foreign entanglements, now he wants to own Gaza."
Let's start there with our panel, Matthew Continetti, fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, Kimberley Strassel, a member of the editorial board at "The Wall Street Journal," and Robert Wolf, CEO of 32 Advisors.
Kimberley, let me start with you. First of all, were you shocked by the statement? And what about the reaction to it?
KIMBERLEY STRASSEL, "WALL STREET JOURNAL": Well, I wasn't really shocked. And I think one way to look at this as a Donald Trump negotiation tactic. If you look what he is doing on foreign policy, he is a businessman. He makes big threats, big challenges. So you see what he did with the tariffs, and then he you get Canada and Mexico moving to do more at the border. He said maybe I'll take over Panama. You see Panama backing away from China, maybe offerings to work more with us. Maybe this was thrown out there not necessarily because Donald Trump wants to run Gaza, but because he clearly wants to see a different way of thinking among regional players about how to deal with the Palestinian problem. The status quo isn't working.
So, I think this bears watching to see what comes afterwards and if the asks are, in fact, coming, and maybe the players then look at it and think, well, that's not as bad as having the United States running Gaza.
BAIER: Right. And Matthew, the White House walked back, saying there is no specific commitment to U.S. troops on the ground in Gaza, there's no specific money allotted to Gaza. It does, conservatives obviously piped up, some of them about what he ran on, both this last time and in 2016. Take a listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, (R) U.S. PRESIDENT: We're going to finally have a coherent foreign policy based upon American interests and the shared interests of our allies. We are getting out of the nation-building business and, instead, focusing on creating stability in the world.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: So, your thoughts on the statements?
MATTHEW CONTINETTI, AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE: Well, Bret, I don't think that President Trump was proposing nation-building in Gaza, or at least America doing the nation-building. What I think he was doing was presenting a vision for postwar Gaza. And many people have been asking that precisely that from variant governments around the world, including the United States. And what President Trump is saying is that if we really want a Gaza that is secure and not a threat to Israel and not a threat to the world more generally, then Hamas must not be a part of it, and that Gaza needs to be rebuilt in a way that ensures prosperity for the Gazan people and for other people that President Trump says might eventually live there.
I think it was a bold vision. Obviously, the details will be worked out over time. But I also think it's another example of Trump challenging the conventional wisdom in the Middle East. He challenged the conventional wisdom with our embassy, moving it to Jerusalem. He challenged the conventional wisdom with proposing the Abraham Accords. And now he is doing it here with his vision for postwar Gaza that I think is, quite rightly, shaking everybody, including capitals in Egypt and in Jordan, which have kind of used the Palestinians as pawns in a larger game, and now can't do that any longer.
BAIER: I mentioned earlier, Robert, that King Abdullah of Jordan was meeting with Mahmoud Abbas today. He will come to Washington next week. That is one of the linchpins to solving this problem. Is this, as Kimberley and Matthew suggest, shaking them up to say, OK, what do you have, and Saudi Arabia, too?
ROBERT WOLF, 32 ADVISORS CEO: Listen, as the press secretary said, out of the box is an understatement. It really takes off the two-state solution which has been the U.S. kind of way for decades. I also think he walked it back a little today because, to Matt's point, he wants to extend the Abraham Accords. And the way he wants to extend it is bring Saudi in. And Saudi was very clear that if it's -- if there is not a Palestinian state, they won't be part of the Abraham Accords.
But I do think that King Abdullah is coming. They want to hear what are you going to do in Jordan? What land are you going to give up? How are you going to rebuild? Obviously, a lot of people upset with Egypt with respect to the how they let refugees cross Rafah, or the lack thereof. So I think this is way to negotiate. Today it seemed like he backed off a bit. But I certainly don't think it's something we should ever have boots on the ground and we should take over that type of territory. And I would say that a few years back Jared Kushner hinted to this type of idea, that, oh my God, what a great seaport this would be.
BAIER: Piece of property, right. Yes, that's right.
Kimberley, meantime the fire hose, as I talked with Brit Hume, continues to flow of stuff that is happening, executive orders, executive actions. And today the president signing this order about men in women's sports. Take a listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, (R) U.S. PRESIDENT: We're putting every school receiving taxpayer dollars on notice that if you let men take over women's sports teams or invade your locker room, you will be investigated for violations of Title IX and risk your federal funding. There will be no federal funding.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: And the imagery there, Kimberley, with all these young girls around him as he signed that was quite something at the White House.
STRASSEL: Yes, I think it's the most amazing image of this presidency so far. And look, I think this is a big moment, OK? It's not just that this issue is incredibly popular among Americans. This is a 90-10 issue out there. But it felt today, Bret, as though this was sort of the beginning of the end of this long period of cancel culture where there were so many people that felt that some of these policies were very, very wrong, but they were scared about saying anything for so long because of risk to their job, their livelihood, their reputation, what would happen to them online. And I think we owe a debt to some very capable women like Riley Gaines who really decided to make an issue out of this and embolden people to step up. And I think that that's one of the reasons Donald Trump was elected. Americans wanted to see more people voicing their concerns, and this was a big one.
BAIER: Yes, and Matthew, it's true. It is about a 90-10 issue if you look at it, and it's also sweeping of any educational institution that gets federal funds.
CONTINETTI: That's right. It's part of President Trump's agenda to use the executive branch of government in ways that really push back against woke, Bret. And when you look at the rise of DEI and political correctness over the past decade, it seems to me that the issue that broke it, the issue that started to shift back to the right was the gender madness, was this idea that biological men would be in women's sports.
And so here Donald Trump is taking action, which is quite popular. And I don't think you're going to hear much dissent from any Democrats who understand that their party has been on the wrong side of this issue in the past.
BAIER: Speaking of Democrats, panel, stand by. Up next, we will talk about the Democrats. They are definitely going after Elon Musk, but can they keep up with the Republicans and the Trump agenda?
And then a bit later, a heroic rescue.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. ROBERT GARCIA, (D-CA) HOUSE OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE: You have a group of essentially young kids and Elon Musk running around. We have no idea what they're doing.
REP. MAXINE WATERS, (D-CA): We have got to tell Elon Musk nobody elected your --
REP. DINA TITUS, (D-NV): If they can close down USAID, they can close down Social Security.
SEN. CORY BOOKER, (D-NJ): We will not shut up. We will stand up. We will speak up.
REP. MIKE JOHNSON, (R-LA) HOUSE SPEAKER: The executive branch of government in our system has the right to evaluate how executive branch agencies are operating.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: Democrats say the resistance is back, and the USAID funding freeze and dismantling is causing it. "Politico" writes in their magazine, "Democrats are falling for Trump and Musk's foreign aid trap. Relaunching the resistance to defend one of the least popular corners of the federal budget could be a monster miscalculation. Some prominent Democrats told me they have serious strategic reservations about how their party is fighting back. James Carville, David Axelrod, Rahm Emanuel agree the Democrats need to save their outrage for issues that will resonate with voters, cutting benefits, rising prices, not slashing foreign aid."
We're back with our panel. Robert, what about that, that assessment of some of those Democrats and the pushback on the Elon Musk stuff?
WOLF: Yes. So, I think the Democratic message has been pretty weak. I think yesterday when they were yelling "We will win", I'm not even sure we think that's inspirational of what they are trying to win. In my opinion, they should work with the rest of Congress and make sure that the legislative branch is a co-equal and has the power of the purse.
I actually think the idea of DOGE made a lot of sense, but I think it's just running, in my opinion, way too ad hoc, seems to be just throwing darts and see what sticks. I think it should be more prescriptive. I don't have an issue that they are challenging budget line items or programs like USAID, but it should be prescriptive. There are some things that make sense and some things that don't. And I'm surprised that all of Congress, both the GOP and the Democrats are rolling over when this is really the most power they is the power of the purse.
BAIER: Right. Kimberley, I guess the pushback from Republicans is, one, that voters knew this was coming and they voted for it. And two, we always seem like we're one election away from taking care of the waste, fraud, and abuse.
STRASSEL: That's just it, Bret. If there is one thing that nearly every American agrees on is that government is a problem. Slow, paralytic, fat, doesn't get stuff done, makes mistakes. And so the notion that anybody out there in America is getting unhappy that Elon Musk is coming in and breaking a bunch of China, I mean, people are throwing parties.
And the weird thing about this is that Democrats think that they have got a message? This is not the hill to be dying on. The strange thing that I find about this party is that they don't seem to believe that they're making progress unless they are protesting and bringing down the other side. They have been given remarkable opportunity to try to get themselves straight with the voters on some positive issues that they believe in, and I'd think that they would using time far better than protesting against cutting USAID money for transgender operas in other countries.
BAIER: Yes. And as far as the flow and all that's happening, here is Governor Pritzker of Illinois saying even the Gaza statement was strategic.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GOV. J.B. PRITZKER, (D) ILLINOIS: He says so many things that are so far out of bounds. This one, let me just be clear, is dangerous. It's hard to tell when he's doing something just off the top of his head that doesn't really mean, trying to distract, often, perhaps from what Elon Musk is doing at some of the agencies yesterday, or if he is actually proposing something that's real.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: They are saying, Matthew, it's like look at the shiny thing over here.
CONTINETTI: Right. You know, Bret, the Democrats have deep, deep troubles. When you look at recent polling, you see that the Democrats have record disapproval. The outgoing Democratic president, Joe Biden remember him? He left with a 39 percent approval rating. When voters are asked how did the country progress under Biden and Harris's leadership, voters tell pollsters that we went backward in a whole host of metrics. So, what I see pictures like we just saw top of the segment, it seems to me that Democrats have not learned anything from this election, and Governor Pritzker and Maxine Waters are not the answer to their problem.
BAIER: Well, panel, thanks.
At the beginning of this segment, there was Super Bowl ad with me and Sean Hannity, and a lot of fun. It was tough for me to wear the Philadelphia Eagles jersey, but there were also a lot of bloopers making that thing.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS HOST: Do you want mow too look at Bret or look straight?
BAIER: It's the cake that really sells it.
So does he start the line after the cake?
HANNITY: We should do this more often.
(LAUGHTER)
HANNITY: That was a good take.
BAIER: That was.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: It was fun. It was good. It really was good. Thanks to Sean, and it'll run, the Super Bowl.
Finally tonight, a SPECIAL REPORT salute.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
(INAUDIBLE)
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: A New Jersey police officer rescues an 11-year-old boy who had fallen through the ice in the middle of a frozen lake. Patrolman David Brosonski is highly trained in water rescues as a water safety instructor at a police academy. He walked straight into the frigid water, grabbed the boy, pulled him to shore. A nearby resident also aided in the rescue by providing rope. That boy returned to school the next day. That's good stuff. Salute to you.
This Sunday, you can watch my exclusive interview sit-down with President Trump on FOX during the pregame coverage of the Super Bowl. The rest of that interview will happen on Monday on SPECIAL REPORT.
Tomorrow, we have "Common Ground" with the leaders of the bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus.
Thanks for inviting us into your home tonight. That's it for this SPECIAL REPORT, fair, balanced, and unafraid. Here's Laura.

Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
