




Newsweek.com
February 28, 2025 Friday 7:30 AM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 577 words
Byline: Ewan Palmer
Highlight: Hung Cao, tapped to serve as the under secretary of the Navy, had condemned the use of drag queens in recruitment efforts.
Body


President  has announced former Virginia   candidate Hung Cao as his next U.S. under secretary of the Navy.
Cao, a former Navy captain, gained national attention during his 2024 Senate campaign for criticizing diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) initiatives in the military. He said that the Navy needs "alpha" males and females who are willing to
Newsweek has contacted Cao for comment via email.
Why It Matters
Cao's appointment as the No. 2 official in the Navy aligns with Trump and Defense Secretary 's efforts to eliminate DEI programs in the military, including plans to ban t
What to Know
Trump announced Cao's nomination in a Truth Social 
The president praised Cao, a combat veteran who came to the U.S. as a refugee from and later worked at the , as the "embodiment of the American Dream," according to his campaign website.
Cao was the Republican candidate who challenged Democratic Senator  in Virginia's 2024 Senate race.
During an October 2024 televised debate, Cao was asked about his past remarks on DEI recruiting in the military. He criticized the use of a "drag queen" in recruitment efforts.
Cao said the U.S. will only "win wars" if it recruits people willing to "rip out their own guts, eat them, and ask for seconds."
His remarks appeared to reference Yeoman 2nd Class Joshua Kelley, who performs as a drag queen under the stage name Harpy Daniels. Kelley, who identifies as nonbinary, was one of five active-duty sailors selectedwhich ran from October 2022 to April 2023.
In November 2022, Kelley shared a  video highlighting their role as an ambassador while discussing their positive experiences as an LGBTQ+ service member and drag performer. Kelley had previously performed as Harpy Daniels aboard the USS Ronald Reagan in
What People Are Saying
Hung Cao in an October 2024 televised debate: "When you're using a drag queen to recruit for the Navy, that's not the people we want. What we need is alpha males and alpha females who are going to rip out their own guts, eat them, and ask for seconds. Those are the young men and women who are going to win wars."
President Donald Trump on Truth Social: "I am pleased to announce that Hung Cao will be our next United States undersecretary of the Navy. Hung is the embodiment of the American Dream. As a refugee to our great nation, Hung worked tirelessly to make proud the country that gave his family a home. He went to our amazing United States Naval Academy and later earned his master's degree in physics. Hung served in combat as a special operations officer for 25 years. With Hung's experience both in combat and in the Pentagon, he will get the job done. Congratulations to Hung and his wonderful family!"
Hung Cao, posting on X, : "Thank you, Mr. President. It's time to get to work."
A U.S. Navy spokesperson had told Newsweek in 2023: "The Navy is proud of and stands by any person who is willing to take an oath to put their life on the line in defense of this nation. Much like the country we serve, our Navy is stronger when we draw upon our diverse resources, skills, capabilities and talents. We remain committed to an inclusive environment."
What Happens Next
Cao will require Senate approval to serve as undersecretary of the Navy.


Graphic

 
Donald Trump and Hung Cao
Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images
Donald Trump speaks alongside Republican candidate for U.S. Senate in Virginia Hung Cao at the Truong Tien Restaurant in the Eden Center on August 26, 2024 in Falls Church, Virginia.

Load-Date: February 28, 2025


End of Document
