




Newsweek.com
January 28, 2025 Tuesday 10:52 AM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 704 words
Byline: James Bickerton
Highlight: Donald Trump's approval rating has fallen by four points since last week, according to one tracking poll.
Body


The proportion of likely American voters who  has fallen from 56 percent on January 23 to 52 percent on January 28 according to a daily presidential tracking poll produced by Rasmussen Reports.
Newsweek contacted the White House for comment via email on Tuesday outside of regular office hours.
Why It Matters
Following his inauguration as president on January 20 Trump hit the ground running with a  declaring a national emergency at the southern border over illegal immigration, rolling back federal DEI initiatives, designating Mexican drug cartels as terrorist groups and ending birthright citizenship, though the moves are .
He also  over 1,500 people who had been charged or convicted over the January 6, 2021, Capitol riot, when Trump supporters stormed  in a bid to disrupt the verification of President 's election victory.
It is not unusual for a president slip in approval ratings after assuming office and the president went through a similar round of polling in the Rasmussen Reports tracking poll, which has often found a higher approval rating for Trump than other polls, after being inaugurated for his first term on January 20, 2017.
What To Know
The Rasmussen Reports presidential tracking poll shows that Trump's total approval  to 52 percent on January 28, while his total disapproval rose from 40 percent to 44 percent over the same period.
Over this period the tracking poll also showed the proportion of likely American voters who strongly approved of Trump's performance fell from 40 percent to 38 percent, while those who strongly disapprove increased from 34 percent to 36 percent.
For its presidential tracking poll Rasmussen Reports  and reports on a five-day rolling average basis, giving a full sample of 1,500 respondents. The survey is conducted online via a demographically representative panel and has a 2.5 percentage point margin of error.
Trump's drop in approval rating shortly after entering the White House replicates what happened during his first term, according to the Rasmussen Reports presidential tracking poll. This showed that after being inaugurated as president for the first time Trump's popularity approval rate , to 53 percent 10 days later.
President  experienced a  from his first inauguration on January 20 to January 26, 2009, when his approval fell from 67 percent to 60 percent according to the Rasmussen Reports tracking poll. However, President Joe Biden's approval  in the immediate aftermath of his inauguration, from 48 percent to 50 percent between January 22 and January 29, 2021.
What People Are Saying
In an , conservative leaning writer Christopher Caldwell said: "So tumultuous was the first week of 's second term that people have barely noticed, a week on, that last Tuesday he repealed affirmative action by executive order. That is astonishing."
Referring to separate data from UC Santa Barbara's American Presidency Project Stuart Stevens, an advisor to anti-Trump conservative group , on X : " Just to clear up any Trump world fantasy that Donald Trump has a mandate, his current approval rating of 47% is the second lowest of any new president in modern history. The lowest was Trump in his first term."
Ian Bremmer, president of the Eurasia Group geopolitical consultancy, are "bending the knee now that there's a strongman in the white house."
What Happens Next
Trump is expected to continue with his large scale deportation program targeting the  who are in the United States illegally.
A  , carried out from January 2 to 10, found 55 percent of voters strongly or somewhat supported such plans. Eighty-eight percent supported "Deporting immigrants who are here illegally and have criminal records." Large majorities of both  and  agreed that the immigration system is broken.


Graphic

 
Donald Trump
MANDEL NGAN/AFP/GETTY
President Donald Trump speaking during a fire emergency briefing at Station 69 in Pacific Palisades, a neighborhood of Los Angeles, California, on January 24, 2025.

Load-Date: January 28, 2025


End of Document
