




Fox News THE FIVE 5:00 PM EST
February 5, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6724 words
Byline: Jesse Watters, Jeanine Pirro, Jessica Tarlov, Dana Perino, Greg Gutfeld
Body


WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: I think you need to look at a unicorn in politics, like Donald Trump, and think, have we learned nothing from the art of the deal?
And then, finally, Robert says, It's Minnesota, not Michigan. Pete Hegseth will not be happy. The Olympic hockey team was Minnesota, and the Northeast. I stand corrected.
Now, I give you THE FIVE.
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Hello, everybody. I'm Jesse Watters along with Judge Jeanine Pirro, Jessica Tarlov, Dana Perino and Greg Gutfeld. It's 5:00 in New York City, and this is THE FIVE.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Can we ask about your Gaza proposal? A lot of people are talking about it obviously.
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Everybody loves it.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: President Trump giving Gaza Lago a five-star review. 47 dropping a game-changing plan to bring stability to the Middle East with a proposed real estate acquisition to have the United States take over the war-torn Gaza Strip and rebuild it into the, "Riviera of the Middle East."
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: The U.S. will take over the Gaza Strip, and we will do a job with it too. We'll own it and be responsible for dismantling all of the dangerous unexploded bombs and other weapons on the site, level the site, and get rid of the destroyed buildings. Level it out.
History has, you know, just can't let it keep repeating itself. We have an opportunity to do something that could be phenomenal. And I don't want to be cute, I don't want to be a wise guy, but the Riviera of the Middle East, this could be something that could be so -- this could be so magnificent.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Karoline Leavitt giving the media some details on the building blueprint for the MAGA strip.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: President Trump is an outside of the box thinker and a visionary leader who solves problems that many others, especially in this city, claim are unsolvable.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Can you explain this reversal and how building and owning Gaza squares with America first foreign policy?
LEAVITT: I would reject the premise of your question, that this forces the United States to be entangled in conflicts abroad. The president has not committed to putting boots on the ground in Gaza. He has also said that the United States is not going to pay for the rebuilding of Gaza. His administration is going to work with our partners in the region to recon --
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: And right on cue, the liberal media and the Democrats are falling for the trap set by President Trump and freaking out over the MAGA in the Mediterranean plan. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ (D-NY): It is part of the culmination of what I view to be genocide of Palestinian people, and this is genuinely one of the most horrific humanitarian catastrophes that we've seen in modern history.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's the wackiest idea had to say he's ever come up with.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: He thinks that the coastline of Gaza is going to be great for some new hotel.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's preposterous, and it's illegal.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: American imperialism at its roots.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Ethnic cleansing of Palestinians.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Throwing a match on an already very volatile region.
REP. AL GREEN (D-TX): I will bring articles of impeachment against the president for dastardly deeds proposed and dastardly deeds done.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: All right, Dana, they say it's a crazy idea, but, you know what's a crazier idea? Having the Palestinians live next to the Israelis.
DANA PERINO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Well, yes, OK, so yes, when I first thought I was like, wait, what we're going to do what? I'm like, OK, I'm here for it, because you know how I am on all of those things. Next stop, Cuba for me.
But I think this is the most compassionate thing that anyone has said about the Palestinians for a long time. Because if you think about it, what was the alternative? Go back to the rubble. There's no sewage system, there's no plan, and just allow the continuation of the festering of the hate against the Israelis so that they could lob rockets from Gaza into Israel. That was the plan?
That's -- so what was Biden doing? They basically allowed Iran to continue to get more and more power. And I know that the Democrats are going to freak out about five things a day, and he knew exactly what he was doing. They certainly did that.
But now everybody's saying, wait, well, maybe there is another way to do this. And what's interesting, from the Israeli political standpoint, on Bibi Netanyahu's right, and he has a little bit of a problem keeping his coalition together, because everybody is always after him, and it's a difficult situation. There's a tough neighborhood.
On his right, they're very frustrated with him for not doing more. But they love this idea. They've been bringing it up for about three decades, like, why don't we ask somebody to do that?
Plus, if you think about what Trump did in the first term with NATO, he said, you guys want us to be a part of NATO, then you got to pay up.
What this did is also say to the Arab world, if you're not going to help take care of the Palestinians, OK, I guess I will. I guess I'll have to do it. And now they're like, well, actually, no, but -- and now you can have the focus on, OK, so what about those innocent Palestinians? What are you going to do with them?
That's saying that we're just going to be like the -- I don't think that any single -- that even one boot of any American is going to be on the ground to do this. What it did is it changed the conversation. I think it's very interesting. I don't think the alternative to going back to the way it was before, to just wait for the next October 7th was the best idea.
I just want to add one other thing. Abe Greenwald is an executive editor at Commentary Magazine. I listened to him a lot. He has a new newsletter that's free. I think -- I think it's free, I'm a subscriber, but I think you can sign up for this newsletter for free.
GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Thank God.
PERINO: I think you can, but you should subscribe. But he said this today. Thomas Jefferson said, if you want something you've never had, you must be willing to do something you've never done, and he said the world is already different for what Trump put forward, meaning that now we can actually have a conversation about something else. And I think it's very exciting.
And it's kind of fun to watch the Democrats freak out about genocide. Genocide? Well, what was the alternative? We're not talking about genocide. We're talking about getting them to safety and getting them back to a place where they could actually live in peace.
WATTERS: Greg, have you put down a down payment for a three bedroom condo?
GUTFELD: I'm already investing in a Dave & Buster's.
You know, being a new father, I can say that this is purely a dad move. You know, you're in a huge fight with your sister over the remote. Your dad comes down a turns off the T.V., and he just takes the remote. No, Gutfeld, and that creates a common enemy, dad, right? So, the quarrel is over. Now you got to deal with dad, and it forces the siblings to come up with some creative alternative.
And suddenly, all these Middle East countries, Jordan and Egypt, those are the kids have to go, well, I don't want dad involved. (INAUDIBLE) Somebody goes, well, then maybe you have to start thinking about, you know, paying for the rebuilding, or monitoring the peace or taking in some of the refugees.
It causes the kids involved to go, whoa, not so fast. We didn't really want this. And, you know, they don't want America in the middle of everything. But exactly what you said, he said, well, you're not doing anything about it, and you're right, this is what -- the way you described it, the fact that, like, he is creating a new conversation. He forces -- he kind of forces the world to conform and react to him. This is why he's not a president. He's now officially a legend.
And a legend creates a story around you, around yourself and world leaders, they want to see him. They want selfies with him. They want to please him. It's a phenomenon. It's not about shaking the box. He throws the box into traffic. You know, he may make more progress simply by doing this than has been done in ages.
WATTERS: Judge Jeanine, when you saw that Donald Trump was saying that we should take over Gaza, what was the first thing you thought?
JEANINE PIRRO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL LEGAL ANALYST: Oh, my God. What did that say? Look, you know it is -- it's true that whether this happens or not, this is a starting point of a negotiation. Donald Trump is someone who is very clear and has a vision, and he is a humanitarian. He thinks about the fact that these Palestinians have nothing to go back to. They only have hate and no future right now, they live among rubble and unexploded bombs as well as destroyed buildings, there is no future.
Are the other Arab countries going to come in and take care of them? Egypt is not, Jordan is not, Saudi Arabia is not. And we've got this faux hatred of Israel by the Arab countries.
And what I mean by that is that the Palestinians have been they need to let them believe that they've been wronged by Israel, so that the Palestinians don't go into their countries.
So yes, it's terrible what Israel is doing, and the Palestinians need to keep their land, because we don't want them in our country.
Queen Rania of Jordan, her husband, Abdullah, you know, for a while, had the Palestinians there, until there was Black September, and there was Arab upon Arab violence, and Palestinian and Jordanians went to war.
And you've got Eel-Sisi saying, I don't want them. No one wants them. They went into Lebanon because Lebanon didn't have a border that was strong enough. Lebanon was a almost a democratic nation, and had banking institutions. It was a major Christian nation. They had democratically elected government, and it was taken down by the PLO and Hezbollah and all those gangs.
So, the only future that these Palestinians have is an economic future, and that can only happen if their country is developed where there's no underground tunnels, where the kids aren't raised to hate Israel and Trump doesn't want a nation bill, Trump wants a peaceful area, just like he did with the Abraham Accords.
And so, his job right now is to figure out where they go in the meantime, to leverage that and to make sure that he "works with the partners in the region, to get some kind of conclusion where there is ultimately peace."
WATTERS: Jessica, do you have a better idea?
JESSICA TARLOV, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: Listen, the two state solution that we have all wanted for decades is elusive, and unfortunately, I think it will continue to be so. And lots of people have tried to get it done and have failed, not just in the U.S. This was a huge issue for Tony Blair, who dedicated his career to trying to do this and couldn't pull it off.
So, no, I personally do not have a better solution at this moment, but I know that this solution is untenable, certainly to the Arab countries that surround Palestine, who have been clear that they are not taking these people in. The former deputy prime minister of Jordan said, this is a declaration of war on the Arab people.
And if he's such a humanitarian, then you take those two million people and you bring them here to the U.S., which is the country you are in charge of, and you resettle them.
Well, I'm just saying you can't force these people down other country's throat.
PERINO: But other countries said that they'll take them, like the Albanians are saying, we could -- we could help.
TARLOV: We could take a few, but you're talking about two million people,
WATTERS: Spread them out, maybe some kind of agreement.
TARLOV: If you want to know how crazy the idea is, though, you have to look no further than Susie Wiles' face as he said it. There's a great shot of her, his chief of staff, the ice maiden (ph), I think they call her, looking very expressive at that moment where she's like, oh my God. What is he saying? And Mike Waltz kept it together, but he looked a little surprised too.
And we know where the idea came from. Last year, Jared Kushner said, I think you got some really great waterfront property in Gaza. It could be really beautiful. And this was widely covered. And so maybe he has been brewing this. Maybe there are some great contracts to come.
But the point is, is that you can't --
PERINO: Actually, I have to step in. I'm sorry, but first of all, Call Me Back podcast today with Dan Senor, he and Rich Goldberg were talking about, apparently, Donald Trump watch the entire October 7th video on Monday. This is not something that is like a can't wait to put my hotel down there.
Like, what was the -- what was the alternative? Where's the compassion for the Palestinian people from anybody else? Nobody is saying that they would do anything for them.
TARLOV: But that's -- but then, if you are the one who's going to drop in and save everybody for it, don't you have to put some of your money where the mouth is -- where you mouth is?
WATTERS: We have funded Gaza more than any other country, Jessica.
TARLOV: But what are you doing with the good people? I -- listen, I know that Gaza was overrun with terrorists. I've watched a significant portion of the October 7th footage. I have not watched the whole thing in its entirety, but you cannot say to all the neighboring countries that they just need to make room for millions of people that they don't want.
PIRRO: Why not?
PIRRO: Then, you are the world's policeman. Your intervention is that you are going back on every promise that you made on the campaign.
PIRRO: You want to bring them to the United States. They don't --they don't appreciate our applyment (ph). Would you let them live in rubble and hate the Westerners and hate everyone else as Jews?
TARLOV: Are you shipping that you can't make Jordan open up. You can't make Egypt open up.
PERINO: The Arab world have to step up when it's smart.
PIRRO: It's not about forcing Jordan or anyone else. It's about making people realize that for economic success in that region, we need to have peace and rebuilding of Gaza.
WATTERS: And instead of Jessica of saying, no, we can't, let's try, yes, we can.
PERINO: Yes, we can.
TARLOV: I love yes, we can and hoping change.
WATTERS: Well, where is that? Where is the yes, we can?
TARLOV: Well, maybe he'll get a third term.
PIRRO: Where's the joy?
WATTERS: Maybe.
TARLOV: Sorry, it's nonconsecutive.
WATTERS: Up next, sorry, Jessica, but it looks like the Democrats are having a bad case of DOGE derangement syndrome.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): We will win. We will win. We will win.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
PERINO: Well, the Democrats are not taking this whole dose thing very well. The party has been holding rallies and ramping up their rage over Elon Musk and his efforts to cut waste in the federal government.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We will not shut up. We will stand up. We will speak up. We will rise up.
SCHUMER: We will win. We will win. We will win. We will win.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Shut down the city. We are one.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We are going to be in your face. We are going to be on your (EXPLETIVE DELETED).
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Get in touch with your inner scrippy little (EXPLETIVE DELETED).
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Tell Elon Musk, nobody elected you (EXPLETIVE DELETED).
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The Nazi nepo baby, a godless lawless billionaire.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERINO: But those harsh words not slowing down the DOGE train. The CIA is the latest agency to get sweeping buyout offers, and Musk has been pulling his X followers about a DOGE powered audit for the IRS. Imagine that.
White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt is reminding the Democrats that Americans voted for this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
LEAVITT: Democrats who are out there pretending to be outraged about the long list of crop that this administration is cutting federal waste and funding. President Trump was elected with a mandate from the American people to make this government more efficient. He campaigned across this country with Elon Musk.
More than eight million taxpayer dollars that have gone to essentially subsidizing subscriptions to Politico. The American taxpayer dime will no longer be happening.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERINO: Jesse, this week has been a bunch of Democrats going to buildings demanding that they be let in, being told they don't have access, and then filming videos of themselves getting angry because they weren't let in.
WATTERS: Yes, you know, sex change surgeries in Guatemala for two mil, not the hill I would die on if I were a Democrat, Dana.
There's a theme here, and it looks like we're just trying to turn the world gay. Two million for sex changes in Guatemala, gay rights in Jamaica, gay rights trans rights in Uganda, gay rights trans rights in Western Balkans in Vietnam and South Africa.
But the more you think about it, it's actually trying to exploit the divisions in other countries, to distract those other countries, to tear down traditional societies, to hurt the church, to hurt authority there.
Because the main theme is, you're basically just funding radical gay and trans rights movements in traditional societies. And what does that do to a traditional society? It makes them all hate each other and fight each other and distract them so the United States can come in and exploit those divisions.
It's like when we found out that the Russians were using their bots to exploit the Black Lives Matter movement and the radical trans movement, because what did we do? We just pointed our fingers at each other, and we all hated each other, and then the Russians could use that for their own purposes.
The money for Politico is a huge scandal, and I hope you roll your eyes, because I have some facts. So, they have this Politico pro thing. It's $25,000 to $75,000 a year. This isn't like, you know, you get access to the Wall Street Journal. This is a subscription that is asinine, and it only started getting paid for by the Biden administration. It was running along a couple people had it in the government. All of a sudden, Biden gets elected, eight million a year.
So, Biden paid Politico $26 million over the last four years, for what? OK, so I looked at what this is. You know what it is? It's for K Street lobbyists. It says, who at the FDA is in charge of regulation? Who at HHS do I need to contact? Here is their directory. Here is their contact information, so I can e-mail them, take them out to dinner, and then know where the legislation is going so I could wax it in committee.
It's not for people in the government. What are the people in the government need to know about what's going on in the government? They are the government. Why do they need to know what's going on with the Farm Bill? Maybe the guy at agriculture can call the people in Congress or Chad Pergram, what's going on with the Farm Bill. You don't need a million dollars subscription for that.
This is a payoff product, because when they started paying Politico, no one at Politico reported Biden was brain dead for four years. They tank the laptop. They tank -- if you pay all this money, didn't you think you might learn Biden was brain dead? They pay you not to do journalism. And they never even said that this was a conflict. They hit it, Jessica.
PERINO: Jessica, I'm going to have to turn it over to you for some commentary.
TARLOV: So, the way that this story was told was that USAID spent $8 million on Politico Pro, but they just said Politico. So that could just be the website that we all go on every day to see, you know, what they think about this morning's coffee clash at the bottom of the hill, which is what it -- (INAUDIBLE) I do, I do like that. I made it into that once.
But that's not true at all. So, it's $8 million across the entire federal government. I think USAID was 44,000 that actually went to them.
You know that people are using this to do their work, not just to find out where they can get a good reservation with whatever lobbyist wants they do. They have a very I get it expensive by standard terms, but if you have any of these tools, you know how much they cost, like a tool like an MRI- Simmons that looks at -- why are you making a face like that?
WATTERS: This has been around since 2010, and all of a sudden, when Biden gets in there, everybody gets a subscription?
TARLOV: $8 million.
WATTERS: This was a bailout, Jessica. They bailed out Politico because their clicks went down when Biden became president and they needed money.
TARLOV: The condoms that weren't -- get over it. So, condoms that weren't, get over it.
WATTERS: The condom bombs?
TARLOV: The condom bombs that did not come from the U.S. government.
WATTERS: Kabooms, Jessica. They blew up over Israel.
TARLOV: When people say and Karoline Leavitt said it today, you know, the people voted for this. They absolutely thought Elon Musk campaigning with him, but there were new numbers. Harry Enten at CNN was talking about it today that 53 percent oppose Musk playing a key role in Trump's administration and his approval rating, it was at plus 29 in 2016 when he was the SpaceX guy, and it's down at negative 11 now, so.
PERINO: Judge Jeanine.
PIRRO: So, 53 percent oppose Musk playing a key role. Let me ask you something, who the hell was running the government when Biden was the president? We don't even know who to oppose.
I mean, that's what's crazy about this. They think that Elon Musk is running the government. On the one hand, Donald Trump is a dictator, but on the other hand, Elon Musk is running the government. I don't know any dictators who step aside and say, I'm going to let my pal run the government, and Joe Biden didn't run the government, so they should have been worried about who was running the government when he was president.
But here's the only point I want to make on this, besides the fact that I'm sick and tired of Democrats freaking out over the fact that we're not giving money to foreign countries for ridiculous, ridiculous stuff, including to terror organizations, foreigners organizations that are involved in killing Americans.
But aside from all that, this is corruption. You know, when Chuck Schumer, can you wave your hands all you want, and this new Jasmine Crockett, we're going to be in your face and on your ass. That's a good one.
But this is -- this is -- there's got to be an investigation by the Department of Justice, find out who is -- who is directing that money go to which country and those ideas are not in alignment with American interests. Who directed that they be funded, who got the money at the other end?
I'm not just talking about lobbyists who were able to get money to go to foreign countries, but what happened, since it's not a government at the other end that got the money, but rather an NGO or an opera or something else, is there a kickback? This is the issue.
Pam Bondi has got to get involved, not just in the ending of this nonsense, but in how much money was being kicked back for the money to go over there, which doesn't serve our national interest.
PERINO: Greg Gutfeld.
GUTFELD: You know what's great about this story is that you have these like young little engineers involved, so it's just about numbers.
And no one in that clip, or anybody that's shouting is denying what's being found, right? Now, they will say, but what about the good stuff USAID does? What about this? Look at this child, and it's like -- it's like a defense lawyer, you know, describing his murderous client as a regular church goer.
Oh, yes, he went to church, but he killed 12 million people with a Wuhan lab virus, which is what USAID did by sponsoring the EcoAlliance.
You cannot fix USAID any more than you could have fixed Joe Biden, and it's the same problem you had, a corrupt, broken product operating under the guise of empathy and compassion.
You know as USAID promotes of the gender equality in Madagascar, they did help fund the Wuhan virus, and they killed 15 million people.
So, you can't fix Joe, you can't fix USAID, yet they will deny -- they will deny the corruption to the very end. And this is the problem when a single ideology contaminates like one system, the media is 90 to 95 percent liberal. There's data for that. And what did you get? You get a hoax matrix that covered for Joe and tried to destroy Trump. Then you have the academia, 90 to 95 percent of the faculty is liberal. Maybe find one Republican per, you know, major or department.
And then you have -- what do you have? Rabid anti-West activism, pro-terror activism. USAID is almost uniformly peopled by one party, and we're paying for it. That's the difference.
PERINO: OK, coming up, President Trump making a big move on transgender athletes and women's sports. Find out what he did, next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
TARLOV: President Trump signing an executive order designed to prevent people who were biologically males from participating in women's or girls sporting events. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: We will defend the proud tradition of female athletes and we will not allow men to beat up, injure, and cheat our women and our girls. From now on, women's sports will be only for women.
You know, if you'd like to gather around me, I think I'm going to be OK. Come on. Come on. Secret Service is worried about them? What a nice picture this is, huh, Governor?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
TARLOV: So, Greg, this was clearly a potent issue for Trump and the Republicans on the campaign trail, broad consensus, 79 percent think yeah that biological male should not be in women's sports. What did you think of today?
GUTFELD: Yes, it's free money on the table. And it was just bizarre that the Democrats refused to take it. That moment is one of the best moments in the Trump history which is very short right now politically. But I mean, you think about him standing with the fist, you think about him at the takeout at McDonald's, you think about him at the garbage truck. This is a perfect encapsulation of what Trump prioritizes.
And to see him surrounded by authentically biological girls, not a team of ambiguous activists disguising a fetish as an identity. There are no hairy men in Mumu in that picture which raises the point. Where is the vocal opposition now? You know, early on their so-called compassionate stance was so easy. It was a low-risk virtue signal. Oh, we need to have compassion for the other, for the minority.
Now, common sense rears its beautiful head and they're gone because perhaps they never had anything to begin with. And really the story was about the abject cowardice of college administrators and sports bureaucracy that cowered before these men in mumus (ph). This issue has been slayed. And it speaks to a bigger issue for Democrats. Where's your seat at the table when what is being served is common sense?
And you never had to -- you never had this issue under Biden because there was -- nobody was offering common sense. Do you apologize? Do you own up to your cowardice or do you go head to the kitty table where you belong. I don't know, man. Sorry, I don't know, female.
TARLOV: Biological female, to boot.
GUTFELD: Authentically bio -- female.
PERINO: I can be fast. I think that the stage craft that the White House used today was one of the most effective things, but also I think about all those girls that were there today, they will never forget this day and they will never forget who stood up for them. And if you're not on the side of this, it's like a 90-10 issue, you are on the wrong side of history.
It's not slayed completely. And this is what I think needs to happen next. International organizations like the Olympics, etcetera, they are still allowing men to compete in women's sports. And you've seen what President Trump can do with Canada, Mexico. There's American muscle to be used here to try to protect girls all around the world, but especially Americans who are competing all overseas, so international organizations need to be on the next list.
TARLOV: Jesse, what do you think?
WATTERS: How many trans killed themselves today, Jessica?
TARLOV: I didn't get my update yet. I don't know.
WATTERS: Well, no because you guys said that if you wouldn't let trans teens do whatever they wanted, they were going to become suicidal. So, I'm just wondering, you know, between this and the no surgeries, we should see a rash of teenage suicide this year, right?
TARLOV: You seem a little gleeful about it.
WATTERS: Obviously I'm being sarcastic because that was a B.S. excuse. Where are the records going to go? That's what I'm worried about because a lot of men shattered female records. Those records should be replaced. Where are the Democrats protesting this? I thought trans rights were human rights, Jessica. No, they're trans -- I think protesting a slush fund for their foreign cash.
I just think if you add this to the bail reform, to the open borders, to DEI, all of these little movements that you guys had over the last couple years, they're now in the ash bin of history.
TARLOV: Well, the Democrats -- there was a house bill which the Democrats didn't vote for, voice concerns about genital inspections being part of this and how do you implement it. So, that's where the Democrats are on this.
GUTFELD: Yes, how true.
PIRRO: No, the Democrats -- I mean, unfortunately, Joe Biden right before he left, tried to change Title Nine to include those who identify as women. And you know, the stark contrast between Joe Biden and Donald Trump is again front and center. And you know, protecting women and women's sports, to Donald Trump is common sense. And what he did was he just made sure that it wasn't going to happen on his watch.
And you know, how many videos did we have to watch of Lia Thomas standing above Riley Gaines and beating her. Or volleyball games where, you know, you spike the ball and hit another player who's suffering from permanent damage as a result of a guy being intentionally, you know, injuring a woman. And remember -- and again, this is the Olympics, but the boxing guy -- the boxer who destroyed those women.
And you're right, internationally this doesn't impact it, and even with private groups it doesn't impact it. But you know, God bless Donald Trump for doing this. And you know who needs to be -- who needs to get some kudos here ? Riley Gaines. Riley Gaines right from the beginning was the woman who suffered the most and she came out and it took guts to face it.
You know she didn't want to go to school. They were -- there were death threats and she was not feeling safe. And Donald Trump said, they took her trophy and they stole her glory. He was so right, you know. God bless them for this one.
TARLOV: I think that boxer was biological female, right?
PIRRO: No, a trans, a trans.
TARLOV: Coming up, Gavin Newsom and President Trump are about to have a showdown in the Oval.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
PIRRO: America's political odd couple are about to have a showdown in the Oval. President Trump and Gavin Newsom will be meeting any moment now at the White House putting aside their differences as the California Governor seeks more federal funds following the deadly L.A. wildfires, and Trump turns the water back on in his state.
All right, I will start with you, Greg. The interesting part of this is that it -- Newsom is in a catch 22. You know, on the one hand he wants money from Trump, but on the other hand he orchestrated this resist Trump, $50 million to Trump-proof California.
GUTFELD: I would love to be fly on the wall of that meeting, though I'd probably die in Newsom's hair. He -- I think what you're saying though it speaks to the gulf between accommodating a legend and disappointing a legend. Like, there's no amount of hair gel or backs slapping or greasy charm that is going to convince Trump to see it your way.
He's devoted that California has a $50 million bill that -- to combat not fires or crime but Trump. I think that Trump -- if Trump -- Trump's got to twist that one on and say if you want anything, you got to speak out against that bill just for the heck of it.
PIRRO: Dana?
PERINO: Well, they negotiated that bill while the fires were burning.
GUTFELD: Exactly.
PERINO: So, I mean, Trump -- I actually wouldn't do it in private.
GUTFELD: Yes.
PERINO: I'd call in the press and say Gavin, do you have anything to say? Are you going to apologize? Are you going to apologize in front of the people? And then watch him squirm. That'd be fun. And then subtract $50 million.
GUTFELD: Jesse?
PERINO: Kidding, America.
WATTERS: Every stereotype he's smashed. You know, they say he's antisemitic, first visit was Bibi. They say he's this dictator. Like, you said, he delegated DOGE to Elon. He hates women. He's surrounded by women. They're giving him hugs as he signs bills to save them. This is also true too. They said this guy was just going to be a rabid partisan for Red states. He's going to save California. He's going to save Southern California. All this stuff they said about him wasn't true. It was all a lie.
PIRRO: OK, And the last question is Trump turn the water on, but I want -- there was something else in the package that caught my attention. California A.G. announced he was not running for governor in 2026. He was expected to run for governor. And he threw his support to Kamala. What's going on there? Are they preparing for her in California?
TARLOV: It's certainly on the list of considerations and has been. And she's been popping up. She spoke to all of the top candidates for the DNC chair. So, I think it's definitely part of this. But I think that this is a very good thing that Gavin Newsom has gone to D.C. He's also meeting with the California delegation. But there's a lot of bipartisan work that can be done.
And with Trump -- like, I didn't know that 57% of the forest in California are ferally owned, so there's a lot of collaboration to do there. And he wants the Delta conveyance I think is the name of it which actually would bring water down to South -- California, not what Trump turned on, but this would actually do it. Like, those kinds of things they could work together on and I think that it's progress.
PIRRO: OK. Don't go anywhere. Greg and Jesse are going to share orbidden secrets.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GUTFELD: Welcome back. A new study claims that men spend more time reading romance novels than women which reminds me that Jesse once penned a sizzling love story called Get Him Together. And yours truly was the hunky heartthrob on the cover --
TARLOV: Oh, my God.
GUTFELD: -- of late-night love. All right, excuse me but I must call bullshit on this study. This study, so-called study, Judge, surveyed men who read romance novels. It wasn't men. It was men who read romance novels.
PIRRO: Yes. Right, right. The percentage of men who read them, OK. Which is not a percentage of all men, OK. But I just want to add my editorial at the end of that. I like men in touch with their emotions, but I don't want them reading a romance novel.
GUTFELD: No, no.
PIRRO: Even you guys.
GUTFELD: No, no, no. You know what it -- you know what this is like, Jessica? It's like we did a survey on women who say their favorite movie is Saw. It's like it doesn't exist.
TARLOV: Yes.
GUTFELD: No way. No women would go, you know, my favorite movie of all time is Saw. I hated Titanic.
TARLOV: Exactly.
GUTFELD: I hated The Notebook but I love Saw.
TARLOV: I see what you're doing and I agree with it. And I'm glad that you explained this to me because I hadn't read it thoroughly enough to know that this was a sample that they hand-selected to be able to run this article.
GUTFELD: Yes.
PIRRO: Yes.
TARLOV: Which is cheating. But I did think that the top celebrities that they picture when read a romance novel was interesting, and Angelina Jolie is still at number one.
GUTFELD: You know, Dana, have you ever read a romance novel?
PERINO: Of course.
GUTFELD: Oh, you have?
PERINO: I've read all the Danielle Steel.
GUTFELD: Oh really?
PERINO: When I was a teenager.
GUTFELD: Interesting. Do you read anything with Fabio on the cover?
PERINO: Probably.
GUTFELD: Good for you. You have the same hair.
PERINO: We do? We do, actually. I've never been hit in the face by geese -- goose though.
GUTFELD: That is true. Geese, goose, same thing.
PERINO: Seagull? What was it?
GUTFELD: This is B.S.?
PERINO: Yes, it's --
GUTFELD: Garbage? Jesse?
WATTERS: So, sometimes when I'm reading like male books, like the books that I read --
GUTFELD: Yes.
WATTERS: I'm pleasantly surprised when there's a sex scene in the book, because usually I read things that are about crime and politics and history and overcoming your inner demons.
GUTFELD: Yes.
WATTERS: And then all of a sudden you'll stumble upon a sex scene and I'm like, yes, this is great. But it's not like I chose that. I just got lucky.
GUTFELD: Yes, yes. So you still do read the Hardy Boy Mystery. Good for you. What a pervert. It makes me sick. Send your letters to Jesse. "ONE MORE THING" is up next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: It's time for "ONE MORE THING." Dana?
PERINO: Well, I'm really excited to announce that there is a new tourist destination for all of us. Yes, almost five years after the world shut down due to COVID, you can go to North Korea. It is reopening. As part of your travel plans, you might consider it. However, I do not recommend that. You should see what the State Department says about this place. But check it out if you want.
WATTERS: Also a place if they wanted nice peaceful land, they could just drop the missiles and then build condos.
PERINO: Hey, they might be willing to take --
WATTERS: Beautiful Peninsula, right, Judge?
PIRRO: Right. Bad to South Korea. That's enough. All right, it's time for - -
PERINO: Oh, my goodness.
PIRRO: All right. Now, check out this woman who was caught bricking or breaking the rules. A jealous ex-girlfriend launched a sentimental brick through the window of her previous boyfriend's house while he was sleeping. The brick red, first date, along with the couple's name, dated June 14, 2020. She claimed she lived in the house to the cops and was trying to get in, but her ex told the police she moved out six months ago. So, she's charged with criminal mischief. And get this. In Florida, throwing a deadly missile into an occupied lot.
PERINO: Wow.
WATTERS: Yes. Lock her up. What a psycho. What's wrong with you, ladies?
PIRRO: What's wrong with you? Apparently, we're so hot, you're throwing bricks.
PIRRO: Wait a minute. Now, I'm going to take her side. He probably threw her out unreasonably.
PERINO: I doubt it.
WATTERS: No, he was probably just so good she couldn't resist.
TARLOV: Breakups are hard. Can I -- OK. Hi! I just wanted to say thank you to Glenda from Texas who knitted -- crocheted me this incredible Afghan and also the scarf and the socks. And she wrote me this beautiful note talking about how much THE FIVE means to her. And she watches your shows, everyone's shows as well. And it's not only beautiful but it's so thoughtful when fans reach out like that and make it so apparent and public how much we mean to them and how much they feel like they know us. And thank you Glenda and congratulations -- 63 years of marriage. And I loved hearing about your family.
WATTERS: Congrats. Greg?
GUTFELD: All right, tonight -- oh, this is like an all-star -- Tom Shillue, Julie Banderas, Michael Loftus, and Kat Timpf who's still pregnant. Hey, let's do this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: Gus' Daily Diaries.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: All right. Good walk today, did all his business. Very politely peed in his favorite sidewalk grate. He does have a favorite grate and he pees in it. He even made a friend with another little dog on the block who didn't fully share his enthusiasm, but he did a great job.
WATTERS: Great job, Gus.
GUTFELD: Yes.
WATTERS: I'm so proud of him.
TARLOV: Do all dogwalkers send that?
PERINO: No, they don't.
(CROSSTALK)
WATTERS: "JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME," we have a USAID whistleblower. And this is a very comfortable blanket.
TARLOV: What's he going to ask him.
WATTERS: Women don't like it when men snuggle with blanket.
TARLOV: No, that is Judge's --
PIRRO: No, no, give it back.
WATTERS: That's it for us. Have a great night.
TARLOV: It's like a straw.

Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
