




Fox News THE FIVE 5:00 PM EST
January 23, 2025 Thursday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7148 words
Byline: Greg Gutfeld, Jeanine Pirro, Harold Ford Jr., Jesse Watters, Dana Perino
Body


WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Lisa says, once a week you should have a Pete Hegseth and Rachel Campos Duffy segment at the same time, just to recapture the vibe of "FOX & FRIENDS WEEKEND." Rachel's available. I don't think Pete is.
And finally, another user says, they love the show and the format, including the graphics package, despite what is said by Jesse Watters. Speaking of --
GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Hi, I'm Greg Gutfeld, along with Judge Jeanine Pirro, Harold Ford Jr., Jesse Watters and when she goes to the movies, she sits in the cup holder, Dana Perino. THE FIVE.
Well, WEF just became WTF, the World Trump Forum 47 given the bug eating globalists at Davos, a good roundhouse kick to the face as he beamed in virtually to address the World Economic Forum roll its fan (ph).
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I'm pleased to report that America is also a free nation once again, there will be no better place on earth to create jobs, build factories or grow a company than right here in the good old USA.
My message to every business in the world is very simple, come make your product in America, and we will give you among the lowest taxes of any nation on Earth.
If you don't make your product in America, which is your prerogative, then, very simply, you will have to pay a tariff. I terminated the ridiculous and incredibly wasteful Green New Deal. I call it the green new scam. Withdrew from the one sided Paris Climate Accord.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: Yes, but perhaps the best moment came when President Trump browbeat the Bank of America CEO for de banking conservatives, an allegation that he denies.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: I hope you start opening your bank to conservatives, because many conservatives complain that the banks are not allowing them to do business within the bank, and that included a place called Bank of America. This conservative -- they don't take conservative business. And I don't know if the regulators mandated that because of Biden or what, but you and Jamie and everybody, I hope you're going to open your banks to conservatives, because what you're doing is wrong.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: And a big win for the tariff titan. JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon, is seeing the upside of not letting the world rip us off.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JAMIE DIMON, CEO, JPMORGAN CHASE: I look at tariffs, they are an economic tool. That's it. They're an economic weapon. You know, depending how you use it and why use and stuff like that.
And, you know, people argue, is it inflationary and non-inflationary. I would put it in perspective, if it's a little inflationary, but it's good for national security, so be it. I mean, get over it.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: Wow. He's like speaking to Harold. Hey, you know, Jesse, I'm going to use a food analogy.
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: I'm already hungry.
GUTFELD: Isn't Donald Trump like salt? You add it to every meal, and it gets better. So, you throw them at the WEF, and it's suddenly, it's like appetizing. It's fun to watch. You're kind of like truffle oil, where you overpower and you ruin every meal.
WATTERS: I was having popcorn with Trump one time, and he took one of those industrial-sized canisters of salt, you know, the ones with the (INAUDIBLE) and he just holds it like a football and pours like a thick, steady stream of stall into this, I couldn't believe it.
I talked to one of the FBN anchors in the elevator the other day and asked her about --
GUTFELD: Good reporting.
WATTERS: Gumshoe reporting. And asked her about Davos, and she said Davos is a dump, Jesse. She said the food's terrible, it's German, and skiing is mediocre. And I thought it was a junket for her, but she said it's just a mess. And it used to be a place where all these financial elite will go to the biggest tax haven in the world, place where they hid Nazi loot during the Holocaust and dictate to everybody else what to do. We're not doing that anymore. Globalization is over, and we're taking Davos down with it.
Trump went to Davos and dictated to them, boost spending on defense, cut corporate taxes, because he's establishing a new world order. America is no longer duty free. No more mass migration. DUTY, Greg, no more mass migrations, no more DEI.
There's a new sheriff in town, and it's coming at the perfect time, because China's dying demographically. Russia was already dying demographically, another bleeding out on the battlefield.
And so, Samsung just announced they're moving factories from Mexico, the United States. The Saudis just announced a $600 billion investment here. And so, we're flexing our economic muscle just at the right time. This is the new golden age, Greg, so you better buy Bitcoin.
GUTFELD: I think I will. Fun fact, Davos was the name of my old missus, RIP.
WATTERS: Is that a woman or a man?
GUTFELD: Hard to tell at this point, it's a close casket. Hey, Judge, so you know what is kind of amazing about this is that there are so many clowns at Davos probably parroted the whole anti-Trump line, and he owns them now. It's like the world is catching up.
JEANINE PIRRO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL LEGAL ANALYST: Yes, he so owns them. It was -- it's so refreshing. It's like guys, it's America first.
And there's no appeasing anybody. It's about making sure that, look, if you don't want to manufacture in America, that's OK, but you got to pay a tariff if you want to sell your stuff here.
And by the way, after NATO, what was it, two percent? Guys, I think we're going to up that to five percent now. And it seemed like everything that the president talked about really revolved around energy, and that energy was the one thing that would bring prices down.
You know, we talked about Saudi Arabia and OPEC bringing their prices down and using that energy and oil, liquid national natural gas to leverage certain things like to leverage Russia. If you recall, it was Biden who lifted the sanctions on the Russian pipeline, OK, gave Russia the power and the ability to continue to sell oil, gave them the ability to fight with Ukraine, and, you know, the economic stamina to do so.
And it was kind of interesting listening to him. It was like energy kind of weaved into everything and bringing prices down.
And I love the DEI cuts. Everybody at Davos is saying, we can't talk about it anymore. How do we even describe it? Or how do we get rid of it?
And finally, you know, Jamie Dimon now saying, well, you know, even if it is a little bit inflationary, if it's good for national security. Everybody's coming around, this guy is the leader. They know it, and he owns them.
GUTFELD: You know what I like about this, Dana, and I'm sure you will agree, because we've agreed you agree with me all the time. He's representing us when he's out there, and it always feels like he's America's lawyer, and so he goes up there, and it's like, you go, we sit there, you go, yes, you know what? He's representing us on our behalf. It's kind of nice.
DANA PERINO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Didn't you used to call him America's agent?
GUTFELD: Yes.
PERINO: So, he -- you want your agent to be the guy that has to deal with all of the like, hard conversations.
GUTFELD: Right.
PERINO: Because he's better at it than you are, because you'd rather not, and I would rather not.
But I think it's interesting, this is where you get the elite of the leads, and they all fly in, all the rich people, and they talk about the poors (ph), and they're feeling so badly for them, except that you have, for example, John Kerry. John Kerry was there the same message about how we need to end fossil fuels as if the last four years never happened, as if he was not paying attention at all to what was happening.
And also, gosh, I was listening to this podcast today for the New York Times. OK, on the energy front, they're like, oh, he's going to -- he's going to end clean energy. No more clean energy. No, that's not what he's saying. He's saying that we want to have all the things all the time. We want nuclear, fossil fuels, of course, we can have solar, we can have wind, but not at the expense of the American people.
John Kerry was there saying the same old thing, you had one of the CEOs say it was unfortunate to see the net zero coalition fall apart because it was big business for us, not that it didn't matter what was happening to the people, because as all the energy prices went up, all the food prices went up, and everything else along with it. So, that's one of the things that I liked about today.
GUTFELD: Awesome. So, Harold, you must have been bummed not being there with your rich, elitist, remote friends in Davos skiing.
HAROLD FORD JR., FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: I've never been there.
GUTFELD: You've never been to Davos?
FORD JR.: No.
GUTFELD: Oh, it's wonderful. You and I'll go next year. I have a place.
FORD JR.: I think -- can I?
GUTFELD: Yes.
FORD JR.: See, I think that President Trump, the unconventionality of him is refreshing. He's a different kind of leader. And Democrats and those who did not support him, whatever their political stripe, need to -- need to understand that he's a risk taker, and he's going to continue to take risk. This was a risk today, the things that he said and how he said it, his campaign message was one that was risky, but the voters ratified it.
I hope, as he takes these risks, that he's strategic about them all. I thought going after OPEC and saying they should reduce the price of oil that helps consumers.
To your point, Judge, the energy platform. If you're able to reduce the cost of energy, you're able to reduce the cost of everything it takes to make that outfit, this suit, anything dark, all of this, it has a multiplier effect, I like that.
The fact that he's talking about reforming the tax code, extending his tax cuts, looking at SALT. I think it's important that he have an all of the above kind of strategy session, and listen in to people telling what's going to spur growth and empower the main street in our country, main street businesses.
I also think it's important for him to do what he's going to do in terms of rooting out some of the waste and inefficiencies in government. I don't like everything he wants to do. I think the tariff thing, it's interesting to hear Jamie Dimon say, to link the tariffs with national security, I would agree with that. I was one of the reasons I'm opposed to TikTok being owned by China is because I think it's a national security threat.
So, if we -- if we're able to use tariffs to enhance our security and make us safer, we absolutely should do that. I'm not sure how it's going to reduce the price of eggs, but these are things that we -- that I think we give the president to benefit the doubt on. I don't like removing pictures of military chiefs, but that's just me.
Lastly, you raised the point judge about how we -- how we strengthen ourselves and how we get even stronger our economy. I hope the president and his team and Elon and then focus on one other thing as they think about importing talent.
You see this fight developing between Bannon and Musk about what we should be doing, how you really put America first. I think both of them are right. You have to be -- you have to continue to import the best and the brightest. But if we don't make a commitment to train and train more engineers here, train more entrepreneurs here, train more risk takers here, train more problem solvers here, we're going -- we're going to just end up importing everybody from around the world to do the things that pay the most in our country.
The things the president wants to do to get more manufacturing here. We need more Americans to be able to do those jobs. We need to invest in our supply chains, invest in our people, and not only just kids in K-12, but invest in even workers today, so they could take and assume some of these great paying jobs that will come as a result of all the things the president seeks to do.
So, I hooray (ph) him, I give him the best. Where I disagree with him, I'd say, but where I agree with him. He should keep going.
GUTFELD: Somebody's running for 2028. Yes, that was so obvious, wasn't it? So obvious.
WATTERS: Yes, so obvious. He gets into political mode, you know.
(CROSSTALK)
PIRRO: That was very political.
FORD JR.: Political? I'm rooting for the guy.
GUTFELD: I know, I'm kidding. Am I? I don't know anymore.
Coming up, President Trump orders greasy to rake the forest and give California a shower.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
PERINO: Trump not slowing down in his first week back at the White House, to say the least, he's ripping through a new round of executive orders on A.I. and crypto.
And this was intriguing, releasing the long-awaited JFK files, Trump also sitting down for his first television interview with Sean Hannity.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: They're all solvable problems.
SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: I agree.
TRUMP: They're all solvable.
HANNITY: Not easy.
TRUMP: With time, effort, money, unfortunately, but they're all solvable problems. We can get our country back, but if we didn't win this race, I really believe our country would have been lost forever.
I think we got there just in the nick of time. They can't govern, and that their policies are terrible. I mean, they don't want to see a woman get pummeled by a man in a boxing ring. They don't want to see men in women's sports and other ways. They don't want to see men. They don't want to have transgender for everyone. They don't want a child leave home as a boy and come back two days later as a girl. A parent doesn't want to see that. The Democrats don't use common sense.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERINO: And as he gears up to visit wildfire ravage California tomorrow, President Trump is putting the pressure on Governor Gavin Newsom on some things he'd like to see done to tame the flames.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Will you meet with Gavin?
TRUMP: I don't know. I haven't even thought about it. Look, Gavin's got one thing he can do. He can release the water that comes from the North. There is massive amounts of water, rainwater and mountain water that comes due with the snow, comes down when it -- as it melts, there's so much water. They're releasing it into the Pacific Ocean. And I told him, for it's a political thing for the Democrats.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERINO: One of the things that bothered me about the Biden team, Greg, it felt like there was nobody there who really wanted to solve problems.
GUTFELD: This is -- I was writing this down. It seems like a lot of the things that Trump is doing feels like low hanging fruit, but in order to solve these problems, which seems simple, you have to think of them as problems.
They never saw men competing against women in women's sports as a problem. They didn't see a porous border as a problem, and they didn't see crime as a problem or the homelessness and drug addiction on the street as problems. So they had no incentive to solve them.
So, all of these problems, suddenly to Americans are like, wow, this is pretty obvious. Yes, you seal up the border, you put bad guys in prison, and you get got guys out of girl's locker room.
So, the challenge wasn't -- isn't solving the problem, it's getting rid of the incentives that had people not solve it? Why did they not solve it? Takes -- like, take something like racial politics, like, we were at a period of time in America where we were optimistic about race relations. This is probably about 15 years ago until we weren't, because racial division was incentivized financially, people were making money off it.
So, what you have to do is you have to look at what is -- what is incentivizing people to be a problem. Eliminate that. You can't exit -- you can't solve problems with identity politics, because to solve problems, you got to work together.
And identity politics says, no, we have to stay apart. I'm different. You're different. Myself is more important that the group, but as an individual, you can help other individuals.
So, you can either lose with identity politics, or you could join with your brothers and sisters and win.
PERINO: And remember too, Judge, when we were asking like, we would ask in a poll, what keeps you up at night, and all of those are (INAUDIBLE).
PIRRO: A baby.
PERINO: All the things that keep you up, but the worries that people kept up -- kept them up at night, and how would you solve them? And he's -- I feel like he's speaking directly to those issues.
PIRRO: You know, it's like when he talked about, you know, the country might not have come back if he didn't win. I mean, I happen to agree with that. I think a lot of -- most Americans agree with that.
But it's like the renovation, you need a blueprint. The President has a blueprint, and his blueprint is America first, and he has an optimistic outlook. He's conversant, and he is absolutely glib. I mean, he can talk about the economy and inflation and the border wall, and he can talk about, you know, national security and crime as well as the environment.
I mean, this is a guy who's got in his brain so much that he can pull to make sure that he creates the country that our Founding Fathers intended.
And you know, to me now the radical left is put on notice. Don't do any of this nonsense anymore, because this is a president, and you're going to see a lot of people running for office going forward who are going to adopt his mentality of common sense and not nonsense. We're not going to put men in women sports, and we're not going to open the border. And not give you a reason for opening the border. It was -- it was crazy.
And then Gavin Newsom, I mean, he doesn't want the water, the rainwater, the snow that melts that comes from the mountains to go into Southern California, rather go into the Pacific because of the smelt.
You know, I didn't know this, but most people don't know what a smelt is. I cook smelts all the time.
WATTERS: You do?
PIRRO: I'm shocked.
PERINO: Are they good? Are they delicious?
PIRRO: They're delicious. They're little fish, and you got to batter them up, and then you deep fry them. And I'm not Italian, but I make the seven fishes for Christmas Eve. And I use smelts because they were easy. Throw them in a deep fryer.
PERINO: Good thing Biden is not on ops anymore. They might come and arrest you if you're cooking up the smelt.
Harold, I think one of the problems for Democrats right now is that you have President Trump framing things, not as Republicans or RINOs versus the Democrats, but as, well, this is just -- this just makes sense, right? This is just common sense.
So then, how do the Democrats figure out a way to fight back against that?
FORD JR.: Well, let's be clear, he's been in office, president now for less than 96 hours. So this is -- this is -- we have a long way to go here.
The president made a lot of promises during the campaign, and I'm one that hopes he can deliver on every one of them. He then reiterated or numerated all of them, or many of them again during his inaugural speech.
I think the fundamental thing that most people who voted for him, particularly Independents and Democrats who voted for him, is they want -- they want to see the economy transform for the benefit of everyone, not just the rich and the connected.
Democrats, to Greg's point, there were things that Democrats didn't see as a problem. Two of them, one was the cultural issue around transgender and little boys and little girls playing sports together and bathroom sharing.
Democrats, for some reason, it didn't even -- it didn't down upon them that that could be something that would resonate with voters.
And two, the border issue Democrats, I know we're going to deal with in the next -- the next segment. The Democrats should understand all the images that people are seeing across the country, on our network and local networks across the country, with people being deported who are criminals, this worst, first policy, that may be the best thing he does in the thing that will bring and help keep that coalition he won with together, more than anything else, at least in his short term, it will give him some leeway if he makes some mistakes in other -- in other areas.
But this is what happens the first three, four, five days, people are very excited, and I would agree with you, Dana, I don't say that to push back on your proposition, which is, how can you be against the things he's talking about? Who does not want more jobs in America, more high paying jobs in America, safer America?
The question is, can you do all of those things by executive order? Can you do all those things just by putting your hand on the table? Do you have to go over it or putting your fists on the table? Do you go over and try to work with people to try to get it done? I hope he gets it done, whichever way he has to do it.
PERINO: Jesse, do you feel like the people of California are relieved Trump's coming tomorrow?
WATTERS: Well, I just want to know is smelt salty? Is it like an anchovy?
PIRRO: No, it's little, but it's not really salty, not at all. That's why you slap it in the egg and the flour and you put salt, pepper.
PERINO: You got to make it taste like something else.
FORD JR.: Is that the thing on California they're protecting?
PIRRO: Yes.
WATTERS: So yes, greasy needs to turn on the faucet. That's common sense.
And Trump's just solving all the problems Biden created. Did you know that Mexico is building tents for Mexicans? Mexico is like, what do we do with all these Mexicans? It's going to be a homecoming, Dana. Maybe we could have a king and a queen.
Bad hombres are getting iced across the nation. You guys just touched on it about basic economics. You lower the price of energy. It lowers consumer prices. It lowers inflation. The Fed drops rates, mortgage rates follow, and then young couples can buy homes and have lots of babies and live the American dream.
Did you know the price of oil was $110 under Joe Biden? Now it's at 77. We're back to work. We're not collecting checks in our pajamas anymore. DEI is gone, and I know Harold knows this better than anybody. The S&P just hit fresh highs.
This A.I. investment. It's not our money, it's their money. We're not printing it to then pick winners and losers and hand it out to Intel. We're just having them do all the heavy lifting for us.
And he's doing it with a stroke of a pen. Remember Biden said, I need Congress. I can't do anything without Congress. No, he needed a little common sense, and he needed some caffeine, and it's fun to watch the Democrats and the media completely broken and just getting rolled over.
Thank God. Look at what this government is capable of. I'm just -- I'm invigorated. I am invigorated, Greg.
GUTFELD: You got to look at the ratings. Like, nobody is watching those other channels because they're like you guys lied to us for four years, so we're not watching you anymore. They're going away.
WATTERS: RuPaul's Drag Race is beating CNN.
GUTFELD: Well, it's quality programming.
PERINO: Are we beating RuPaul's Drag Race?
GUTFELD: Yes. But you know what, Jake Tapper and Jim Acosta now going to do it in drag just to compete.
WATTERS: Then I would watch Jim Acosta.
PERINO: You know, it's a stunt. Wait till you see what we dress up Greg as tomorrow. Right up next, criminal migrants aren't taking President Trump's immigration crackdown very well. Watch this guy.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'm not going back to Haiti. (EXPLETIVE DELETED) Trump. You feel me? Yo, Biden forever, bro. Thank Obama for everything that he did for me, bro.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERINO: Bill Melugin got an exclusive look at Trump's ICE raids.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: President Trump's deportation force is moving at breakneck speed, and Bill Melugin getting an exclusive look at elite ICE agents in the sanctuary city of Boston, focusing on the worst offenders who crossed the border. An MS-13 gang member wanted for murder. An illegal from Honduras who raped this victim while holding a gun in her mouth. And this feisty Haitian gangbanger with 17 past criminal convictions. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'm not going back to Haiti. (BLEEP) Trump. You feel me? Yo, Biden forever, bro! Thank Obama for everything that he did for me, bro.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Harold, I wouldn't want to go back to Haiti either, but you got to go.
FORD JR.: I think the worst -- again, just to repeat, I think the worst first policy is the right thing. I think people are going to give the President a lot of latitude and I could be patient with him in terms of if he goes -- if he's -- if he is too aggressive, I think people will be forgiving.
I think people want to see illegals in this country who have committed crimes deported. I think people want to see their neighborhoods made safer. I think when you think about the costs associated with it -- there are whole range of things. So, I think the President is going to continue -- President Trump is going to continue to get a lot of support of this. I think as we get going a little bit here, I think you saw out in the State of Washington, a Reagan-appointed judge, federal judge there, struck down President Trump's executive order around Birthright Citizenship.
The President may be on to something there but you'll probably -- he probably won't be --
PIRRO: Yes.
FORD JR.: He won't be able to do it by executive order. No lawyer would think -- if you want to change the Constitution, we can do it. But this right here he will -- he will have support for. Some of the other things I think will invite some -- invite some tension, but every American wants to see criminals, certainly if they're not here legally, deported and I'm one of them.
WATTERS: How bad of a look is it for Barack and Biden where Haitian gangbangers with 17 convictions are singing their praises?
PIRRO: I'm so happy he did it because Barack and Joe Biden earned it. They earned those accolades from this 17-time convicted Haitian gangbanger who is saying F the President of the United States. Look, it's about time. They were -- they were not only blamed by, you know, the Republicans but blamed even by this individual.
CNN apparently, and I hate to even mention, they made a statement. They said, America is now more hawkish on illegal immigration as opposed to the way they were in 2016. No. Donald Trump was prescient. In 2016, when Donald Trump was concerned about immigration, they said he was a xenophobe. They said he was a racist. But he knew what was at risk. He knew what was coming. And we weren't ready. We had to suffer for eight years before we got to the point where America said you know what, Donald Trump is right.
And this is what Biden wanted, and this is what Obama wanted, and they never told us why. We know why. It's about power. It's about the Democrat Party. Because if there were a real refugee problem, first of all, they'd be showing up -- the U.N. would be showing up. They'd be showing up for their asylum hearings.
The bottom line is this. They did not care about the American people. They were more concerned about power and now we've got ICE agents begging to get back to do their job. We've got people in apartment buildings yelling thank you for getting these individuals out of this country and out of their neighborhoods.
WATTERS: I don't remember, Greg, in the last years ever seeing video of an ICE arrest. We just saw borders open and people waltzing through with their entire family.
GUTFELD: Yes, it is -- it's interesting -- and I think you -- the media -- we should be very careful not to let the media frame this as a crackdown. It's not a crackdown. It's a correction.
PERINO: Yes.
GUTFELD: This is how -- this is how normal life is. Illegal criminals in your country, you arrest them. And the idea that like somehow -- you know, it's great. I love this guy -- 17 convictions. If only Biden was here to pardon him, you know, he -- this is a blow to MSNBC because I think he was next in line for Joy Reid's spot.
Mexico by the way is assembling these huge structures, right, to receive illegals and they are worried that they won't suddenly be able to house them or care for them. But they're also worried they may be sounding like Donald Trump. And this is -- this is what is brilliant. It is again, I said it in the A block, or was it B, free money on the table. Let's get rid of the worst first.
The Dems are like hey, why didn't we think of this? Well, you stopped thinking. You replace thinking with feeling. And you were wondering why they did this? It was because they were dictated by activists and moronic allies known as the media.
WATTERS: From a public relation standpoint --
GUTFELD: I love that question.
WATTERS: Very clever for the administration to embed Melugin with ICE.
PERINO: Look what I wrote, embed. Oh my gosh. We're all thinking the same way. So, I think --
GUTFELD: Thinking about Melugin in bed? Geez, Dana.
PERINO: That's what you were thinking. That's what you were thinking. Unbelievable.
GUTFELD: Dana.
PERINO: I believe there are more -- you can fact check me. Whatever. But I do believe that there are more NYPD officers than there are ICE agents in the country. So, what they are able to do, they have to be super effective and they knew exactly what they were doing today. But I thought was amazing was how terrible the visuals were for Joe Biden.
Here you have all these criminals who were recently let out of jail, and they're just released back into the population. And that's the sanctuary? That was incredible to me. The video is very important. Do you remember when Joe Biden tried to stop drones from flying over the border? He tried to get the FAA to stop it --
PIRRO: Oh, yes.
PERINO: -- because they didn't want to see the visuals of what was happening especially when the Haitian migrants were coming over. And we fought back, Fox News did, and they had to back down. So, now I think it's so important for the Trump team and for ICE to figure out a way.
Bill Melugin, take him along. Great. Take the reporters that are willing to go. What's interesting is that Bill Melugin, and Griff Jenkins, and all the people at Fox News who were at the border covering that story were the only ones there. The story of a lifetime. You could win a Pulitzer.
GUTFELD: That's so true.
PERINO: So, I'm glad that they're taking Bill Melugin, but what about these other entities? Why don't you go along and see -- and tell your viewers and tell your listeners exactly what is happening there?
President Trump was defined by false videos in the first term when it came to immigration especially on family separation, to the point that one of the big publicly funded radio stations had to backtrack and say actually, sorry, that video of the mom and the daughter separate, that wasn't true. And so, I think that they are very clever and they are thinking ahead that they have to show what they are doing. They cannot rely on other people to do it for them.
WATTERS: Should I embed with ICE?
PERINO: Yes.
GUTFELD: I would like you to.
PERINO: Yes.
GUTFELD: How about ISIS?
PERINO: And then Bill Melugin.
GUTFELD: An embed with ISIS, Jesse.
WATTERS: You embed with ISIS.
Ahead, the story of my Liberal parents freaking out over their MAGA sons.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
PIRRO: The New York Times is diving into the struggles of Liberal parents who are having a hard time connecting with their Trump-loving kids. The headline saying, "When your son goes MAGA." The article adding, "Plenty see their sons embrace of Mr. Trump as an expected act of rebellion or a choice made by an independent young adult that they should respect. For others it has felt like a painful rejection of the values they have tried to instill in their children."
Now, Jesse, I couldn't start this without calling on you first. Are you an embarrassment to your mother? And does she think that there should be tampons in the boy's bathroom?
WATTERS: No and no, I think. She -- I tried to tell her, Judge, that as a conservative, she raised me to have common sense, a work ethic, respect for all individuals. That message hasn't sunk into her. She thinks I'm a liar. And she keeps texting me about me not telling the truth. And it's just a matter of opinion, mom. You're reading the New York Times, you're getting one side, I've read all of the newspapers. I know everything about everything.
PIRRO: Oh, yes.
WATTERS: I'm a professional newsman. You don't know enough about things way I do.
PIRRO: You're (INAUDIBLE).
WATTERS: Right. And so, she'll catch up. And she has caught up. It hasn't been as hateful as of late.
PIRRO: All right, Harold, liking the President to many in your party is considered an act of rebellion. Does that make sense?
FORD JR.: No, it does not make sense. I think in the political climate we live in today, people think that that is what allows you to hold on to whatever your political view, political position, political party affiliation might be. My -- a buddy of mine, one of my best friends, gave me the best piece of advice about this many years ago. His son was having doubts about being a Democrat. He's a Democrat and his son was saying, who was a voting age, I don't think Democrats are speaking to me and speaking to the issues.
And he said to him his father's, a big Democrat, he said to him three things. He said number one, I don't care what you do, but here are the three things you have to do if you're going to do that, whatever you want to do. Don't be a hater. Two, be able to defend your positions with clarity, humility, and substance. And three, that humility should allow you to say when you're right about something or when you're wrong about something and to learn from it.
So, I hope my kids are Democrats. If they're not, I'm going to apply these three things to them. And my dad and I who -- my dad is probably a little more to the left of me than I am, than my politics, and we have these conversations fairly for the regular. I hope he's not watching because --
PIRRO: You know, Greg, Harold is so reasonable. But you were with Men's Health, that magazine. Don't you think it's healthy for young men and young people to admire masculine men?
GUTFELD: Well, yes. But that's not why I was there, no matter what anybody says. Sure I went to the photo shoots, and I kind of hung around longer than I should. But anyway, I'm not allowed in a few gyms. Look, you know the article was titled, "When your son goes MAGA." The real title should be when your teacher hates Trump. because this -- that causes your son to go MAGA when your teacher goes Trump.
Rebelling against teachers who didn't persuade and only demanded was what created this. Suddenly Trump became cool and dangerous, a political and social pirate ship. And the Dem started to look like an emasculated dinghy because all the annoying freaks, your guidance counselor, your -- I don't know -- math teacher, your parents started to all sound the same.
It wasn't just the lockstep that you rebel against. It was the compliance. You were to accept their notions without explanation. You know, Kamala is brilliant, Trump is Satan. My pronouns are they or them. It wasn't the beliefs, it was the compliance. And if you're an individual mind, and I think the advice that you were talking about was good. If you want to think for yourself, then no one can compel you what to believe. They can't just say it is.
So, I will just end on this. I often asked this question by young folks when I do live shows. They'll say, what do I -- I'm the only Conservative among Liberals and they always gang up on me -- on me when I disagree with them. And I say, ask them one simple question. Why is it so important for me to agree with you? Why does it bother you that I won't obey?
PERINO: Right.
GUTFELD: Why should you care? That usually hits the heart of their insecurities. Why do you need everyone to agree with you? That usually destroys them, and they don't know what to say.
WATTERS: I usually give them different advice.
GUTFELD: Of course you do.
WATTERS: I say sleep with their girlfriends.
GUTFELD: Oh, excellent.
PERINO: Oh, God.
WATTERS: You never lose after that.
PIRRO: Yes. All right --
PERINO: I think that's a good idea. I really think that's smart.
PIRRO: As long as --
WATTERS: Or their moms. Sleep with their girlfriends or their moms.
PIRRO: Oh, my gosh. Stop that, Jesse.
WATTERS: They'll never come back from something like that.
FORD JR.: Let me put that down as a--
PIRRO: All right, no, no.
FORD JR.: -- as a fourth piece of advice.
WATTERS: Consensually.
PIRRO: Even then, stop it. Dana?
GUTFELD: Consensually.
PERINO: Yes?
PIRRO: Dana, we're going to -- we're going to pass -- you know what, Jesse? Don't talk anymore. You can't talk for the rest of the show.
WATTERS: Do I still get paid?
PIRRO: Yes, you probably will.
PERINO: Yes.
WATTERS: Fine.
PIRRO: Dana, isn't the Republican Party really more like a party --
PERINO: Yes, they're having fun.
PIRRO: -- where even the celebs don't charge to perform?
PERINO: And that's changed. Now, and I do think if you go back and forth, I remember I have a friend who started Nixon watches. And one of the reasons they called it Nixon is because it was like for the skateboarders and the surfers, and they wanted to rebel against their parents. The parents hated Nixon. So, it does go back and forth.
But the other thing that President Trump was able to do this time around is to tap into the new ways that people are communicating. And you have a lot of these new podcast or long form ways, people on YouTube, and they're funny and they're having a good time. And they're thinking, well, wait. Yes, I want opportunity. They don't -- they hate the DEI stuff and they see President Trump getting rid of that.
But I also noticed a friend of mine said I was watching the inauguration, and all the YouTube stars were there and they couldn't believe it. And it's -- what's interesting is with politics being downstream of culture, but now it's like it's all the same. It's intermesh and people are having fun in amongst the politics.
GUTFELD: Why do they hate Cynthia so much?
PERINO: Who Cynthia?
GUTFELD: Cynthia Nixon. She was one of my favorites on Sex in the City.
PIRRO: OK.
PERINO: Cynthia.
PIRRO: Anyway --
PERINO: She's cute. And on your point, Dana, I mean, kudos to Barron Trump on that too.
Up next, President Trump's return to the office order.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
FORD JR.: Welcome back. Federal employees are pushing back against President Trump's 30-day order to get back to the office five days a week. Many dread the daily grind of traffic, fighting for parking, or desk space, arguing that they've already made -- that they've already proven they can get the job done remotely.
Judge, you think they should get back to work?
PIRRO: What do you think?
FORD JR.: I think I'm looking for a succinct answer.
PIRRO: OK. OK. They absolutely should get back to work. Biden signed an executive order. He wanted them to be able to work remotely until 2029. But if you got the boss working day and night since he was sworn in, I think they can show up at the office.
FORD JR.: Primetime, your thoughts on showing up to work?
WATTERS: We were just in D.C. and we saw these beautiful Federal buildings, Department of Commerce, EPA, they're empty. So, if they don't want to go back in, they should have a fire sale and we should beable to buy them and then make them into luxury condos.
FORD JR.: Dana, you've talked about this. This is a way we can -- DOGE should look at this to figure out way to save money.
PERINO: Yes, I mean, agree on the point about the empty building should be sold or repurposed. I do think that there should be some discretion given to managers if you have a great employee. And they can only come in three days a week, not the five. Like, the discretion for a manager I think is important.
But I would get back to work. And the City of D.C. has been begging the federal government to make this happen.
PIRRO: It's good for business.
PERINO: Yes.
FORD JR.: Exclamation Point, your thoughts on this?
GUTFELD: This reminds me of Jim Acosta. Apparently, he threatened to quit CNN if they move him to midnight. It's like, dude, that's the point. We're trying to get you to leave.
PERINO: Rigght.
GUTFELD: You're not in a position to negotiate, people. If you work for the government, you got to work for the government. If you're on death row, feel free to complain about the temperature of your last meal. You're still going to fry. They just want to get him out of here. Go.
FORD JR.: And that's that. "ONE MORE THING" is up next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GUTFELD: OMT. Dana?
PERINO: I've been waiting to show you all this. I had a lot of fun at the inauguration for all sorts of reasons. But also, I got to sing with Dierks Bentley on stage at the Free Press, Uber, X party. And the song was Country Road. I'm not playing the audio because Kate was singing so loud that she wanted it. Just kidding. We all love TikTok, Kate. And he was -- he was happy to have her there.
Perino on Politics with Kevin McCarthy.
GUTFELD: Yes. That's your favorite Bentley. It's an EV Bentley. All right, tonight, we have Jim Norton, Charly Arnolt, Kat Timpf, and Tyrus. That's tonight at 10:00. Quickly friends.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: Animals are great! Animals are great! Animals are great!
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: We haven't done this in a while. Harold loves this because it's not in his face. You know, there's nothing better than enjoying a corn on the cob upside down with your mouth, Jesse. Here is Juno the sloth enjoying his corn on the cob at the Cincinnati Zoo upside down. 15 -- they sleep up to 15 hours a day hanging upside down. That's it for me. Harold?
FORD JR.: A Japanese aquarium has shut down last month for a six-month renovation. And they noticed that this sunfish here was not well. He wasn't eating. So, they came up with this creative solution. They put people smiling. They put cutouts of people smiling and the sunfish was mesmerized by this. He got happier and he start eating. A little companionship goes a long way and cheering you up. I love that.
PERINO: Harold makes friends.
FORD JR.: Best of luck to Ben Shelton and Madison Keys tonight at the Australian Open.
WATTERS: That fish likes his corn on the cob upside down too.
Fox Nation celebrates January Comedy Month. We have Tyler Fischer. They call him a comedic genius. "NO PARDON NEEDED." Go check it out on Fox Nation.
And Johnny went to the balls. Here's a little look.
JOHNNY BELISARIO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL PRODUCER: I heard there were some illegal migrants trying to get into this event tonight.
TOM HOMAN, BORDER CZAR: Where? Show me.
BELISARIO: You'll take care of it?
HOMAN: I'll take care of it right now.
WATTERS: That's Johnny tonight at 8:00.
GUTFELD: All right, 10 seconds, Judge.
PIRRO: I don't --
GUTFELD: Eight seconds.
PIRRO: I can't do it in 10 seconds.
GUTFELD: Six seconds.
PIRRO: It's about three African elephants.
GUTFELD: Four seconds. Three seconds.
PIRRO: Missy, Kimba, Lucky, LouLou, and Jambo.
GUTFELD: We're done.

Load-Date: January 24, 2025


End of Document
