




telegraph.co.uk
January 24, 2025 Friday 2:52 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: US; Version:1
Length: 773 words
Byline: By Roger Kimball
Highlight: Is he defining the Zeitgeist, or merely riding it? You might as well ask the same question of Napoleon or Caesar
Body


Thomas Carlyle would have been impressed by Donald Trump. The author of On Heroes, Hero-Worship, and the Heroic in History (1841) thought that history organised itself around great men the way that iron filings form patterns in a magnetic field.
The eighteenth century, Carlyle thought, had lost its moral elasticity and spiritual tautness. He prophesied that his own time would be a crucible of renewal in which “the world will once more become … a heroic world”. 
Over the last year, Donald Trump has emerged as a Carlylean figure, an historic man of action who, having triumphed over extraordinary adversity, has become a totem of the age, a man through whom the highest ambitions of the country find expression.
I know that sounds odd. A year ago, Trump was finished. The swank people who tell us what to think  There he was, staggering under scores of s. Would he not be bankrupted, incarcerated, swept ignominiously into the dustbin of history?
Somehow, Trump not only survived but thrived. Did he merely ride the cresting wave of the Zeitgeist or also help define it? The same question might be asked of Caesar, Napoleon, FDR, or Ronald Reagan.
There are still some flaccid, hand-ringing mutterers who can’t absorb the reality of what Donald Trump represents. He represents beneficent change. The anti-Trump whiners congregate in their faculty lounges,  their climate-change seminars in Aspen. Here and there one finds pods of sad people like Chris Mayes, the Attorney General of Arizona, who has vowed to resist aspects of Trump’s immigration efforts. One might as well vow to resist a tornado. 
Elsewhere, in the real world, what had been an .  Even Politico has absorbed an inkling of the truth. Trump is, a recent column tells us, “someone with an ability to perceive opportunities that most politicians do not and forge powerful, sustained connections with large swaths of people in ways that no contemporary can match. In other words: He is a force of history.”
The title of that column is revealing. “Time to Admit It: Trump Is a Great President. He’s Still Trying To Be a Good One.” The charge that has most often been levelled against Trump is that he is a man of “bad character”. Even the patently absurd claims that Trump is a “fascist” (General Mark Milley ) or “literally Hitler” follow from the judgment that Trump is just too naff for words, an aesthetic determination that quickly shades into moral obloquy. 
I think there are two things to be said about this. Let me turn to Horace Walpole for the first. “No country was ever saved by good men,” Walpole once observed, “because good men will not go to the length that may be necessary”.
This is where a certain expedient moral ambiguity enters. Like many people, I believe that Donald Trump is on the threshold of saving America. That is, I believe that his diagnosis of America’s problems is accurate. High on the list of those problems are a paralysing commitment to woke ideology,  , stupefying debt, and cratering cultural self-confidence. 
I also believe that Trump’s proposed solutions – articulated in his tsunami of executive orders and presidential proclamations – have the best chance of inaugurating that
Does that also mean that I believe that Trump is not a “good man”? No, and to explain why I turn to Cardinal Newman. A man, said Newman, “may be great in one aspect of his character, and little-minded in another … A good man may make a bad king; profligates have been great statesmen, or magnanimous political leaders.” 
As far as I know, no one has proposed Donald Trump for sainthood. Moreover, in the ways that matter for a president, he has shown himself to be a man of good character. Any meaningful definition of good character has to involve an instrumental element. Otherwise the character in question would be impotent. This is part of what Aristotle meant, I think, when he observed that “it is our choice of good or evil that determines our character, not our opinion about good or evil”.
On issue after issue – the economy, national security, energy policy, free speech, crime – Donald Trump’s “common sense” revolution promises to restore America’s preeminence. Along with other larger-than-life   Donald Trump signals the welcome return of the Great Man idea of historical evolution.
                     Roger Kimball is editor and publisher of The New Criterion and president and publisher of Encounter Books                   

Load-Date: January 24, 2025


End of Document
