




Fox News FOX SPECIAL REPORT WITH BRET BAIER 6:00 PM EST
January 29, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7004 words
Byline: Bret Baier, Chad Pergram, Bryan Llenas, Alexandria Hoff, Jacqui Heinrich, Brit Hume, Brooke Taylor
Guests: Jason Riley, Matthew Continetti, Francesca Chambers
Body


DANA PERINO, FOX NEWS HOST: Oh, that's a good tease, because we will all be here tomorrow. That's it for us, everyone. Have a great day. Hi, Bret.
BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: I'll be on pins and needles waiting for Jessica's --
JESSICA TARLOV, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: You're going to love it, Bret. OK, thanks.
BAIER: Good evening. Welcome to Washington. I'm Bret Baier.
Fierce and emotional exchange in the Senate confirmation hearing for Robert F. Kennedy Jr.
And historic prison sentence for former New Jersey Democratic Senator Bob Menendez, we'll take you there.
And we'll also take you on a deportation flight from Texas to Ecuador.
But breaking tonight, President Trump is taking new action on his immigration agenda. He signed a powerful new law regarding illegal immigrants, a bipartisan law, and that law commits any immigrants who commit crimes in this country. And he has decided where he will put some of the thousands of immigrants being kicked out of the U.S. who could not be sent to their home countries.
The White House is also trying to clear up confusion about the president's freeze on federal funding of some programs.
Senior White House Correspondent Jacqui Heinrich starts us off tonight live from the North Lawn. Good evening, Jacqui.
JACQUI HEINRICH, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Good evening, Bret. The president made immigration and curbing illegal immigration the focus of his campaign. Now the first bill that he signs into law in his second term is aimed at that, named after the 22-year-old slain nursing student from Georgia.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
ALLYSON PHILLIPS, LAKEN RILEY'S MOTHER: He said he would secure our borders and that he would never forget about, Laken, and he hasn't. He's a man of his word.
HEINRICH (voice over): President Trump signing his first law of his second term with the parents of 22-year-old slain nursing student Laken Riley looking on. The president declining to take questions during the emotional moment.
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I don't think this is appropriate.
HEINRICH (voice over): After his administration rescinded a memo freezing federal funds impacted by executive orders on foreign aid, American energy, ending DEI and immigration. It came after a federal judge temporarily blocked it from going into effect.
The White House says the freeze will continue, but the injunction blocks communications between agency heads and OMB. And "This action should effectively end the court case and allow the government to focus on enforcing the president's orders on controlling federal spending."
TRUMP: We stopped an attempt to make an illicit payment for illegal alien resettlement. We canceled $181 million in DEI training contracts.
HEINRICH (voice over): But the legal battle may continue.
SEN. PATTY MURRAY (D-WA): That means they are still blocking investments Congress passed into law to help our communities. Investments in new clean energy jobs and a lot of other projects funded by the bipartisan infrastructure law, which Trump is stopping with his illegal executive orders.
HEINRICH (voice over): The president keeping the focus on the Laken Riley Act, which now mandates detention for illegal aliens accused of crimes including theft. Riley's killer was released after being arrested in New York.
TRUMP: This is something that has brought Democrats and Republicans together. That's not easy to do. Laken did it. Laken did it.
HEINRICH (voice over): The president today also moving to create a migrant facility at Guantanamo that can hold 30,000.
PETE HEGSETH, DEFENSE SECRETARY: This is not the camps. You're not putting criminals in camps where ISIS and other criminals. There's a -- this is a temporary transit to humanely move illegals out of our country.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
HEINRICH (on camera): The president's memo says the space at Guantanamo, U.S. naval base should go to high priority criminal aliens. DHS Secretary Kristi Noem described it as a site for the worst of the worst.
The Cuban president criticized this decision, calling it an act of brutality in an illegally occupied territory, Bret.
BAIER: Jacqui, the president defended that funding freeze today, pointed something. His press secretary mentioned the briefing room yesterday that the administration had blocked $50 million in condoms for Gaza. That's a lot of condoms. What are the specific details here?
HEINRICH: Yes, so the State Department said it was actually two buckets of $50 million that would have gone to Gaza through the International Medical Corps, it included contraceptives, as well as material for family planning and preventing disease transmission.
That State Department officials said that condoms have traditionally been used for family planning in developing countries by USAID.
The president also said today that Hamas have been using condoms to make bombs. Back in 2020, Israeli reporters sounded the alarm on this issue after Hamas began using condoms, balloons and also kites with burning rags attached as incendiary devices, Bret.
BAIER: OK, Jacqui Heinrich live in the North Lawn. Jacqui, thanks.
President Trump's pick to run the Department of Health and Human Services, weathering a storm of criticism from Democrats during his Senate confirmation hearing today, former presidential candidate Robert F. Kennedy Jr., who ran first for the Democratic nomination, then as an Independent, was attacked for his positions or perceived positions on vaccinations, abortion, the food supply, what they called conspiracy theories. Republicans tried their best to defend him and asked some tough questions themselves.
We have Fox team coverage tonight. Chad Pergram on the Hill looks at a big week for several of the president's nominees.
But first, Correspondent Alexandria Hoff reports from Capitol Hill on today's contentious hearing. Good evening, Alex.
ALEXANDRIA HOFF, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Good evening, Bret. Yes, this was the first of two scheduled hearings this week, and Kennedy testified before the Senate Finance Committee here today, that tone was set right off the top.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
ROBERT F. KENNEDY JR., HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES SECRETARY NOMINEE: News reports have claimed that I'm anti-vaccine or anti-industry. I am neither. I am pro-safety.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is a job where it is life and death.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Frankly, you frighten people.
HOFF (voice over): Self-proclaimed disrupter Robert F. Kennedy Jr. was repeatedly disrupted by protesters and admonished by Democrats in the most tense confirmation hearing yet.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Are you supportive of these onesies?
KENNEDY JR.: I'm supportive of vaccines.
HOFF (voice over): President Trump's pick for Health and Human Services Secretary insisted that despite past statements of skepticism, he is not anti-vaccine.
KENNEDY JR.: The only thing I want is good science, and that's it.
HOFF (voice over): If confirmed, the former independent White House contender would oversee a $1.7 trillion budget, 90,000 employees and agencies including the FDA, CDC, NIH and Medicare and Medicaid Services.
Kennedy says his make America healthy again pursuit would prioritize nutrition and shift federal research away from infectious disease towards chronic illness.
KENNEDY JR.: The first thing I've done every morning for the past 20 years is to get on my knees and pray to God that he would put me in a position to end the chronic disease epidemic.
HOFF (voice over): Today's testimony was also used by Democrats to point out Kennedy's past support for abortion, an issue that could give pause to several Republicans.
SEN. MAGGIE HASSAN (D-NH): When did you decide to sell out your life's work and values to get this position?
KENNEDY JR.: Senator, I agree with President Trump, every portion is a tragedy.
HOFF (voice over): The 3.5 hour hearing concluded with cheers from Kennedy supporters and a Senate divide.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I understand their concerns about vaccines. I think Bobby put those concerns to bed.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He basically served up a big plate of word salad.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
HOFF (on camera): So far, there not have been any Republicans who have come out publicly and said that they plan to vote against Kennedy. Tomorrow's hearing will be before the Senate HELP Committee. A final vote on confirmation could take until mid-next month, Bret.
BAIER: Alex, thank you. Well, tomorrow may provide significant challenges to a pair of President Trump's other top cabinet picks, Tulsi Gabbard, his selection for Director of National Intelligence and FBI Director nominee Kash Patel are up for confirmation hearings.
Senior congressional Correspondent Chad Pergram has a preview tonight. Good evening, Chad.
CHAD PERGRAM, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Bret, good evening. Democrats see Tulsi Gabbard and Kash Patel as radioactive. There's particular worry about Patel.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
SEN. RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (D-CT): I think he's going to be eating a lot of his past garbage and backtracking very clearly on his extremist statements that I think disqualify him.
PERGRAM (voice over): Fox has told at least six Republicans have reservations about Gabbard. Bipartisan senators wonder if she's trustworthy.
A senior GOP source concedes confirmation may be tough. Others will decide by watching the hearing
SEN. JOHN KENNEDY (R-LA): I've never met Ms. Gabbard. These confirmation hearings matter. I hope senators will make sure that the nominee is not a meat head (ph).
PERGRAM (voice over): Vice President J.D. Vance says, if Republicans reject Gabbard, that's a, "Insult to new GOP voters."
And all Democrats might oppose Gabbard, Kash Patel and RFK Jr., but some Democrats supported six of the seven nominees confirmed by the Senate so far. That includes Lee Zeldin to run the EPA. Democrats hope to stall the nomination of Russ Vought as budget director. That's due to the pause of grants and loans.
MURRAY: This is a man who, time and again, has refused to say he will follow the law. Every lawmaker who doesn't want to see funds that they work to secure for their state, funds they know their families are counting on, ripped away, must vote no.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
PERGRAM (on camera): A Senate committee green lighted the nomination of Attorney General Nominee Pam Bondi this morning.
Commerce Secretary Nominee Howard Lutnick had his hearing today, and the Senate broke a filibuster on the nomination of Doug Burgum to serve as Secretary of the Interior, Bret.
BAIER: Cabinet is filling. Chad Pergram live on the Hill. Chad, thanks.
Security agents escorted the Agriculture Department's inspector general from her office Monday after she refused to comply with her firing by the Trump administration.
Reuters is reporting Phyllis Fong had worked with the Department for 22 years. She had intended to stay on after the White House terminated her Friday, she said she believes the administration did not follow proper protocols.
The Federal Reserve left its benchmark interest rate unchanged today, it cut the rate -- it cut the rate three times in a row last year, from 5.3 percent to 4.3. Stocks didn't necessarily like that. They were down today. The Dow lost 137, the S&P 500 fell 28, the NASDAQ was off 101.
Breaking tonight, former New Jersey Democratic Senator Bob Menendez has been sentenced to 11 years in prison. Menendez was convicted of accepting bribes and acting as an agent of a foreign government. Correspondent Bryan Llenas is in New York with the latest. Good evening, Bryan.
BRYAN LLENAS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Bret, good evening. The 11- year prison sentence handed down against former Democratic New Jersey Senator Bob Menendez is the longest ever imposed against the senator in our nation's history. Menendez must report to federal prison by June 6th.
Now, prosecutors had recommended that Menendez be given a 15-year prison sentence, noting that Menendez is the first senator convicted of acting as a foreign agent amid a slew of corruption charges.
Now, after court today, an angry Menendez maintained his innocence amid reports he's now seeking clemency from President Trump.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
SEN. BOB MENENDEZ (D-NJ): President Trump is right. This process is political and it's corrupted to the core. I hope President Trump cleans up the cesspool and restores the integrity to the system.
LLENAS (voice over): In court today, Menendez cried as he begged the judge for mercy, a lesser sentence of no more than eight years. Speaking in front of his family, Menendez said, "Every day I'm awake is punishment." And that in his 50 years of public service, he has done more good than bad.
Now, a jury last July convicted Menendez of 16 federal charges, including bribery. Menendez was found guilty of selling his influence to Egypt's government and to three New Jersey businessmen even attempting to interfere in two criminal cases on their behalf.
In exchange, Menendez received gold bars, hundreds of thousands of dollars in cash and a luxury convertible Mercedes Benz. The judge ordered he must forfeit all of it.
Menendez said the gold bars belong to his wife, Nadine, who faces similar charges in a trial that starts in March. Judge Sidney Stein in court today told Menendez that he was successful and powerful, but "somewhere along the way, I'm sorry to say, you became a corrupt politician."
(END VIDEOTAPE)
LLENAS (on camera): Today, Menendez's two coconspirators, the two New Jersey businessmen were sentenced to seven and eight years in prison. Menendez says he's going to appeal this case, Bret.
BAIER: Bryan Llenas live in New York. Bryan, thank you.
Up next, Brit Hume joins us to discuss the rescinded federal spending freeze memo and the fate of the president's cabinet nominees.
First, here's what some of our Fox affiliates around the country are covering tonight. Fox 32 in Chicago as a fight breaks out at a meeting in Thornton Township. Witnesses say a frequent critic of township advisor and Dolton Mayor Tiffany Henyard fought with Henyard's boyfriend. Witnesses claim Henyard joined the scuffle.
Monday, former Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot presented findings from an investigation into Henyard's alleged misuse of funds.
Fox 31 in Denver, as a Denver based Frontier Airlines makes a second bid to merge with Spirit Airlines. Frontier tried to merge with spirit in 2022 but was outbid by JetBlue. The Justice Department blocked that deal. Spirit filed for bankruptcy protection in November.
And this is a live look at Salt Lake City from Fox 13 our affiliate out there. One of the big stories there tonight, scientists from the Smithsonian Institution say asteroid samples brought back by NASA hold salty remains of an ancient water world.
NASA's OSIRIS-REx spacecraft returned the samples to the Utah desert back in 2023, the findings may support a theory that asteroids may have planted the seeds of life on Earth.
That's tonight's live look outside the Beltway from SPECIAL REPORT. We'll be right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BAIER: An Air Force fighter pilot was taken to a hospital after ejecting from an F-35 jet just before it crashed at Eielson Air Force Base in Fairbanks, Alaska.
Video shows the plane spiraling toward the ground, and then, exploding on impact.
The cause of the crash remains under investigation.
President Trump has signed an agreement calling for Meta to pay $25 million to settle a lawsuit over the suspension of his social media accounts. Those accounts were taken offline following the January 6th, 2021 Capitol riot.
$22 million will go toward fund for the Trump presidential library. The rest will cover legal fees and other plaintiffs in the case.
The Justice Department has abandoned all criminal proceedings against the two co-defendants of President Trump in the Florida classified documents case. Trump valet, Walt Nauta and Mar-a-Lago property manager Carlos De Oliveira, were charged with conspiring to obstruct an FBI investigation into the possession of classified documents the president took with him when he left the White House after his first term. Now, those cases are dropped.
President Trump is appealing his conviction on 34 counts of falsifying business records. The president's attorney is filing a notice of appeal today. They're asking the state mid-level appeals court to overturn last May's conviction.
He was sentenced earlier this month what is known as unconditional discharge that left his conviction on the books but spared him jail, probation, fine, or other punishment.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): Today, we saw what happens when Americans fight back against disastrous policies. Americans made their voices heard. Donald Trump rescinded the OMB order. Now, he should rescind the nomination of Russell Vought.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: Russell Vought for OMB. There you see the Senate Minority Leader.
Karoline Leavitt, the White House press secretary, issuing this clarification today. This is not a rescission of the federal funding freeze. It is simply a rescission of the OMB memo.
Why? To end any confusion created by the court's injunction.
The president's E.O., executive order on federal funding remain in full force and effect, and will be rigorously implemented."
With that, let's bring in Fox News chief political analyst, Brit Hume.
You know, you need a white board at time here -- at times here, Brit, at the beginning, as you followed this. But basically, to sum it up, this freeze is -- was designed to scrub any funding going out the door for DEI or things that they specifically with executive orders targeted.
It was not a blanket freeze, even though that's how many people took it. And there was a lot of chaos at the beginning, and for all of the politics, whenever they say Republicans pounce, this was Democrats pouncing on this chaos at the beginning.
BRIT HUME, FOX NEWS CHANNEL SENIOR POLITICAL ANALYST: It certainly was, Bret. And I think it's pretty clear that, that memo from OMB, which is a source of all this trouble, was pretty poorly drafted so that it could be read to be a sweeping blocking of funds across the government, social security, and other entitlement programs and all the rest of it.
I don't think that was the intent, but the draft, it was fully drafted, and will now be redrafted. And I don't think the order is, as Senator Schumer was claiming, has been rescinded -- was been rescinded as Karoline Leavitt, the press secretary, pointed out, was a memo itself, which it was in need of work for sure.
BAIER: You know, you look at the headlines, Brit, and obviously, this is a big one, because a lot of the media are following the confusion over this, and they were getting a lot of calls.
"Trump White House reverses course, rescinds freeze on federal grants." "Trump looks to repurpose federal money to expand school choice programs." "Trump administration to cancel student visas of pro-Palestinian protesters."
He just signed an executive order to open up Guantanamo Bay for a holdover for illegal immigrants who are not getting flown back to their countries. There is a lot that's happening, and this is just day eight.
HUME: Yes. That's just a moment. It's been an absolute blizzard of statements, memos, orders, comments by the president himself, comments by his team. I don't think I've ever seen anything quite this dizzying, and his opponents are clearly caught off guard.
And I think most of the things Bret that he has done are sufficiently popular with the public, broadly speaking, that even when Democrats recover their balance, they may have trouble -- it may be difficult for them to find ways to come back at him about these things. They may have to wait for more fertile territory later on.
BAIER: Yes, I think, they thought they had it with this -- with this freezing, but may not have politically.
Tomorrow, you have the confirmation -- another hearing, Pam Bondi, Tulsi Gabbard, Kash Patel.
It's actually a confirmation vote for Pam Bondi tomorrow, but the hearings for Tulsi Gabbard and Kash Patel. And today, obviously, RFK Jr., Brit. What's your take about how things are going across the board?
HUME: Well, look, I don't think Bobby Kennedy did made the kind of mistake you could make that would absolutely torpedo his nomination. I don't think he's out of the woods yet, but I don't think he did anything to hurt himself, particularly today. He did though the hearing got. I'm sure plenty of people are going over tooth and nail the transcript of it or the video of it to see if they can find something.
I don't think he did himself any real harm, but I don't think he put himself out of trouble yet, and it remains to be seen whether he can make it. He remains a pretty controversial figure. He has loyalty -- he should have loyalty on both sides. He certainly has loyalty among Republicans these days, and not so much among Democrats, although he might once have had that since, after all, most of his life, he has been a Democrat, and I guess he still is.
So, it's a little -- it's a complicated situation, but I think, you know, I think he's -- what I would say is he got through today. He got through it.
BAIER: And we'll follow it all tomorrow. Brit, thanks.
Up next, an exclusive look at President Trump's effort to ramp up deportation flights for illegal migrants. Also, I head to the touch screen to show you the numbers so far -- pretty staggering.
And later, the panel on the confusion over the federal funding freeze, what that happens politically? And more in depth about the Robert F. Kennedy Jr. confirmation hearing, coming up.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BAIER: Welcome back to SPECIAL REPORT. Vice President J.D. Vance says President Trump want to get illegal immigrant off the streets at a rate of almost 2,000 per day. The vice president spoke with Sean Hannity earlier.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS HOST: Ten thousand in a week, the president is looking for, what, 1,800 a day.
SEN. J.D. VANCE, (R) VICE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: That's right.
HANNITY: And that's a pretty ambitious goal.
VANCE: It's ambitious, but you need a leader who sets ambitious goals and actually holds people to meeting those goals. If you look at the number of illegal entries on January the 19th, the last day of the Democrats' administration, I believe the number was north of 1,300 illegal entries. Five days later we had already cut that by more than 60 percent, and I guarantee we're going to cut it even further.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: You can see the entire Vance interview tonight on "HANNITY," 9:00 p.m. eastern time.
President Trump entered office last week and immediately declared a national emergency at the southern border. He ordered the expulsion of migrants without the possibility of asylum. Since then, the numbers are staggering. The numbers of migrants arriving at the southern border has dropped by more than 60 percent. New data obtained by FOX News Digital shows that more than 7,000 migrant encounters at the southern border in President Trump's first seven days, a daily average, 1,041. That compares to about 20,000 encounters in the final seven days of the Biden administration, averaging more than 2,800 encounters per day.
Border Patrol recorded 582 illegal crossings at the southern border on Sunday. Our own Bill Melugin says he has never seen a number this low. In Biden's final week, the crossings were in the range of 1,200 to 1,400 per day.
Now, in Del Rio section, very active section here in Texas, there were just, let's see, 60, six-zero, encounters total illegal crossings. To put that in perspective, at the height of the border cris in December of 2023, some days in the Del Rio sector saw more than 4,000 encounters along this sector of the border. So it's a big, big shift.
Now, if we continue on the Trump administration under this administration, ICE is reporting about 1,000 arrests per day. We don't yet have the total return and removal data, known as repatriates, for the Trump administration. It's not an apples to apples comparison, but there were 5.2 million repatriations during the Obama administration, more than 1,700 per day.
Now, illegal immigrants are being sent back to several countries, about 201 to Colombia. We saw the back and forth with Colombia. At least 2,000 illegal immigrants have been deported to Mexico, both on the ground and in the air. Brazil accepted 88 on one flight. Guatemala has taken back 224 on three flights. And Ecuador has accepted a repatriation flight today, dozens of illegal migrants on board.
Now, in a FOX News exclusive tonight, we take you on that flight, transporting illegal migrants back to Ecuador. Correspondent Brooke Taylor shows us this evening from El Paso.
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Any regrets coming into the United States illegally?
BROOKE TAYLOR, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: FOX News got exclusive access to the latest repatriation flight from El Paso to Ecuador, dozens of illegal migrants loaded onto the C-17.
HAMID NIKSERESHT, U.S. BORDER PATROL: Not today. Not today, not tomorrow, not next week. Do not come to the United States and enter illegally.
TAYLOR: Border Patrol tells us these illegal migrants were already in their custody, either crossing the border illegally or found in stash houses. Expedited removal flights are not new, but now President Trump is using military planes to ramp up efforts.
This is the second largest plane the Air Force has. It's going to fit 80 of these illegal migrants. Border Patrol says the message is if you come into the United States illegally, you will be sent back to your home country.
NIKSERESHT: Once you are found amenable to removal under Title A, we can have you back in your home country within seven hours.
TAYLOR: Separately, ICE has been busy clearing criminal illegal migrants off the streets in major cities like Boston, Chicago, New York City, and Denver, where they arrested a suspected Tren de Aragua gang member overnight. ICE says they arrested more than 1,000 migrants on Tuesday alone. Chicago Mayor Brandon Johnson calling it a scare tactic.
MAYOR BRANDON JOHNSON, (D) CHICAGO: There's a real goal here to stoke fear into the American people.
TAYLOR: DHS Secretary Kristi Noem, who joined ICE raids in New York City, slamming back at Democratic leaders.
KRISTI NOEM, HOMELAND SECURITY SECRETARY: That's exactly what these Democrat leaders are saying, is we want to protect the cartels. We want to protect the gangs.
(END VIDEO TAPE)
TAYLOR (on camera): And the DHS secretary also announcing a first on "FOX & FRIENDS," that today the Trump administration ended the temporary protected status for all Venezuelans, Bret.
BAIER: Brooke, thank you.
An Israeli official says Hamas will release three Israelis and five Thai nationals in the next hostage release scheduled for tomorrow. The Israelis are two women and an 80-year-old man. The release is part of a ceasefire between Israel and Hamas that has paused the war in Gaza in exchange for freedom for dozens of hostages held in Palestinian territory and hundreds of Palestinian prisoners held by Israel.
Up next, the panel on the Robert F. Kennedy Jr. confirmation hearing. First, Beyond our Borders tonight. The leader of the former rebel group that toppled Syrian President Bashar al-Assad last month is now the country's interim president. Ahmed al-Sharaa was appointed following a meeting of former insurgent factions. He will be authorized to form a temporary legislative council until a new constitution can be drafted. Al- Sharaa previously was linked to the terror group Al-Qaeda.
North Korean state media reports leader Kim Jong-un inspected a facility that produces nuclear material. He called for bolstering the country's nuclear fighting capability today.
At least 30 people are killed and many more injured in a stampede at the world's largest religious gathering. Millions of pilgrims rushed to dip in sacred waters in the festival in northern India.
And this is a live look at New Taipei City in Taiwan, courtesy of Earth Cam. One of the big stories there tonight, wisps and clouds of smoke rise into the air at Buddhist and Taoist temples around Asia as people light incense to pray for good luck in the year of the snake. Ethnic Chinese flock to temples across north and southeast Asia on what was the lunar new year, the first year of the year of the snake in the Chinese Zodiac.
Just some of the other stories Beyond our Borders tonight. We'll be right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
ROBERT F. KENNEDY JR., HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES SECRETARY NOMINEE: Should I be so privileged as to be confirmed, we will make sure our tax dollars support healthy foods. We will scrutinize the chemical additives in our food supply. We will remove financial conflicts of interest from our agencies. We will create an honest, unbiased gold standard science at HHS. We will reverse the chronic disease epidemic and put the nation back on the road to good health.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: Some of these confirmation hearings have been fiery. This was one of them. Take a listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
RON WYDEN, (D-OR) SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE: It's time to make sure that we blow the whistle on actually what your views are.
ROBERT F. KENNEDY JR., HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES SECRETARY NOMINEE: I support the measles vaccine. I support the polio vaccine.
SEN. THOM TILLIS, (R-NC) SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE: Are you a conspiracy theorist?
KENNEDY: That is a pejorative, Senator, that's applied to me, mainly to keep me from asking difficult questions of powerful interests.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS, (I-VT) SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE: You talked about government should not tell a woman what she can do with her own body.
KENNEDY: I believe and I have always believed that every abortion is a tragedy.
SEN. ROGER MARSHALL, (R-KS) SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE: What is your prescription to help make America healthy again?
KENNEDY: We need to fix our food supply.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: With that, let's bring in our panel, Jason Riley, "Wall Street Journal" columnist and senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, Matthew Continetti, fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, and "USA Today" White House correspondent Francesca Chambers. Francesca, we are just not at institute. We should, I mean, these guys --
(LAUGHTER)
BAIER: Anyway, let's talk about this hearing today and what you took away from it and what his chances are?
FRANCESCA CHAMBERS, "USA TODAY": Well, Democrats were already pretty opposed to him. You heard what they had to say in those clips. And that's what they have been saying leading into this. They are also pretty convinced that, unless Bill Cassidy or someone else comes out of the woodwork here to vote against him, even with the three Republicans, you know, who voted against Pete Hegseth the other day and, therefore, needed J.D. Vance to be a tiebreaker, that he would get passed.
BAIER: I saw online, Jason, that there was a lot of focus on the spending of pharmaceutical companies lobbying lawmakers, specifically the senators on this hearing. And you look at the chart, and it's in the hundreds of millions of dollars every year. This is a shakeup move. He's clearly said some things in the past that those senators were pointing back to.
JASON RILEY, COLUMNIST, "WALL STREET JOURNAL": Some things in the past?
BAIER: A lot. A lot.
RILEY: You know, if Kennedy had been nominated by Democrats to be HHS secretary, how many Republican votes do you think he would be getting? Probably not very many. You know, Trump sort of brought this on himself. We know he is transactional politician. He said get out of race and I'll give a position in my administration. And so here we are.
But I also want to put things in perspective here. HHS is not a top tier cabinet post. It's not secretary of state. It's not attorney general. Most Americans probably can't name the person Kennedy would be replacing. But public health is important. He's a Kennedy. HE has a big last name that people know. And he will have a platform. And he is a person who has spent a lifetime spreading misinformation and enriching himself and trial lawyers by spreading this misinformation. I don't think he's the right person for the job, particularly if we are trying to restore faith in government and faith in public health after a pandemic. I think we can do better than Kennedy.
BAIER: Matthew, at the same time, he did help President Trump with independents and some suburban women. The Make America Healthy Again was very popular. When you talk about food and the things that kids are eating, concern about disease, it moves the needle.
MATTHEW CONTINETTI, AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE: Well, I think it's precisely because we had the pandemic and we had the experts during the pandemic be shown to giving us false information, to prescribing social policies such as the lockdowns and the school closings that Americans really rebelled against and now have caused such devastation to our students as we are seeing in scores just released today, that have given rise to this movement, the Make America Healthy Again movement that RFK leads.
So, he enters this nomination vote from a very strong position because he has an independent constituency, Bret, a loyal following, and also because he has many bizarre beliefs, in many cases. But there's always going to be a group of people that agree with one of them. And you add them all up together, and I think you have a winning coalition. And I don't see any signs from this hearing that Republicans are ready to buck the president this time.
BAIER: Yes. And the question is you have tomorrow, the hearings for Kash Patel and Tulsi Gabbard. You look at the writings of various newspapers, "The Washington Post," "Gabbard faces close vote. Her approval by the Senate Intelligence Committee to be director of national intelligence is far from assured, according to two congressional officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss the controversial nominee. She definitely doesn't have the votes right now to advance out of the Intelligence Committee, said a Senate aide." We heard that, too, about others that eventually did. But it seems like Tulsi Gabbard is the focus.
CHAMBERS: She was always seen, based on what I was hearing from my sources, as the one or one of the ones that would be the most difficult to get across the finish line. She doesn't have the same relationships with Republicans as some of Trump's other nominees, and that's part of what is going on here. Even if they were uncomfortable with some of the past statements, they felt like knew them better as a person than they know her. So that would also be the case with potentially Kash Patel or RFK as well.
BAIER: Here's some senators on Kash Patel.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Getting Kash Patel into the position to deal with the national security crises and threats that we face here domestically is absolutely critical.
SEN. JOHN KENNEDY, (R-LA) SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE: But I want to hear that Mr. Patel is going to go in and, in a fair and equitable manner. I don't want to hear that he is going to go in like a small earthquake and destroy the institution.
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER, (D-NY) SENATE MINORITY LEADER: Mr. Patel is not remotely prepared to serve as FBI director. He's a conspiracy theorist, a hard right idealogue, and openly hostile to the free press.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: And just when the tide seemed to turn was when Trey Gowdy came on this show and said he advocated for Kash Patel to shake things up in the FBI. Obviously, the FBI has been under attack for all the moves that have happened over the last few years. Your sense about how this is going to go tomorrow?
RILEY: I think that there are some issues with Kash Patel, but of the people we're discussing tomorrow, I don't think he is the biggest concern for Republicans in the Senate, frankly. I think I would go back to gabbard as being a much, much bigger concern. You talk about her relationships with Republicans. One of the reasons is because she has this history of opposing policies, including the Trump administration's first term policies when it comes to a lot of foreign affairs. She opposed Trump getting out of the Iran nuclear deal that Obama got into. It's been disastrous. She opposed the killing of Soleimani. She has sided with Edward Snowden, a spy who gave secrets to Russia and China and our enemies. And she is going to be the head of 17, 18 intelligence agencies. There's nothing in her political history to me that suggests she is up for this job. And that will be the focus here. If senators want to hold their powder for her and give a pass to Patel and some of the others, I think they would be right to do so.
BAIER: Strong letter to follow from Jason tonight.
Up next, the confusion over the Trump federal freeze, and then a rare sight at sea.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, (R) U.S. PRESIDENT: We are merely looking at parts of the big bureaucracy where there has been tremendous waste and fraud and abuse.
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER, (D-NY) SENATE MINORITY LEADER: When the Trump administration announced this awful directive on Monday night, we knew immediately it was shortsighted, disastrous, cruel, and dumb. It is clear that President Trump and his minions are feeling the heat.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: "The Washington Post" wrote it this way, saying "White House reverses course, rescinds freeze on federal grants. The original White House order freezing federal grants, which became public on Monday, caused mass chaos and confusion across Washington. The Trump administration withdrew the order a day after federal judge in Washington, D.C. temporarily halted its implementation until February 3rd." Karoline Leavitt saying it's not a rescission of the freeze, Matthew, it's a rescission of the original OMB order, which they say was sloppily written, that created confusion. Bottom line, where are we?
CONTINETTI: Well, the bottom line was this was the first real pushback the Trump administration has received since taking office on January 20th. And I think it's the exception that proves the rule, Bret. What's different about this Trump administration than the first one is that so many of these executive orders are coming out swiftly and they are coming out very well- prepared and well-planned. And so this OMB memo that caused such confusion yesterday seemed to have slipped through that process.
But I think in a way it highlights how effective the other executive orders have been. On the very day that the Democrats were seizing this issue of the OMB memo, Trump signed a landmark order banning gender transition surgeries for minors. And we're not talking about that because that's an issue where Trump has the law behind him and the public opinion.
BAIER: Yes, and it's obvious that Democrats have been searching for something, and this was their something. It was always said that Republicans pounce on big moments, the media writes it like that. This clearly was Democrats pouncing. They had three press conferences. They thought this was it. It doesn't seem like it's going to last that long, but we'll see.
CHAMBERS: There is still some confusion, though, about what effect it will have. You pointed out the difference in the statements versus rescinding them, the memo itself versus rescinding the order there. And a court is still going to have to decide, the White House says that essentially the executive orders that the president has already signed, those can all go through, and that fundamentally what they are telling agencies is you need to implement funding that is in line with his other executive orders that he has already signed.
BAIER: Yes, so if you're funding deals with DEI or deals with transgender something, something, something, we have the right to look at this and scrub it and see.
RILEY: This is absolutely within the discretion of the executive to scrutinize these things and not just push, shovel money out the door without caring where it's going. And frankly, it's what Trump was elected to do. People are tired of waste and fraud. He has to be more detailed in what he is going after and what is included and what isn't included. So that was something of a self-inflicted wound.
BAIER: Today, you've got an order to prohibit federal funding for schools teaching CRT or gender ideology, order to prioritize federal funding for school choice programs, memoranda to prepare migrant facility at Guantanamo Bay -- we talked about that earlier -- order to combat antisemitism, task force to plan America's 250th birthday celebrations. This is today. You wrote a piece that he's doing a ton. But you've got to be --
RILEY: True. Also, these are executive orders. It means the next executive can come in and reverse them. What I like that he has done, the Laken Riley bill. Legislation that's more lasting than these executive orders. I think that should be the model for this administration going forward, getting legislation passed.
BAIER: And Laken Riley's mom was very emotional about that today.
Panel, thanks so much.
And finally tonight, a special day.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It was amazing. We were -- I mean, we are out there on the ocean every day, and all of us were taking pictures, had our phones up, drone like we were all very blown away, and it was a really memorable encounter that I won't forget for a long time.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: Take a look at this. This is a miles-long cluster of more than 1,500 dolphins seen swimming across Carmel Bay in California. Nearby whale surveyors were mesmerized because this type of dolphin, the Risso's dolphin, typically travels in group only about 10 to 30. This is 1,500. Researchers said it looked like the animals were having a big party. Good on you.
Tomorrow on SPECIAL REPORT, confirmation hearings for President Trump's nominees to run the FBI and the nation's intelligence community. We will bring those to you live and have a wrap up at the end of the day.
Remember, if you can't catch us live, set your DVR, 6:00 p.m. in the east, 3:00 p.m. on the west coast.
Thank you for inviting us in your home tonight. That's it for this SPECIAL REPORT, fair, balanced, and still unafraid. THE INGRAHAM ANGLE is next.

Load-Date: January 30, 2025


End of Document
