




Fox News FOX NEWS @ NIGHT 11:00 PM EST
February 10, 2025 Monday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7057 words
Byline: Trace Gallagher, Ashley Strohmier, Jason Chaffetz, Gianno Caldwell, Mark Meredith, Nicole Parker
Guests: Tiffany Marie Brannon, Mark Lamb, Amber Duke, Joey Mannarino, Emily Wilson, Bo Loudon
Body


(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS HOST: Guy Benson, Jim Norton, Timpf, Tyrus, studio audience.
FOX NEWS @ NIGHT is next. I'm Greg Gutfeld. I love you America.
TRACE GALLAGHER, FOX NEWS HOST: Good evening, I'm Trace Gallagher. It's 11:00 p.m. on the East Coast, 8:00 here in Los Angeles, and this is America's late news, FOX NEWS @ NIGHT.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Entire first term, just 11 days. Just 11 days Donald Trump had a net positive approval rating. Compare that to the second term, just so far, just so far.
Every single day of Trump's second term, so far, he has been on the positive side of the ledger, a different world. That is what's going on right now. We're living in a different world. 70 percent of Americans say Trump is doing what he promised to do.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Breaking tonight, the numbers are in, and it is now a different world as a majority of Americans now approve of the job that President Trump is doing, and that's likely because he is doing what he said he would do.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We got to get back to common sense.
We will begin the complete restoration of America and the revolution of common sense. It's all about common sense.
I have high approval ratings because you know, I'm using common sense.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: And nobody loves common sense more than common sense. And the world, by the way, was on full display during last night's Super Bowl.
And so, a question are the Swift boos and Trump cheers a sign of the times? We want your thoughts in the Nightcap.
Meantime, chaos on the streets of Philadelphia after the Eagles win, as celebrations turn violent. We'll have more on that in moments.
And Elon Musk now sounding the alarm on FEMA and the millions of dollars they are spending on illegal immigrants after the Biden administration insisted that was not true.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE, FORMER WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: Disaster relief, this is a falsehood. Disaster relief funds used on immigrants illegally in the U.S. The fact is, no money is being diverted from response needs. That's the fact.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Ashley Strohmier is live in New York with more on the Common Sense campaign promises that President Trump is living up to. Ashley, good evening.
ASHLEY STROHMIER, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Hi, Trace. A big reason for President Trump's record high approval rating is because, as CBS notes, he is delivering on many of his campaign promises, much of that being done through the more than 60 executive orders he's issued so far.
Just today, Trump signed orders eliminating the Federal Executive Institute, a management training program for career civil servants, and then mandating the government used plastic straws, a reversal of the Biden administration policy.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
TRUMP: We're going back to plastic straws. These things don't work. I've had them many times, and on occasion they break, they explode.
STROHMIER (voice over): And it's not just polls showing how popular Trump is at this stage in his presidency. Take a look at how he was received at last night's Super Bowl.
STROHMIER: You'd love to see it in whether it's an order supporting plastic straws or being the first sitting president to ever attend the Super Bowl, which is baffling to me, but Trump seems to be making changes in so many facets of American life and in the federal government, with the help of the Department of Government Efficiency and Elon Musk.
TRUMP: I'm going to tell him very soon, like maybe in 24 hours, to go check the Department of Education. Then I'm going to go to the military. Let's check the military. We're going to find billions, hundreds of billions of dollars of fraud and abuse.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
STROHMIER (on camera): But Trace, of course, none of this is without resistance. A judge today continued to block the Trump administration's buyout offer to over two million federal civilian employees, and around 65,000 federal employees have reportedly accepted the offer, and Musk said today that $59 million was spent to house illegal migrants in luxury New York City hotels. Back to you.
GALLAGHER: We're going to talk a lot more about that. Ashley Strohmier live for us in New York. Ashley, thank you.
Let's bring in Fox News political analyst Gianno Caldwell and Fox News Contributor Jason Chaffetz. Gentlemen, welcome to both of you.
I want to -- Jason, to you first. Give you a quick sample of DOGE's to do list. This is FoxNews.com quoting, the Department of Health and Human Services canceled more than 180 million in contracts over 48 hours, including a nearly 170,000 contract for an Anthony Fauci museum exhibit.
DOGE X post, also today, the Department of Education terminated 89 contracts worth 881 million, one contractor was paid 1.5 mil to observe mailing and clerical operations at a mall center.
Final, DOGE post, today, the Department of Education terminated 29 DEI training grants totaling $101 million.
Pretty good days work, Jason.
JASON CHAFFETZ, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: Yes, the numbers are absolutely stunning. I mean, what in the world is the Health and Human Services even doing with having a museum, but to celebrate and have an exhibit on Doctor Fauci? Are you kidding me?
Look, I am so glad that the country is so grateful. This is why Donald Trump's ratings are off the charts. He's doing exactly what he was going to said he was going to do. We're only three weeks into this administration, and Elon Musk and whoever those people that he brought in, are able to look at things.
Look, I was the chairman of the Oversight Committee, I couldn't go see that specificity. How he did it? More power to him. It's exactly what the country needs.
GALLAGHER: Man, I'll tell you that. Gianno, to you now. Some reaction to CBS poll numbers, new poll numbers on Trump's job approval. Let's watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Our CBS poll finds that a majority of Americans, 53 percent approve of the job he's doing. That's a better approval number than he ever reached during his first term in the White House.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He is doing in the eyes of the public what he said he would do in the campaign. There's political value in that. In fact, 70 percent of people say he's doing what he promised.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: And you know, it just pains CBS to say these things.
GIANNO CALDWELL, FOX NEWS CHANNEL POLITICAL ANALYST: Yes, 70 percent of Americans believe that Donald Trump is doing exactly what he campaigned to do. How can I disagree with him? How can I disagree with Jason on this very point?
The truth of the matter is the American people wanted to have inflation stop. They wanted to have illegal immigration at the border stop. They wanted to ensure that there was safety and security. And President Donald Trump is doing exactly that.
He's installing Cabinet members like Pam Bondi, Attorney General of the United States, who's doing what he has instructed. Many others are doing exactly that.
So, the thanks, I think, belongs to those in which he's appointed to these particular positions who are doing exactly what the American people want them to do.
GALLAGHER: Quick back and forth. This is Bret Baier and Donald Trump talking about the -- you know, J.D. Vance being the heir apparent.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Right now, do you view Vice President J.D. Vance as your successor, the Republican nominee in 2028?
TRUMP: No, but he's very capable. I mean, I don't think that it -- you know, I think you have a lot of very capable people. So far, I think he's doing a fantastic job. It's too early. We're just starting.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: I thought the answer Jason would be yes. Are you surprised at all?
CHAFFETZ: No. I mean, look, we're three weeks into the Trump administration tTo talk about a successor. You got to be able to take the reins at any given moment. And I think J.D. Vance exemplifies, personifies, exactly the type of personality that's new and is leading the Republican Party. He's young, he's vibrant, he understands the numbers. He represents the values of this country. He pulled himself up from the bootstraps. It's the all American story. But I think he enjoys Donald Trump's full throttle support.
GALLAGHER: Yes, he does. Lastly, Gianno, I want to talk about the upcoming Caldwell Institute gala at Mar-a-Lago here. I want to read the following inspired by Gianno's personal loss, talking, of course, about your brother. The inaugural gala unites us to celebrate justice and honor those who stand for victims' rights across the nation. You say we are honored to welcome John Walsh, host of "AMERICA'S MOST WANTED", as our keynote speaker.
It's a noteworthy cause, very important, Gianno. Give me -- give me 15, 30 seconds on this.
CALDWELL: Absolutely and I'm thankful that we're having the Caldwell Institute for Public Safety gala at Mar-a-Lago on February 22nd, people can get their tickets at CaldwellInstitute.Org. We welcome everyone who believes in justice. Certainly.
So thankful that we have this moment where we can have John Walsh, who's a crime fighter. We have Lisa Boothe, who's going to be our emcee, and certainly we have the American people who have been supportive of our efforts of taking down George Soros funded progressive prosecutors. Please support us at CaldwellInstitute.Org.
GALLAGHER: Yes, it's a good cause. Gianno, Jayson, thank you both.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ANA NAVARRO, "THE VIEW" CO-HOST: I think today, Donald Trump is going to sign an executive order banning Black people from halftime. And all the racists who somehow get in. Man, were they hopping mad. So, if the racist are mad, I am happy as a clam.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Donald Trump was loudly cheered, sought out by Kansas City Chief star for a handshake, and posed for a photo op with Patrick Mahomes' brother, all while making history as the first sitting president to attend a Super Bowl.
Let's bring in political strategist and podcast host Tiffany Marie Brannon, along with Steamboat Institute Bankley fellow Amber Duke. Thank you both, and welcome for coming.
I mean, the Ana Navarro comment there, Tiffany, was really one of those things where she said it's a joke, but when you say it over and over again, it's not really a joke, it's kind of a pattern, right? It's kind of a --
TIFFANY MARIE BRANNON, POLITICAL STRATEGIST: Yes, it's no different than the calling Trump Hitler comments that we've gotten for the last, you know, decade, almost at this point. And really, you look at the numbers, Trump's approval rating with Black voters is only climbing. It's only getting better.
And if anyone can prove that Donald Trump is a man who very much is a part of the American Black community, just look at what we've been seeing in terms of the voters who are turning out to support him.
GALLAGHER: Yes, we just talked about the numbers for the past several minutes here. Here's the video at the Super Bowl, but he's talking about this. This is, of course, Donald Trump and Taylor Swift in little contrast here. Watch this.
I mean, Taylor Swift ever clearly has a history with the Philadelphia fan series. There's a little bit of that in there, they were taking a dig. But it's interesting, nonetheless, the cheers and the boos.
AMBER DUKE, STEAMBOAT INSTITUTE BANKLEY FELLOW: Absolutely. I mean, she's been booed at a couple of Kansas City Chiefs games as well. And Trump has only been getting more popular, especially among sports fans and athletes. We saw tons of high profile athletes doing the Trump dance over the past year, and this is a cultural vibe shift. This is a sea change moment that we all got to watch during the Super Bowl, and Taylor Swift looks so shocked.
Well, sorry, Taylor. This isn't the Eras Tour. This is an arena full of sports fans, and these are exactly the type of people who were not persuaded by your Instagram message urging people to vote for Kamala Harris, and not to mention the fact that those approval rating numbers Trump up 10 points with Gen Z.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Mark Halperin said this. He said this before the Super Bowl. If you listen to it, it sounds to me like he is kind of comparing Democrats to how the Kansas City Chiefs played last night. Listen to this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MARK HALPERIN, JOURNALIST: I'm paid to not be baffled or speechless. That's been my job. I am baffled and somewhat speechless. The Democrats are nowhere on the field. The press is nowhere on the field. I have never seen anything like not just the activity, but the -- but the inability of his opponents to forget stopping him. They're barely, with a few exceptions, even slowing him down.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: I mean, it really does sound like a Super Bowl analogy there, and they're having trouble slowing Trump down.
BRANNON: That's the beauty of this administration, is that they came in with the plan. They had over thousand pre-approved administration members, and they're coming in hard, and they're coming in fast.
A lot of my friends are saying it's like trying to drink water from a fire hose right now. And that's kind of the feeling across the board. So, you see that last night the game, and you're seeing it right now in politics.
GALLAGHER: Yes, really, it's one of those things where you watch these boxing matches. I'm a big boxing fan, and when you see some fighter get stunned, they just don't know really how to respond. That's kind of happening right now.
Lastly, the Hill writes the following here, quoting, Senate Democrats launch a portal for whistle blowers in the Trump administration. It's interesting because, Amber, a lot of the comments that they got on this are the ones saying, Democrats are the ones that need the whistle blowers, not one that whistle on the Trump administration. DOGE is really kind of outing, right, they're the whistleblower for the Trump administration.
DUKE: That's right. And I wish that the Democrats had paid attention to the IRS whistleblowers who said that they were stopped from investigating potential leads that would have gone to President Joe Biden's alleged foreign corruption, but I guess they only discover whistleblowers now that they're desperate to stop Trump.
As Tiffany said, Trump is employing a flood the zone strategy, and Democrats are so desperate. They don't know how to respond to it. They were caught completely flat footed by this aggressive strategy. I think it was one of the smartest things Trump could have done.
GALLAGHER: It's amazing they're talking about whistleblowers. They're talking about impeachment already 21 days in. It really is something out of the playbook of 2017, 2018, but here we are again.
Tiffany, Amber, thank you both.
Well, along with U.S. troops deploying to the southern border. It sounds like the Trump administration plans to send some IRS agents to help in the fight against illegal immigration. Bill Melugin is live with the new information on the new move. Bill, good evening.
BILL MELUGIN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Trace, good evening to you. The full on blitz continues. The Trump administration now looking to deputize IRS agents to help ICE out with arresting and deporting illegal aliens. Take a look at this in a letter to Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent. DHS Secretary Kristi Noem writes, in part, "It is DHS's understanding that the Department of the Treasury has qualified law enforcement personnel available to assist with immigration enforcement, especially in light of recent increases to the Internal Revenue Services's workforce and budget. This letter requests that you make qualified officials from the Department of the Treasury available to work with ICE and that you consent to those officials being deputized to perform immigration functions."
Now, in the meantime, deportation flights to Venezuela have restarted again today, with Trump's envoy for special missions, Ric Grenell, supervising two flights of Venezuelans being sent back to Venezuela from El Paso. Flights also continue to Guantanamo Bay, that's where Secretary Noem recently visited.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KRISTI NOEM, HOMELAND SECURITY SECRETARY: I watched a plane load of people unload at Gitmo that were pedophiles, child pornographers. They were drug dealers in our communities that literally, these cartels are partnering with the Chinese to kill our next generation of Americans. That's who we're putting down there at Gitmo, and I'm just so thankful that they're not in our country anymore.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MELUGIN: More U.S. troops are also headed to the southern border as well, with DOD announcing another 1500 active duty troops, which will be deployed in the coming days. That brings the total to roughly 3600 troops working at our southern border.
And Trace, illegal crossings have fallen off cliff. Excuse me, microscopic numbers. If you sent us down there right now, we'd have trouble finding anybody.
GALLAGHER: Yes, well, we might send you down there right now. Bill, thanks. Bill Melugin, we appreciate it.
Well, the FOX NEWS @ NIGHT Common Sense Department couldn't help but notice that Elon Musk is claiming FEMA sent $59 million last week to pay luxury hotels in New York City to house illegal immigrants. Elon says his Department of Government Efficiency, or DOGE just found out about the money and is planning to claw it back.
But New York City officials are claiming it's nowhere near 59 million and that it's from a "previously allocated reimbursement."
It's like Butch Cassidy saying, the stolen money in his pocket is not stolen. It was previously allocated by the bank.
Again, Common Sense doesn't care what program or grant or bucket FEMA got the money. It's federal money. Federal money should not be used to support those who broke federal law. It's a federal violation.
Maybe that's why DHS Secretary Kristi Noem says we should, "Get rid of FEMA the way it exists today", because today's FEMA appears to lack a sense of urgency, yet embraces a sense of bias.
Remember, this is the same FEMA that told FOX NEWS @ NIGHT that after Hurricane Milton in Florida, FEMA avoided homes with Trump signs.
Common Sense has one small suggestion for FEMA, read the room. It's bad enough that you deliberately ignored homes with signs for Trump. Now you are deliberately ignoring executive actions signed by Trump.
Let's bring in former Pinal County Arizona Sheriff, Mark Lamb. Sheriff, great to have you on the show as always.
Elon Musk is correct. The government should not be sending $59 million of federal money to take care of those who broke federal law.
MARK LAMB., FORMER PINAL COUNTY ARIZONA SHERIFF: He's absolutely correct. And that number is actually about 650 million through the shelter and Services Program, which goes to FEMA through DHS, the majority of that money, as we know, have been used on those who came into this country illegally, for hotels and all sorts of other stuff.
Meanwhile, we have people in North Carolina that are continuing to go without, as we do in Lahaina, Hawaii or Maui. We've also got the people in California. That's where that money should have gone. That's what Americans think that money is going to when they pay their taxes.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Meantime, a week ago, Trump threatened tariffs against Mexico. You know, the left maligned him, saying nothing is going to come with this. Mexico agreed to send reinforcements to the border. The Washington Examiner now writes the following, quoting here, Trump's request for Mexico to enhance border security already paying dividends. It goes on to say, four days after its implementation, authorities arrested 139 people and seized over eight kilograms of fentanyl, according to reports, dozens of firearms and numerous other drugs also seized as part of the operation, including cocaine, heroin, marijuana and methamphetamine.
I mean, the Trump push for these tariffs and subsequent deal is already saving lives, and that's the important thing, Sheriff.
LAMB: Absolutely, I don't want to forget -- I want any of our American people to forget that we've been losing over 100,000 people a year to fentanyl, not to mention methamphetamines, heroin, cocaine, all the other drugs that have been coming across with virtually no stoppage at all from the previous administration.
And now that President Trump is actually meaning what he says and saying what he means, the Mexican government is actually taking him seriously, and they are mobilizing as well. And we're seeing those positive effects already. We got a lot of work to still do, but we're going in the right direction.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Meantime, the Daily Mail writes the following here. President Donald Trump wants to send IRS agents to the Mexico border to remove illegal migrants, the tax agents would be deputized to help arrest, detain and transport people out of the country.
Interesting, because you're getting IRS, is this like to audit? No, it's not to audit. It's to arrest. What do you think of that plan?
LAMB: Well, look, I think it's great because now they're not bothering the American people, but I actually have a friend who's a treasury agent. And they do a lot of great work. And I think what they're meaning is those treasury agents that have been trained, they've gone through, you know, law enforcement academies, they putting cases together, serving warrants. And I think a lot of those guys are who they're referring to. They can take them, put them on the border to help and assist with securing our border.
GALLAGHER: Sheriff Mark Lamb, former Sheriff Mark Lamb, great to have you on the show as always. We appreciate it. Sir, thank you.
LAMB: Good to see you.
GALLAGHER: And coming up, we have breaking information about a plane collision in Scottsdale, Arizona. The update on that is next.
And breaking tonight, one of President Trump's most controversial Cabinet nominees clears a key Senate hurdle. We'll talk about that.
And later in the Nightcap. Donald Trump getting a massive cheer at yesterday's Super Bowl, while mega pop star Taylor Swift got booed a bit, as you heard. Many are saying it's emblematic of a culture shift as President Trump begins his second term, what do you think? Culture shift? Just football fans being football fans? Let us know X and Instagram @TraceGallagher, we'll read your responses coming up in the Nightcap.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GALLAGHER: Here's some breaking news coming into FOX NEWS @ NIGHT, at least one person was killed, three others injured when two private jets collided at Scottsdale airport in Arizona. The FAA says one of the planes veered off the runway and then collided with the second plane, which was parked on private property.
Unknown exactly how that happened, but the owner of the jet that veered off the runway, reportedly is the lead singer of the band Motley Crue, Vince Neil. We have zero information indicating that Vince Neil was on board that plane. It is believed the landing gear of that plane failed, and we will bring you new information as it comes in to FOX NEWS @ NIGHT.
Well, one of the president's most polarizing Cabinet nominees passed a major hurdle tonight, setting up a full confirmation vote this week for Tulsi Gabbard as the Director of National Intelligence.
Mark Meredith is live for us in D.C., with the breaking information on this. Mark, good evening.
MARK MEREDITH, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Trace, good evening to you. Tonight, the Senate voted down party lines to advance Tulsi Gabbard nomination to be the Director of National Intelligence, which means a final confirmation vote is only hours away.
Gabbard is considered one of the more controversial nominees of Trump's second term, and while she's a military veteran, some lawmakers have been outraged over her past support for government leaker Edward Snowden. She wants push for charges against Snowden to be dropped, even after he leaves classified data about a mass surveillance program to the media.
Gabbard says she's eager to shake up the intelligence community. Top Republicans say they believe an outsider can take over.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. JOHN THUNE (R-SD): I'm glad that Ms. Gabbard plans to focus on identifying and eliminating redundancies and inefficiencies to restore the office to what it was originally designed to be.
MEREDITH (voice over): It wasn't long ago, Gabbard was a registered Democrat. She even ran as the 2020 Democratic presidential candidate. Now, Democratic Senator Mark Warner is among those very critical of her nomination.
SEN. MARK WARNER (D-VA): A vote in favor of her confirmation is an endorsement of President Trump's lawless efforts to hollow out our national security workforce, and her confirmation will further strain the alliances that are kept our country safe for decades.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MEREDITH: Following Gabbard's confirmation vote, the Senate expected to begin efforts to confirm Robert F. Kennedy Jr., he's up for the Secretary of Health and Human Services. But you got a lot of nominees, Trace that are still waiting confirmation. You got people in key positions, like Trump's pick to lead the Department of Commerce, still waiting for the final vote, Trace.
GALLAGHER: A lot of waiting. Mark Meredith live for us in D.C. Mark, thank you.
Let's bring in former FBI special agent and Fox News Contributor Nicole Parker, along with political strategist Joey Mannarino, thank you both for coming on.
Nicole, to you first. Democratic Senator Mark Warner, and Mark Meredith played a little bit of that. I want to play a little bit more because it's important to the next question. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. MARK WARNER (D-VA): Ms. Gabbard has celebrated Snowden as a "brave whistleblower." She blamed NATO for Russia's 2022 invasion of Ukraine. Ms. Gabbard exercised terrible, terrible judgment and had to meet with Bashar al-Assad, and in her confirmation hearing, she seemed unable to recognize why the national security interest of the United States might be better protected if TikTok, a social media app that reached into homes of millions of Americans was actually under America ownership.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: I think the important news here is that, the context is taken out of all of those things. There are just kind of headlines and bullet points that don't really have any effect. Do you think they are valid concerns, Nicole?
NICOLE PARKER, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: I had the privilege and opportunity to testify before Congress alongside Tulsi Gabbard about two years ago, and what I can say is Ms. Gabbard is a true patriot. She has served our country for over 22 years.
And when I had the opportunity to meet her, she literally emanates and exudes light and strength. She is a woman of integrity, and I believe that she will do amazing things for our intelligence community.
And I think that President Trump is right on task as he is nominating individuals. These are very unconventional, non-status quo picks. That is what America wants. That is what they have voted for and that is what they are going to get.
I think that she is vivacious, she is vibrant, and I think that she will do a fantastic job and I do believe that she will be approved.
GALLAGHER: Meantime, Joey, here's Politico trying to kind of gin up a little maybe edge of your seat politics. They go on to say here the headline telling Gabbard Trump's terrifying troika, Patel has a vengeful nature, they say, when a reporter from the Atlantic sought to give.
Wait, no, no, no. Take that back. Take that back. Take that back. Here we go. It says, "Vance out of the country ahead of Gabbard confirmation," but will say the next one. "If three Republicans oppose Gabbard and no Democrats support her as expected, she will need Vance to break a tie to help her get over the finish line."
It sounds like she's going to be fine without J.D. Vance, Joey. What do you think? They're just kind of like, let's get this thing some excitement in here?
JOEY MANNARINO, POLITICAL STRATEGIST: Yes, she'll be just fine. So, Susan Collins came out today, and she said that she will be supporting Lisa Murkowski came out and said that she'll be supporting, so you have those two.
I really don't understand why Bernie Sanders is not supporting this woman after she stepped down when she was in the DNC. She stepped down to protest how they treated him. He can't seem to come to terms with actually giving himself the decency to return the favor, but whatever.
We're going to be fine without J.D. Vance. He can stay in France and enjoy his time over there learning from whatever craziness the E.U. is talking about now and we will be just fine. Tulsi Gabbard will be confirmed.
We will get what we voted for, and J.D. can enjoy his trip.
GALLAGHER: Yes, we will see it. I think a lot of people have that consensus. Meantime, I gave you a little preview, Nicole, but here we go again. The Hill, they were writing about this. It's interesting because they call RFK Jr., the anti-vaxxer -- he's not. Calls Tulsi Gabbard woefully ignorant, not.
Said this about Kash Patel, quoting here, put this on the screen, "Patel has a vengeful nature when a reporter from the Atlantic sought to interview many of the nearly 40 of Patel's former colleagues fearing certain retaliation they said they would only do so if they could remain anonymous."
Yes, they're just petrified of Kash Patel coming back on him. What do you think, Nicole?
PARKER: As a former FBI Special Agent who walked away from the FBI because it had been politically and socially weaponized, it will be a breath of fresh air to have someone get in there and to make some real changes. You know, I consider it a form of disruptive innovation. And I think that's exactly what the federal government needs.
It's exactly what the FBI needs right now. Because what is going on right now is not working. You know, with Director Wray, Director Comey, Director Mueller, you know, Kash Patel is different. He is unique. And I think what he brings to the table is exactly what President Trump wants, and I am confident that he will lead the FBI with strength.
GALLAGHER: And I'm curious about your take on this, Joey, because you talked about Tulsi Gabbard. So, now you have RFK, Jr., and you have Kash Patel in this mix. What do you think about both of their pushes? Do they get through?
MANNARINO: I think they're going to get through. The bottom line is this, we have 53 Republican Senators. When Donald Trump won that mandate in November, it was for people like RFK, people like Tulsi Gabbard, people like Kash Patel.
We said no more of the same old story that we have had for the past decades in Washington D.C. So, if these 53 Republican Senators can't get it together, they need to be nowhere near those seats because we voted for this. This is what Make America Great Again is about, and if they can't get with the program, it's time to pack it up and get out of there.
GALLAGHER: Joey Mannarino, Nicole Parker, thank you both. And coming up, more on how President Trump is making America patriotic again, and a major vibe shift. Are we going to use that phrase? How about that? A vibe shift at the Super Bowl, showing the President may have more fans than Taylor Swift. That's next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, U.S. PRESIDENT: I think just the spirit of the country, the country's taken on a whole new life. I thought it would be a good thing for the country to have the president be at the game.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Well, there you have it, the president's historic appearance at Super Bowl LIX may have marked a real vibe shift in America. Let's bring in the host of the "Emily Saves America" podcast, Emily Wilson; conservative Gen-Z influencer and Barron Trump's best friend, Bo Loudon; along with conservative activist C.J. Pearson. Welcome to all of you.
Emily, to you first. I mean, we played the sound a couple of times, the booing at over Taylor Swift at the game, and the cheering of Donald Trump. What do you think about that? I mean you know we have to explain that Taylor Swift used to be an Eagles fan, so there's a little bit of animosity there. But the truth of the matter is, you know, these are football fans and there was a little bit more going on there. What do you think about that?
EMILY WILSON, PODCAST HOST: Yes, look, I don't think this is her crowd. I don't think people are going there for her. I think it's very widely known. People love Donald Trump. They're excited to see him. When he walks in places, people go nuts.
And other than that, it's very simple. I'm sure there's a lot of people that didn't like her, but that's also what happens when you have a political opinion these days. Sometimes people end up not liking you.
GALLAGHER: Yes. It's interesting, Bo, because I was at the game last night and you could kind of feel this change, right? And to me, you look around, and you watch the fans, and you know the Eagles fans were different because they were having a good night.
But you look at the young fans, and even the Kansas City fans, the young people were kind of gravitating toward Trump -- really excited that he was there.
It seems to be like you were right a couple months ago when you told us this, Bo, it seems to be this move toward the president, from young people's perspective.
BO LOUDON, GEN-Z INTERNET PERSONALITY: A hundred percent, Trace. I mean, you know, when 56 percent of Gen-Z voters are voting for Donald Trump, male voters, we know that that he's sweeping Gen-Z in a landslide.
And seeing things like the halftime show, you know, with Kentrick Lamar, it was OK, but it was nothing compared to the legendary halftime shows of the real American music legends like Travis Tritt and Kid Rock, you know.
If that would have been there, the Super Bowl would have -- I mean, America would truly felt back. But it was still feeling like it's back because they said Taylor Swift was the real spearhead of the whole election. Her endorsement was going to sway the election.
Well, I just watched her get booted by an entire stadium while our President Donald Trump got a standing ovation. So, it really does show that America's back and Gen Z is more on fire for Trump than ever.
GALLAGHER: Yes, we lost C.J. Pearson. We're trying to get his shot back up. Meantime, let's go back to Emily, because I want to play some sound and this is kind of off the Super Bowl topic here, but I think it's interesting because it goes to the young people thing where Donald Trump was talking about paper straws versus plastic straws. And guess which one is in and guess which one is out. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is an executive order relating to the use of paper straws. As you've consistently identified, nobody really likes paper straws.
TRUMP: These things don't work. I've had them many times, and on occasion they break, they explode. If we're going back to plastic straws, I think it's OK.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: I mean, it seems like it's this nominal, this innocuous little signing here, but, you know, a few years ago, Emily, the people in your generation would have thrown a fit; they would be out protesting this kind of stuff.
WILSON: OK. I've been saying this forever, you go places, I'm paying like $12.00 for a latte. I get a paper straw. It tastes like paper. It's disgusting. And on top of that, you're telling me that the cup is plastic, the lid is plastic, but you're worried about the straw? It's ridiculous. This is incredible.
GALLAGHER: Yes, it really is. Bo, to you, I want to put this. This is a USA Today opinion piece, and it reads as following here, final, this was: "Super Bowl will now be called Trump America bowl moving forward." USA Today, "The Eagles' one last, one last ever Super Bowl. Next year, it will be the Trump America Bowl." The Trump America Bowl, what do you think about that?
LOUDON: I think it sounds great. I think it has a great ring to it. And like you guys brought up the paper straws, we're getting rid of those. I think by the end of Trump's term, he's going to have the support of 90 percent of America.
We've taken out things that really frustrate Americans like paper straws wrapped in plastic or our taxpayer dollars going to a bunch of bogus, bogus things, you know, with DOGE, it's over. I mean, Super Bowl, America, everybody watched our president last night and they could not be more on fire for him being our president.
And everyone's saying, oh Trump supporters are regretting their votes. I don't regret my vote at all. I'm more proud and confident in that vote than I've been in pretty much anything in the last five years. So, I'm very happy to be having him back in office and I think all of America is as well.
GALLAGHER: OK, I was going to give C.J. this question, but here's Emily. We're still looking for C.J. We can't get his shot back up. We've gone from players like kneeling during the National Anthem and now these players last night were emotional during the National Anthem and during America the Beautiful. And I want to play some sound, because this is Jalen Hurts and the head coach of the Eagles right after the game. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: God is good. He has it in the highs and the lows.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: God has blessed us very much. He gave us all the talents to be able to get here. So, first and foremost, thanks to him. Thank God. Thank you, Jesus.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: All glory to God, first and foremost.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: It really is. It feels like a different time, Emily, right? Even if you're not a football fan, you think it's a different time.
WILSON: Wow, that was four, thank you God, and God is back. That's wow, I'm impressed. That was like something that was like the forbidden thing to say. You could have mentioned God, religion, loving America, being thankful. I mean, yes, now we actually get to express our gratitude for this country, and we should, no matter what.
GALLAGHER: Yes, and the whole thing was you look at that as a kind of a vibe change right, Bo to steal a phrase, a vibe change and you see that kind of thing you see these people, these players that are that are getting emotional at the national anthem. And, and you know, kind of referring to God, again and again, what, what are your final thoughts on that?
LOUDON: I mean, I think it's absolutely beautiful and it's everything that American needs right now. You know, we have, we have a crippled economy that Trump had to take from Biden and fix. We have a broken family unit in this country. We have terrible policy. And President Trump is coming here and fixing it all.
And I couldn't be more happy to see it. I love that we have our generation that can look up to these football players that are, that are focused on God, and family, and country -- and not all of this degenerate woke stuff that they've been trying to shove in our brains for the past four years.
GALLAGHER: And look at C.J. Pearson decided to pay us a visit. C.J., I want to -- no, we just, we lost him again. Put him up on the screen. We just want to see him because he just -- C.J., if you can talk, if you can hear us, I want to know your just your final thoughts on the whole vibe shift.
And we lost him again, his shot again. So, there you go. Let's play this. I want to play this because I didn't get a chance to see it, and a lot of people did and this is the Fox, Fox News commercial that played during the first quarter and again in the second half. Watch this.
Big giant tribute to what a busy news year it is, the changing world, and you know a toast to FOX NEWS @ NIGHT. Thank you all for that, we appreciate it. Emily, C.J., if you can hear us, we appreciate that. Bo Loudon, thank you as well.
Meantime, President Trump received a massive cheer at yesterday's Super Bowl, while Taylor Swift got negative reaction full of boos. Many say it's emblematic of the culture shift we just talked about with Trump 2.0. What do you think, culture shift or just a typical football game?
Let us know, X and Instagram, @TraceGallagher. We're back with the "NIGHTCAP" crew, including you, next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GALLAGHER: Back with the "NIGHTCAP" crew: Bill Melugin, Ashley Strohmier, Mark Meredith, Tiffany Marie Brannon, Emily Wilson, and Bo Loudon. Lightning round of the "NIGHTCAP."
Swift kick. President Trump receiving a massive cheer at the Super Bowl while Taylor Swift got massive boos. What do you think, Mark Meredith?
MEREDITH: I think they were cheering for you, Trace. I think they, you were there at the game. So, I'm assuming they splashed you up between Trump and Taylor, and they showed Trace.
GALLAGHER: Yes, one me. Ashley.
STROHMIER: I just think people are really tired of having Taylor Swift shoved down their throats every chance they get.
GALLAGHER: Yes, I think that's fair. Bill Melugin.
MELUGIN: I don't know what kind of reception she expected. She endorsed Kamala. Trump won Pennsylvania and Missouri, and like she just said, NFL fans are sick of seeing the camera on her every second every game.
GALLAGHER: Yes, I think that's true. Tiffany.
BRANNON: Yes. I think we're finally in the era where we're tired of a pop star telling us our political opinions. And we'd be happy to have the first president of the United States actually come to a football game.
GALLAGHER: Emily.
WILSON: Breaking news, people love Trump. This is -- surprise everybody. Yes.
GALLAGHER: So, we asked, we asked the audience here -- who is that? Oh, Bo -- sorry, Bo.
LOUDON: No, no, I was just saying, you know, I think they were like me, they were jumping up and down like a little girl when they saw that epic Fox News ad. You know, America is excited to be back. We're excited to have rightful President Trump in office, baby.
GALLAGHER: Yes, well me and Melugin made that ad. I'm going to say that.
Dan, "I believe they cheered Trump because changing shift in America's culture. I think they booed Taylor Swift because it was very pro-Eagles crowd." Fair.
Ronnie, "I think many people are tired of celebrities."
Trevor, "It's called the Trump effect. Taylor found out real quick we're not living in Joe Biden's America anymore."
Scott, "Americans love a comeback. Trump is emblematic of just that."
And Georgia, "Trump is the man of the moment. Many football fans see Taylor as an unwelcome distraction."
And thank you for watching America's late news, FOX NEWS @ NIGHT. I'm Trace Gallagher. We'll see you right back here again tomorrow night.

Load-Date: February 11, 2025


End of Document
