



Fox News JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME 8:00 PM EST
January 21, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6615 words
Byline: Jesse Watters, Charles Payne, Clay Travis, Jimmy Failla
Guests: Markwayne Mullin, Michael Shellenberger
Body


LAURA INGRAHAM, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST, "THE INGRAHAM ANGLE": Dr. McCullough, I haven't seen in a long time. It's great to see you. Thank you for everything you've done on this subject.
All right, that's it for us tonight.
Remember to follow me. Get on Instagram. All of the hijinks and the adventures of the Inauguration time, three days, all there.
Jesse Watters takes it next.
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST, "JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME": Welcome to JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME.
Tonight --
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: These people have served years of jail. Their lives have been ruined, and in many -- and in many cases -- listen to me for a second. Stop interrupting.
REPORTER: I apologize.
WATTERS: America survives the one day dictatorship.
MASAYOSHI SON, CEO, SOFTBANK: This is the beginning of Golden Age.
KASIE HUNT, CNN ANCHOR AND CHIEF NATIONAL AFFAIRS ANALYST: How do you feel about Biden pardoning his family members, especially on the way out in a preemptive way?
KATE BEDINGFIELD, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: I will be totally candid, I think it was disappointing.
WATTERS: Biden's pardons must be investigated.
TRUMP: He gave pardons. That's the question you should be answering.
JIM ACOSTA, CNN ANCHOR: Elon Musk, I'm sure you saw this. He used a hand gesture that looked like a Nazi salute.
REP. ROBERT GARCIA (D-CA): That was a Nazi salute, and he didn't just do it one time.
WATTERS: The media has its first hoax of the year.
ELON MUSK, CO-DIRECTOR, DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT EFFICIENCY: My heart goes out to you.
WATTERS: Plus --
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALES: No.
WATTERS: A big difference between Trump and Biden, Biden had no balls.
He was Inaugurated during a pandemic, social distancing, so we never got to see Joe dance with the doctor. But last night, it was nice to see the return of romance.
(VIDEO CLIP PLAYS)
WATTERS: But all of a sudden, someone handed the dictator a weapon.
(VIDEO CLIP PLAYS)
WATTERS: 47 slicing Air Force One cake with a four-foot sword, just doing what dictators do. Saddam would have been proud.
If you were watching college football instead of JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME, shame on you. But Trump made sure you wouldn't miss out. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: Hello to my great fellow Americans. This has been a historic and exciting day for our country. In recent years, our people have suffered greatly, but starting now, we're going to bring America back and make it safer, richer, and prouder than ever before.
To all of the players and fans watching tonight, I know it's been a long and difficult journey. It's been a long season, but you have two tremendous teams, and get to the game and go out and fight hard and fight fair and let the better team win and I'm going to enjoy watching it.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: And that was the Buckeyes.
It's only been a day, but Melania is redecorating. The blue rug that Biden installed in the Oval was ripped out and swapped for something a little more neutral. Plus Hunter basically lived there, so God knows what happened on that rug.
Portraits of Washington, Hamilton, and Jefferson, are now hanging all over the fireplace. The bust of Martin Luther King resting just below it, whose dream Trump promised to make come true, and the bust of Winston Churchill is back, baby. Trump shipped off the RFK bust, though, sorry, Bobby.
A freshly painted portrait of Andrew Jackson was put up, and of course, the famous Diet Coke button is back. With the press of a button, you get 24/7 Diet Coke service. This button not to be confused with the nuclear button. God help us.
And Trump hasn't fired this many people since "The Apprentice."
He says he's in the process of identifying and removing over 1,000 presidential appointees from the previous administration who are not aligned with our vision to make America great again.
You're fired -- names you may recognize, Mark Milley and his portrait is gone from The Pentagon. It's like he's been canceled. The head of the Coast Guard who didn't stop a single migrant from breaching our beaches, goodbye; and Chef Jose Andres who probably not a good idea to take a photo with the man who tried to assassinate your new boss.
Over a dozen Justice officials have packed their bags today, and Trump also revoked security clearances for the 51 Intel officers who signed the Hunter Biden laptop letter, and that's not the only thing he's getting rid of. Seventy-eight of Biden's executive actions, gone, with a stroke of a Sharpie, and in 24 hours, 200 executive actions.
He also gave four speeches, attended a half a dozen balls and dinners, and held two media Q and A's. The new White House press secretary, Karoline Leavitt didn't even a chance to walk out to the podium because the president missed being out there so much.
Late this afternoon, the president delivered a historic announcement.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: Together, these world-leading technology giants are announcing the formation of Stargate. So put that name down in your books, because I think you're going to hear a lot about it in the future, a new American company that will invest $500 billion at least in AI infrastructure in the United States, and very, very quickly, moving very rapidly, creating over 100,000 American jobs almost immediately.
Beginning immediately, Stargate will be building the physical and virtual infrastructure to power the next generation of advancements in AI, and this will include the construction of colossal data centers, very, very massive structures.
I was in the real estate business, these buildings, these are big, beautiful buildings that are going to employ a lot of people.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Larry Ellison from Oracle, Masayoshi from Softbank, and Sam Altman from OpenAI were in the Roosevelt Room pledging a half a trillion dollar investment in American AI, but the oligarchs that Biden warned us about are promising to cure cancer, something Biden promised, but never did.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
LARRY ELLISON, CEO, ORACLE: You can do early cancer detection with a blood test and using AI to look at the blood test, you can find the cancers that are actually seriously threatening the person.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Trump's election created a ripe environment to make major scientific breakthroughs because his tax, energy, and regulatory policies are perfect.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SAM ALTMAN, CEO, OPENAI: I'm thrilled we get to do this in the United States of America. I think this will be the most important project of this era, and as Masa said, for AGI to get built here, to create hundreds of thousands of jobs, to create a new industry centered here, we wouldn't be able to do this without you, Mr. President.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: The big difference here is that Biden taxed you to give money away to his handpicked businesses, but these are private businesses investing their own money here in America. We're not picking winners and losers with your money. Today is a good day to bet on America.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SON: I came to celebrate your winning and promised that we will invest $100 billion and you told me, "Oh, Masa, go for 200." Now I came back with 500, because -- because this is the -- as you say yesterday, this is the beginning of Golden Age of America.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Trump's first full day back in office, and he seals a half a trillion dollar AI investment and the snipers in the media didn't ask a single question about it. They started off right where they left off in 2020 -- trying to create a scandal.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REPORTER: You just launched a crypto coin the other day. DO you intend to continue selling products that benefit yourself personally while you're president?
TRUMP: Well, I don't know if it benefited. I don't know where it is. I don't know much about it, other than I launched it. I heard it was very successful. I haven't checked it. Where is it today?
REPORTER: You made a lot of money, sir.
TRUMP: How much?
REPORTER: Several billion dollars, it seems like last in the several days.
TRUMP: Several billion. That's peanuts for these guys.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACDONALD: 47 has a different demeanor. He is calm, and he is not getting baited into hostile exchanges, and he is garnering a new era of respect.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REPORTER: He said, if you committed violence on January 6th, obviously you should not be pardoned. Why is your vice president wrong?
TRUMP: Well, only for one reason. They have served years in jail. They should not have served. Excuse me, their lives have been ruined, and in many -- and in many cases, listen to me for a second, stop interrupting.
We won this election in a landslide because the American public is tired of people like you that are just one-sided horrible people.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Trump doesn't have time for gotcha questions about Jan 6. We're in a tech war with China, a proxy war with Russia, and LA was just burnt to a crisp.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: So we are demanding that they turn the valve back toward Los Angeles right now. It's not even believable that they haven't done it. Just so you know, they have a valve and it's turned. It is like think of a sink, but multiply it times many thousands of times the size of it, it is massive and you turn it back toward Los Angeles. Why aren't they doing it?
They either have a death wish, they're stupid, or there's something else going on that we don't understand, but we want the water that they're throwing away to be used for California.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Trump is visiting North Carolina and California at the end of the week, so hopefully we'll solve some problems there and get our citizens back on their feet.
Even "The New York Times" recognizes the true power of the Trump presidency. "A determined Trump vows not to be thwarted at home or abroad. Wiser about the use of power, the newly sworn-in president suggests that this time he will not take no for an answer, whether in enacting an ambitious domestic agenda, or in his expansionist world view."
Change is coming at a speed, scope, and scale that America hasn't seen since the early days of the Cold War against the Soviets, and the media is struggling just to find out how they're against it.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONNY DEUTSCH, POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Democrats, instead of, at this point, if the Democrats want to win, instead of saying what Donald Trump is doing wrong and all the things wrong, start to look at what he's doing right from a winning point of view. From a winning point of view, once again, he is giving the people what they want. We can wring our hands, he's putting on a show.
Democrats talked about the joy of, you know, running with it. They're walking around, their chests are out, they're feeling like winners. And the Democrats feel like whiners and nerds, and that's got to change. That's got to go upside-down.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Mike Tyson and Jake Paul just tried to knock each other's heads off, and now look at them, having a ball at the ball. If they can get along, why can't the rest of this?
Senator Markwayne Mullin joins us now.
All right, Senator, what is the feeling like in Washington, DC, and how has it changed?
SEN. MARKWAYNE MULLIN (R-OK): Well, if you're a Republican, you're excited, if you're an American that wanted a change, you're excited. If you're a Democrat and liberal media, you're starting to freak out because, well, you have nothing else to do but complain now.
And so I'll tell you for here, we're taking the mandate the American people gave us seriously, Jesse, and we're moving fast. I think you saw that we hit the ground running. We got a very aggressive schedule. Right now, we're actually scheduled to be voting on nominees until 2:30 Sunday morning, before we actually get our first little break, which is less than 24 hours.
And so we are -- we're feeling not only the pressure, but we're feeling the excitement that President Trump made promises, and now he's going to keep those promises, and he's going to bring in the Golden Age.
You're seeing a leader, Jesse. You're seeing a guy that that four years ago, he recovered from really a political nightmare situation. He's had four years to figure out what he wanted to do when he returned back to office, and he is hitting the ground running, and not a bit too soon, because we need him to lead America back in this Golden Age.
WATTERS: Well, the Senate is working past midnight, right? You guys aren't having any cocktails, are you?
MULLIN: I'm not. I'm sure there may be some of my colleagues that will go to dinner and may have a few classes of wine, but no, we're not going to show up where we can't do our job.
WATTERS: So do the Democrats want to cooperate?
MULLIN: No.
WATTERS: Is this just like a Golden Age for some people?
MULLIN: You know, it's a Golden Age for some people.
Jesse, what happened prior to President Trump's being first elected to office is that really the Democrats and Republicans worked to get the Cabinet put in place. We did this Bush. We did this with Clinton. We did this with Obama and President Trump in his first election, the Democrats played games with us and wouldn't let us put his Cabinet in place.
Well, we returned the favor when Biden went into office. Now we're saying, okay, guys, enough is enough. Let's start moving forward. But the Democrats can't let the past go. I mean, we are seeing this with the liberal media all over the place. They can't let the past go, you even said, it seems like they started right where they left off in 2020 and they're trying to hold up the proceedings.
Well, what we have now is we have Leader Thune, who has now said, no, President Trump and I have a good relationship. He said, let's get it done and he has talked to the Republicans. President Trump has been to the Senate two times already saying, hey, let's work to get this thing done. He's setting a pace that's unbelievable, and the Senate is following that pace, and we're going to work and we're going to wear down the Democrats to say, either you're going to play ball with us or we're going to get these Cabinets put in place, or you're going to go without sleep.
WATTERS: Wear them down.
MULLIN: That's right.
WATTERS: Wear them down. It's time for change, and we know about your three-day work week, and we're watching the Senate because we have very high expectations for you guys.
MULLIN: Yes.
WATTERS: You've got a lot to get done, Senator. Thank you so much for joining JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME and enjoy your sobriety on work days -- on work days.
MULLIN: Thanks, Jesse. Yes. Well, I don't drink anyway, so we're good.
WATTERS: Good for you.
So moments after meeting with Trump, OpenAI founder, Sam Altman stepped outside and spoke to Bret Baier. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CHIEF POLITICAL ANCHOR: What this means for AI in the future, for the US investment here?
ALTMAN: This means we can create AI and AGI in the United States of America. It wouldn't have been obvious that this was possible, but I think with a different president, it might not have been possible.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Let's bring in "Making Money" host Charles Payne.
So Charles, you're having -- these are kind of Democrat donors. These aren't right-wing Republicans saying that the Biden presidency strangled the development of life saving technology.
CHARLES PAYNE, FOX BUSINESS NETWORK ANCHOR: No, it absolutely did. It's just absolutely remarkable. We're in this neck-and-neck race with China. We've got the lead in part, because of, you know, what America is, right? Everyone comes here to set up shop, because, for the most part, if you're successful, you get to keep what you make, and you get to inspire others.
Well, they've been in their attack for four years, and someone like Masa, you know, he went to college in California. So ideologically, you know, they're probably always on the same page. But these guys are visionaries. They're looking so much further ahead, and they understood that where the Biden administration was and where Harris wanted to take us would have strangled, would have strangled this AI movement at the moment we need to accelerate it.
WATTERS: Tell me about the new Golden Age. Is this just something that politicians use as a slogan, "The Roaring 20s," you know, "Get your juices flowing" or is it when you see these guys out there and you see the people surrounding Trump during the swear-in ceremony, it actually might be possible.
PAYNE: You know what? I did a special on this last Thursday at Town Hall. I talked about this being The New Gilded Age meets McKinley. It is so amazingly eerie, the similarities and McKinley, of course, he came in. He put together this coalition of voters that no one ever saw. He rebuilt the GOP. He even rebuilt the presidency.
The office of the presidency lost its prestige. He created what they called the Fourth Party System. Thirty-six years of prosperity. He is the author of the American Century. We surpassed Great Britain, and the rest was history.
As far as those robber barons are concerned. Take a look at wages, wages for a hundred years were flat. They went straight up for a hundred years after the robber barons. Life expectancy was flat. It went straight up for a hundred years after the so-called robber barons.
How about the guys we just saw talking to Bret? One guy is worth $200 billion, one guy is worth $30 billion, and one guy is a packer. He's only worth a billion dollars. These are visionaries that we want to embrace the president, and we want the president to embrace them, because, you know, China. China just put out their AI product about two weeks ago. It's called, it's called Deep Seek.
They're catching up quickly. We cannot blink at all. They put all their resources behind this. We can't blink.
Today in the stock market, you know what led the market today? Everything associated with nuclear power, from utility companies to companies that build the power plants, to every aspect of nuclear power. Those stocks rocketed today after President Trump declared an emergency, an energy emergency, they took off.
So the White House gets it, the folks who have the vision get it, and we have to all get it, because this is a race. I said earlier on the network. For a long time, we always talked about demographics being, you know, destiny, right?
Well, AI superiority, technology superiority is also destiny, and we've got to control that.
WATTERS: All right, good thing I'm long nuclear, and I'm sure you are too.
PAYNE: That's right.
WATTERS: All right, Charles Payne.
PAYNE: Hell yes.
WATTERS: We'll see you tomorrow. Good to talk to you.
A closer look into the Biden pardon of Anthony Fauci.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: After the Inauguration, Biden boarded a plane and flew West. He's in California, two hours north of LA, reportedly considering buying a home out there. He wants to be far from Washington, and DC Democrats want Biden on the other coast, too. His old pals in the media are kicking him in the back on the way out.
("JIMMY KIMMEL LIVE" VIDEO CLIP PLAYS)
JAKE TAPPER, CNN ANCHOR: We have a visual on the president right now. As you can see, he is standing on the balcony, tying some sort of what looked like ropes to the railing. We're not sure what that was. CNN is reaching out to the White House for clarity on the situation and wait, something does seem to be happening.
There is shaking in what appears to be balloons, hundreds, if not 1000s, of helium balloons have just been released over the White House.
AI JOE BIDEN: That jackass can take my job, but he will never take my house.
Oh, I can see all the way to Scranton.
Hey, Corn Pop.
That's all for me, folks. You're going to be missing Sleepy Joe soon enough. Till then, enjoy the malarkey, Kemosabe.
AI COMMANDER THE DOG: The second he falls asleep, I am going to eat him.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Biden's first and only term was historic, but not in a good way. He broke a lot of records: Record border crossings, record amount of new regs, a record a number of pardons. Over 4,000 people, including killers, drug traffickers, corrupt politicians, and his entire family.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: You know, I didn't know that he gave a pardon to his family because he did it during my speech.
They released it during my speech, I mean, during my speech. So all I could do was say, excuse me, I'd like to come back and speak some more. So no, we were surprised about that. It is bad precedent, obviously.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Biden snuck out blanket preemptive pardons for Jimmy the Chin, Frankie Four Fingers, Silent Val -- all of their spouses. If they didn't do anything wrong, why the preemptive pardons? If it's all above board, why did he wait until Trump was at the Inauguration to announce it?
Back in 2020 when the media thought Trump was pardoning his family -- he never did -- they said that makes you guilty.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOY REID, MSNBC HOST: Have you ever heard of somebody getting a preemptive pardon who was innocent of all crime? Who is just an innocent person, have you ever heard of that just somebody getting a blanket pardon and they're an innocent person?
BRIAN WILLIAMS, FORMER MSNBC HOST: Is there an innocent explanation for someone to seek preemptive pardons for family members? Would you do that if you knew you were innocent and just worried about outside forces?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Mark Milley, the J6 Committee, and Fauci got a pardon, too. Fauci's is back dated to 2014. That's fishy. 2014? That's when Obama banned taxpayer funded gain-of-function, and that's when Fauci started tinkering around with it. So Fauci did nothing wrong, and maybe a million Americans died, but just in case, here's a pardon.
Biden covered up the lab leak investigation, then pardoned the guy who funded the lab. We're on to something here. Can the Trump administration abuse its power and then everybody gets a preemptive pardon at 11:59 in 2029?
Homan, you're pardoned. Do whatever you have to do.
That sets a bad precedent and makes Biden and all of his cronies look guilty as sin.
Now, his former top aides are going on CNN to say, Biden is a bad boy.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BEDINGFIELD: It was a disappointing move. I was disappointed in it. I think he has spoken so eloquently about the need to preserve the rule of law. As he was coming into office in 2020, he talked about the idea of Trump pardoning his family, and said that it would send a bad message.
And I think it's hard to argue that it didn't yesterday, I will be totally candid. I think it was disappointing.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Clay Travis is the founder of outkick.com.
So Fauci gets a preemptive pardon. Why do you think that was?
CLAY TRAVIS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: Well, because I think he lied about helping to fund gain-of-function research. I think Senator Rand Paul caught him dead to rights in the testimony. And I think you're hitting, Jesse on something that's really important here.
The fact that all of these pardons go back to 2014, this is not something - - here's my theory on what happened. You tell me whether you buy in on this or not, Jesse.
Joe Biden really thought Barack Obama was going to say, hey, you're next man up. You're my guy. You're the VP. You should be the nominee. I'm going to give you my endorsement for 2016. Obama saw that Biden was losing his fastball, that the Biden family was falling completely apart. I think he described it as super weird, basically.
And instead, he left over Biden with the Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton; and then Biden, a chastened, angry Biden said to his family members, okay, it's time to make it rain, guys. I've never made big money like I should have, because I served the country. Barack Obama just cut the legs out from underneath them right in 2014 when these pardons take note, preemptively, they started to get money on a scale that had never occurred before inside of the family.
And that is why, with those five pardons of his family members plus Hunter Biden, Joe Biden is trying to wall off the Biden crime family from investigation and from prosecution.
And here's the deal, Jesse. I actually think the Trump Team should continue an investigation here, and I legitimately do not believe and I think there are a lot of lawyers out there, like me who would say the same thing, that preemptive pardon should be allowed.
You can't just give somebody a blanket pardon for a crime they might have committed. That's very different than what Trump's done with the January 6ers. It's very different than what traditionally happens, which is people are charged with crimes, they're prosecuted, they may even serve part of their sentences, and then they either get commuted or they get pardoned.
This preemptive pardon idea as the audio you showed and video you showed has never really been tested in a court of law before. I don't think it's legal. I don't think you can just wave your magic wand, give a Get Out of Jail Free card for a decade plus for all the crimes that were committed.
WATTERS: So, they might have to yank the pardon if it's an illegal pardon, and then that opens up all of them, again, because you're right about 2014 --
TRAVIS: I am not -- exactly.
WATTERS: That's when Fauci started going around the Obama rule about gain- of-function research.
TRAVIS: That's right.
WATTERS: And that's when Hunter started making it rain in Ukraine. I'm not saying you need to go just lock everybody up, but they definitely should investigate this stuff, and they should get on that pronto, before it's too late.
All right, Clay --
TRAVIS: And remember, Jesse, they prosecuted Trump for asking questions about this and tried to impeach him. I mean, it's the craziest thing that ever happened.
WATTERS: Yes, and I want to know if any money exchanged hands for pardons, and who lobbied for the pardon. That will tell you a lot.
TRAVIS: Great question.
WATTERS: All right, Clay, good to see you as always.
TRAVIS: Good to see you, my man.
WATTERS: The first hoax of the new Golden Age.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: Now that Trump is back in office, the media is back to producing a Cat 5 hurricane of hoaxes, but this isn't the first term anymore. Their propaganda machine is in the body shop, so now their lies are more amusing than they are harmful.
The first one was Trump is not really president.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
STEPHEN COLBERT, "THE LATE SHOW WITH STEPHEN COLBERT" HOST: Then Trump was sworn in by Chief Justice Roberts. One problem, Trump did not place his hand on the Bible for the Oath of Office.
Now, when the ceremony was going to be outside, he was going to put his hand on the Bible. When they moved it inside, the Fire Marshal wouldn't allow it.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: But my favorite hoax today was that Trump pardoned the J6ers to create his own MAGA paramilitary unit.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SYMONE SANDERS, MSNBC HOST: One senior Dem state legislator from out west texted me and said, you know, he literally just let his private militia out of jail. He said, he has instilled this sense of loyalty.
These are -- these people feel loyal to him, and their lawlessness is now going -- is now going to go unchecked, and he can now call on them again to do what they would like.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Then they accused Elon Musk of doing "Hail Hitler."
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
RACHEL MADDOW, MSNBC HOST: The Roman salute is a thing, and that is what it looks like Elon Musk was doing, which added a nice blood curdling chill to the day for many people today.
JIM ACOSTA, CNN ANCHOR: If you go on social media, there are lots of other people with lots of other opinions and say, this looks very much like a Nazi salute, no matter how they're trying to clean it up. What was your reaction to that?
REP. ROBERT GARCIA (D-CA): That was a Nazi salute and he didn't just do it one time. He did it twice for emphasis, and if you talk to anyone, historians, folks that actually study the Nazis and study this actual kind of disgusting display, will be very clear that what that was and he should not just apologize, he should be condemned.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Anyone who watched Elon knows he's just not very smooth. He jumps around here, he is acting a little giddy. So if that's a salute, then AOC and Pocahontas are the Third Reich.
Elon had a little chuckle: "Frankly, they need better dirty tricks. The "everyone is Hitler" attack is so tired.
Cancel culture has been crushed. The left doesn't own Twitter, and no one is watching legacy media. So these hoaxes go nowhere.
But it's going to take a while for the left to find its footing. Trump was president for one day, and it's already creating jobs for CNN, the factchecker is back.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ANDERSON COOPER, CNN HOST, "ANDERSON COOPER: 360": I'm joined by our senior reporter, Daniel Dale to factcheck some of what we just heard from President Trump and there was certainly a lot. Daniel what stands out to you?
DANIEL DALE, CNN REPORTER: There were a lot of big lies there, Anderson.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Trump did an entire 45-minute press conference with reporters last night. That's more than Biden's given the White House press corps in all of last year. But CNN is probably going to have to factcheck me.
Founder of Public News, Michael Shellenberger joins us now.
So you're already seeing the avalanche of hoaxes and kind of sinister smears, is this stuff going to work now?
MICHAEL SHELLENBERGER, FOUNDER, "PUBLIC NEWS": Hey, Jesse, it's good to be with you.
You know, I don't think so. You know, you get a sense of a real vibe shift as they would say. It's not just that Trump defeated the Democrats politically, but there's a moral defeat here. I mean, you know, we have to remember, in 2017 we saw millions of people in the streets. We saw hundreds of arrests. This year, we didn't see anything like that.
And when it comes to the big issues, affirming that there's only two genders, reaffirming the First Amendment as an executive order, it's shocking that these things needed to be done, producing more energy. These are issues -- controlling the border -- these are issues where, if you look at the polls, a majority of Democrats are actually with Trump on those issues.
But I just think setting aside even that kind of a rational, quantitative calculation of public opinion, the Democrats are just broken. I mean, what do they have now? That's why they have to keep recycling these hoaxes that just don't have the power that they had even a few months ago.
WATTERS: So if you were to tell the Democrats before the election that on Inauguration Day, Trump was swinging a sword on stage, that was he was dictator on day one, their heads would have exploded. Have you seen anybody protest this new American dictatorship?
SHELLENBERGER: I mean, it's just, yes -- I mean, it just all rings hollow. I mean, obviously Democrats didn't ever believe that. They never believed that Trump was the next Hitler. They never believed that you could change your sex, or there's multiple sexes. They never thought there was a climate apocalypse. If they thought any of those things, and they were true to their word that they were truly against fascism, then they would be in the streets.
They would be -- there would be millions of people in the streets. The Democratic leaders would be calling for that. We're not seeing any of that. And it shows that the real hoax was the one that was perpetuated by Democrats over the last eight years.
WATTERS: Yes, well, that's just, you know, Elon's thing to grab your heart with one hand and then shoot it out in the sky. You're just -- you're asking for it. You're asking for it. Maybe he is just not very well coordinated, I don't know, but I'm sure it was fine.
SHELLENBERGER: When you've got --
WATTERS: I think he didn't go to Israel to, like, help save the hostages.
SHELLENBERGER: Well, yes, and also, of course, Elon went to the death camps. I mean, this -- you know, one of his closest friends is Jewish, you know, I mean, this is ridiculous.
Elon Musk and Donald Trump have done more for free speech over the last two years than Democrats have done in the last 20 and I just think that that gives them the moral power that President Trump has needed.
You see Zuckerberg following the line for them to go and push a free speech agenda around the world.
WATTERS: All right, well, if I ever have a cake to cut, I'm getting a four- foot sword. From now on, I'm only cutting cakes with swords, that's how we do it.
Mike, good to see you.
Lesbians and illegal aliens, how Trump got attacked at church.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: After a night of partying and celebrating, everybody in DC went to church, but they got more of a lecture than a sermon.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MARIANN EDGAR BUDDE, EPISCOPAL BISHOP: There are gay, lesbian and transgender children in Democratic, Republican, and Independent families, some who fear for their lives and the people, the people who pick our crops and clean our office buildings, who labor in poultry farms and meat packing plants, who wash the dishes after we eat in restaurants and work the night shifts in hospitals. They may not be citizens or have the proper documentation, but the vast majority of immigrants are not criminals.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: I'm sorry, is that the National Cathedral or the DNC? Trump was asked about the sermon earlier today, and not a fan?
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REPORTER: Did you like it? Did you find it exciting?
TRUMP: Not too exciting, it wasn't. I did think it was a good service though.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: This is the new face of the resistance, woke bishops and insufferable blue hairs.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REPORTER: What have the mental repercussions of Donald Trump being the 47th president been?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALES: No.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I literally broke down tears, and several of my friends cried as well. It's scary.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I can't pee in four percent of America right now. So - -
REPORTER: You can't pee in four percent of America.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: In four percent of America, it is illegal for me to use the men's restroom in government buildings.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Bad news for the pronoun pack, DEI's days are done. Trump is firing DEI obsessed admirals from the Coast Guard, and he is banning discriminatory DEI policies throughout the federal government, including a new executive order issued just a few minutes ago, terminating a Biden administration DEI hiring policy for the FAA. This is a good idea, because I only want pilots hired on merit. I'm not going down because of a quota.
But don't tell that to Reverend Al. He is promising to bring back DEI Thursdays with a vengeance and go after companies that are ditching the practice.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
AL SHARPTON, PRESIDENT, NATIONAL ACTION NETWORK: These companies that are now saying they going to back up off of Diversity and Equity and Inclusion should therefore not have a diverse consumer base.
You don't want diversity, then we should not buy your products. Donald Trump can't make us spend money for companies that will not deal and commit and continue with diversity and equity and inclusion.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: While the whole country is coming together around Trump, instead of embracing the moment, Reverend Al wants Black people to drop out of the economy. Does Al want Black people to delete Instagram? Does he want them to stop Googling things? Quit going to McDonald's because all of those companies dropped DEI.
Sharpton couldn't even get Black Americans to put Kamala in the White House. You think he's going to get them to stop going to Mickey Dees?
"Fox News Saturday Night" host Jimmy Failla --
JIMMY FAILLA, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST "FOX NEWS SATURDAY NIGHT": Bang.
WATTERS: Jimmy, that sermon.
FAILLA: Yes.
WATTERS: That was a doozy.
FAILLA: Yes. I mean, if you stuck around to the end, the part where Jesus died because of climate change, I thought was a little aggressive, like it's so sad that they're still trying to force this ideology on us at this late out, because obviously, nobody asked for this.
Trump killed wokeness. I mean, that was the biggest deliverable on day one, is he nuked it. And on a superficial level, thank God the two genders thing, do you really want to watch Hall and Oates sing "Them Eater," because he can't sing "Man Eater." Nobody wants to see Julia Roberts on "Pretty Person." We didn't sign up for any of this.
So the problem with DEI is it was always fighting the wrong battles. You think of the thing that went on in the Coast Guard, okay? You were never going to have your ship capsized and call a mayday in and say, can you send anybody but a White guy? Okay, I'm with you. I board these planes. I want a dude in there, it could be a guy, I don't care, but I want somebody who knows how to fly the plane.
That's the only reason they should be there.
WATTERS: So, you're saying you don't want a woman flying the plane.
FAILLA: No, I'm fine with it, okay, not the woman who was driving that golf cart yesterday with the Ohio State football team in it.
WATTERS: Yes, right.
FAILLA: It wasn't the best look for the female stereotype.
WATTERS: No.
FAILLA: But you just want somebody qualified. That's what we ever ask for. That's all we want.
WATTERS: What about the guy or girl, or whatever that person was saying they can only pee in four percent of America?
FAILLA: Yes.
WATTERS: Have you ever heard of that problem?
FAILLA: No, and where is the -- she is clearly not in California, where they are going to the bathroom anywhere they want indoor or outdoor, so I feel like those stats are skewered.
WATTERS: You've got to hydrate in California.
FAILLA: Thank you. But that's my other problem with the grievance movement. It's like -- every -- if you're going to make like abortion the centerpiece of your resistance, at least put some people at the rallies who look like someone would sleep with them, okay, that's where they're losing the room.
WATTERS: You know, it's like the one time Trump goes to church, that happens.
FAILLA: It is so --
WATTERS: He is like, I am never going back.
FAILLA: He is like, now, you know why I don't put my hand on the Bible. This is nonsense.
WATTERS: All right, Jimmy. See you soon.
FAILLA: You're the best.
WATTERS: More PRIMETIME straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: We overcame several logistical hurdles after leaving the ball, one of which, it was so cold and we had so many blocks to walk, we went into a rickshaw.
Johnny hitched a ride, because I'm really bad with directions, and I didn't trust myself to get there without his assistance. And whoever took that photo is a terrible photographer, and I love the graphics department.
Let's do some texts.
Jimmy from Creedmoor, North Carolina: Did you ever make it to Kid Rock's hotel room?
I didn't even make it to the Starlight Ball. It was just crazy. I did make it to McDonald's, though. I had quarter pounder, Big Mac, six-piece chicken McNuggets, large fries, chocolate chip cookie, Sprite and apple pie. MAHA.
Dale from Stanford, New York: I've got to say your opening line had my mind going in a totally different direction.
Not sure what you meant by that.
Andy from Kerrville, Texas: Would you ever go suit shopping with Charles Payne? That man has style.
I don't think I could pull off the patterns that Payne presents, but those are nice threads.
D from Bay City, Michigan: Everyone in the Biden family got a pardon, except the blood thirsty dogs that attacked Secret Service agents.
And the naughty niece, didn't get a pardon, and her name is Naughty Niece.
Isabel and Errol from Michigan: We are getting married in Palm Beach in December. We'd love for you to be the officiant of our wedding since you're the person that bonded us together in the first place.
Do you have any idea who officiated Emma and my wedding? Ed Henry. That's a fact.
That's all for tonight. DVR the show and always remember, I'm Watters and this is my world.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: Show

Publication-Type: Transcript

Transcript: 012101cb.271

Subject: PARDONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); DICTATORSHIPS (88%); GOVERNMENT & PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (79%); GOVERNMENT BODIES & OFFICES (79%); EXECUTIVES (75%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (60%); SOCIAL DISTANCING (50%); Government (%); Politics (%); Donald Trump (%); Technology (%); Investments (%); Artificial Intelligence (%); Media (%); Journalism (%); Joe Biden (%)

Company:  FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (95%)

Industry: NAICS516120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (95%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (95%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (60%)

Person: DONALD TRUMP (91%); ELON MUSK (91%); JOE BIDEN (79%); ROBERT GARCIA (79%); MASAYOSHI SON (77%)

Geographic: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); UNITED STATES (94%)

Load-Date: January 22, 2025


End of Document
