




Business Insider
February 3, 2025 Monday 07:31 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Insider Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 3207 words
Byline: atecotzky@businessinsider.com (Alice Tecotzky,Geoff Weiss)
Highlight: Donald Trump is the 47th president of the United States. Learn more about his life, family, real estate business, and political ascendancy.
Body


Donald Trump is now America's 47th president and serving his second term.
From his marriages to real estate to the presidency, he's captured the public's attention.
Here's all you need to know about Trump's family, real estate business, and career in politics.
Donald Trump is president - again.
After his  on January 20, 2025, the businessman and former reality television star commenced his second term. Long a fixture of the American cultural scene and now the 45th and 47th president of the United States, he will continue to have untold political influence.
Trump first entered politics in June 2015 when he descended an escalator at Trump Tower in New York City and announced he was entering the 2016 presidential race. Trump's presidency altered the very fabric of the Republican Party, bucking some traditional conservative values and ushering in the MAGA - Make America Great Again - era.
Here's a closer look at Trump's personal history and wide-ranging career.
Donald Trump's second presidency
Starting on his very first moments in office, Trump signed a flurry of and rescinded many of former President Joe Biden's executive actions.
Trump's earliest actions built on themes from his campaign, from an , to increasing oil and gas production, to shrinking the federal workforce and calling employees back to the office. He signed a series of orders rolling back  efforts, demanding that government-run diversity offices shut down and green-lighting probes into private companies' DEI efforts. He also issued around 1,500 -related offenses included six commutations in the package, including for individuals who had been charged with seditious conspiracy.
Trump also used an executive order to form the , Elon Musk's cost-cutting and deregulatory body. Despite saying the group would exist outside of government during the campaign, the executive order brought DOGE inside the White House.
 beyond Musk have also featured prominently in Trump's second term, with some formally serving in his administration. Silicon Valley leaders, including , had prime spots at his inauguration.
Congress also confirmed a number of , including  for defense secretary. Marco Rubio soared to confirmation as the secretary of state in a unanimous vote. One of Trump's most contentious nominees, former  for attorney general, withdrew from consideration amid allegations of sex-trafficking.
Donald Trump's 2024 presidential campaign and defeat of Kamala Harris
Trump announced his third presidential bid just after the 2022 midterms, and almost two years before election day in 2024. He easily beat his primary rivals and prepared for a rematch against Biden.
Trump complained when  of the presidential race at the end of July and former vice president Kamala Harris soared to the top of the ticket.  closely tied in the final days of the race, though Trump ultimately pulled off a comfortable victory, sweeping the seven swing states and winning 312 electoral votes to Harris' 226. He also won the popular vote - the first time a Republican has done so in 20 years.
While surveys suggested  may have proven unsurmountable for Harris, other stats showed how  tilted red, Latino voters increasingly backed Trump, and  likely pushed the needle in his favor, too.
Additionally,  and maintained control of the House, paving the way for Trump to make judicial appointments and fill any vacancies on the Supreme Court.
The election cycle was defined by political violence: There were two alleged , one in Pennsylvania and the other in Florida. The then-candidate survived both.
On July 13,  shot at Trump at a rally in Butler, Pennsylvania, nicking his ear using an AR-style rifle. A Secret Service sniper killed Crooks, whose motive for the shooting remains unclear. The first assassination attempt quickly became a rallying cry for Trump supporters, and Elon Musk endorsed the former president shortly after.
The  occurred on Sept. 15 in Palm Beach, Florida at a golf course. , the suspect, may have staked out the course for 12 hours. Law enforcement officials said that Routh got close to Trump but didn't have a clear line of sight of the former president. They also said that a Secret Service agent spotted Routh's rifle through a fence and immediately opened fire, at which point the suspect fled. On September 16, Routh was charged with two firearms counts.
Given the two candidates' wildly different politics, the competition turned nasty at times, with  and continuing a pattern of  toward female opponents.
In terms of the economy, a top issue for many voters, Trump promised to extend his hallmark 2017 tax cuts and eliminate taxes on tips. He also threatened broad 10 to 20% , which economists predicted would fuel inflation.
 were a sticky subject in the post-Roe environment. He took credit for overturning Roe v. Wade during the race but tempered his stance to appeal to rising pro-choice sentiment. Trump said that states should decide the laws around abortion and didn't publicly supported a federal ban. In August, Trump said that the .
 in Gaza at times but portrayed himself as a strong defender of the Israeli state and hosted Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu at Mar-a-Lago. A temporary cease-fire between Israel and Gaza went into effect days before Trump took office for the second time.
With respect to the war in Ukraine, Trump repeatedly said he could , though did not do so on his first day in office. He avoided explicitly saying that he wants Ukraine to win during the campaign.
Donald Trump's controversies and legal woes
Donald Trump's legal troubles stretch back to the very beginning of his business career. In 1973, the US Justice Department sued Fred and Donald Trump for allegedly violating the Fair Housing Act in various New York City apartment buildings. The parties settled the suit two years later and the Trumps did not admit to any wrongdoing.
Trump's political rise is backlit by controversy as well, from the personal scandals that have plagued his candidacies to his new status as the . The FBI investigated , but ultimately concluded that there wasn't sufficient evidence to prove that "members of the Trump campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government." Yet the report did find "numerous links" between the two groups.
While in office during his first term,  twice by the House of Representatives, but the Senate acquitted him both times.
The chamber first impeached him in 2019 on articles charging him with abuses of power and obstruction of justice. He is accused of offering Ukraine a quid-quo-pro: dig up dirt on Biden in exchange for military aid.
The second impeachment articles relate to his ongoing efforts to  and actions on , when a violent mob stormed the Capitol. As lawmakers convened to certify the election results, Trump encouraged his supporters to attend a rally in DC to protest the joint session of Congress. Thousands showed up, including some from white supremacist groups and right-wing militias.
When speaking to the crowd, Trump did not explicitly call for violence, but encouraged his followers to "fight like hell" - many of those same followers stormed the Capitol moments later, overwhelming police and forcing lawmakers to flee. Five people died during or shortly after the event, including a Capitol police officer.
Congress reconvened to certify the election results in the early hours of January 7 and Biden was inaugurated on January 20, 2021. Meanwhile, Trump continues to deny that he , refusing to admit defeat.
After he left office, an avalanche of  piled up, many of which arestalled or are no longer being pursued after the election.
The former president has been charged in four criminal cases: a federal election interference case, a classified documents case, a Georgia election interference case, and a hush-money case. Trump had used money from two of his PACs to pay his legal fees.
In the , special prosecutor Jack Smith accusedTrump of engaging in a broad effort to undermine Biden's 2020 win. Smith argued that Trump amplified , pressured elected officials, and organized fake electors. He dropped the case after the 2024 election, but filed a report shortly before the inauguration saying that  if he hadn't won another term.
Smith also led the charge on a federal case accusing Trump of  after removing them from the White House, and impeding the government from retrieving the documents. A Trump-appointed judge in Florida dismissed the case over highly controversial allegations that , a finding Smith's office appealed. The case was also ultimately dismissed after the election.
On May 30, 2024,  of 34 felony counts of falsifying business records related to hush-money payments made to , a porn star who alleges she had an affair with Trump. With the guilty verdict, Trump became the first former president to be convicted of a crime.
On January 10, 2025, the judge in that case , cementing his felon status. The president did not receive any punishment, but the decision set off a new slate of legal questions, as Trump has pledged to appeal his criminal conviction.
Georgia's election interference case focused specifically on Trump's alleged attempts to overturn Biden's win in the state. District Attorney Fani Willis charged Trump and allies in August of 2023, though the case shrunk in scope and a judge . The case was mired in , and her team was eventually disqualified. Willis is appealing the decision, which could take months. If Willis wins the appeal, she'll have to wait until Trump finishes his second term to re-start the case.
In addition to the criminal trials, a jury found Trump guilty of sexual abuse in a civil case brought by . The saga, which has extended over two suits, related to Carroll's allegation that Trump raped her in a Manhattan department store and subsequently made defamatory statements. Together, they resulted in a  of $88.3 million. Trump appealed the cases but a . A spokesperson for Trump told BI he plans to keep appealing the verdict, which could keep the $5 million that Trump owes Carroll through that case frozen.
Donald Trump's political rise and the 2016 election
An ubiquitous presence in American life since the 1980s, Trump floated running for president since his early days as a businessman. People generally didn't take him seriously, and his political affiliations flip-flopped - he went from being a registered Democrat, to a registered Republican, to the front man for a remade American conservatism.
In 2012, Trump gained prominence in Republican circles for popularizing the  - the racist and false claim that former President Barack Obama was not born in the United States. And in the summer of 2015, the prospect of a Trump presidential bid became much more real when he announced his candidacy at a campaign rally in New York City.
Throughout the 2016 campaign, Trump positioned himself as a political outsider and built his platform around economic prosperity, immigration, and a newly combative rhetoric. His campaign was mired in controversy - from the  where he bragged about groping women to his failure to  - but he appealed to a wide swath of Americans.
Despite doing poorly in the early Iowa caucus, Trump triumphed in a series of primary wins and had a strong performance on Super Tuesday. After becoming the Republican nominee, Trump trailed  in the polls but ended up victorious on November 8, 2016. He lost the popular vote by more than 2.8 million but won 304 electoral votes to Clinton's 227.
Donald Trump's first presidency
Once in the White House, Trump was quick to issue a slate of executive orders based on his campaign promises, including building a wall on the southern border and implementing his proposed "Muslim ban," which quickly faced legal challenges.
While running for office, Trump promised to repeal the Affordable Care Act, but doing so proved difficult and contentious, so he instead chipped away at the law. He also repealed many Obama-era environmental policies and withdrew from the Paris Climate Agreement because he said it damaged the economy.
Trump took an isolationist approach to foreign policy, imposing tariffs and withdrawing from revising long-standing trade agreements. On the economy, Trump pushed a $1.5 trillion tax cut package through Congress. Regarding the Supreme Court, he appointed three conservative judges and took credit for  .
By his final years in office, Trump was both president and candidate - he launched his reelection bid in June 2019. The COVID-19 pandemic upended both the election and spelled the end of Trump's presidency. President Joe Biden had accused him throughout the election of ignoring the crisis. Trump came down with COVID-19 himself during the final weeks of the campaign and received treatment at Walter Reed Medical Center.
When election day finally rolled around, Trump eventually lost both the popular and Electoral College votes. The race was extremely close in key states and took days to call. Trump declared victory one day after the election, before all the votes were tallied, and thus inaugurated his months-long campaign contesting the election results.
After leaving office in January 2021, Trump and Melania moved to Mar-a-Lago, where he has lived since leaving the White House.
Donald Trump's various marriages and children
Donald Trump has a marital history marked by various divorces and alleged affairs.
He met his first wife, Czech model Ivana Marie Zelnícková, in 1976 when she was in New York City for a fashion show. The two got married in 1977 and remained a fixture of the city's tabloid scene. They had three children together: , Donald Jr., and Eric.
Rumors about  swirled throughout the marriage, including with American actor Marla Maples. Ivana and Trump divorced in 1992.
One year later, Maples had Trump's fourth child, Tiffany. The couple got married two months later but split up in 1999.
Trump's current wife,  (née Knauss), is a Slovenian-American former model whom he met in 1998 at a mutual friend's party. The two dated on and off before tying the knot in 2004 at Mar-a-Lago. The star-studded guest list included the Clintons and Billy Joel.
Trump's fifth child, , was born in 2006. When Trump moved into the White House, Melania and Barron waited months before joining him at the residence.
In addition to his five children, Trump has 10 . The oldest, Kai, has already stepped onto the political scene and even spoke at the 2024 Republican National Convention.
Donald Trump's early life and family
Donald John Trump was born on June 14, 1946, in the . At 78 years old, he was the . Compared to other former presidents, Trump has released relatively little information on his physical health.
In November 2023, his personal physician said measures of his physical health were within the normal range but did not provide details about his medication, blood pressure, or cholesterol. Standing at a reported height of 6 feet 3 inches, some have expressed concern about Trump's weight in the past.
His parents, real estate developer  and Mary MacLeod, met at a party and got married in 1936. They had five children, with Donald Trump being their fourth. He attended a Presbyterian church as a child but doesn't appear to regularly attend church services.
Fred Trump made much of his fortune in New York City real estate and was the subject of a US Senate investigation related to taking advantage of a federal loan program.
As a teenager, Donald Trump attended New York Military Academy, a private military school. After graduating, he attended Fordham University in the Bronx for two years before eventually switching to the Wharton School of Finance and Economics at the University of Pennsylvania. Trump graduated from Wharton with a bachelor's degree in economics and talks about his time at the prestigious institution often.
Donald Trump's career in business and reality television
After graduating from college, Trump began working for his father and eventually became the president of a collection of family-owned companies that he later turned into the . Throughout the 1970s and 1980s, Trump expanded his father's business and invested in Manhattan hotels. He was buoyed along by financial and social help from his father, whose New York connections ran deep.
In 1983, Trump opened  on 56th Street and 5th Avenue, where he later had an apartment. That same decade, Trump started investing in casinos and bought , his resort in Palm Beach, Florida.
The 1990s recession harmed Trump's businesses and he was forced to sell various assets, as well as commit to a personal budget. His luck largely changed by the end of the 1990s, though his casinos continued to struggle.
Trump profited from his name throughout his long business career, selling everything from branded cologne and steaks to putting his name on an online education company. In 2018, The New York Times published a lengthy investigation detailing how Fred Trump funneled money to his son. The outlet reported Donald Trump received the equivalent of $413 million from his dad by the early 2000s. (Trump declined the Times's request for comment on the article at the time; a Trump spokesman at the time said there had been no fraud or tax evasion.)
In 1996, Trump teamed up with NBC to buy the Miss Universe Organization, which encompasses the , and Miss Teen USA beauty pageants. Trump then starred in a reality television show of his own - "." The Emmy-nominated program made him nearly $200 million over 16 years and boosted his image as a self-made billionaire.
 was $3.8 billion as of September 2024, according to Forbes's calculations.
Read the original article on


Load-Date: February 3, 2025


End of Document
