




CNN CNN LIVE EVENT/SPECIAL 2:00 AM EST
January 20, 2025 Monday


Copyright 2025 Cable News Network All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; International
Length: 6625 words
Byline: Erica Hill, Ron Brownstein, Maria Cardona, Paula Hancocks
Guests: Steven Erlanger, Noelle Nikpour, Kaya Yurieff, Maria Ramirez Uribe
Highlight: Donald Trump will be the 47th President of the United States and his first order of business is to issue lots of executive orders that includes DEI policies and border security. The second Day of Israel-Hamas ceasefire saw Palestinian prisoners and Hamas hostages freed, humanitarian aid getting inside Gaza and Palestinians coming home to Gaza. World leaders, allies and enemies, are bracing for Donald Trump's another shot at the U.S. presidency for a possible shift in policies. In just a matter of hours, Donald Trump will be sworn in as the 47th president inside the Capitol rotunda. Donald Trump is hailing the quick return of TikTok hours ahead of his second inauguration ceremony; among those expected to attend the ceremony is the app CEO. President-elect Donald Trump and his aides are preparing to clamp down on immigration; as soon as he is sworn into office, in a matter of hours, those plans include declaring a national emergency at the border, as well as raids targeting undocumented migrants across the country and negotiations for the return of the "Remain in Mexico" program, which would require people to stay outside the U.S. while undergoing their immigration proceedings.
Body


[02:00:00]
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
ERICA HILL, CNN HOST: Hello and welcome to our viewers joining us in the United States and all around the world. I'm Erica Hill. Nice to have you with us. It is Monday, January 20th, 2:00 a.m. here in New York, and it is now officially, of course, Inauguration Day. Just hours from now, Donald Trump will be sworn in as the 47th President of the United States. This historic moment also coinciding with MLK Day here in the U.S. when the country pauses to celebrate the life and legacy of the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.
Here is what you can expect today in Washington. Donald Trump and the incoming First Lady, Melania Trump, will head to the White House in the morning for a tea reception with outgoing President Joe Biden and First Lady Jill Biden. From there, President Biden and Trump will ride in the same limo to the Capitol. Biden will also follow presidential tradition, we've learned, by leaving a letter for Trump in the Oval Office.
The incoming president is expected to attend three official galas later in the day. Security, of course, is at a pretty exceptional high in Washington. Law enforcement patrolling the area around the Capitol ahead of the inauguration. The swearing in ceremony, as you know, this year will be held inside. It'll be inside the Capitol Rotunda because of those freezing temperatures, which forced officials to make the change and move it inside. A lot of concerns about what it would feel like with the wind chill outside.
Donald Trump, meantime, starting his celebration a little early with a campaign style rally on Sunday night, what he called the eve of taking back our country. Trump speaking to supporters of the Capital One Arena in Washington, where he also laid out an aggressive plan to tackle his priorities starting today.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONAL TRUMP, PRESIDENT-ELECT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: Starting tomorrow, I will act with historic speed and strength and fix every single crisis facing our country. We have to do it. The invasion of our borders will have come to a halt.
Tomorrow, everybody in this very large arena will be very happy with my decision on the J-6 hostages.
I will direct our military to begin construction of the great Iron Dome Missile Defense Shield.
And we will get critical race theory and transgender insanity the hell out of our schools.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HILL: Tech billionaire Elon Musk joined Trump on stage at one point telling the crowd that they hope to make significant changes together. Musk was picked to co-lead the Department of Government Efficiency Agency. And as my colleague Jeff Zeleny explains, the rally itself ended with a Trump favorite on stage.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JEFF ZELENY, CNN CHIEF U.S. NATIONAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: Look, I mean, this is one of the moments in history that you really cannot fully sum up why has this become Donald Trump's anthem, but indeed it did. And look at the next 47th president of the United States standing right in the middle of this cultural song from a different moment in time. Only one member of the original Village People is on stage tonight, I'm told. The rest are newer members, but the crowd now will be doing YMCA.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HILL: We're going to be hearing a lot of YMCA over the next 24 hours or so. Joining me now, our panel CNN senior political analyst Ron Brownstein, Republican strategist Noelle Nikpour, CNN political commentator Maria Cardona. Nice to see all of you. So as we look at where things stand, a lot of promises from the incoming president about what was going to happen on day one. It's going to be a very busy day one, as many as 100 executive orders.
(TECHNICAL DIFFULTIES)
Presidents, incoming presidents on day one when it comes to executive orders. This would certainly be a flurry and be the most, to put it mildly. Noelle, he is really coming out swinging here, doing exactly what Donald Trump said he would do. He wants to enact a lot of change on day one. With this large number of executive orders, there's also the potential, obviously, for legal challenges. How much do you think that is also a part of the planning process for Donald Trump and his administration, Noelle?
NOELLE NIKPOU, REPUBLICAN STRATEGIST: Well, everybody knows that Donald Trump is the man that gets things done. And I think that that's why overwhelmingly people voted him back in to do another term.
[02:05:03] So, you know, you can always kind of look back on history and know that Donald Trump likes to do things quickly and he likes to do things on a large scale. You can see where he's already had people coming to Mar-a-Lago even before he has, you know, taken office. He has been having meeting after meeting with foreign dignitaries, different people within the legislation. So he is ready and raring to go.
So I look for him to get things done. I think the American people want it. Republicans want it and people that were not Republicans that voted him in anyway, they want it too. So I think that you're going to have a lot of things coming at you rapid speed.
HILL: There will be a lot coming rapid fire. That's exactly what we've been warned. Ron, when we look at this in terms of the promises for day one, I think we have a list that we could put on the screen. We are talking about mass deportations, ending birthright citizenship, closing the southern border, pardoning some of the January 6th defendants, also imposing steep tariffs. It is fascinating to me this shift that we're seeing to what feels like in this moment an era of governing by executive order, Ron.
RON BRWOWNSTEIN, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL ANALYST: Yeah. Well, so many things to say about it, Erica. First of all, your question is really on point because, you know, in Trump's first term, two of his biggest legal defeats, two of the only times the Supreme Court said no to him was in rulings that said key things he tried to do violated the Administrative Procedure Act. You know, a technical process by which the federal government has to make decisions.
And the Supreme Court blocked his attempt to stop DACA, to defer, you know, for Dreamers. And also stopped his attempt to add a citizenship question to the census precisely on the grounds that it was done in an arbitrary and capricious manner without going through all the steps that you have to do for federal action. So it's a real issue as they, you know, kind of prioritize shock and awe and speed.
Second, you know, this first day really is, I think, emblematic of one of the challenge we have in American government over the last many years, which is that each administration, as it comes in finds that it is easier to govern by executive order than to try to get things through Congress now that has become routine to need 60 votes to do anything that can't be done through the reconciliation process.
And what that means is that every time power changes hands and it's been changing hands pretty frequently, the next administration can simply comment and erase the blackboard. That is a very difficult way to run a country for anyone trying to plan longer than a four-year period. I mean, you have businesses that have invested billions of dollars, auto companies, power companies, others, for example, in the clean energy incentives that were passed under Biden that will not be going away -- and now be going away.
And so, you know, to the extent Trump is relying on executive branch authority, as presidents in both parties have been doing to increasingly advance his agenda, it also leaves it more vulnerable. It's kind of like writing in sand, you know, as the tide comes in and out, what you put down tends to wash away.
HILL: It is fascinating that we are at this point, as you point out, and how much and how often power is changing hand these days. Maria, when we look at this, as we all know, if Donald Trump says he's going to do something telegraphs that, typically he follows through. Democrats have seen this movie before, they have the playbook. How are Democrats approaching these firs 100 days when they are looking at full Republican control there in Washington?
MARIA CARDONA, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Very vigilantly, Erica, and what that means is that they're going to take a look at every single executive order that comes through, and we do understand that he will most likely do all of the things that he says he's going to do because that's exactly what he does. Democrats are going to be seeing which ones will hold up in court. There are a lot of legal battles ahead.
I believe that many of them will not hold up in court, will be not constitutional, and he won't be able to actually get them done. But what he is doing with the flurry of these, Erica, and this is something I think Democrats need to be vigilant about as well, is that he is trying to do this by shock and awe. He's going to try to exhaust the people who want to oppose him on these. He's gonna try to have these be so fast and furious that those who oppose him aren't even gonna have time to blink.
And so I think that they're going to have to be very careful and really go after the ones that are most hurtful, the ones that are obviously and blatantly unconstitutional and illegal, the ones that -- are the ones that probably won't hold up in court.
[02:09:59]
And so it is going to take a lot of energy and a lot of careful but fast analysis by Democrats who are concerned that a lot of these are going to actually inflict pain and division and fear and divisiveness all across America's communities. And I'm speaking mostly of the ones that have to do with mass deportation. And what we're also expecting, Erica, is something that I don't think that Trump can help himself and MAGA Republicans can help themselves, which is the overreach.
I do think that he will overreach with a lot of these executive orders as he tries to implement them. The images in 2017 when he tried to implement family separation, when he ripped babies from the arms of their mother, the images were horrific and the backlash from Americans was also fast and furious. And so I think that you're going to see a lot of that as he tries to implement these mass deportation declarations.
There's going to be a lot of separations, a lot of communities and anger and in pain. And the images on national television I think also are going to be inflicting a mass backlash from Americans who I don't think they want that at the end of the day. So that's what Democrats are going to be looking for.
HILL: And as we watch all of this unfold, frankly, in the coming hours, the reality also for the incoming president is that he's coming in as a lame duck president, right? This will be his second term. We know that as soon as he is sworn in, there will need to be legislative efforts as well. He does have a lot of Republicans in lockstep with him. But how important will it be to not just govern by executive order, but also to work with Congress.
NIKPOU: Well, the bottom line is Trump wants to get things done. And we all on this panel know that he is going to get things done. He has always had the motto, promises made, promises kept. So he's going to do it via the Congress or he is going to do it via executive order, but he's going to get things done. And this is, this is how Trump works. And everybody knows, you know, you had a taste of Trump four years before. And now you know exactly what to expect from Trump.
And you're right, he is a lame duck. So you can expect it to go that much double down. Let's just say double down more because you know that he is not going to be running for reelection. So he is going to be doubling down rapid speed to get things done. So he is going to do it. Everything that he had listed, everything that he has said repeatedly in the speeches, especially the border. The border has been major trouble.
Everyone, you know, has been tired of the fentanyl coming through. We are sick and tired of criminals. We are sick and tired of seeing, you know, murders. Look, I'm in Manhattan. I've got a place in Manhattan, and it's scary to ride the subway. Everybody notices the change that's going on in America, and I think that that's why they have voted him in. So his policies are going to be enforced. And he does have people around him.
All his cabinet picks, everyone that he is picking is going to help enforce his policies. He wants to get these done and he doesn't want any roadblocks. So he's meeting fast and furious to get everything done with everyone locked step behind him.
HILL: We will continue the discussion ahead throughout the hour. Stay with us for a little bit more of that. I do want to get folks though caught up on some of the other news that we're following at this hour?
The fragile ceasefire is now in its second day for Israel and Gaza. Emotional scenes playing out on both sides on Sunday. The three freed hostages reunited with their family members after 471 days in captivity. Large crowds' meantime in the West Bank, greeting the first group of 90 Palestinian prisoners who were released as part of the deal.
Meantime in Gaza, a number of Palestinians now beginning to return to what is left of their neighborhoods in hopes of rebuilding their lives. Aid trucks also resuming deliveries in the enclave, but the World Health Organization is warning Gaza still faces immense health challenges ahead. Paula Hancocks is live in Abu Dhabi with more on the developments from today and of course what comes next, Paula.
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well Erica, what we've seen over the past 24 hours is really what many have been hoping for months, in fact well over a year. We saw those rare moments of joy on both sides that the three Israeli hostages being reunited with their family. [02:14:59]
A hugely emotional time not just for them but also for the families of other hostages that they are still waiting to see hopefully over coming months. There should be 30 more hostages being released within six weeks if that first phase does go ahead as planned. And then on the Palestinian side we saw some 90 Palestinian prisoners being released and emotional reunions with their families as well.
So it has definitely been a positive 24 hours given what we have seen since October 7th, 2023. Now, we heard from the head of UNRWA, this is the U.N. agency which handles Palestinian refugees and he said that it has been a good first day of the ceasefire, the fact that you could hear the sound of children playing in Gaza as opposed to the bombardments. But there are huge challenges ahead.
Certainly when you look at Gaza itself, what we've heard from the U.N. is that they managed to get 630 humanitarian aid trucks into Gaza just yesterday, just on Sunday, and 300 of those will be heading to northern Gaza, which is the worst hit. It has been decimated by the Israeli military in recent months, as they believe that was where Hamas was trying to regroup. So the push now to try and flood the Gaza Strip with aid has begun, but of course there are massive challenges ahead, Erica.
HILL: Yeah, there certainly are. Paula, really appreciate it. Thank you.
Well, he promised, of course, to end the war in Ukraine before returning to the White House. Hours ahead of Donald Trump's inauguration, the fighting rages on there. A look at how the second Trump presidency could impact global politics and the war specifically in Ukraine. That's ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
[02:20:00]
HILL: Donald Trump is said to be sworn in for his second term as president of the United States in the coming hours. Mr. Trump will be returning to the White House with a great deal having changed when it comes to the world of global politics. America's allies and enemies around the globe are watching to see what he will do, what those early moves will be. Joining me now to discuss Steven Erlanger, who's chief diplomatic correspondent for "The New York Times." Nice to have you with us.
If we look at where things stand in the world, obviously two of the most pressing issues for not just the United States but globally. We have the war in Ukraine. We also have the situation in Gaza. This ceasefire and hostage deal with Israel and Hamas. We have seen three hostages released, as well as some Palestinian prisoners going back. And this, for the moment, this fragile ceasefire holding. Mr. Trump addressing that at his rally tonight. I want to play a little bit of what he had to say.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: Perhaps most beautiful of all, this week we achieved an epic ceasefire agreement as a first step toward lasting peace in the Middle East. And this agreement could only have happened as a result of our historic victory in November. That was some victory. Was that greatest?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HILL: A lot has been made of the fact that this was essentially the same deal that had been on the table since May, but that things did change a little bit once Donald Trump got into office, including in terms of some of the pressure that he directed at both parties. How much of an influence is it your sense he did have on this moment?
STEVEN ERLANGER, CHIEF DIPLOMATIC CORRESPONDENT, NEW YORK TIMES: I think he had tremendous influence. It was a bit like the Iran hostage crisis that the Iranians wanted to wait till Jimmy Carter was gone to give the gift to Ronald Reagan. The same thing happened here. But it was also very important that Donald Trump, who is considered very, very pro-Israel and who Bibi Netanyahu has basically supported, said to the Israeli prime minister enough of this, end it. And I think that was very, very powerful. That was needed and necessary.
I mean, he didn't even need to threaten. It was more like you want a good relationship in the future, let's end this now. But of course, the war isn't ended. Let's be very clear. We have a 42-day ceasefire that could break down. The deal, which is phased, which is always a dangerous thing to get to the next phase, which would really end the war, is going to be very, very difficult, require enormous concessions on both sides, particularly from Israel, and will require a lot more pressure from President Trump.
Now whether he wants to invest as much time to pressure the Israelis to do something really, really difficult now with everything else going on, as you said, with Ukraine, with Putin, with his own domestic agenda, that's the open question to me.
HILL: It is an open question, but it is remarkable to your point how much pressure he was able to exert over Prime Minister Netanyahu just in that short period of time. So the fact that he was able to do that, what does that say about Trump's broader influence in the region and actually how the region is maybe bracing for this second Trump presidency?
ERLANGER: Well, we're all bracing. I mean, a friend of mine said Trump coming into -- it's like an asteroid hitting the earth and which dinosaurs will die is actually the big question. So Trump tends to move from topic to topic and he relies on other people to push them forward. I do think he has in mind the bigger, broader regional deal that he sort of started in his first term with the Abraham Accords. He would like to see normalization between the Saudis and the Israelis in return for security guarantees for Saudi Arabia, which makes some in America nervous.
[02:25:03] But that would require real pressure on Israel because Mr. Netanyahu has made it very clear, and certainly his far-right allies have made it very clear, they have no interest in a Palestinian state. They don't believe in it. They think it's dangerous. But the Saudis have made it very clear that to move ahead, particularly after all the death and destruction in Gaza, where Hamas is still there, by the way. They will want serious concrete steps toward an independent Palestinian state.
Now, that will present Mr. Netanyahu a big choice of his own. Does he reject that and go on his own and deal with the Trump people who think maybe they should annex the West Bank, or does he go with Trump for the legacy and work for a regional deal and do some steps toward an independent Palestinian state? That would mean calling new elections and running on a very different kind of program. So these choices are really, really hard, and they're coming.
HILL: Yeah, they absolutely are. And also decisions on Ukraine coming, as well as we know that Donald Trump
(TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES)
-- meeting about Ukraine. We will have to tackle that topic the next time we speak, Steven. Appreciate it. Thank you.
ERLANGER: Thank you.
HILL: Just ahead more on the inauguration of Donald Trump and the start to his second term, which he says will include a flurry of executive orders on day one. We'll take a closer look.
[02:29:59]
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
[02:30:46]
ERICA HILL, CNN ANCHOR: Welcome back to our special coverage of inauguration day in the United States.
In just a matter of hours, Donald Trump will be sworn in as the 47th president inside the Capitol rotunda. Aside from the traditional pomp and circumstance, what we are also expecting here in a matter of hours is that Donald Trump will get straight to work, telling supporters on Sunday he plans more than 100 executive orders and actions on day one.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT-ELECT OF THE UNITED STATES: Oh, you're going to have a lot of fun watching television tomorrow. Somebody said yesterday. Sir, don't sign so many in one day. Let's do it over a period of weeks. I said, like hell, we're going to do it over weeks. We're going to sign them at the beginning.
(END VIDEO CLIP) HILL: Among the promises he's made for day one, launching mass deportations, pardoning January 6th defendants, also tightening border security and imposing steep tariffs.
My panel is back to discuss.
CNN senior political analyst Ron Brownstein, Republican strategist Noelle Nikpour and CNN political commentator Maria Cardona.
Nice to see you all back with us. Let's pick up if we could, in terms of those pardons for January 6th. This is something we heard a lot about, of course, on the campaign trail.
I just want to put in perspective some of the numbers that were potentially talking about here. I think we can put this on the screen about 1,600 people ultimately were charged, 1,200 of them, about 80 percent were sentenced. We're talking about 600 who were that were violent crimes. Overall, what's remarkable to me is that this is not popular with the American people. If we look at polling from as recently as the beginning of January, 62 percent of Americans say they do not support pardons for January 6th attackers.
Noel, I know this was a campaign promise. I know that this is important to a number of members of the base, but as a strategist, how would you recommend to the incoming president that he'd thread that needle?
NOELLE NIKPOUR, REPUBLICAN STRATEGIST: Well, I think that this is something that shouldn't be his focus. I wouldn't as a strategist, I would focus on the things that really voted him into office. And those are very simple things. Those are the border, the economy, inflation and basically global affairs. Making sure that, you know, we are -- we are okay globally because a lot of people are feeling the unrest of what's going on in the world.
January 6th, there are there are a lot of mixed reviews on that. You know, there's a lot of the base not too happy with it. But as far as like the focus, I don't know if that should be the focus, nor do I think it really is going to be the focus. I think we have many other things to do.
I do, however, think that its not going to tarnish Trump. I think that people are still going to be supportive of Trump. I think they're going to be behind him 110 percent because they want to get things done. And if Trump feels that he needs to do this with January 6th, I don't think its going to make a difference as far as people focusing, on the bigger picture.
HILL: Maria, Democrats have consistently, when approaching January 6th, also tied that to Donald Trump to say he is a threat to democracy. That is a message that did not resonate in the way that Democrats were hoping in the last election, but now we see where things are. Donald Trump has been being painted as the enemy of the people, but he did win decisively. Not a landslide, but it was a decisive win.
How do Democrats handle this moment?
MARIA CARDONA, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Well, I think that they do it by pointing out exactly what you just showed, Erica, which is that the vast majority of the American people don't believe that the January 6th rioters and conspiracy theorists and insurrectionists, should be pardoned because they saw the same images that we did four years ago when Donald Trump inspired the violent mob, and when he tried to overturn a fair and free election and violate the Constitution and keep power, violently, essentially.
[02:35:08]
And so Democrats are going to continue to remind the American people of that. And, and like, while you said it wasn't, you know, a hugely resonant part of the election, let's remember that this election, as you also said, was not a landslide. And in fact, the people who were not his MAGA base, who voted for Trump, voted for him, hoping and believing that he would bring down the cost of their groceries, their gas and their rent, as he promised he would do.
And he has talked about almost everything other than that since the moment that he became elected. He's talked about trying to buy Greenland. He talked about trying to take back, even by force if needed, the Panama Canal. He has clearly been talking about mass deportation, which is something that the vast majority of the American people don't believe should happen, especially if you're going to see parents and babies being separated violently.
And the undocumented immigrants that have been here for years and years, especially the dreamers being deported to countries that they don't know. And so, again, I think that Donald Trump is going to be massively overreaching in these next couple of days if he's not careful. And it was not a landslide, it was not a mandate, and he should work with Democrats to try to figure out where he can bring the country together and focus on the things that everyone wants him to do, like bringing down prices. But he hasn't done that.
HILL: Ron, in terms of -- let's pick up on bringing down prices that is big for so many people. They want to see. They want to see -- I mean, I have two teenage boys, so I know how expensive eggs and milk are. I will I will put that out there.
RON BROWNSTEIN, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Yeah. There are people who have high expectations that when they go to the grocery store next week, the prices are going to come down. He doesn't actually have a lot of control over that. So how does he address those very real kitchen table economic issues in the early days?
BROWNSTEIN: You know, I think I think the equation in office, Eric, is going to be very similar to what we saw in the campaign. I mean, what we saw in the campaign was that Trump was put over the top by people who still have a lot of doubts about his agenda and his character. And if you look at the exit poll, if you look at the vote cast, I mean, 15 to 20 percent of people who voted for Trump said they don't think he has the character to be president. They think that he will lead the country in an authoritarian direction. They oppose, as Maria said, mass deportation. They opposed, restrictions on abortion, but they voted for him because they prioritized other issues more, particularly inflation and their cost of living.
And I think the equation is going to be the same in office. I mean, if Trump can get peoples cost of living under control, they're going to look past a lot of other things. They may not, you know, be too enthusiastic about regarding him. But if he doesn't, I think all of those other things come back to the surface.
And, you know, the verdict among economists again, by the way, the Wall Street Journal, out Sunday night with their latest survey of economists saying that they -- they now expect inflation to be higher next year than it would have been otherwise because of Trump's tariffs and mass deportation in particular.
So, I mean, the challenge Trump has is that he was hired to do one job above all, which was to get peoples cost of living under control. By and large, I think the broad verdict among economists, including, you know, a lot of conservative economists, is that an agenda of tariffs and mass deportation is more likely to inflame than contain inflation. And so he will now be on the hook for results.
I mean, I don't know if people are expecting it, you know, necessarily tomorrow, but if people in a year, 18 months do not feel like their cost of living is more under control, that is going to be a problem for Republicans heading into 2026.
HLL: Ron, Noel, Maria, appreciate it. Thank you all.
Well, just hours from now, as we have been discussing, of course, the U.S. will have a new president. So among the other moves that Donald Trump has said will be among the first on day one, saving TikTok. How he plans to do that as our coverage of Donald Trumps inauguration continues.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
[02:42:32]
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: As of today, TikTok is back!
(CHEERS)
TRUMP: We went on TikTok and Republicans have never won the young vote. The youth vote. They win a lot of votes, but they never won the youth vote. We won the youth vote by 36 points.
So I like TikTok. I like it. I like it. I had a slightly good experience. Wouldn't you say?
(END VIDEO CLIP) HILL: Donald Trump is hailing the quick return of TikTok hours ahead of his second inauguration ceremony. Among those expected to attend the ceremony is the app CEO.
TikTok is already back online after the company took it offline late Saturday, before a ban was scheduled to go into effect. The app credits Trump for its whiplash rebound and had also said that it was confident it would be Trump who would save it when announcing that the app was taken offline. American TikTok users, of course, now have their access back.
So what does this all mean, and how long will that access last?
Joining me now from Washington is Kaya Yurieff. She's a reporter for "The Information".
Kaya, its good to have you with us.
I mean, I was fascinated, so we were actually live on the air last night talking about TikTok as all of this was unfolding. And all of a sudden, I looked and the message was far different that the app was no longer available. But there was a very direct, not at all veiled, I would say play to President Trump in that moment that clearly worked.
But the reality of how that plays out could be a little different.
KAYA YURIEFF, REPORTER, THE INFORMATION: Definitely. I mean, we've -- we've had so much whiplash over the past 24 hours, and I would expect more whiplash in the next 24 hours and the 24 hours after that.
There's no slam dunk of what happens next. I mean, Trump has said that he is going to issue an executive order, but the question is whether Apple and Google and service providers will feel that that's enough assurance.
We reported that Oracle started turning TikTok servers back up this morning, but Apple and Google have not reinstated TikTok to their Apple -- to their app stores yet.
HILL: It's also -- it's also fascinating because as we look at everything that's at play, if we sort of go in the Wayback Machine and remember how this all started, right? Donald Trump was one of the one of the people initially, years ago who said, hey, I think this is a major national security risk.
We have now, to your point, there's a lot of whiplash. A creator told me last night we were talking about the law, which had bipartisan support.
[02:45:03]
He said, you know what else I noticed? There was bipartisan support in using TikTok to campaign, which really seemed to lead to a lot of the change here that we've seen. But ByteDance has been clear, they're still not selling the algorithm. That's the secret sauce. So how is any of this going to work that in complying with the law that was passed, which the Supreme Court upheld, this ban, is there a way to make the two things work to keep TikTok?
YURIEFF: That is the big question. And Trump has sort of been positioning and same thing with TikTok. But there's no guarantee that they can find a deal because this is still a law. Trump can put out whatever executive order he wants, but he can't overturn the law.
So it is a question of what can happen. He sort of floated this idea of a -- of a 50/50 joint venture with the U.S., but there are so many questions about what company would be involved. And your point, would China sign off on it?
It has export laws for technology, which includes TikTok's algorithm. So Beijing would have to sign off on any sale. And throughout this process, ByteDance has maintained that it does not want to sell. So it is a big question of what kind of deal they can work out to actually keep TikTok in the U.S. long term.
HILL: Has there been an impact outside the U.S. on TikTok?
YURIEFF: I mean, it's really focused on the U.S., right? But the question is, how do you how do you separate it, though? Because so many people in other countries watch U.S. creators. So they're definitely, you know, in the 12 hours that TikTok was down, you know, users around the world could not, you know, interact with American creators who, you know, are very, very popular on the app. So and it is a question, too, if you were to sell TikTok in the U.S., what does that mean for TikTok's operations in the rest of the world? It's such a complicated issue.
There's no easy solution here, and that's why were here, you know, down to pass the deadline, right? They weren't able to find a solution before this deadline went into effect.
HILL: Yeah, it'll -- it'll be interesting to see what the next 90 days brings.
Kaya, I really appreciate it. Thank you.
Well, among the other action items for day one for Donald Trump, immigration. The preparations now underway to enact his proposals, including mass deportations. That's ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
[02:51:07]
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: We have to set our country on the proper course. By the time the sun sets tomorrow evening, the invasion of our borders will have come to a halt. And all the illegal border trespassers will, in some form or another, be on their way back home. The border security measures I will outline in my inaugural address tomorrow will be the most aggressive, sweeping effort to restore our borders.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HILL: President-elect Donald Trump and his aides are preparing to clamp down on immigration, as you just heard there. As soon as he is sworn into office, in a matter of hours, those plans include declaring a national emergency at the border, as well as raids targeting undocumented migrants across the country and negotiations for the return of the "Remain in Mexico" program, which would require people to stay outside the U.S. while undergoing their immigration proceedings.
Maria Ramirez Uribe, pardon me, is an immigration reporter at PolitiFact and joins me from Washington.
It's good to have you with us.
So when we look at what is expected to happen tomorrow, what we have been told will happen, were told this is a lot of shock and awe. There's going to be a show of force. A number of cities around the country have been preparing for that. I've seen discussion of it on the local news here in the New York area.
What is your sense of what and where this will actually look like? What will transpire?
MARIA RAMIREZ URIBE, POLITIFACT IMMIGRATION REPORTER: Yeah. So we know that Trump has said, you know, this, this mass deportation plan of his it starts on day one, but he hasn't really provided a whole lot of details as to what exactly that means. So like you mentioned, we know there's a few cities that could begin to see these sort of immigration, large immigration raids taking place. Chicago was one that was named early on.
Tom Homan, Trump's border czar, said that, you know, they're reconsidering beginning this in Chicago after that leak happened because of potential safety concerns for ice officers. But he also said that its not going to, you know, be limited to one city. So like you said, I've also been seen in reports Philadelphia, D.C., Denver, all these sort of Democrat led cities as places where these sort of large immigration raids will begin to take place, potentially as soon as tomorrow morning.
And so, we don't know exactly what that will look like, if it will be sort of limited to 1 to 2 people here and there in these sort of ice deportation operations, or if it will be larger scale, sort of a bigger show.
HILL: In terms of a bigger show, it's a two-fold show, right? It's a -- it's a show of force. And following through, I suppose, on a campaign promise. But there's also an element of, oh, if we do this, then it will serve as a deterrent in some respects for people trying to come into the country. Is there any sense that that is accurate?
URIBE: I mean, look, I think that's the sort of deterrent conversation around immigration enforcement, has been going on for decades, and it doesn't necessarily always work. So, for example, during Trump's first administration, we saw large immigration drop when he first went into office as people sort of feared what this new harsh on immigration sort of reality would look like.
And then immigration started to go up again as people kind of either got comfortable or kind of understood the way that the immigration laws and the resources were constraining, that sort of deterrent effort. And then again, immigration dropped again during the COVID-19 pandemic and then started rising again as Trump was leaving office. So it really is sort of a clear cut.
Deterrence works all the time, but certainly Tom Homan and Donald Trump are hoping that these sort of large immigration raids will lead people to kind of reconsider whether or not they come across the border.
[02:55:01]
To call immigration a complicated issue would be a gross understatement. This is one of the reasons that it has not been solved. As we know in Congress, it's also sometimes beneficial if you're not the party in power, to keep kicking the can down the road, because then you can run on it. When we look at the team that Donald Trump has assembled and what he understands in terms of the process and how government works now coming into a second term, what does that change when it comes to tackling immigration in a second Trump term?
I mean, I think we'll continue to see a lot of what we saw during Trumps first term and even during Biden's term, which is a lot of executive orders to sort of lead immigration changes. You know, Congress has not been able to pass any immigration reform in decades. And so, I don't necessarily see that changing immediately, and then we'll see is one of the big pieces, especially for this mass deportation plan, is resources.
And so there needs to be a shift in appropriations in order for Trump to carry out any large scale, the sort of mass deportation plan he's promised. And potentially we might see Congress, actually, you know, fund some of those resources that are needed. And if not, Trump has promised to declare a national emergency for immigration. And we know he did that during his first term to divert some military funding to the border. So we might also see some of that, I think I think were going to see a Trump who knows kind of how to play the immigration game better than his first time around.
HILL: Yeah, absolutely. Maria Ramirez Uribe, great to have you here. Thank you.
URIBE: Thank you.
HILL: And thanks to all of you for joining me this hour. I'm Erica Hill in New York. I'll see you right back here at the top of the hour after a quick break. Stay with us.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

Load-Date: January 20, 2025


End of Document
