




Fox News THE FIVE 5:00 PM EST
February 4, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7432 words
Byline: Dana Perino, Jeanine Pirro, Jesse Watters, Greg Gutfeld, Jessica Tarlov
Body


BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER: And I'm sure the president is happy that they're here, and I would think that's about enough.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Prime Minister, what about the (INAUDIBLE) the Israeli hostage held in Iraq?
NETANYAHU: What about the Israeli press taking a press conference in Israel, not in Washington?
(CROSSTALK)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Prime Minister Netanyahu, do you support going forward with this deal in getting all the hostages out?
NETANYAHU: I support getting all the hostages out and meeting all our war goals, that includes destroying Hamas' military and governing capabilities and making sure that Gaza never poses a threat to Israel again. All three.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Are you willing --
(CROSSTALK)
NETANYAHU: I think that I should talk to President Trump, OK?
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Wait, wait, wait. One at a time.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: One at a time. So, I'll ask, do you agree with Trump's vision of getting all the hostages back home, even if it means to end the war?
NETANYAHU: Well, I'm not sure that you articulate correctly what the president's vision is. You can ask -- he can speak for himself. He does that very, very well.
I have my own views. Three goals, not one, not two. Three goals, and I will meet all three goals. I think the president can help enormously. He brings fresh thinking -- fresh thinking.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: -- terrorist who murdered hundreds of people, released (ph) to their home of the part of the deal?
TRUMP: It's a horrible thing. We can't forget it. I'll never forget it, and you can't forget it. And some people want to put it out of their memory, but we're not going to ever let that happen.
It was a horrible day, October 7th. That was a horrible -- that was a horrible period of time, and lot of people like to pretend it didn't happened. It happened. It's a big group of people that like to pretend it didn't happened, like the Holocaust didn't happened. Same mindset.
No, we're going to -- we're going to get this thing wrapped up, and we're going to get it done. We're also dealing, I think, very successfully with Russia Ukraine. We can hopefully get that one done at some point in the not too distant future. That's a complex problem also, but we solve problems.
We'll -- you know, when I left, we had no problem. There was no Ukraine and Russia fighting. There was no October 7th. There was nothing. And some very poor leadership led to a lot of problems and a lot of death, and it's a shame, but we'll put it out. We'll put out the fires. We have a lot of fires, we'll put them out.
(CROSSTALK)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: -- Palestinian state like the peace plan you presented in January 20 -- in 2020, is this plan still on the table?
TRUMP: Well, a lot of plans change with time, and a lot of death has occurred since I left and now came back. This death occurred not while I was here, but while somebody else was here.
It shouldn't have happened. They shouldn't have allowed it to happen. It would have never happened, and that includes Russia, Ukraine would have never happened, not even a little bit, not even a chance.
But now we are faced with a situation that's different in some ways better and in some ways worse, but we're faced with a very complex and difficult situation, but we'll solve -- we'll solve the problem.
(CROSSTALK)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: If not Jordan, Egypt, what other countries you think might accept Palestinians from Gaza?
TRUMP: Well, I think Jordan and Egypt will -- I know they've spoken about it with you, and they say they're not going to accept. I say they will. But I think other countries will accept also.
I think that Gaza maybe is a demolition site right now, if you look at Gaza, it's all -- I mean, it's hardly a building standing and the ones that are going to collapse, you can't live in Gaza right now. And I think we need another location. I think it should be a location that's going to make people happy.
You look over the -- over the decades, it's all death in Gaza. This has been happening for years. It's all death. If we can get a beautiful area to resettle people permanently in nice homes and where they can be happy and not be shot, not be killed, not be knifed to death, like what's happening in Gaza.
And right now you have in Gaza very dangerous situation in terms of explosives all over the place, in terms of tunnels that nobody knows who's in the tunnel. The whole thing is a mess. And I think that if we can resettle, and I believe we can do it in areas where the leaders currently say no, I mean, I've been saying that with Mexico having to do with the border and all of the things, and you saw what happened, 10,000 soldiers, and they're going to do a good job. I really believe that. And I believe Canada is going to do a good job also, they said the same thing, and then they did something much different than what you were hearing.
This is a very, very difficult situation, but we're going to get it solved. I don't think people should be going back to Gaza. I think that Gaza has been very unlucky for them. They've lived like hell. They lived like you're living in hell. Gaza is not a place for people to be living.
And the only reason they want to go back, and I believe that strongly, is because they have no alternative. What's the alternative? Go where? There's no other alternative.
If they had an alternative, they'd much rather not go back to Gaza and live in a beautiful alternative that's safe.
PETER DOOCY, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Would Palestinians have the right to return to Gaza if they left while rebuilding?
TRUMP: It would be my hope that we could do something really nice, really good, where they wouldn't want to return. Why would they want to return? The place has been hell. It's been one of the meanest -- one of the meanest, toughest places on earth.
And right now, it's -- I've seen every picture from every angle, better than if I were there. And nobody can live there. You can't live there.
So, if we can build -- we can build them through a massive amounts of money supplied by other people, very rich nations, and they'll be willing to supply it. If we can build something for them. And one of the countries, and it could be Jordan, and it could be Egypt, it could be other countries, and you could build four or five or six areas. It doesn't have to be one area, but you take certain areas and you build really good quality housing, like a beautiful town, like some place where they can live and not die, because Gaza is a guarantee that they're going to end up dying.
The same thing is going to happen again. It's happened over and over again, and it's going to happen again, as sure as you're standing there, Peter.
So, I hope that we could do something where they wouldn't want to go back. Who would want to go back? They've experienced nothing but death and destruction.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If Egypt and Jordan tell you no, what would you do then?
TRUMP: Well, I don't think they're going to tell me no. I don't think they're going to tell me no. I think they're going to tell Biden no, I think they're going to --
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So, you think it will happen in the end?
TRUMP: I think there's a good chance. Yes --
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: How many people are you going to believe you're thinking about?
TRUMP: All of them. I mean, we're talking about probably a million seven people. Seven, maybe a million eight but I think all of them, I think they'll be resettled in areas where they can live a beautiful life and not be worried about dying every day.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Mr. President, do you support building settlements -- Jerusalem settlements back in Gaza in the next years?
TRUMP: Say it?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Building settlements Jerusalem settlements back in Gaza in the next year? Do you support this?
TRUMP: I don't see it happening. It's too dangerous for people. Nobody can go there. It's too dangerous. Nobody wants to be there. Warriors don't want to be there. Soldiers don't want to be there. How can you have people go back? You're saying go back into Gaza now, the same thing is going to happen. It will only be death.
The best way to do it is you go out and you get beautiful open areas with the sunlight coming through, something nice.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So, that's not what I meant.
TRUMP: They are not going to want to Gaza. They are not going to want to go back to Gaza.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Prime Minister Netanyahu, what is your message to the families of the hostages that look at this deal that worried that this deal won't go through? What do you say to them at this moment?
NETANYAHU: Same message I said from the beginning of the war, get them out. Get them back. We got over 70 percent, close to 75 percent of the people who everybody believed will not get out. We got them in successive deals, and most recently, with the help of President Trump, we're not going to give up on any of them, and we're not going to give up on our other war ends. Hamas is not going to be in Gaza, and we're going to get everyone back.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: How optimistic are you about reaching -- about reaching phase two of the ceasefire, how to basically let that happen?
NETANYAHU: Well, we're going to try. That's one of the reasons, one of the things we're going to talk about here.
If we -- if we -- you know, when Israel and the United States work together, and President Trump and I work together, you know, the chances go up a lot.
When we don't work together, Israel and the United States don't work together, that creates problems when the other side sees daylight between us, and occasionally in the last few years, to put in mind, then it's -- then it's more difficult.
When we cooperate, the chances of the --
TRUMP: Say it.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Now that the Iran is so weak, isn't it the right time to (INAUDIBLE) once and for all?
TRUMP: So, you say Iran is so weak, I appreciate you saying that. They're not weak. They're very strong right now, and we're not -- we're not going to allow them to have a nuclear weapons. Very simple.
You know, I signed a very strong proclamation. Iran was in big trouble when I left. They were broke. They didn't have money for Hamas. They didn't have any money for Hezbollah. You had no problem. October 7th could have never happened.
When I left, October 7th could have never happened. And frankly, Russia and Ukraine, as I said, could never have happened. They became very strong, very fast. They sold massive amounts of oil to China and everybody else who would not buy the oil when I was (INAUDIBLE) because we said, don't buy the oil. And they became very rich very quickly.
But they're not weak, they're not weak. Doesn't mean they won't be weak. But you know what? We just don't want them to have a nuclear weapon. They can't have a nuclear bomb.
People know what he wants. What do you know about anything?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: But is that option is on the table? President Trump, is that option on the table?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You're not just talking about Jordan?
TRUMP: No. Could be other places too. There are many people that have reached out, many countries, many leaders of countries that have reached out that would like to participate and that it doesn't have to be Jordan and Egypt, but I think it would be also them.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Mr. President, your relationship with Mr. Netanyahu knew ups and downs. How would you describe it?
TRUMP: No, I think it's mostly ups.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Mr. President.
TRUMP: What?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The Palestinian authority (INAUDIBLE), what do you think?
TRUMP: Well, it's had a pretty hard time. Wouldn't you say? I'd say it's had a pretty bad time of it.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Mr. President, Qatar has -- you've criticized in the past as a funder of terrorism. So, as the Prime Minister, do you think they're part of the solution or part of a problem moving forward?
TRUMP: I think they're trying to help. Qatar is absolutely trying to help. I know very well, and they're doing everything they can, very tough situation, but they are absolutely trying to help.
Thank you very much, everybody.
(CROSSTALK)
JEANINE PIRRO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL LEGAL ANALYST: President Trump just wrapping up a meeting with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in the Oval Office and giving an update about the hostages, they are set to hold a news conference soon.
And while we wait for that, the DOGE disruptors are taking a wrecking ball to woke and wasteful government spending, and it's driving the Democrats insane.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: DOGE is to blame. For this mess without legal domain.
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): Whatever DOGE is doing, it is certainly not, not what democracy looks like, or has ever looked like in the grand history of this country.
SEN. ELIZABETH WARREN (D-MA): We are living a nightmare created by Donald Trump and Elon Musk, and we need to wake up.
REP. ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ (D-NY): This dude is probably one of the most unintelligent billionaires I have ever met or seen or witnessed. They don't do their homework clearly, like they're putting 19 year olds in at the Treasury. This dude is not smart.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PIRRO: But AOC might want to take a deep breath, because DOGE is just getting started. At least 20,000 federal workers have taken President Trump's buyout offer. Elon Musk is pulling his followers on X and asking them, "Would you like DOGE to audit the IRS?" and President Trump backing up the world's richest man and revealing his new target for the DOGE cuts, the Department of Education.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: What I want to do is let the states run schools. I believe strongly in school choice, but in addition to that, I want the states to run schools, and I want Linda to put herself out of the job.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Some of these DOGE engineers that Elon Musk has helping him for as young as 19 years old?
TRUMP: They're very smart though, Peter, they're like you. They're very smart people.
DOOCY: Thank you. Has he -- have you met any of these guys?
TRUMP: No, I haven't seen them. They work, actually, out of the White House. They're smart people.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PIRRO: All right. Jesse, the Dems are freaking out, and I'm not sure if they're freaking out more over Elon Musk or the DOGE cuts, which is amazing, because some of these cuts need to be made.
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: I love some of these. Dana mentioned it the other day. You have Iraqi Sesame Street. You have Moroccan pottery classes, bat viruses and tourism for Lebanon. No offense, Judge Jeanine.
I've been looking into USAID. It's a CIA cutout. It's basically like a dark money group that's been caught staging crews across Latin America. They've been kicked out of dozens of countries. They've been funding paramilitary operations, and they got caught.
And this is basically a $40 billion slush fund for social justice warriors in permanent Washington to bribe people, staff people at NGOs and just create hell. And they were probably going to launch the resistance against Trump's second term through this little government super PAC because it was so dark and shady.
And if you are like our friend Kamala Harris and you're interested in Venn diagrams, if you take all the executives from USAID, the Clinton Foundation, the Gates Foundation, the World Bank, the World Health Organization and the United Nations, all of them overlap. It's very interesting when you look at who is who when they run these organizations.
Burisma got a contract with USAID through Hunter Biden and then Hunter Biden and it was so shady Judge Jeanine that the Obama people looked at it and canceled it. That's how corrupt it looked like.
Rosemont Seneca Partners firm also did deals with two people they were trying to get rich off of disaster aid in Haiti through USAID.
Now, I'm not saying you got to eliminate all foreign aid, but it's like a knock down to see a house. It's a knockdown. You just got to level it and you got to build it back up. That's how corrupt it is.
And if they found out this much corruption in just one small agency, imagine how bad it is at the Pentagon.
PIRRO: You know, Dana, one of the things that the Democrats have been complaining about is they're saying, you know, a lot of this aid is going for, you know, good reasons. And they said Rubio Marco, Rubio, Secretary of State, came out and said, food, medicine, saving lives are not included in the freeze. And if you don't know how to ask for a waiver, then you're either incompetent or you're just looking to sabotage.
DANA PERINO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: I talked to someone today who said that when he was working in government that USAID kind of ran like an NGO, right?
And so, the pause and Rubio being in charge, I think if you care about health diplomacy or the food diplomacy, like all of that makes sense, and you can do that you out of USAID.
And yes, there could be some good work, but when you've been the Congress has delegate basically been AWOL. They didn't do their responsibility, and so all of these other things happened, so now you have one apple or Minneapolis spoiling the bunch.
Elizabeth Warren also said that Elon Musk wasn't elected. Well, neither were the people who were shoveling all of the taxpayer dollars out to pay for electronic vehicle -- electric vehicle credits. Who was elected that said it was OK to raid the Medicare Trust Fund in order to pay for electric vehicle credits? Congress didn't say anything about it. Those are the Biden people.
Who was elected to go around Congress to say that you could forgive student loans? Even Nancy Pelosi said you couldn't do that. Joe Biden said, I'll do it, and it didn't matter to him that it was illegal.
You have also the Democrats complaining about data security and data privacy. The January 6th committee leaked thousands of people's personal information that had nothing to do with the investigation.
And so I feel like AOC questioning the intelligence of Elon Musk is just click bait, and I'm not going to quit. I'm not going to quit.
Also, I believe that Linda McMahon is the one to dismantle the Department of Education. You look at those educations for us from last week, what are we getting for this? Why do you think a lot of these companies say they need H-1bB visas? Because we're not educating people here appropriately.
PIRRO: Interesting. I was going to ask you the education question too, but I'll go to you, Jessica. You know, it seems like the Democrats haven't gotten their footing. I mean, it's still -- they're not -- they're not sure about the message or why they lost and everything else. And yet this DOGE thing, and Jesse just gave us some examples, is that the best they've got.
JESSICA TARLOV, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: It's certainly part of the conversation that I think Democrats should be having. And I would love to be here the day that it was announced that George Soros had been given access to the Treasury payments, and he was going to be running a bureaucracy, we'll call it GEO-DOGE (ph), to make it George Soros applicable. And he was going to decide how many thousands of people he fired. He had a bunch of 19 year olds that he really liked. Maybe they interned for him. Maybe they're just a Palantir (ph) kid.
And he was going to bring them in. And he was going to change the way we run our government. He was going to move fast and break things like they do out in the bay area.
But instead, your social security payments would be on the table. Your job would be on the table, your Medicaid would be on the table.
And you say Democrats are the only ones melting down. Is Senator Wiker a Democrat and I missed it? Or Jerry Moran, or even Marco Rubio when he used to have a moral compass. 2017 foreign aid is in charity. It's critical to our national security. If you're so concerned about making sure that we stay in front of China, which would love to eat our lunch any way that they can. This kind of aid matters.
PERINO: That's what Rubio just said.
TARLOV: No, the program that he's talking about in 2017 is different than what is going on today. It absolutely is -- and anyway, the fundamental issue here is that we have three co-equal branches of government, and the executive doesn't care about Congress anymore. Congress appropriated this money. They say it was an EO, originally it was, but in 1998 it was an enshrined by Congress as a law. You need to go through the proper hurdles.
And there are plenty of Democrats who said, let me in the DOGE caucus. They want to have conversations about things to cut.
PIRRO: Sure they do.
TARLOV: Maybe there are lima bean dancers in malaria and wherever that need to be eliminated. But you have -- and I'll just add one more thing. They've blocked access to secure communications for hundreds of USAID employees who are currently in war zones. How can that be OK with you?
PIRRO: OK, first of all, all foreign -- all foreign aid is discretionary for the president to determine.
TARLOV: No.
PIRRO: Yes, it is discretionary for the president to determine. And if the whole point is it's not charity, Greg, but it exists for the purpose of advancing our national interest. Shouldn't it be something that advances the United States interest?
GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Yes, I'm just -- this doesn't feel right that we weren't introduced. I'm Greg Gutfeld, welcome to THE FIVE.
All we're doing is introducing friction into a system that got used to having no restraint. So, you have this giant blob that finds it alien, that people might want to know where their money is going. They are just spending it like it's the casinos cash.
By the way, Joe Biden was ushered in on the promise of empathy in unity. And it turned out the executive branch had been hijacked by radical forces, and when it was exposed, they covered it up, and they also went after whistleblowers and condemned and smeared people who dared to say that Joe wasn't fit. Doesn't that sound familiar? It is exactly what's happening with USAID and it's going to happen with every single other program and department, because they are corrupt.
And if you think, how do you know that? I just explained it to you, the White House, the biggest political cover up in history, right in front of your eyes, and you think that somehow this is going to be pristine behind closed doors, when you talk about everything that was -- I mean, we're talking about Hamas being funded. We're talking about Haiti, those billions that disappeared. We're talking about trans and gender propaganda in foreign countries, there's so many things.
And you know, love Trump or hate him, Jessica and I know where you stand. Trump is where government secrets go to die. He's doing more than 40 years of so called and heroic investigative journalism. We're learning about stuff we never bothered to learn. And it's not coming from the nation or the New Republic or the Atlantic. It's coming from a Republican president.
You, I never knew about USAID. I thought it was a sports drink, you know. I didn't know about, you know, NGOs. I thought that was an STD.
TARLOV: How many STDs did you have?
GUTFELD: I can't get into that here during the break, and the reaction tells you everything that this is the heart of corruption. It's about funding. And all we want to know is, where is it going? Eco Alliance, no matter what you say about humanitarian efforts by USAID, millions and millions of people being killed, kind of cancels that out. Eco Alliance was funded by USAID.
So, there are up to maybe, what, $521 billion in fraud annually. And these people act like we're waging war. No. Well, we are against corruption. And you're on the wrong side.
WATTERS: You're on the wrong side.
TARLOV: I'm not. Let's talk about government contracts also that Musk has.
PIRRO: Well, no, the president has the right relevant to have Marco Rubio or Elon Musk or whomever he wants to advise him, and he makes the decisions.
But $9.3 billion to Islamic terror states responsible for killing over 3000 American soldiers that came to USAID, and it's wrong.
President Trump and Benjamin Netanyahu are going to speak any moment. We're going to bring that to you when it happens.
But up next, it's only been two weeks, and President Trump is delivering some huge wins for the American people.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
PERINO: President Trump and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu are set to hold a news conference at the White House.
But in the meantime, it is kind of hard to believe it's been only two weeks since President Trump was sworn into office, and since then, 47 has moved at warp speed to enact his agenda. The White House is celebrating by putting out this video.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: We are two weeks in, and President Trump is already delivering big wins for the American people.
Trump declared a national emergency, deployed the military, ended catch and release, declared a National Energy emergency, labeled the drug cartels as foreign terrorist organizations, and he is deporting criminal illegal aliens, and he signed the Laken Riley Act into law, signed more than 45 executive orders. DEI has been purged from the government. Took 12 times more press questions than Joe Biden did in a week.
Promises made, promises kept, and we're just getting started.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERINO: And the president himself making this comment about his first two weeks.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: I think we have the finest people ever recruited for government. And you know what? You're starting to see that because we've done more in two weeks than Biden's done in four, five years, six years, they could be here between him and Obama.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERINO: Greg, there is -- it is pretty interesting.
GUTFELD: This is a new era. And I don't think you can go back to the old era. Speed is everything. The Dems aren't used to this approach. My memory is that Republicans would work on one thing at a time and it was like each bill was a bespoke item that might take four to six weeks to get it delivered. But Trump's like an assembly line and the Democrats are Lucy and Ethel trying to keep up wrapping the chocolates as they whiz by on the assembly line.
Is that a reference that is too old for you people?
TARLOV: Why not?
GUTFELD: I think the audience at home goes oh I remember that classic episode.
PERINO: I showed to Kate last week.
GUTFELD: You know, it's -- and I -- and I've used the favorite restaurant analogy before. You don't have to like everything on the menu to give it five stars on Yelp. But you might find one issue. That's a -- that's not for me. maybe it's a -- it's what Jessica doesn't like. But taking together you can feel a purpose, you know, at work which is America first, no bluffs given.
I don't -- I don't think anybody has seen this before. It's a phenomenon. Is it because, you know it we just had incompetent people or we didn't know what to ask for. And Trump was the guy that just keeps asking. Why don't we do this? Why don't we do that? And then he opens up the trunk -- the hood of the car to show you how it's doing.
This is all happening in real time. You got Musk on X telling you what's going on with DOGE. You were learning so much while this is happening.
PERINO: I think also judge is partly because of the contrast with Joe Biden.
PIRRO: Yes.
PERINO: And that you -- in a way, it's almost as if having Biden there to do all of the terrible things that happened now you can look and get all the transparency and some fixes.
PIRRO: Yes, it is amazing. I mean, the difference is astonishing -- and it's astonishing. And I don't think the American people have ever seen this before, a government that has moved this quickly and a president that has done so much when it comes to the border, and energy, and major investments from other countries, for A.I. And you know, even widening the Press Briefing Room.
And you know, this is being done on Trump time. It's like warp speed. I think Peter Navarro came up with that. This is Trump time. The American people voted for change and they're getting change and they're getting great people to do it. And every day we're -- it's like were flies on the wall in the Oval Office. He's saying I'm signing this now, this is for the American people, we said we do it. And we're -- it's like we're working in the Oval Office.
And you know, Wall Street is booming right now. A.I. investment is great. And you know, for Law and Order the cartels have been declared foreign terrorist organizations. The other countries in the world are literally on their knees when they were pushing against Trump. Now, they're saying would -- no tariffs please, we'll do whatever you want. And the finest people are recruited. I think America is excited.
And just one more thing. When you've got AOC and Schumer, and there are -- they're out there complaining. They're like in the wilderness. And it's almost like when they talk about guacamole and all this other stuff, you know, food we're worried about, food, it's like they don't even care about that. They just want to talk negative about the President. I was going to say another word.
PERINO: Jessica, it's almost as if I can imagine that Democrats on a treadmill and President Trump just keeps on pushing up the speed to see if they can keep up.
TARLOV: And the incline -- the incline is the worst part for me. Look, it has moved quickly, absolutely, and it's hard to keep up. I know that everybody no matter how you feel about these policies is struggling to make sure that you have the most current information before you go on national television and say 6,000 people have been -- oh, wait, we unfroze the froze -- you know, it's a lot.
But I've been thinking a lot about Greg's restaurant, and I agree. I don't like seafood -- that was your original example -- but I love steak. And a lot -- surf and turf it's a thing, and those are some of the best restaurants. But there was really one menu item that the American public wanted, and they wanted their cost of living to come down, right?
So just in the first couple of weeks, we have seen interest rates, not coming down, mortgage rate not coming down, inflation not coming down. And now, if you go to Waffle House, you pay an extra 50 cents per egg because of how expensive eggs are. We've gone to Whole Foods or wherever you shop - -
GUTFELD: That's a lagging indicator.
TARLOV: OK. And you had the President --
GUTFELD: You know that. That's from Biden.
TARLOV: -- threatening a trade war, admitting that it will cost Americans. He did back off of it, and he got a deal with both Canada and Mexico that had already existed.
PIRRO: They backed off. They backed off.
TARLOV: Well, they didn't. Justin Trudeau repurposed the December bill or proposal that had already been accepted and then he add a fentanyl czar for the 42 pound --
WATTERS: Who's side are you on?
TARLOV: I'm on the side of the Americans that want --
WATTERS: Why do you sound like you're on Trudeau's side?
TARLOV: Justin Trudeau seems like a lovely man.
WATTERS: Why are you rooting for Canada?
PIRRO: Not so much.
TARLOV: I'm explaining that the way that you are --
WATTERS: You're not explaining. You're complaining. There's a difference, Jessica. And you should be on America's side.
TARLOV: Do not mansplain to me on national television.
WATTERS: When we're Canada and Mexico and accepting our terms --
TARLOV: That's not true. Calling Trump on 5000 extra troops for Joe Biden.
WATTERS: -- on trade and on immigration and on drugs, you should be thanking Donald Trump instead of complaining.
TARLOV: It happened under Biden watch that deal.
WATTERS: This is -- also, the egg hoax? Come on, Jessica.
TARLOV: What?
WATTERS: This isn't MSNBC. We know what happened with the eggs with the bird flu.
TARLOV: What happened with the eggs?
WATTERS: Biden killed a million birds because his person who was supposed to oversee the bird flu missed it.
TARLOV: Oh, I'm glad that we have a new vaccine --
WATTERS: Remember when fathers get hit by cars, and all of a sudden they have this superhuman strength when the cars on their babies?
TARLOV: No.
(CROSSTALK)
WATTERS: And they can pick the car up and take their baby. That's Trump. This country was the baby that Biden had hit with the car. And he had come along and he had saved this child, this United States of America. And that's why things are happening so fast, Jessica. We needed superhuman strength because of the disaster over the last four years.
Isn't it amazing what you can accomplish when you don't have people sabotaging you like they did the first term? The Intelligence Community, the mainstream media making up hoaxes. It's incredible also what you can do --
TARLOV: You just said there was an egg hoax.
WATTERS: I'm talking about Russia -- with a United Republican Party. You just saw Tulsi Gabbard and RFK Jr. both voted out of committee. A lot of people didn't think that was going to happen. The media is crippled. No one takes them seriously anymore. And the Democrats are experiencing some sort of political identity crisis which has makes everything so much easier to make America great again when you guys don't get in the way.
PERINO: Wow. I thought you said you were going to say something outrageous.
PIRRO: Yes.
WATTERS: I crossed that out.
PERINO: OK. President Trump and Benjamin Netanyahu are about to hold a news conference, but up next, Trump's borders Czar, Tom Homan, is putting a Democratic governor on notice after daring ICE to arrest the migrant in his home.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
TARLOV: It is chic music. President Trump and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu are set to hold a news conference. As we wait for that, Democratic New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy is walking back some controversial comments where he implied that he and the state's first lady were housing an immigrant with uncertain legal status and even daring ICE to arrest her. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GOV. PHIL MURPHY (D-NJ): Tammy and I were talking about -- I don't want to get into too much detail but there's someone in our broader universe whose immigration status is is not yet at the point that they are trying to get it to. And we said you know what, let's have her live at our house above our garage. And good luck to the feds coming in to try to get her.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
TARLOV: A spokesman for the New Jersey Governor denies that Murphy is harboring a migrant in his house. But regardless, President Trump's border czar, Tom Homan, is putting Murphy on notice.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TOM HOMAN, BORDER CZAR: If they knowingly harbor and conceal an alien, that's a felony. We will see prosecution through the U.S. Attorney's Office. That's what we have to do because they're releasing public safety threats back in the community. Any sanctuary city, any elected mayor, a city councilman, a governor who thinks it's a good idea to release public safety threats back in the community to reoffend it's just ridiculous. We're going to hold them accountable. The Trump Administration will hold them accountable through prosecution.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
TARLOV: Dana, this feels like probably the worst way that Governor Murphy could have tackled this important issue.
PERINO: First of all, dumb. Secondly, then he's lying.
TARLOV: Right.
So, he either lies -- lied about having the person there or tell his spokesperson to lie to protect the person there. And this is not an insignificant governor. He has a position in the Democratic Governor Association. He's the governor of the 11th most populous state in the country. This is a person that is someone in leadership. I mean, the decimated leadership that is the Democratic Party -- Democratic Party right now. You'd put a governor up there.
And he's so willing to play footsie with the fringe base and not offend them that he offends everybody else that -- does he not read any room? 87 percent of people are comfortable with the deportations -- 87 percent. That's called like a 90-10 rule. You don't go against that. You're going to lose. That's terrible what he's just done.
TARLOV: Yes. Greg, building off of that, there are very real concerns about how these deportations are going to be executed. And if the conversation shifts over in the direction that Murphy put it in, then Tom Homan ends up looking much more reasonable if you think that people are harboring people especially folks in elected office.
GUTFELD: Interesting. I think that --
TARLOV: I think you think it is so.
GUTFELD: I think that I need to go back to what Dana said before the segment started in which he referred to the governor as --
PERINO: Go ahead.
GUTFELD: A dumbass. I had A-hole but you said dumbass. Because he outs the tenants immigrant status just to score compassion point.
PERINO: Yes.
GUTFELD: There's nothing more pathetic than a desperate woke dude. Oh, I'm such a hero. I'm telling ICE exactly where the illegal is. He's doxing his tenant to get likes. And also he said good luck. Like, come and get me. You don't say that to Homan. And that's like you get pulled over by a cop and go, you know, do you know who I am? Do you know who I am? I don't think you're going to give me a ticket.
It's always a joy to see a virtue signaling bluff called out because he thought he was taking a heroic stand. He probably assumed nobody was watching because look at that. Whatever that was, was very, very pressing.
PERINO: It was on YouTube.
GUTFELD: Extremely depressing. And he assumed no one would dare say oh, really, tell us more. So, he was bragging about disobeying the laws in a war that is basically against drugs that are killing hundreds of thousands of Americans. He's on the wrong side. He thought that he could get away with this emotional ploy. But it's a greedy sport. You know, you play to emotion, it helps you. But in the end, it doesn't -- it doesn't bring any help to anybody else. Dumbass, to quote Dana Perino.
TARLOV: I didn't hear her say that.
GUTFELD: February 4, 2025.
TARLOV: Judge, so there -- like we were saying in the last block, a lot is happening and at warp speed. And one of the big things from today is that the first plane with I think a dozen migrants is headed to Guantanamo Bay and they're going to start holding them there.
PIRRO: What's the question?
TARLOV: I'm getting there. How do you think that this is going to work as a plan? And do you know anything about how migrants will be treated there in terms of what rights that they'll still get that America affords them but they'll obviously not be off of our -- they won't be on our soil.
PIRRO: Well, to the extent that they have any rights at all, being in Guantanamo is not going to matter. Here's the bottom line. The people who are in Guantanamo are there temporarily until they can be deported back to their own country. It is literally a detention center.
But I really want to talk about the arrogance of Phil Murphy and, you know, his idea that taunting the feds is like the dumbest thing you can do. It's Article 8 USC 1324. I mean, it is a felony. And all of the -- all of the Democrats especially -- remember in Massachusetts, they were like we're going to do everything we can to resist this, and they've all seemed to back down other than Gavin Newsom.
And this guy, as Dana said, he either lied or he made his spokesperson lie. He outs his -- the housekeeper if there is one. But it is the dumbest thing that he could do, and it's the problem that the Democrats have. They just want to resist Trump. And they are so used to this country being lawless that there is no consequence to when you violate the law that they just feel free to do whatever they want.
And that's what Donald Trump is doing to this country. He is changing it back to the fact that people have to follow the law. And that includes the governor.
TARLOV: Jesse, you can talk about anything immigration-related.
WATTERS: He's acting like he has Anne Frank in his attic, OK. He iced his maid.
GUTFELD: Damn.
WATTERS: He basically virtue-signaled his maid into an iceman. And I've already asked Kristi Noem if I could embed during the task force for the takedown. We already even know she's above the garage.
PERINO: I know.
WATTERS: How easy is this going to be? And they should deport his shoes and his red socks while they're at it. Did you know that Trump also canceled the windmills off the Jersey Shore?
PERINO: Yes.
WATTERS: He chalked that up for another win. Did you also know, Jessica, New Jersey is a swing state. If Trump had had more money, he would have won New Jersey.
TARLOV: The billionaire didn't have enough money?
WATTERS: Not as much as Kamala.
TARLOV: Not as much as DOGE money.
WATTERS: And he actually used the money to win instead of wasting it on Beyonce.
GUTFELD: How dare you?
WATTERS: I'm sorry. Grammy award-winning country music star, Beyonce.
GUTFELD: Yes.
TARLOV: And I have Cowboy Crater music today. Any moment now, President Trump to hold a news conference with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. But up next, Schumer's avocados and beer stunt is not assuring panic Democrats.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: Democrats are losing it over their own leadership's weak anti- Trump game. Stuff like Chuck Schumer and his little avocados. A Democratic strategist telling The Hill "Trump is eating us for lunch, and for the most part we're letting him."
What was with the whole avocado Corona thing? That that looked kind of weird.
TARLOV: Oh, it's directed it me? Yes, it was weird. He was trying to make a Super Bowl argument like your -- you know, how we do Thanksgiving costs you $8.00 more or whatever. It's bad. I'm not going to go on too long about it. I -- you know, we have a new DMC chair who has been described as --
GUTFELD: A White male.
TARLOV: Yes, technically.
GUTFELD: And a co-chair White male.
TARLOV: Oh, technically?
WATTERS: Technically, what does that mean?
PERINO: Is there anything else we need to know?
TARLOV: No. You don't need --
WATTERS: Do we really know?
WATTERS: Is he 0.1 percent --
GUTFELD: I need to know his sexual status.
WATTERS: Oh, is he not straight?
PIRRO: That's what I said. Do we really know?
TARLOV: Stop it.
WATTERS: I'm going to have to ask if him if he's straight.
GUTFELD: Yes. Because the Democrats demand that we know everything.
TARLOV: We don't, actually.
PERINO: What are his pronouns?
WATTERS: Does he like men or women, Jessica?
TARLOV: I think he has a wife. I don't know if --
WATTERS: Kids?
TARLOV: Yes, two I think. Are we good yet? Anyway, hopefully, it'll get better.
WATTERS: Dana, what do you think about their anti-Trump game?
PERINO: Well, Ken Martin, the new guy from Minnesota, was told the first thing he needs to do is set up a war room. It's like, yes, and also in the morning you get up and put on your pants. I think that's obvious.
Yesterday, we had USAID. By the time that Democrats had mobilized to get that done, Trump was announcing they' moved on to delaying tariffs with Mexico and tariff. J.D. Vance was in East Palestine. Pete Hegseth and Kristi Noem at the border. He had two more cabinet secretaries confirmed. Honestly, the treadmill is on eight.
WATTERS: Greg Gutfeld?
GUTFELD: He also -- yes, he wants to battle disinformation. Good luck with that because you guys were the creator of that. Your bullhorn, CNN, MSNBC, they're done. After everything you told us about Biden being coherent, you know, trans kids have special powers, you know, Trump praised Nazis, nobody buys your story anymore. You have -- not only do you not have a vision but no one is taking whatever you say seriously.
WATTERS: Judge Jeanine?
PIRRO: Bottom line is the Democrats lost more than an election, they lost their credibility. No one believes them anymore for the various reasons that Greg just said. I mean, they can't get back until they own up to what they did and admit that they lied to the American people. And they weren't -- and now all of a sudden, Schumer with avocados, guacamole, and a beer. Give me a break. They could have cared less about food during the inflation.
WATTERS: All right, that was a tough segment for you, Jessica. It's written all over your face. "ONE MORE THING" is up next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
PIRRO: It's time now for "ONE MORE THING." Jesse?
WATTERS: We told you about the guy that stole the $7,000 rare African parrot. Well, they got him. And now he's on the lam. The suspect Onyx Calderon is on the run. We need your help to track him down. If you have any information on Onyx's whereabouts, please call the authorities.
PIRRO: So, the bird is back.
WATTERS: The bird has been captured.
PIRRO: Greg?
GUTFELD: Tonight, we got a great show. Kat Timpf, yes she's here, Jamie Lissow -- classic -- Julian Epstein, first time -- sorry, buddy -- Tyrus.
PIRRO: That's it for us, everybody. Have a great night. Thanks for being with us.

Load-Date: February 4, 2025


End of Document
