




MailOnline
February 19, 2025 Wednesday 2:24 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 656 words
Byline: Katelyn Caralle, Senior U.S. Political Reporter In Washington, D.C.
Body


                     Elon Musk divulged in a joint interview with Donald Trump that he is merely the 'tech support' for the president.
But Trump clarified that the billionaire's real role within the federal government is to 'get it done.'
The president lamented to Fox News host Sean Hannity how executive orders are issued but not adopted effectively or in a timely manner. But he claims that Musk cuts out a lot of the bureaucratic process to streamline implementation.
Trump joked that he chose Musk as his right-hand-man this time around in Washington, D.C. because he 'couldn't find anyone smarter' than the Tesla and SpaceX boss.
He even said that his team looked for someone smarter to join the team to no avail.
Trump and Musk sat side-by-side for a wide ranging interview with Hannity that aired on Tuesday evening. The two showered compliments back-and-forth, prompting Hannity to say he felt like he was 'interviewing two brothers here.'
'I wanted somebody really smart to work with me in terms of the country, a very important aspect, because, I mean... he's actually a very good businessman,' Trump said of his so-called 'first buddy.'
Musk is leading the new Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE), which was a group created by Trump with the intention of cutting government spending, ending fraud and reducing waste of taxpayer funds. 
So far the group has canceled billions in contracts to private firms awarded by the Education Department and National Institutes of Health.
Much of this was complying with Trump's executive order to put an end to diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) programs and practices as well as prioritizing compliance with immigration law enforcement.
DOGE this month uncovered the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) distribution of $59 million to luxury New York City hotels to house illegal migrants. This led to a clawback order from the Department of Homeland Security and the firing of four top FEMA financial officials.
Musk for the interview donned a black t-shirt under his blazer with big white lettering reading: 'Tech Support.'
Many critics have questioned the role of the father-of-12, with liberals claiming Americans didn't vote for him to be president and slamming Trump for giving him such an important and prominent role.
'I think the way to think of me is like, I'm a technologist, and I try to make technologies that improve the world,' Musk detailed to Hannity in the bilateral interview.
'My t-shirt says tech support, because I'm here to provide the President with technology support,' the social media website CEO noted. 
'And now that may seem like, well, is that a silly thing? But actually it's a very important thing, because the President will make these executive orders, which are very sensible and good for the country, but then they don't get implemented.'
Trump went on to explain how he uses Musk to make sure his executive orders are followed.
'This is probably true for all presidents,' Trump said, 'you write an executive order and you think it's done, you send it out, it doesn't get done. It doesn't get implemented.'
'What he does is he takes it, and with his 100 geniuses... He gets it done. He's a leader,' he lauded Musk's efficiency.
'When you sign these executive orders, a lot of them don't get done, and maybe the most important ones,' Trump said. 'And he would take that executive order that I'd signed, and he would have those people go to whatever agency it was, 'When are you doing it? Get it done. Get it done.' And some guy that maybe didn't want to do it, all of a sudden, he's signing.'
Trump signed more than 200 executive orders on his first day back in office last month.
Since then he has signed at least several dozen more.
Later in the interview, Trump noted that Musk is more than just a 'technologist.'
'He's a brilliant guy, he's a great guy. He's got tremendous imagination,' Trump noted. 'But he's also a good person. He's a very good person.'

Load-Date: February 19, 2025


End of Document
