




Fox News THE FIVE 5:00 PM EST
February 19, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7661 words
Byline: Dana Perino, Jeannine Pirro, Harold Ford Jr., Jesse Watters, Greg Gutfeld
Body


WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: -- Thursday night. We appreciate you, Canadians. It's a friendly rivalry.
All right, that's going to do it for us today. Appreciate you tuning in for the show. We'll get Auburn, Alabama right every time into the future, I'll make sure I'm in that control room and fire whoever messed that up. All right?
Thanks for being with us. We'll get to the heart of the matter from the heart of America. THE FIVE.
DANA PERINO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Hello, everyone. I'm Dana Perino along with Judge Jeannine Pirro, Harold Ford Jr., Jesse Watters and Greg Gutfeld. It's 5:00 in New York City. And this is THE FIVE.
At any moment, President Trump will be addressing a tech investment summit in Miami Beach, Florida, and we will bring that to you live, once it happens.
But in the meantime, it was the Trump and Musk show on Hannity last night. The unlikely duo discussing a wide range of topics, with the president singing high praises for DOGE while tipping his hat to its head of tech support.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: His hundred geniuses, he's got some very brilliant young people working for him that dress much worse than him. Actually, they dress in just t-shirts. You wouldn't -- you wouldn't know they have 180 I.Q.
STEVE HARRIGAN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Wait a minute, he's your tech support.
TRUMP: No, he is -- he is, but he's much more than that.
ELON MUSK, CEO, TESLA MOTORS: I actually am tech support -- I actually am tech support though, but that's --
TRUMP: He gets it done. He's a leader. He really -- he gets it done.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERINO: Musk sharing why his fight to cut government bloat is so critical to the MAGA mission.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MUSK: The bureaucracy is fighting the will of the people and preventing the president -- the president for implementing what the people want. Then, what we live in is a bureaucracy and not a democracy.
In order to save taxpayer money, it comes down to two things, competence and caring.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERINO: Later, the pair teamed up for a dual takedown of the Democrats' hysterical response to the DOGE cuts.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MUSK: It's funny how often -- when these attacks occur, the thing that they're accusing the administration of is what they are guilty of. They're saying that things are being done unconstitutional, but what they are doing is unconstitutional. They are guilty of the crime of which they accuse us.
TRUMP: That's always the first thing they do, he's in violation of the Constitution. They don't even know what they're talking.
Well, it's just a con job. It's a big con job, and they're so bad for the country, so dangerous and so bad, and the media is so bad. When I watched MSNBC, which I don't watch much, but you have to watch the enemy on occasion, the level of arrogance and cheating, and they're just horrible people.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERINO: Greg Gutfeld, it's your day, a day in the life of you on the cover of Variety Magazine. Congratulations.
GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Thank you. It beats being on the cover of Playgirl.
PERINO: But maybe next year.
GUTFELD: Yes, I'm working on that.
PERINO: They were -- when Musk was saying that the Democrats do what they accuse DOGE of doing, I was reminded of when Biden knew he couldn't actually pass constitutional muster by forgiving student loans, but they did it anyway, and then the court kept striking them down.
In this case, the strikes -- the judges so far have upheld President Trump's role.
GUTFELD: It's been, I think, for the -- it's been the last four years of nothing but projection. Almost everything that they accuse Trump of doing they're either planning on doing or have already done. We could go through those.
But even, also, the projection is found in their accusation that DOGE isn't being transparent, not transparent enough. Are you out of your mind? This is a criticism that they never lodged against the government, like, how are they spending your money? Like that should be transparent.
I'm actually -- I have to say, I'm exhausted by the transparency. I feel like I'm falling behind in everything that I hear, every day I wake up, there's a new DOGE thing. It's like, I have enough problems. It's like -- it's like getting like a load of morning e-mails from Dana, and you go, I got to read this. You have to read that.
PERINO: Sorry.
GUTFELD: Also, if the debts are so certain that Trump's policies won't work, why not just sit back and let him fail? Their panic is telling you that they -- that they fear or they know that he's going to succeed, and that's going to prove him wrong.
I also just want to comment on that relationship between the two. It's like they are like -- they are like -- they're like, not Batman and Robin.
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Jesse and Johnny.
GUTFELD: No, no, no, because this is like an equal footing. Maybe it's the Green Hornet and Kato, but they finish each other's thoughts.
And also, this goes back to, like, the idea about age, that Trump may be closing in on 80, but when it comes to technology, he's right up there. He understands A.I. He can -- he can hang with these tech bros. And it's pretty -- it's pretty seamless. This is not like the Joe Biden 80 or 79 we saw.
Last, the Democrats have a problem with this story, because if a doctor tells you that they need to remove a polyp from your colon, but they need to put a camera up there, and you're like, not on -- you're not putting a camera up there. It's like, well, what do you -- are you hiding something in your butt?
It's like, it's going to save your life, and that's all DOGE is basically a bureaucratic colonoscopy, which is necessary, and I think this is also why we needed an outsider. We've had oversight committees and we've had inspectors generals, and still billions went missing.
So, it's good to have an outsider come in. That's why they bring in outside consultants to audit Jesse.
PERINO: So, that we've put a camera up the bureau.
GUTFELD: Up the government's butt.
PERINO: Hey, Judge, Elon Musk said that the bureaucracy is fighting the will of the people, and I think that they are seeing in some of their polling, even the Democrats are starting to say, oh, wait, this is actually popular.
JEANINE PIRRO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL LEGAL ANALYST: Yes, it is -- it is belied by the polling. You're absolutely right.
I mean, it's not just a president who won, you know, the popular vote in the swing states and all that. This is something that is continuously being favored in the polls by the American people.
But you know what I thought was so amazing about the interview and, yes, Greg, I have gotten those e-mails from Dana, and I do read them, I read them in the morning.
But you know, you know how you hear about celebrities and they say the marriage is in trouble. So, you look at the two of them, and Greg, you're right. They finished each other's sentences and thoughts. I mean, they were having fun. They interacted with each other. They respected each other. It was a -- it was how they spoke. I mean, it was absolutely -- they're happy doing what they're doing. And I was so impressed with that.
And I was also impressed with the fact that, you know, the president, and they told us the first term, it's his ego. It's always about him. No, it isn't.
He brought this guy into the Oval. He let him bring his son into the Oval, X, and he's doing an interview with him, and he is recognizing and telling the American people he's so smart, I can't find anybody smarter. And even as young people are working with him are smart.
So, you've got two businessmen who are, you know, you've got the smartest businessman of our time with Elon Musk, and they're trying to help the American people, and the president has no problem sharing credit.
And I like the idea that Elon had of possibly, if they reached two trillion, I think, you know, rebate checks to the American people and the amount of $5,000. I mean, they're just thinking out loud, and it's refreshing.
PERINO: OK, Harold, what did you think of this interview?
HAROLD FORD JR., FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: I thought it was -- I thought it was good. Good to be with everybody. I thought it was good. I will say, $55 billion is not a lot of money in the scheme of things when you look at government, it's less than point two percent of our federal.
PIRRO: 55 million more than Joe Biden returned.
FORD JR.: Are you finished?
PIRRO: Done.
FORD JR.: $55 billion, I'm for that. I am for rooting out the waste, fraud and abuse. But in the real world, I just wouldn't take a victory lap this early. I think if you're going to -- I'm looking -- I was looking for Mr. Musk, to not only identify areas that where they're waste, fraud and abuse, but give me areas where we can be more efficient.
Democrats, if you want to counter this, show those areas and show what you're going to use the money for once you're able to produce these savings and secure these savings and increase the sufficiency, which we all want to do.
I think President Trump, the interview was a great interview. Sean did a great job. This is not -- this is not -- this is not showering anything bad on Sean at all, or even them.
But I wouldn't take a victory lap for $60 billion. I think the country is looking for this president to find ways to cut taxes on their tips, to make sure there are no taxes on people's overtime. I think you would even find more Democrats supporting this if they said, this is what we're going to use the money for, we're going to use the money for things to help. Talk about a rebate check. They don't need to reach two trading (ph) for that.
PERINO: But the whole idea is to reduce the size of government so that all of us can benefit.
FORD JR.: You and I both working up $55 billion.
PERINO: I hear you, I know.
FORD JR.: Let's not kid ourselves. I mean, again, I wouldn't take a victory lap with Sean Hannity (INAUDIBLE).
PERINO: How much money would you need to save in order to take victory lap, Jesse?
WATTERS: I take victory lapse when I brush my teeth, Dana. It's all about - -
PERINO: You're just lapping the field every day.
WATTERS: Harold, first of all, $55 billion is a lot of money, OK? And they haven't even upgraded the software yet. The software is from the 60s. Once they upgrade the software, you'll stream on it, and you'll save money.
Let me tell you a story about Chris (ph). Chris was a guy I met at a shooting event in New Jersey last year.
FORD JR.: Is Chris in the interview? This is another guy, just Chris?
GUTFELD: Is it a male or female?
WATTERS: Let me finish.
FORD JR.: 55 billion.
WATTERS: I love you. And so, he was a 20 year veteran of the U.S. military. He was one of these guys in one of these elite units, killed a lot of bad guys, put his life on the line.
And now he punched out after 20 years and working for the Pentagon, and he's only been there a few months, so he's probationary, and he just found out he's probably going to get laid off. He's going to get DOGEd.
And he texted me and he said, Jesse, you know, this isn't good. I'm upset. This is really sad, and this guy is not a DEI consultant. This guy is not a climate consultant. You know, this guy is a veteran.
So, when you're talking about DOGEing people, veterans should get priority. Because if you're going to go out there and kill enemies and put your life on the line for this country, you shouldn't be in the same category as people that are doing DEI.
Now, Harold and his ilk like to talk about the slash-and-burn corporate ethos. We just need to be a little bit less callous with the way Harold we talk about DOGEing people. OK, I just want to -- I want that to sink in.
FORD JR.: You're arguing with yourself.
WATTERS: I am not guilty of that. I finally found one person I knew that got DOGE, and it hit me in the heart.
But you talk about big ticket items, right?
FORD JR.: Right.
WATTERS: Let's talk about those. The Pentagon, you have a weapons program in some influential congressman's district. It's a boondoggle. It showed no promise in a theater of war. You cut that, and that's big savings.
So, besides saving my friend Chris, we want bigger dividend DOGE check rebates. I don't want to pay down the debt, put it back into the economy. This is an electoral win. The more DOGE cuts, the bigger the dividend checks. We remember how popular the stimu (ph) checks were. Those were printing money. These are rebates.
GUTFELD: No, we don't want rebates. DOGE isn't Robin Hood.
WATTERS: I want rebates. The voters want rebates.
GUTFELD: No, the government is not a -- it is not a piggy bank. The whole point of DOGE is to cut waste, fraud and abuse. It's not, hey, let's take we want to shrink government. You're not shrinking government.
WATTERS: You're giving money back to the taxpayer.
GUTFELD: OK, I'm winning.
WATTERS: If you paid money for $2 million. If you paid $2 million for a sex change surgery, and you say that no longer is going to be in the budget. I want that money back.
GUTFELD: OK, that's different than what you're actually saying.
WATTERS: That's exactly what I had to say.
PERINO: No, it's not.
GUTFELD: No. Let's say it's a class action suit. You want to get the money back from the government, because they took your money and spent on, fine, but that's after you cut this government down by at least one to two trillion a year to get to that point where you don't have seven times what you take it in in 10 years.
WATTERS: You're making it more complicated.
PERINO: No, he's not.
WATTERS: We're cutting, spending and we're giving it back to the taxpayers.
GUTFELD: And the government doesn't shrink.
PERINO: Then, what you should do is cut spending and lower the tax rate.
WATTERS: That's exactly what the government does.
FORD JR.: Jesse's think -- disappointed, I agree with Jesse that he has this point he's -- but understand, I want to pay down the debt. And some point we're going to find these tension. You're saying I respect what you're saying. I don't agree with you, but I respect you. This is the problem.
WATTERS: We can pay down the debt when we grow the economy from higher revenues that the rebate checks are going to generate. That's what tax cuts do. That's exactly what tax cuts do.
PERINO: I thought you just argued about too much money chasing too few goods, which caused more inflation.
WATTERS: You're printing money to cause inflation, not here. You're printing nothing.
FORD JR.: Wait till you hear this off camera.
PERINO: Maybe one of us will record it. Just kidding. We do not do that.
Coming up, Stephen A. Smith isn't pulling any punches with the Dems telling them that they, "suck."
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
PIRRO: And yes, they did argue through the whole break.
So, why are the Democrats such a disaster? A broken party of off key clowns singing anti-DOGE protest songs and leaders like Chuck Schumer, who use props like beer and avocados.
Outspoken ESPN star Stephen A. Smith is giving his party some tough advice, saying they should be, "embarrassed" that he's even being considered for the 2028 nomination.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
STEPHEN A. SMITH, NBA ANALYST, ESPN: If you're the Democrats, that's why Stephen A Smith is in the news. Because you all don't have anybody, you don't have anybody. Who you got? Who you got? Kamala Harris better not run. She better not run.
I'm not in the news because I'm here. I'm in the news because the Democratic Party is here, damn it, lower than that, down at the bottom. They suck right now, horrible because they don't have a voice. Where the hell is the voice?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PIRRO: It's clear that the party needs new leadership, but gone are the days of Barack Obama, and the best they can muster for DNC chair is this boring white guy named Ken. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KEN MARTIN, DNC CHAIR: We need to get the DNC out of D.C., out of the beltway, reconnecting our message back with voters. That's job number one, right?
So many parts of our coalition left us this last election cycle, right? We know that from Latino voters to working-class households to young voters to women, you can go down the list. The only two groups that we over-performed with in the last election cycle were wealthy households and college- educated voters. That's a damning indictment on the Democratic Party. We got to do a better job.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERINO: OK, Jesse, isn't it refreshing? Let's talk about Stephen A. for a minute. Isn't it refreshing that a man that they're pushing for president the Democrats is saying you are so stupid, you have such a weak bench, you're actually asking me to do it?
WATTERS: Yes, and Carville just called him an idiot. Carville just said basically, shut up and dribble. And if you're a Democrat, now is the time to run. It's an open primary. You don't have to run against Trump anymore. You're dealing with Harris, who's the front runner. See what I mean?
So, if you're a celebrity, if you're wealthy, if you're Harold Ford Jr., this is when you go for it. And I mean, go for it.
I still think Newsom has the inside track to get the nomination, but he'll still lose. I'm more interested on the Republican side. J.D. Vance did a great job the other day in Europe, and he's probably got the advantage. I think Megyn Kelly could be president. She is very smart. She's a great debater, she's got a good family, she's telegenic and she's a woman. And why not now? Why not have the first female president a Republican? I think she'd do a great job.
Also, Hegseth, I think Hegseth if he does a nice job at the Pentagon over the next four years, Hegseth could make a run, and I think he'd do an excellent job as commander in chief.
There's a lot of people out there. I don't think the Democrats are going to nominate a woman. They tried it twice, hasn't worked. They probably just going to pump the brakes on that. But they just need an athlete. Because right now you got guys going to these games and they look like, get me out of here. They just need an athlete who sounds like a normal person.
PERINO: I think we just let him keep talking.
PIRRO: Yes, I'm like, you're kidding. Anyway, do Democrats, Dana, they even know how much trouble they're in given this new guy, the DNC chair, Ken, is talking about, you know, Democrats are on the side of workers, and they just got to get the message out.
PERINO: I know, that was so boring. It was like nothing memorable.
Stephen A. Smith is memorable. But here's the other thing, this has got to hurt. Quinnipiac today has congressional Democrat approval at 21 percent. And that's 20 points lower than congressional Republicans. I'm not saying anyone's in terrific shape, but the congressional Democrats have never -- I don't think, at least, in my experience, have not been that low.
And then you don't see people out there that are hitting the right tone or message to be an insurgent, and if Stephen A. Smith, or somebody like that -- like that has the energy and pushes forward and then does something surprising, like they have to do something that is unique and different. And to me, if one of them is willing to take on the teachers unions and say, this is not good enough, our children deserve better, they might have a chance.
PIRRO: So, Harold, how long do the Democrats have to get behind one person, I would think the sooner the better, because remember, Kamala was like, I only had 90 days when she really had four years. But that's not the issue.
FORD JR.: So, that race is in the past. That we're now less than six weeks into President Trump's first term and last term as president, because he obviously served the first term. Democrats have a ways to go. But Stephen A. Smith is on to something. His criticism is something that Democrats should take into context. What he's saying is, you guys are so discombobulated, so unorganized, so disjointed, so without a message that people are looking to me. He was a serious guy. But he's saying, I'm not -- I'm not the person who should be president.
That same poll that Dana pointed out, it's amazing that the numbers that Democrats have in Congress only 20 percent, Republicans only 40 percent approval, and in fact, President Trump's at 45 so everybody's kind of upside down. The country is waiting for a set of answers.
And Democrats, I think the conversation we had in the first segment was telling and revealing. I respect Jesse's position on what you would do with the DOGE savings and the kinds of things government is doing. We need to have a serious conversation in the country about what the next five to 10 years, 20 years look like for our families, for our communities, for our national defense, and how we fund these things, how we cut taxes, how we raise taxes, how we pay down our debt.
Democrats the field -- the opportunities are there. But if you keep yelling and screaming and being angry and just opposing things, people aren't going to listen to you. Whatever you want to say about DOGE, people want reforms. If you have better reforms, offer those ideas instead of singing and yelling.
I was not as down on this Ken Martin guy. He may not be the most exciting fellow, but he's right. He's not my leader. He should take -- he's the DNC chair. He should take the DNC out of D.C.
But take the DNC out of D.C. to get a message, to listen to voters, and to bring back a platform of ideas that resonate and connect with our future.
PIRRO: Greg, should I get out of D.C.?
GUTFELD: I don't know. I look at Ken Martin. That guy is so white. He makes Jesse look like Jay-Z. He looks like every dad, like a commercial where the wife shows him how he could save money on car insurance because he's too stupid to do it on his own. Harold's too good looking and too smart for politics. That's reverse psychology.
But the thing is, I listen to all these vocal -- these vocal liberals now, and it's like, where were you for four years when you had an incapacitated president? I don't know. I mean, I don't watch Smith. He seems like a nice guy. I don't remember seeing him talk about the fact that we had a brain dead president, or that we had a complete conspiracy to hide that.
So, I disagree that Democrats suck right now. They suck before, they suck now. I have a feeling they're going to suck after, because they've made it clear that within their group of people, some people are better than others.
I mean, the irony of the Democrats is that there's no equality in equity. You know, some people are worth less based on their immutable characteristics. If you're a white, straight guy, you're not as important as a female woman of color who is gay. I tick three boxes there, right?
PERINO: Woman of color who is gay, yes.
GUTFELD: Yes, got it, got it, got it.
So, I think the problem is, is that you can't unify a group of people if they all feel like they're part of a hierarchy in which one matters more than the other. And you saw that in that DNC meeting when they were trying to choose a guy ended up with a white guy. Is he straight?
WATTERS: I don't know.
GUTFELD: Let's get on that research. I need to find out. But that's like they had to do the -- they had to, like, they were arguing over the gender of people. It was embarrassing, and this is why they can't find their own Joe Rogan, it's because no one can sit in that chair.
And after five minutes, you're going to be yelling at him about some trip wire he crossed, you know, because my pronoun is they and it's a screw you, they, all they of you.
WATTERS: I'm going to find out if Ken is gay.
PIRRO: He's married.
GUTFELD: Oh, he's married. But is he married to a female?
PERINO: Yes.
PIRRO: Yes.
GUTFELD: Oh, a woman. Ew, normative?
PIRRO: Let it go. Up next.
FORD JR.: The Judge said it well yesterday, you talked about --
PIRRO: I did?
FORD JR.: You talked about Joe Rogan being a Democrat before, how you can't just find a Joe Rogan, you got to -- that was a natural evolution he made and you made that point yesterday.
PIRRO: And a smart move. You know, Harold, that was a smart move, on his part.
FORD JR.: Yes, ma'am.
PIRRO: All right. Up next, play time's over for the cartels. President Trump is unleashing Reaper drones in Mexico.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GUTFELD: Cartels could soon fear the Reaper. The CIA has reportedly sent MQ-9 Reaper Drones on secret missions over Mexico to sniff around the fentanyl labs that have been poisoning Americans for years and could use them for armed strikes. President Trump says we'll see what happens.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What can you tell us about the CIA drone flights over Mexico? Is this the next step in the war against the cartel?
TRUMP: Well, we're going to see.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Should they have authority to take lethal action?
TRUMP: Mexico's allowed a tremendous number of people to go through their country into ours, and even people coming from Mexico and illegals, totally illegal. I think Mexico is largely run by the cartels and that's a sad thing to say. And if they wanted help with that, we'd give them help.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: Judge, the drone is in Mexico's court. What do you think of this development?
PIRRO: I think it's a wonderful thing. I think that along with the designation of Tren De Aragua, MS-13, you've got, you know, the Jalisco, the Sinaloa, the Zetas. It's time. You've got -- they're intelligence gathering. They are not armed. They are totally unarmed. And now the Mexican government is in agreement with this intelligence-gathering operation. And the flying of the drones are -- they're very sophisticated. They have infrared. They can look into buildings and see if they're creating fentanyl whether where the gangs are, whether there are guns inside, and we're sharing the intelligence with Mexico. So, I think it's all a good thing.
But you know what? I think there's a bigger issue to this segment if I -- if I may. And that is you've got President Trump who is like all over the world leaving his mark. You know, you're not hearing anything going on in Gaza or the Middle East. We know that what's happening in Ukraine is going to end with Russia in the very, very near future. And now Mexico is on notice, that we're designating these groups foreign terrorist organizations which doesn't allow necessarily for military -- the use of military, but it puts us in a position where we can then go in and say we're not going to tolerate this much and we're not going to tolerate the cartels in your country that are impacting ours.
So, Mexico either supports us in destroying the cartels or admits that they are ignoring the cartels for whatever corrupt reasons.
GUTFELD: Jesse, some people consider you a drone, so that makes you an expert. Should we drone baby drone? You know, China is leading the world in drones. This is the future. We got to start making more drones.
WATTERS: Yes, we should. Maybe we'll call Pete Hegseth and tell him some -- dial up some drones. So, the CIA is finally getting off the sidelines. They've done nothing while the cartels have gotten filthy rich the last four years. So, you're going to have Ratcliffe go down to Mexico City and they're going to talk to the president of Mexico. And Jeanine is right. They're going to say, lady, we know where these labs are. Do you need our help or not? And what she says is going to be critical.
I would play a game with her. I would say we have the intel on the labs. She's going to say, well, let me see them. I would show her three, just three. And then I would go back to the United States and then I would monitor the labs. And if the labs that you showed the president, everyone's scrambling and taking things out of there and moving them around, you know the woman is compromised. But if you do start droning our top trading partner, I mean, that's a lot. And then you might have some revenge in Texas, Arizona, who knows.
But you're right -- China. You could also take a different approach and go after China. China's economy is teetering. Their birth rates collapsed. If you dial up some tariffs and some export controls and just push them over the edge, they're not going to be worrying about shipping fentanyl precursors to Mexico. They're going to be worrying about saving their ride.
PIRRO: Interesting.
GUTFELD: Harold, in the green room, you said let's drone those mofos and get it over with.
FORD JR.: We got to go back to the tape. Jesse's point is a -- he made a couple of points there. First of all, I'm in support of using drones to do this. I think we probably used some of this in the past, but this President is is likely to act more on the data than previous presidents because I think we know where some this stuff is.
But you raised the point that there's still a complicated relationship between us and Mexico. I don't think people realize how much of our debt that Mexico holds. I don't think people realize the kind of trading partner -- and you just cited how they are one of our top if not top trading partners certainly in the hemisphere. So, we have that to manage. But I give President Trump great credit here.
Even if they have not sorted out all of those answers -- and I don't suspect they have. Maybe they have. They're not -- they're not certainly sharing. It is certainly sending a different kind of message to Mexico --
(CROSSTALK)
GUTFELD: All right.
FORD JR.: (INAUDIBLE) of the world.
GUTFELD: We got a little Fox News Alert here.
PERINO: I still got a point.
GUTFELD: Sorry, Dana.
President Trump now delivering remarks at a tech investment summit in Miami.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Such a warm welcome. It's great to be back in beautiful Miami where I've actually built a lot of great buildings with the Dezer family and some others. We've had tremendous success in Miami. We have Trump Towers and Sunny Isles Beach. It's four beautiful buildings right on the ocean. The Trump Grande -- put the little E on the end for a little -- class it up a little bit. Trump Grande and the 700-acre Doral.
It's a tremendous country club and the -- it's actually the most successful country club in the U.S. where I was just given approval to build 1500 units. And I couldn't care less about building units. When your president, who the hell wants to build units? I've been building units all my life. I don't want to build units, but they gave us permission to do it.
But today is a tremendous honor to become the first American president to address the Future Investment Initiative Institute. That's the first one. That's very -- it's always nice. And I want to thank the Mayor of Miami, Francis Suarez, for being here. Thank you very much, Francis, wherever you may be. Hi, Francis! And thank you for the endorsement when I ran. I was very appreciative. Along with the Mayor of Miami Beach Steven Meiner. Steven, thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Steven. Thank you very much.
And numerous American business leaders some of the biggest business leaders actually anywhere in the world, and many distinguished guests from the Middle East, and in particular the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. A special place with special leaders. And including FII Institute chairman and governor of the Public Investment Fund which is a seriously big fund. Yasir, I see you there. Stand up, Yasir. Everyone knows Yasir. Thank you. Great guy. Great person.
And Finance Minister Muhammad, thank you very much. Thank you -- right -- thank you very much. Good to see you again. That's pretty good Finance Minister of that part of the world. That's not bad. Other parts of the world not so good, but that one is good. And many other senior government leaders. I also want to recognize the Kingdom's ambassador to the United States, Royal Highness Princess Reema. Very popular. Very popular. Wow! That's very nice. Sitting next to Elon. Wow! That's -- you couldn't do better than that, huh?
As well as my own special Envoy to the Middle East who really done a fantastic job, Steve Witkoff. Thank you, Steve. He's been busy. And Michael Waltz is here. Where is Michael? Michael has been so busy. They've been going back and forth and back. And a woman who is just voted the most powerful woman anywhere in the world. No, I'll go with -- I'm going to go with Princess Reema, but she was voted the most powerful woman anywhere in the world, Susie Wiles. Thank you. Thank you. The most powerful woman. That's pretty good. We have to talk to you about that, Susie. It's pretty good.
And also, we all know Jared Kushner, a very special guy. Thank you, Jared. Thank you, Jared. And Elon Musk, he's been making a little news lately, hasn't he though? Very positive news. Stand up, Elon. He's a great guy. We did a little show last night. I heard they got very good ratings too, by the way. We did Hannity. Sean Hannity is fantastic -- a fantastic man, a fantastic guy. And he did a show and it was great being on the show with you, last night.
I come today with a simple message for business leaders from all across the nation and all around the world. If you want to build the future, push boundaries, unleash breakthroughs, transform industries, or make a fortune because you want to make a fortune. Most of you have already made a fortune. I don't want to --
(END VIDEOTAPE)
GUTFELD: So that's why I have to go to the doctor. It's going to be a small procedure.
PERINO: Like that thing we talked about in the A block.
GUTFELD: Yes, exactly. So, what -- you had a good point? We're going to go back in and out of this.
PERINO: No, I don't know if it's a great point -- while he's just getting going. Just on -- going back to the drones and President Trump, I do think that we can all agree that our own neighborhood has been ignored for a long time. And every time we try to go and do something then -- for example, there was going to be a big push in Latin America and then 9/11 happened. So, then -- OK, so things happen in the world. So, I am all for this.
And this reminds me of like, the Cormac McCarthy novels that you had me read several years ago that scarred me. And I think about that the cartels probably have more blood -- American blood on their hands than any other foreign adversary we've ever had. So, if you think about Claudia Sheinbaum, the new president of Mexico, she's already dealing with a possible tariff situation. She also knows that the cartels either are running the government or she's -- it's close to that.
And so, if you think about what Trump did in the first term. He offered Lori Lighfoot in Chicago the opportunity to send in the National Guard. He said I'll help you. Crime is terrible there. I'll help you. And she said no. But I think it's different this time for her. Claudia Sheinbaum in Mexico is saying I better say yes because if I don't say yes for the help they're going to do it anyway. So, it might as well be for what's going to happen.
PIRRO: Right.
GUTFELD: That was a great point.
PIRRO: Yes, that's a very good point.
PERINO: I don't know if it was that great. I don't know.
FORD JR.: That's a good point.
GUTFELD: Switching gears a little bit right now. Liberals not only losing the media narrative in the Trump 2.0 era, they're losing the culture. It helps to explain why the late-night comics have been balling like babies since he won reelection.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JIMMY KIMMEL, COMEDIAN: It was a terrible night for women, for children, for the hundreds of thousands of hardworking immigrants who make this country go.
SETH MEYERS, COMEDIAN: There's a lot of bad stuff happening right now and it could be overwhelming. They're trying to rip you off. And they hope you'll be distracted by all the nonsense going through Trump's head.
STEPHEN COLBERT, COMEDIAN: Trump is pre-announcing that he's going to break any law. He wants to get whatever he wants. That is a tyrannical declaration of power.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: There's another good reason why Liberal late night is crying. One man is pulverizing them in their ratings. Just snag one of their beloved supermarket checkout line covers. Greg Gutfeld is gracing the latest cover of Variety. It says, "Gutfeld may be a novel phenomenon to some but to a sizable and growing portion of the Fox News audience. He is the man of the moment."
Like it or not, the nasal voice bleep stirrer who sees no topic that's off limits, is leading the pack and expanding his audience.
I got -- I just -- it just really hurt that I had to read that.
GUTFELD: I know.
WATTERS: You're the man of the moment? All right, you're the man of the moment, Greg. What do you think of this Variety cover?
GUTFELD: I thought -- I thought it captures me. I thought the story was great. Tatiana Siegel wrote it. And I thought she -- she didn't fall into the trap that you see with a lot of people who write about Fox, which is they concede that it's successful but at the same time they're condescending about it.
PERINO: Yes.
GUTFELD: And in this case, she just wrote it by the numbers. Here's how great Fox is doing. Here's how great the show was doing. She talked about THE FIVE. She talked about my show. And she did it without acting like, oh, let's look at these rubes over here. She acknowledged the fact that the world has changed and Hollywood is behind.
WATTERS: What does it say about Variety to do a nice cover story on Greg like that? Is the media landscape changing?
PERINO: Well, yes, because again, like what I was just saying about Claudia Sheinbaum. Like, you should be for what's going to happen, and this is happening. But one of the things that she says in there is that more women watch than men. And she said I had to actually do a double take and say is that real? And she'd had to double check and it is true.
GUTFELD: Yes. We get the chicks. You know what it is. It's my sultry, so kind of steamy sex appeal.
PERINO: Yes. I think that is probably --
GUTFELD: You cannot deny it, America.
WATTERS: I thought it was Tyrus' sex appeal, but that's OK. What do you think about this? This is a pretty nice cover.
FORD JR.: It's a great cover. I was glad to be part of the story. Congratulations! I think one of the things --
GUTFELD: Thank you, Harold.
FORD JR.: I think one things one thing that we did talk about in the green room that's actual is that it -- I think the story is a -- is a -- has a larger kind of purpose as well, that -- a different kind of comedy. And comedy that I grew up with is back and can be done. So, I -- you do it every night. And I said in a piece you make me think, you sometimes make me mad, you make me laugh, and the piece made me proud to call you a friend. So, congrats, brother.
WATTERS: Get a room.
GUTFELD: I wouldn't know if we're friends but OK.
PERINO: I want to know when he makes you mad.
WATTERS: I did not participate in this article. Were -- did you participate? Were we excluded on purpose?
FORD JR.: Oh, we didn't tell them?
GUTFELD: Yes. We did. We kept it a secret. We did --
WATTERS: I mean, I sit next to you an hour a day for the last couple years, the woman never even asked me what I think of you. I would have told you you're a jerk but who cares?
FORD JR.: I channeled your thoughts.
WATTERS: You channeled my thoughts?
PIRRO: Yes, that was very nice. You know what I think is interesting? I think that it's not just the fact that, you know, you're winning a young audience and that you're winning with women. It's kind of like Joe Rogan. It's about authenticity, you know. It isn't necessarily about, you know, relatability, my age. He's real. And I think --
FORD JR.: Good point.
PIRRO: Thank you, Harold. And I think that the other part of this is that you have real people on your show.
GUTFELD: Yes.
PIRRO: Whereas these other hosts have to get celebrities. I mean, they kill themselves trying to get celebrities. You just get real people and have real conversations. And you know, you're not afraid to say things that they would never say, like talk about, you know, trans and DEI. I mean, for years you one of the first people to talk about this stuff. So, you're authentic and you know, I'm very proud of you. I think it's great.
GUTFELD: Thank you.
WATTERS: And you talk about excrements. No one talks about it except you.
GUTFELD: Somebody's got to cover that.
PERINO: This mug got -- had very many, many prominent features in the --
GUTFELD: Yes. My little poop mug. Is it beautiful. Yes.
WATTERS: All right. I can't talk about how great Greg is anymore. We got to go.
Up next, battle of the bins. People are getting downright nasty over their carry-on luggage.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
FORD JR.: Smokey Robinson. Smokey Robinson is 85 years old today. Happy birthday! It's the bane of my existence whenever I fly. The overhead bins are stuck with bags owned by passengers from other rooms. And the only -- and only the strong survive in the battle for these tiny cubby holes. It's so out of control that airlines are now offering guaranteed overhead space but at a cost.
But in your face, Gutfeld. There's still plenty of room to stow you above my seat. In your face, pal.
GUTFELD: That's excellent. Was that A.I.? It looks -- it looks so real.
FORD JR.: You fly private I know, but can you relate to those of us who have to find room over our chairs on commercial airplanes?
GUTFELD: You know what the problem? Every -- people -- we respond to incentives. So, what have -- you have this weird thing. So, you got to charge for luggage and then -- so people want to carry it on.
PERINO: Right.
GUTFELD: It incentivizes that. And then the people who want to carry on incentivizes the gate lurkers. Why are people always lurking around the gate? Because they fear that they're not going to have any room in the bins. It is such a great study of human nature. Like, how one little thing can cause all these things. I think they should have a separate business that just sends your luggage to a destination. You just drive -- this is a -- you just drive to the airport. You don't even think about it. It gets picked up and you see it at the hotel in Mazatlan. It just takes care of everything. Of course, then your wife will say, well, since you're sending all that, let's take these things too.
FORD JR.: D.P., do you have -- what do you think about this?
PERINO: I've started -- I actually am more now just checking because I don't want to try to have to deal with that.
FORD JR.: That's right.
PERINO: Right.
GUTFELD: That's a great answer.
PERINO: Thank you.
FORD JR.: You got kids. I mean, trying to get kids and trying to get their bags --
GUTFELD: You checked the kids?
WATTERS: I checked the kids. And then we wait when the baggage claim comes, and they come around on the little conveyor belt. That' mine. I check. I check everything. And it's only 25 bucks per bag. So, if you're just doing this with the suitcase, it's $25.00 and then you're done with the stress.
GUTFELD: But then you got to wait at the end.
WATTERS: Oh, you got to wait. OK. What -- are you going to die waiting, Greg? It comes out in 10 minutes.
PIRRO: You know --
WATTERS: It's about peace of mind.
PIRRO: It is so unfair what they do because it's not only that they take your space, but then what happens is when the guy comes in and his space is taken, then he's got to put his bag in the back and then he knocks me in the head because he's got to leave and -- but his bag is back there and he hits me in the head. And if you have a pocketbook or a backpack, put it under your seat. Don't take the room in the above my seat because --
PERINO: That's right.
PIRRO: That's for my suitcase.
PERINO: Exactly.
PIRRO: My suitcase.
FORD JR.: And then they don't -- they don't feed you a lot in the plane, so people are buying food and trying to bring things. It's just a lot and I think you said it well. It's just -- it's cost for bag. We can pay it. A lot of people --
GUTFELD: Yes. $5 billion is not a lot of money, Harold. Jerk.
FORD JR.: One -- and I guess now in my face. "ONE MORE THING" is up next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
PERINO: It's time now for "ONE MORE THING." I want to mark the death of a very special American. It was named Hurricane. That was a K9 service dog. It was a Belgian Malinois. You might remember him. He was the one in 2014 who was a special ops K9. And he took down that intruder on the White House lawn. He lived to be 16 years old. Quite remarkable. And after retiring due to injuries from the incident, Hurricane became the face of Hurricane's Heroes. That's a great organization that helps cover medical expenses for retired service dogs that, you know, often falls to the dog's handler to take care of. So, thank you Hurricane and all the service dogs out there. Harold.
PIRRO: You put the Rainbow Bridge.
FORD JR.: Bless the dog.
GUTFELD: Humping legs in heaven.
FORD JR.: In honor -- in honor of Black History Month, the historic Black church in Philadelphia is welcoming its first female pastor in its 237 years. Mother Bethel -- Mother Bethel African Methodist Episcopal Church sits on the oldest parcel of a land continuously owned by African Americans. She's a fourth generation minister who graduated from Barnard College and Union Theological. Congratulations to her and the church on making history on this day.
PERINO: All right, Variety cover. Go.
GUTFELD: You took my "ONE MORE THING," Harold. I was going to do the historical Black church. Well, I guess I'll plug my show. Tonight, Joe Mach, Sage Steele, Jeff Dye, and Emily Compagno.
FORD JR.: Oh, my God.
GUTFELD: And I got tour dates coming up. If you go to ggutfeld.com, there's ticket info. I'll be in Indiana, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, South Carolina, Kentucky. All those States. I won't read them here. But that's for all 2025. Look at that. Go there. Find out.
PERINO: All right, Jesse.
WATTERS: Also happy belated Black History Month, Harold. I know it's the 19th of February but I was going to get around to it.
FORD JR.: Thank you. Nine more days.
WATTERS: Wait, it's --
FORD JR.: It's 28 days.
WATTERS: OK. OK. I just want to make sure we're still in the month. "JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME" tonight, we have Howard Lutnick, Tulsi Gabbard, and Lara Trump 8:00 Eastern.
PIRRO: What a wonderful show.
PERINO: OK. Judge, you get double time tomorrow, Judge.
PIRRO: Oh, double time.
PERINO: That's it for us, everyone. Have a great night.

Load-Date: February 20, 2025


End of Document
