




Fox News THE FIVE 5:00 PM EST
February 10, 2025 Monday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6925 words
Byline: Dana Perino, Jeanine Pirro, Jessica Tarlov, Jesse Watters, Greg Gutfeld
Body


WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Oh, you know, those are collectors' items the one I have. We should create a "WILL CAIN SHOW" belt buckle.
And then, finally, one of our favorite viewers who's always here with us on all of our programs, says, why don't you give me Shaq's phone number? Sorry, DTB, I'll get it next time. I give you now THE FIVE.
DANA PERINO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Hello, everyone. I'm Dana Perino along with Judge Jeanine Pirro, Jessica Tarlov, Jesse Watters and Greg Gutfeld. It's 5:00 in New York City, and this is THE FIVE.
Fly eagles fly right over the Chiefs, yes, Jesse's beloved team crushing the Kansas City Chiefs, 40 to 22 at Super Bowl LIX but even that beat down couldn't overshadow the stadium's reaction to two high-profile guests.
Taylor Swift brutally booed at the Super Bowl while President Trump got to enjoy some applause after becoming the first sitting president to attend the game. He later dished on Truth Social saying this, the only one that had a tougher night than the Kansas City Chiefs was Taylor Swift. She got booed out of the stadium. MAGA is very unforgiving.
But before the big game, he sat down with Bret Baier and explained why he saw the Super Bowl as a chance to unite the country.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: You know you are going to be the first sitting President to attend a Super Bowl. It's a big day for America, always is. What made you want to do it?
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Well, first of all, I'm very surprised to hear that. I would have assumed many presidents came, but I think just the spirit of the country, the country has taken on a whole new life. I thought it would be a good thing for the country to have the president be at the game.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERINO: But a night of celebration turning into some scenes of chaos, Jesse. Rowdy Eagles die hards were causing absolute mayhem across Philly after the Super Bowl, with people clashing with police officers in the streets. There was rioting, looting, and, yes, climbing those light poles and then even taking them down.
Jesse, we turn to you and congratulations. And for a little gloating.
GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Nice city.
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Everyone keeps congratulating me like I played.
PERINO: Take it.
WATTERS: I'm beginning to think I did play. You know, I had a tough year, couple injuries. I overcame a lot of adversity, but thank you. Yes, we did win.
Permission to make an analogy.
PERINO: Sure.
WATTERS: Tell me if this reminds you of something, Dana, a improbable underdog victory followed by a controversial defeat followed by a massive comeback win.
PERINO: I see where you're going.
WATTERS: The last three Eagles Super Bowls. Remember, we had the big upset over the -- over the Patriots, no one thought they could win, and then a very controversial phantom flag in the end zone where we just barely lost in a not rigged. I'm not allowed to say that, gave against the Chiefs and then a massive comeback, blowout, humiliating stomping of the Chiefs.
We are tied as a city to Donald Trump, Philadelphia, the place where the Constitution was written. And if you think about this too, how much this country and this city has come around. In the first Trump year in office, the Eagles won the Super Bowl. In the first year of the second Trump term, the Eagles won the Super Bowl.
PERINO: Have you been looking at numerology books today?
WATTERS: It's all connected, Dana, our destiny is shared.
Now, I didn't see a riot, I saw love. January 6th, we now call a day of love. This is the same thing. These are mostly peaceful protests, and everybody in Philadelphia, cops included, will trade riots for a day where we win the Super Bowl.
This Eagles team, they talk a lot about teamwork and God and supporting each other a lot like THE FIVE. I root for Greg, he doesn't root for me, but it's fine.
GUTFELD: That's true.
WATTERS: When Jeanine has a great day on THE FIVE, I'm happy for her. I'm happy she gets the talk time. I don't try to -- I don't try to over talk her. I let her talk. Have a great day.
It's the same way the Eagles are, OK? Doesn't have to be Saquon, OK, it could be -- it could be -- it could be Smith catching the football. That's how we are in THE FIVE. That's what creates success. Selflessness.
PERINO: Have you ever seen Jesse so prepared?
GUTFELD: Yes, it was amazing. You're very happy. I just don't get the logic of destroying stuff when something good happens. It makes -- I mean, it's like we, THE FIVE wins the ratings every day. We don't go turn over the "OUTNUMBERED" curvy couch, you know, because we're so excited.
Can I talk about Taylor?
PERINO: Oh yes. You know she used to be a Philly fan.
GUTFELD: Yes, not anymore. I think at the Super Bowl she got a whiff of preference falsification. Of course, there are millions and millions of girls who adore her, and then they're her parents and the media hacks who, out of terror must be compelled to cheer for her the same way.
But once you're in a stadium of football fans, a place where teenage girls are less likely to be at, you get the popular vote, and there's no risk of backlash. So people cheered for him and didn't have to feel like they had to cheer for her.
And let's not forget what Taylor did on September 10th. She endorsed Harris. Remember she called -- she said that Harris was gifted.
WATTERS: Oh boy.
GUTFELD: Yes, we know the code word for gifted by the way. Steady-handed, that's what you say when someone drinks, oh he's remarkably steady-handed.
In short, she lied. And she also was impressed by Tim Walz saying that he would fight for the rights over a woman's body, as if all of that was under attack. Now, maybe she didn't lie, and she's stupid. If she's that stupid, maybe she should be wearing the helmet. Who knows?
But there's something obviously American about the Super Bowl. It's one-of- a-kind American. It's super, it's huge, it's extravagant, it's extreme, but most of all, it's a spectacle of energy, and you will not find a president more comfortable in the vortex than Trump. It just kind of feels right.
I mean, Biden wouldn't even know where he's at. He think he'd be at a funeral for a head of state for another planet. He would have no clue.
But Trump is as American as you're going to get. So even the critics get this, when he's there, they cheer. He's as American as you know, The Beach Boys, the Super Bowl and hating Jesse Watters.
PERINO: There was a lot of patriotism on display last night, Judge.
JEANINE PIRRO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL LEGAL ANALYST: You know, I think, Dana, that the game kind of reflected America. It was like when you think about Trump's first term, that's when Colin Kaepernick was taking a knee, and there was all this nonsense about the national anthem, and, you know, whether they should salute or stand up or take a knee.
I think the NFL game, I think was almost like a metaphor, that America was happy, that, you know, they were cheering for the president, they were cheering for the national anthem. There was none of the negativity, sure, there is between the teams.
And but I think that it was a unifying moment, the unifying moment that, you know, Kamala Harris said that she would bring, and Joe Biden would bring. Joe Biden, who didn't bother to go to a Super Bowl game, or, in the last two years, even give a Super Bowl interview.
But I think it was great. And I think that in the end, you know, Taylor Swift getting booed. You know, I don't know whether it was anti-MAGA, whether it was the Philly fans, but I think the public just doesn't want celebrities in their sports anymore. They don't want the politics in their sports anymore. They want to enjoy sports for sports.
And just Dana, I want to talk about the halftime show. Now, I got to tell you, what a nightmare. I kept sitting there saying, you know, maybe I just don't get this guy. Then I find out there's this subplot. There's this drama with Drake, and you know, he can do a concert this guy, Kendrick Lamar, and he won all these Grammys.
But you know, we had Usher, we had The Weeknd, we had Beyonce, we had Rihanna. I mean, we had performers. I don't know what the hell this guy was doing, but it did -- I didn't get it.
And a couple of important points, Jalen Hurts, apparently, seven years ago, he was benched. He was benched, and they lost a game, and he apparently kept up the confetti of the other game-winning as a screensaver on his phone to be the ultimate motivation for him, and he came back. And it's a great comeback story.
And there's Cooper DeJean, this 22-year-old who accepted that Mahomes. And then, and then turned the game -- the ball over for the Eagles.
And then finally, the commercial that I loved was the Jesus commercial. I just felt that it was heartfelt and it was traditional, and I loved it.
PERINO: Well, I'm glad you loved it. That seems like everyone had a good time. Jessica, did you have a good time watching the game?
JESSICA TARLOV, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: I did. I always think that it's fun. The game could have been more exciting. I think even there were - - not that Philly fans would have wanted to -- even potentially lose. But it was just a blowout, and you knew it was coming. Everyone was Googling, you know, how much has Patrick Mahomes ever come back from? And he did overcome a 24 point deficit before, but that started in the second quarter, not going into halftime.
So, odds were against us getting much of a game. But I always think that it's fun. You know, Taylor Swift getting booed in this scenario, she's been going to NFL games all year and not been booed before. It was I think about the Philly fans, the president being there someone that he is very happy to pick on, you know, for the idea that he wants to, "unite the country." He doesn't need to continue crapping on Taylor Swift.
As for Kendrick Lamar, you know, I understand it wasn't everyone's favorite show, but the guy is immensely talented. He just won five Grammys last week. It's our first solo hip hop artist. He had great special guests that came out, and they were making a point. They were having a discussion, not only about the feud with Drake and how he started, not like us. And then said, you know, I know that they like to sue, so I'm going to back off of it.
But talking about important, systemic racial issues in the country, and you know, people, whether you like it or not, it's going down in history as an important Super Bowl performance.
WATTERS: No, it's going down as the worst halftime show ever.
PIRRO: I thought so.
TARLOV: You're going to -- listen --
GUTFELD: Do you think it appealed to the mass market? It didn't.
TARLOV: As much as Katy Perry? No.
PIRRO: No, of course.
GUTFELD: I think -- I think that they are now willing to just, they don't care if anybody's watching it. It's for a different reason, whatever it is.
TARLOV: -- the same NFL. First of all, he was, you know, booked, obviously, a long time ago to do this, but the NFL removed end racism from the end zone.
PIRRO: September, he was booked.
TARLOV: Announced. I'm sure it was, you know, it takes a long time to put all of this.
PIRRO: You know, he was talking about the revolution we televised.
TARLOV: So what?
PIRRO: You pick the right time, but the wrong guy.
TARLOV: The guy has a Pulitzer Prize. Let him do whatever he want to do.
PIRRO: I said it.
GUTFELD: I want to hold that against him.
PERINO: All right, I bet Serena Williams looked good.
PIRRO: She did.
TARLOV: She looks amazing.
PERINO: All right, coming up, President Trump isn't just rocking the Super Bowl. He's getting some super approval numbers.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
TARLOV: 47 is having a honeymoon with the voters, four weeks in and President Trump is racking up some of his best approval ratings of either term.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Our CBS poll finds that a majority of Americans, 53 percent approve of the job he's doing. That's a better approval number than he ever reached during his first term in the White House.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And holy smokes. I mean, look at what the difference is between now versus eight years ago during the first Trump term. What a difference eight years makes. He's on the positive side of the ledger at plus four points, a positive net approval rating for Donald Trump.
Again, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Every single day of Trump's second term so far, he has been on the positive side of the ledger 21 days all three weeks. That's already 10 more days than he was in his entire first term.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
TARLOV: Well, a big part of the president's appeal has unfiltered, off the cuff comments like when Trump straight up mocked this outlet.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: I don't know even what you're talking about, neither do you. Who you with? Who?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Huff Post.
TRUMP: No wonder. I thought they -- I thought they died. Are they still around? I haven't read them in years. I thought they died.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
TARLOV: I think they just got a desk at the Pentagon, actually.
Jesse, I want to come to you. This is a very nice honeymoon that he's having, and in the CBS poll, it was interesting as well, he has a plus 10 advantage now with Gen Z voters, that was his biggest --
WATTERS: I don't even know what Gen Z is. there's so many generations now.
TARLOV: Young people.
WATTERS: X, Z, are you a boomer? Just kidding, Jessica.
So, this is like a guy who buys an estate who the previous owners had just let go, and he gets to work immediately. You have like the million dollar solar panel greenhouse, which was growing alfalfa sprouts that no one ate, gutted it. Now, it's a beautiful English walking garden with a koi pond and Japanese maples.
He comes in, converts to natural gas, fixes all the holes in the fence, fires all the contractors that are bilking the estate, and restores it to what it should be. And that's what he's doing to this country. It's a restoration of the United States of America because the previous owners had let it get dilapidated, Jessica.
And now everyone's marveling at how great the country can be. Oh my gosh. Look at all these great things. This is what it should be. It's now a national historic landmark.
All right, so we're getting new contractors, alarm system, no squatters, no broken windows, and this is what America deserves.
TARLOV: Like the good old days when I was young. Since I'm a boomer.
WATTERS: Whatever you are, whatever you want to be.
TARLOV: I can identify as I wish. Greg, what do you think is primarily fueling the popularity surge, especially compared to the first term?
GUTFELD: Well, I hate to say it, but idiot boy over there stole my -- stole my point.
The reason why 70 percent believe Trump was fulfilling their promises, even if they weren't really paying attention, is because it's not that he's doing new things, like it's because the Democrats before were doing weird and awful things. They strayed so far off the reservation, even Liz Warren was sending smoke signals.
So, even if you weren't for Trump, you're OK with his changes. You know what he's like? He's like a handy man who comes to your house one afternoon and starts fixing little things, the squeaky door, the broken ceiling fan, the loose floorboard, and you didn't know what you were missing until it got fixed.
And so, you kind of like, I don't really like the handyman, but boy, my life has gotten a lot better since he fixed these things. And yes, sure, sometimes he fixed some other things that I don't want fixed, like, I don't need to lubricate a lock, but overall, my life is considerably better since America's handyman came along.
The fact that he's got 53 percent approval rating is amazing, because usually the head winds of a legacy media would keep that never above 40. Every day for a Republican is an away game, to continue the sports analogy, and here you have a visiting team, right? That's the Trumps crushing the home team, the media, in popularity. He's essentially -- the White House is essentially the Harlem Globetrotters, and the Democrats are the Washington generals, and they always were that way.
But now they've lost the credibility of their PR team, the media, Jessica, of which you are a part, and you should be deeply ashamed of yourself.
TARLOV: And what are you?
GUTFELD: I don't know. That's a good question.
TARLOV: OK. So, I thought, and there'll be more of it during "SPECIAL REPORT" this evening, but I thought Bret did a great job interviewing the president, and he asked him about prices, which was the most important issue going into the election. He said, when can we expect them to come down? And Trump you know, waffled and whiffed a bit and moved all around. How long do you think the grace period will be for the administration on prices if they --
PERINO: I think they have some time. I think that people realize that Joe Biden caused the inflation, and that ignored it. His chief of staff called it a high class problem. Now all of a sudden, the Democrats are worried about egg prices. And again, they could have watched anybody here. They said like, this is what's happening. They could look at any poll. This is what's happening.
So, he wasn't even in office six hours before, Hakeem Jeffries had tweeted about how terrible gas -- grocery prices were. So, I think the people look at that and say, come on, sit down and give President Trump a little bit of time. It's been three weeks. So I think people have that in mind.
But it is a concern, and I think that's why President Trump understand -- he understands that, and which is a little bit of a way for him to say, just give me a little bit of a minute, because he did that last week on tariffs as well.
I think the voter numbers you asked Jesse about, he ignored it. The voters under 30, it's wild. They are -- they approve of Trump overall by 10, 55, 45 and even millennials are plus four.
So, this tells me that the honeymoon isn't going to wear off for a while, and also that people are looking at this with some very fresh eyes. The Democrats have positioned themselves in the 10 to 15 percent of every issue.
And President Trump, you can call it low-hanging fruit or whatever, but he's like, you know what? Actually, let's get rid of the DEI things. Let's get rid of the plastic straws, pennies, we don't need them. Deport violent criminals. Yes, OK, we want to do that.
And so, the Democrats are like, but we're going to get the courts to do it, and maybe that will work, I don't know, but I just feel like, if you're in the 10 to 15 percent of every issue, get a new issue.
TARLOV: Judge, I do think Dana is right about the action element of this, that even if people don't necessarily agree with everything that's being done, they like to see something in motion, especially when it comes to government. And I think you're seeing that maybe most in the most extreme on the immigration issue.
PIRRO: Well, I think I think you see it on every issue. I think the operative word here is the juxtaposition between this administration and the prior administration.
I mean, people describe Donald Trump as energetic, tough, focused, effective. And to continue the analogy of the handyman who comes to your house, this is the handyman who does everything that you asked him to do. 64 percent approve of his promise and now his actions at the border. 59 percent support his move toward the deportation of criminals. 54 percent approve of his handling of the Hamas and the Gaza conflict. 70 percent say he's doing what he promised.
I mean, think about it, a handy man that you hire who actually did is doing what you hired him to do. And to me, that number is incredible, because it tells you that they're finding this politician, our commander in chief credible. The man is credible. How many politicians can you say are credible?
TARLOV: I guess just one.
Up next, they're not just blocking entrances. Democrats are vowing to take their DOGE disruption to the next level.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
This will be a congressional fight, a constitutional fight, a legal fight, and on days like this, a street fight.
REP. MAXINE WATERS (D-CA): And this is our country, and we're not going to let Elon Musk have it. He can't have it. So, Elon, come here and face us (EXPLETIVE DELETED).
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PIRRO: The Democrats holding more anti-DOGE rallies in DC as they ramp up their war on Musk cost cutting crew. Their latest weapon, the federal courts. Judges across the country have moved to block some of Trump and Musk's biggest moves, including, most recently, a decision to block DOGE from accessing Treasury records. Other Dems want to go a step further and shut down the government over DOGE.
They can attack all they want, but President Trump is standing by Musk and the DOGE team.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: We have to solve the efficiency problem. We have to solve the fraud, waste, abuse, or the things that have gone into the government.
I don't know if it's kickbacks or what's going on, but the people look I ran on this, and the people want me to find it, and I've had a great help with Elon Musk, who's been terrific.
BAIER: You say you trust him.
TRUMP: Trust Elon? Oh, he's not gaining anything. In fact, I wonder how he can devote the time to it.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PIRRO: All right, Jesse, the worst congressional fight, constitutional fight, street fight, the worst crisis since Watergate. Since when is transparency a constitutional crisis?
WATTERS: I don't know.
PERINO: Good question.
WATTERS: Kweisi Mfume (ph), if you're going to say something with ear muffs on, I'm not going to take you seriously. I mistakenly wore earmuffs one time on Fox and O'Reilly killed me for about a year. I never wore them again. So lose the ear muffs.
So, the Democrats are shutting down the government to protest Trump, shutting down the government. Trump is trying not to pay bureaucrats, so Democrats are going to shut the government down and bureaucrats aren't going to get paid? Have you ever seen Democrats boldly say I am prover shutdown ever?
Trump is turning Democrats into Republicans. And they're now worried that Elon Musk has access to their Social Security numbers? Elon Musk is a part of the government. The government has access to your Social Security numbers. What does he think Elon is going to do with your Social Security number? What -- is he going to like open up a credit card in your name and like max it out at Best Buy? You think he's Moonlighting as an identity thief the world's richest man? This is crazy.
Judge, this reminds me of let's just say a spouse who is a shopaholic and all of a sudden you intercept the mail one day. Look at the statement. And she grabs it out of your hand and says you can't look at this. Now, if you do that, that makes me suspicious. And that's what the Democrats are doing. In order to look at the books, you have to open the books.
PIRRO: All right, Dana, apparently for those who think this is a congression -- a constitutional crisis, it looks like they have something to hide.
PERINO: And all -- well, again, it goes back to that 10 to 15 percent approval rating. Well, issue rating. They are figuring out a way to drive down their 31 percent approval rating that they have right now. So, Pete Buttigieg for example is out there complaining about Trump not bringing prices down fast enough. We talked about this a little bit in the A block. And that's like Gigi Watters causing a huge mess in the kitchen and then complaining that no one had cleaned it up fast enough.
WATTERS: It's happened.
PERINO: It has happened and it's happening right now. The other thing that's incredible is that one of the things that we see with these Democrats last week, remember they went to the Department of Education, and they were complaining and they wanted -- let inside the building they didn't say what they were going to do when they were going to go inside. They were berating --
PIRRO: Oh, yes, yes, yes.
PERINO: -- the federal official or the federal worker who was out there just -- he was just doing his job and Maxine Waters was giving him a hard time.
PIRRO: She wanted to see his I.D. again.
PERINO: So, they were outside at the Department of Education. At the very same time, those same Democrats literally skipped a House hearing that was being held that very moment on the future of American Education in the House last week.
WATTERS: Oh, God.
PERINO: And you had the parents defending education group put this out there saying this doesn't make any sense. And it's not like you have to just look at the three main broadcast networks of my childhood. All of this information is out there for everyone to see. And it's kind of entertaining to see them spiral downwards. That's why I think it's getting so much attention.
PIRRO: You know, Jessica, I mean, if you've got a problem, don't you need a forensic accountant to go look at whether or not there is a problem? And just like Jesse said, what's Elon Musk going to do with Social Security numbers? Is there anything else?
TARLOV: Well, I think there are two issues at play. The Constitutional crisis here is that Congress has been subverted. So, these are congressionally appropriated dollars. And we've seen this over and over again in the federal judges that have ruled on this. They're not saying that there aren't programs that don't deserve to be asked. They're saying that these aren't dollars that the executive can decide what to do with. There's a process to go through.
On the accountability front, yes, we have a Government Accountability Office. We also have a big spending database where you can go in and you see where the dollars are going. And they should have conversations about programs that have got to go.
But Elon Musk, he's not a forensic accountant. He's a scientist and one of the most brilliant people to have ever lived for sure. But he has a number of minions who have not passed the same level of security checks that they should have in order to have access to that information. And I don't know what they're going to do with your Social Security number or what they're going to do with Head Start or Medicaid or Medicare or anything else that they have access to. But the point is that they shouldn't.
And you see that -- like the big one from over the weekend was the freeze on the NIH spending. So, I understand that there might be some overhead costs, the "indirect costs" that you think are too high. But going to them and saying that indirect costs have to come down to 15 percent would completely hobble American innovation.
PIRRO: But without Elon Musk, we wouldn't know of any of this stuff, money going for transgenders.
TARLOV: But you don't know. But I'm not talking -- I just said the NIH. I said the future of cancer research. For every dollar that the NIH grants count out, you get $2.46 back and they generate $93 billion a year.
PIRRO: And Trump just brought in $500 million with A.I. and cancer.
TARLOV: No -- well, first of all, Elon Musk even said that isn't real money.
PIRRO: Oh, it isn't?
TARLOV: Well, Elon Musk said it himself. He replied to the Tweet. But Katie Britt, the senator from Alabama, had to go out there and say no don't take our NIH dollars.
PIRRO: OK. Greg?
GUTFELD: This is the conversation that we're supposed to be having. There is so much fraud. If you bring up Medicare and Medicaid, there are hundreds of billions of dollars in fraud. Imagine you had an icon on your computer screen, and it was of the White House, and you never double-clicked on it, and it was just there.
Musk finally double-clicked on it and we are seeing the files. And we read -- it's read-only. Nothing's happening. We're reading the files. And that is enough to scare the poop out of these Democrats. And it's not about constitutionality, it's about the fact that it's a gravy train for them.
The Treasury rubberstamped these things. They went right through it. There was no control. There was no stop gap, and this is becoming a revelation for people. So, when you're a victim of fraud, there are three parties. There's the victim, the perp, and the person you call to stop the fraud. So, the Democrats they aren't the victim. They aren't the people trying to stop it. Who are they?
Just by simple logic, they are the perp and they are embracing the characters saying, oh, my God you're going to have the Social Security numbers. You idiot. These guys run PayPal. They have the Social Security numbers, you nut bag. It is -- they don't even know -- OK, either they're so stupid that they don't know how a business works, that everyone else gets this that you do -- every business does an audit. It's called zero pay budgeting. That's what you do.
Every year you start at zero and try and figure out how to cut costs. But they act like it's an act of terror because they've never run a damn business. Coupled to that, it's a gravy train. They've been incentivized to exaggerate certain kinds of programs. Why do -- why do victims of disaster not get funds but there is a trans opera in a foreign country? It's because that incentivized and exaggerated funds that trickle down to people.
So, you're looking at corruption, you're looking at ignorance, and I'm there for it. And you know what? There's -- this isn't going to go away. We double clicked on the icon.
PERINO: Yes, this one.
PIRRO: Definitely. Up next, James Carville has a new theory for why he thinks Democrats are stupid.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: Trump 2.0 is living rent-free in the minds of Democrats. Maine Congressman Jared Golden is urging his party to stop overblowing everything 47 does, saying this, "If you make everything DEFCON 5, then eventually nothing is DEFCON 5.
And the Raging Cajun smells a rat. James Carville is wondering if there's a plant in the party pushing them to back the dumbest ideas possible. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JAMES CARVILLE, DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST: It's like -- it's like there's a plant somewhere in "Progressive" America that just to seize how many jack (BLEEP) stupid things that they can embrace. There's has to be an A.I. generated Progressive generator of really (BLEEP) dumb ideas. They have not been right about a single thing in all of history and they're never going to be right.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: I want to let you respond to that, Jessica. Is there a plant in your party?
TARLOV: I don't think so but James Carville is always colorful and he's usually circling around the most salient points. And I think Democrats are thinking about this stuff a lot. A component of what Congressman Golden said and he won a very competitive district, a Trump district, rural Maine, he said that he hasn't gotten any calls to his office about constituents upset about Trump, they're just upset about Musk. And he said that's where you got to talk about this.
It's not the guy that they voted for, it's the guy that's running the efficiency bureaucracy. And one of the ways the Democrats can do that is obviously to talk about various aspects. Like, who's getting the big government contracts, right? There are billions of dollars of "DOGE" that you could be looking through that go to Musk projects, like the Starlinks of the world or E.V. subsidies etcetera.
But I think Carville also -- and he didn't mention in that interview, and I think it would be worthwhile, is the national performance review that happened during the Clinton Administration where they cut tons of waste. So, we could have our own DOGE. Have the Democratic disruption office and you come with your own proposals. You say we'll take your trans operas --
GUTFELD: You wouldn't cut a thing.
TARLOV: I would cut things.
GUTFELD: Like what?
TARLOV: Maybe trans operas.
WATTERS: Maybe that wasn't definite.
PIRRO: But you wouldn't have known about it unless it were Elon Musk looking at that and telling us.
TARLOV: No. We have our own accountants who are actually accountants.
PIRRO: You mean Joe Biden was actually going to tell us about that stuff?
WATTERS: Go ahead, Jeanine.
PIRRO: Oh, you want me to go? OK. I think this guy Jared Golden is a smart guy. He's right. Everything is DEFCON 5. You know, it's like the kid who cries wolf. If you cry wolf every day, no one's going to listen to you. And finally, Carville -- I'll be very short here -- Carville on the idea that there's like a Republican plant, what is wrong with that 10 or 15 percent of Democrats that everything that they say this plant or whomever it is -- it's a Progressive, it's not a Republican -- you know, let's mutilate kids, let's put men in women's lockers room -- locker rooms and let's make sure that we have these drag shows for kids, and they're like yay. It's their fault. It's stupid. And he's right.
WATTERS: Dana, did I hear Jessica say that we should DOGE electric car subsidies?
PERINO: No, I wrote down. A welcomed development is all of a sudden now the Democrats are against electric vehicle subsidies. I'm here for it. I've been a guest from the beginning --
TARLOV: I'll try anything.
PERINO: -- and that's just great.
WATTERS: Wow.
PERINO: I mean, I am here for that. Also little pet peeve, Congressman Golden. DEFCON 5 is actually the -- actually the default for peace time.
WATTERS: Oh.
PERINO: DEFCON 1 is when it escalates. So, that's just a little pet peeve.
TARLOV: I don't know that.
PERINO: I don't know that.
PERINO: It's like when people say I could care less instead of could not care less. It drives me a little nuts. I think that it's interesting that if you look at a Chris Murphy clip from the weekend, he said in one minute, constitutional crisis worse than Watergate and threat to our democracy.
First of all, if you think that -- what do you think Watergate was? And secondly, read the room. You had a president in Biden who tried to tweet on a constitutional amendment.
WATTERS: Yes.
PERINO: And everyone basically was like, wait, what are you doing, sir? They didn't say constitutional crisis. They're like, oh, yes, that's a great idea.
WATTERS: They didn't even blink. They were like, it's just Biden being Biden. GG?
GUTFELD: You know, it's interesting -- you know, the difference between Hunter Biden and other Democrats is Hunter did blow, the Dems did overblow. And the difference is blow can be fun, but there's nothing fun about overblown. No one wants to hang out with you. Nobody definitely wants to sleep with you. Performative outrage, empties the room, and you can tell now that people don't want to be around you.
Even the people you claim that you were defending don't want to be around you. A Black guy will say enough of the anti-White hysteria. My daughter dates a White guy. He seems like a good guy. Get away from me you weirdo. The Democrats were always telling people that they were helping, you know, the poor, the needy. They were helping themselves and their rich donors. That's why USAID terrifies them.
So, Trump comes in and drinks their milkshake. The Republican Party is now the party of the worker, party of labor, the guy who has a truck loan, not an outstanding college loan for trans-African studies. You know, out of fear the Democrats they embraced DEI and trans which weren't kitchen table issues. They weren't even massage table issues. And so what happened was they weren't just removed from the average American's needs, they demonized those needs. And that's why they're in a really dark place. I don't see them getting out of this for two years.
WATTERS: Two.
GUTFELD: Yes.
TARLOV: Just in time for the Midterms.
GUTFELD: Yes.
TARLOV: I'm fine.
GUTFELD: Yes.
WATTERS: I just want to know what a massage table issue is.
GUTFELD: That -- oh, I'll show you later.
WATTERS: OK. Especially my upper left trap here. Up next, President Trump gets ready to nuke the penny.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GUTFELD: President Trump ordering the treasury to stop minting pennies because they're as useless as Jesse's hairpiece. 47 saying, "For far too long the U.S. has minted pennies which literally cost us more than 2 cents. This is so wasteful." Jessica, I go to you for no reason at all. Penny for your thoughts? You don't mind pennies, do you?
TARLOV: No, I don't. And I still like to use change when I can. I've recently were using more cash --
GUTFELD: Where do you use a penny? Let's debate this. Let's have the conversation.
TARLOV: In a Bodega, when I am getting a Diet Coke or something like that.
GUTFELD: Oh, you the person that's in front of me that's counting out the pennies?
TARLOV: I am she.
GUTFELD: Wow.
PERINO: They're now like $3.00 at the Bodega.
TARLOV: $3.01.
GUTFELD: Really? Let's call it what it is. It's a convenience store. The rest of America doesn't have Bodegas, you elitist New Yorkers.
PERINO: Fair.
GUTFELD: Dana, continue this stupid conversation.
PERINO: So, I was totally cool with this, and then I interviewed Rich Zeoli for my podcast today. He's a our talk radio guy in Philly, and he's against it. He said this is a bad slippery slope where the government starts taking over the payment systems and that we shouldn't want that. And now I'm rethinking my position.
GUTFELD: I don't like slippery slopes. Judge? I think if he -- if you don't want to pick it up off the ground, get rid of it.
PIRRO: Well, but it's also proof that our thoughts are now suffering from inflation. Our thoughts are costing more than a penny. But I think practically, I mean, wasn't there a time that the silver dollar was popular? And then it just kind of went out.
TARLOV: Yes.
PIRRO: You know, just -- they just go out of extinction. I mean, and that's what's going to happen with the penny.
GUTFELD: So, Jesse, pennies, pennies, pennies, pennies.
WATTERS: At first I felt bad for the bums because that's usually who gets the pennies.
GUTFELD: Yes.
TARLOV: Jesse.
PIRRO: Oh, God.
WATTERS: But now I'm thinking it might benefit them because you're dealing in larger denominations. Instead of a penny, they're going to be getting nickels or dime.
GUTFELD: Yes. I agree completely.
WATTERS: But you know what I mean?
GUTFELD: Yes.
WATTERS: This actually might be pro-bomb.
GUTFELD: You know you know what I love about your compassion is the way you think about everything through the prism of what you can give to the homeless guy.
WATTERS: I always do.
PIRRO: And then to dump them.
WATTERS: You stiff the homeless.
GUTFELD: Here are some paper straw.
WATTERS: I've seen you stiff -- I have seen you take money out of a homeless guy's cup.
GUTFELD: Well, I didn't like the way he looked at me.
WATTERS: You can't do that.
TARLOV: You can take that back.
GUTFELD: "ONE MORE THING" is up next.
WATTERS: I don't think you're --
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
PERINO: It's time for "ONE MORE THING." And yes, this is -- actually, this is one of your favorite things, Greg. We're going to do a matchup. This is a dog and a toddler. This 1-year-old picked up a strange breathing pattern, and the parents were like what is going on. Watch.
GUTFELD: A dog baby.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERINO: Then you see the dog. So, the parents said they noticed their daughter panting and realized she was just imitating him. As I mentioned, Rich Zeoli is on Perino on Politics just posted. Greg?
GUTFELD: Wow, that was amazing.
PERINO: Thank you.
GUTFELD: Boy, oh boy. Tonight --
PERINO: I got to work on my "ONE MORE THINGS."
GUTFELD: We got Jim Norton, Guy Benson, Kat Timpf, Tyrus. That's tonight at 10:00. Let's do this. It's been a while.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: Animals are great! Animals are great! Animals are great!
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: You know we need a mayor in New York and finally it's happening, an honorary dog mayor. Check this out. It's a west side -- upper west side rescue dog just made mayor. His owner, his honor, Simon, has been elected via an online vote for two-year term and took the woof of office. Who wrote this crap?
PERINO: Wow. This is like one of mine.
GUTFELD: Yes, it's pretty bad. But you know, I haven't done an Animals Are Great in a while, but I'll -- we'll take anything at this point, you know.
PERINO: Obviously. Hey, Jesse, what do you have?
WATTERS: All right, so the first episode of the new limited series Yellowstone to Yosemite is now available on Fox Nation. Kevin Cosner is the star are from Glacier Point to El Capitan spectacular visuals of present- day Yosemite, will be juxtaposed -- the judge's favorite word -- with Cosner's active exploration of the park as he retraces the journeys that changed America. Available now on Fox Nation.
Tonight, "JESSE WATTERS PRIME TIME," Johnny asked some people in the city about some of this foreign a money. Listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOHNNY BELISARIO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL PRODUCER: The government is spending $43 million on a gas station in Afghanistan that didn't even work.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What? You got to be kidding me. Send it here. We need it over here.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Send it here. We need it over here. That's what they said.
PERINO: Over here indeed. Judge?
PIRRO: OK. Have you ever known someone who can sleep anywhere anytime? Well, this one might take the cake. This little boy named Towns was found by his mom taking a nap on his pony, Jag. Meanwhile, Jag stands still as a statue, head against the trailer, trying his best not to wake his buddy Towns and let him sleep. It must past your bedtime.
PERINO: Wow! Very good. Jessica?
TARLOV: So, just really quickly. These California firefighters left a heartfelt note in the mailbox of a Palisades resident telling him about how they were able to save his home. Tony Nesburn returned home seeing his house was there, got the note.
PERINO: Love it.
TARLOV: Very sweet.
PERINO: Indeed.
PIRRO: It's a long not.
PERINO: And that is a sweet note.
PIRRO: They're good people.
PERINO: All right, that's it for us, everyone. Have a great night!

Load-Date: February 10, 2025


End of Document
