




MailOnline
January 20, 2025 Monday 10:15 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 2197 words
Byline: Dr Tim Hames
Body


The political recovery and restoration of Donald Trump is one of the most extraordinary events in modern history. It is, frankly, a sensation.
Back in November, many predicted that even if Trump won, a slim majority in the houses of Congress would hobble him. But he won the popular vote and the electoral college quite easily: he rolled the dice and broke the bank to his advantage.
What, then, will his second term be like? He has already shown his determination to force through his programme via an amazing avalanche of executive orders that he started to issue today.
These are written orders issued by the president to the federal government which do not require congressional approval.
Like an emperor, Trump is using the orders to achieve as many of his objectives as possible before he then has to convince Congress to enact other parts of his programme, such as radical cuts in personal taxation and funding a full-blown border wall with Mexico.
It is already clear that in key areas of policy, Trump 2.0 will go further than he did first time round. And send shockwaves across the world.
                     1. Executive orders                   
The number and range of these orders is seismic and seminal - Trump signed close to 100 of them today- and they illustrate what this President can do with the stroke of a pen.
Once Trump's people are fully in control, there will surely be more.
First, he's made clear the concept of DEI (Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion) is now dead.Trump pledged to 'forge a society that is colour-blind and merit-based' and recognise only two sexes: male and female.
This will pave the way for an end to DEI initiatives inside the federal government and forbid the use of federal funds to promote initiatives such as gender inclusivity in schools and other institutions. This shift is bound to have a knock-on effect in the US private sector too, as companies which had felt culturally compelled to embrace it suddenly have second thoughts.
The President has also ended the drive to force Americans to switch to electric vehicles (especially those manufactured in China) and expanded offshore drilling with almost immediate effect.
In addition, Trump has vowed to open the files on the deaths of John F Kennedy, his brother Robert and Martin Luther King - a source of fascination for many citizens. As for tackling immigration, by issuing an order declaring a border emergency, he could send many more troops to the US-Mexico frontier to hold the line before the border wall can be completed.
By declaring a national health emergency, he could simply shut all border crossings.
By designating drug cartels as foreign terrorists, he could deploy a far wider range of military options against them. His Democratic opponents will be torn between their instinctive opposition to what they will see as drastic measures and the reality that many of their supporters will embrace them.
                     2. Tariffs                   
Trump plans to introduce sweeping trade tariffs, along with other protectionist measures, in a dramatic change in accepted international relations. Adversaries like China will be in the firing line but so too will allies including the EU, Canada and Mexico. There will be a hostile disregard for the World Trade Organisation and a reluctance to engage with multilateral economic entities such as the IMF, the World Bank and the G7.
American foreign policy used to be based on certain fundamentals - that, for example, the US is the leader of the Free World and that the first obligation of any occupant of the White House is to retain this standing.
Other basic principles are that economic strength is best secured by multilateral co-operation and free trade. That democracy and human rights should be a significant factor in foreign policy decisions. That transnational institutions, be they political, economic or military, are important. That 'soft power' (widespread cultural influence) is highly consequential.
It is clear from his 2024 election campaign that Trump rejects these principles for America's engagement in the world. He does not consider global leadership an obligation for the US, at least not without first applying some cost-benefit analysis to establish whether it's worth it. He does not believe that America's economic dominance should be contingent on multi-level collaboration or, emphatically, on free trade.
The US should instead reinforce its might by active tariff policies.
A trade war with tariffs of 20 per cent introduced across the board would be a nightmare for any UK government, as the volume of our international trade would shrink dramatically.
But for Britain, there may never be a better opening for a UK-US Free Trade Agreement than Trump's return to the White House. As the single largest trading partner and by far the most important country for bi-lateral foreign direct investment, there is an opportunity here to maximise our economic engagement. A heavyweight figure with stand-out business qualifications should be brought into the House of Lords, given ministerial rank and appointed chief negotiator.
                     3. Ukraine and Russia                   
Trump's preference is to withdraw active US military support from Ukraine and accept a peace settlement involving territorial concessions to Vladimir Putin and Russia.
This means ending the level of economic and military support the Biden Administration gave to Ukraine and instead pressing Kyiv to enter a negotiated settlement. It could also mean political reassurances to Moscow that Ukraine would not align itself wholesale to the Western sphere.
The US has put $61.1billion into Ukraine's military pot as of August last year, which was $10billion more than the next nine contributing nations added together (including Germany's $11.4 billion, the UK's $10.1 billion and France's $3.4billion).
The quality as well as the quantity of the military equipment dispatched is also on another level compared with anyone else.
If Trump cuts off that flow of arms to Kyiv, there is no replacement for it. If he presses Kyiv for concessions to bring the war to a conclusion then Ukraine will look to Europe and the EU high command for solidarity.
If the Americans turn off the taps to Kyiv, what could London, Berlin, Paris, Warsaw and others do in response? Shrug their shoulders and tell Ukraine that, sadly, it will have to surrender territory in order to reach a settlement with Russia?
If Trump's restoration to the Oval Office spurs a peace settlement (albeit one that neither Moscow nor Kyiv has any affection for but can live with), the engagement between the US and Russia thereafter will be changed. Is Putin a permanent pariah or will he be allowed a limited return to the global stage?
This is an incendiary area. Trump's inclination is probably to let bygones be bygones, yet this would be opposed by many other nations, notably those that border on Russia.
                     4. Nato and defence spending                   
Trump has never been an enthusiastic supporter of Nato, condemning it as 'obsolete' and an outrageous arrangement for the US to finance.
He gives the impression he would rather not be at Nato summits, and it remains to be seen if he is prepared to attend in the future or if his conspicuous absence will send a message that sweeping reform is essential.
His intention is to force the European nations to make a much higher contribution to their own defence - and though the President does not have the exclusive legal authority to withdraw the US from Nato, he could engage in the equivalent of working to rule within Nato.
This was spelt out in last year's Republican Party policy platform, which stated: 'Republicans will ensure that our Allies meet their obligations to invest in our common defence.' Spending of at least 2.5 per cent of each nation's GDP on defence is likely to be his minimum acceptable figure.
For many Nato nations, it may come as a big shock to find out how much larger the future invoice for the military is likely to be. Here in the UK, Prime Minister Keir Starmer has personally agreed to embrace a 2.5 per cent target for defence spending but with a sketchy timetable. This may well not be a large enough figure. It may also have to be delivered swiftly. What does that do for Rachel Reeves's Budget?
In fairness to Trump, European countries have been all too willing to allow the US to pay. At the moment, just 23 out of 32 Nato members reach the relatively miserly standard of expending 2 per cent of GDP on their defence. Only Poland and Latvia spend a higher proportion of their GDP on it than the US.
                     5. China                   
The relationship between the US and China is central to the international order in the decades to come. But predictions about how the two nations will manage their rivalry vary enormously.
Will there be a 'hot' conflict over Taiwan or is a cold war stand-off more likely? Much more likely is that their head-butting will end up being more economic and technological than military, a sort of 'cold peace'.
What is certain is that Trump's new take on China goes way beyond the trade tensions and tariffs of the past. He argues that China is not just a competitor but an existential threat.
The Republican policy platform was emphatic about revoking China's Most Favoured Nation status, phasing out imports of essential goods and stopping China from buying American real estate and industries. Such a strategy radically reverses the US position of the past 25 years.
It means 'decoupling' the interdependent US and Chinese economies, a tall order when the two countries are massive trade partners and amount to 40 per cent of global GDP. It also means the US will regain an overwhelming technological advantage over China, critically by bringing back home the bulk of semi-conductor chip manufacture that is the driving force of the electronics industry.
Under Trump, a large boost in military spending specifically to contain China will be a national imperative. And the loyalty of other nations - and their political, economic and military relationship with the US - will be judged by whether they follow the US lead on China.
The UK will be left sitting uneasily between a warring US and China, involved with them both economically and with no wish to choose one over the other. Though if forced to do so, the UK would stick with the US.
On the other hand, the UK could also quite properly attempt to be the link between the US and China, particularly if, as may well be the case, the businessman in Trump turns out to be more transactional than ideological in his approach to China.
A slick UK Government could make itself central to a rapprochement between Washington and Beijing that would make for a more stable international community.
                     6. Middle East                   
With a ceasefire in Gaza having been announced even before he assumes office, Trump starts off on the front foot in the Middle East. He will naturally stand shoulder to shoulder with Israel but it will be difficult to balance the desire for peace against allowing Jerusalem more scope in thumping its enemies.
He may try to pick up where he left off with Saudi Arabia and extend the Abraham Accords signed during his first term, which normalised relations between Israel and a number of its Arab neighbours. But much has happened in the time he has been away, notably the outright conflicts between Israel and Hamas and Israel and Hezbollah, which will make simply reconstructing a previous deal very hard.
In those four years, the number of American troops in the region has risen from 30,000 to 45,000, while the diplomatic standing of the US in the Middle East has decreased by some margin. The many trips to the area by Biden's Secretary of State Antony Blinken have, if anything, made America look impotent.
Iran will be Trump's Public Enemy Number One in the region, and he is likely to adopt a more aggressive stance towards Tehran, with periodic drone strikes to make the point. Other firefights will be studiously avoided.
The Middle East is a big powder keg with a short fuse. It is now Trump's powder keg.
                     7. Climate change                   
These are likely to be awkward times for an environmental lobby that had seemed to be so strong, as Trump makes a total disavowal of the Paris Accords and the wider international climate change programme. Under Joe Biden, Europe and the US were on the same track, if not proposing to move forward at the same speed or the same way. This is clearly off the cards now.
The US will not only depart from the Paris Accords (as it did when Trump was first in the White House) but be even more unambiguous in its dissent from climate change orthodoxy. If the US is unwilling to endure the expenditure and inconvenience of transforming its economy to satisfy the demands of the Net Zero mission, then there will be a fork in the road with the EU.
Dr Tim Hames is a former lecturer in American politics at Oxford University and now a co-founder and partner at Acuti Associates. His book Trump II: Why He Won - What It Means For The World is available to buy through Amazon.

Load-Date: January 20, 2025


End of Document
