




Targeted News Service
February 8, 2025 Saturday 1:17 AM  EST


Copyright 2025 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved


Length: 572 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: MIAMI, Florida 
Body


The Florida Charter School Alliance issued the following news release:
* * *
Dr. Arza's Powerful Takeaways from Washington, D.C. Meeting: A Bold Vision for the Golden Age of School Choice
Dr. Tony Arza recently made a powerful trip to Washington, D.C., where he joined the Committee on Education & Workforce meeting for a riveting discussion titled "The State of American Education." Hot off the heels of the meeting, Dr. Arza shares his insightful summary and passionate thoughts on what he believes is the Golden Age for School Choice! Don't miss out on his compelling perspectives that meeting and shares his thoughts on the Golden Age for School Choice here.
Weeks into the new administration, Trump's Washington is governed by a vastly different ethos. The target is the administrative state--unelected government employees who have been enforcing rules and policies unilaterally, often at odds with the interests of working Americans. This experience is particularly pertinent to Florida's school choice movement. As Florida's elected officials champion school choice and a parent's right to educate, district staff lag behind. The burdensome and inefficient ESSER III reimbursement process, for instance, is a testament to unelected administrators hindering legislative agendas. The administrative apparatus stands as a barrier to America's elected representatives. During the hearing on "The State of American Education," several key themes were discussed, including workforce preparation, excessive student debt, and parental rights.
It appears that D.C. is adopting Florida's playbook by removing DEI programs and indoctrination from schools while simultaneously expanding parental freedom to choose where their child attends. Representative Ryan Mackenzie emphasized that public opinion overwhelmingly favors school choice, while noting the democratic parties continued opposition to it in K-12 education. Mackenzie further stated, "[It] is a losing position. It is failing not only our public but also our students."
The Republican-led committee reaffirmed Trump's school choice agenda, alluding to additional resources for schools of choice and deregulation of burdensome and outdated processes.
The committee was also clear about its expectations for educational excellence. Representative Bob Onder pointed out that while the amount of money allocated to education has increased, the performance of our students has declined. This situation must be rectified. As is the prevailing sentiment in Washington, the outdated processes are hindering the quality and inflating the cost of education. The intention is to invest more money directly in children and less in government agencies that are incapable of adhering to the law and obstruct efficiency.
We will closely monitor these developments to assist our members in navigating and benefiting from the Golden Age for School Choice.
Tony Arza, Ph.D., is a key member of the FCSA team, leading the District/Collaborative Initiative and fostering authorizer/charter relations. A former educator at True North Classical Academy, he now serves as Board Vice Chair at Florida Virtual School and Education Consultant at Mountain Moving Strategies, Inc.
* * *
Original text here: /
[Category: Education]
Copyright Targeted News Services
null-9045823 T83-SS-FR

Load-Date: February 15, 2025


End of Document
