




The Triangle: Drexel University
February 28, 2025 Friday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 676 words
Byline: Medina Ramirez
Body


Photo by Evie Touring | The Triangle
On Feb. 14, the Department of Education sent out a letter now known as the "Dear Colleague" letter. In this letter, Acting Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights Craig Trainor stated that the Department of Education will no longer allow educational institutions to "discriminate against students on the basis of race."
This means removing race-affiliated scholarships, financial aid, housing and admission processes. The department gave K-12 and postsecondary educational institutions two weeks to remove their race-based programs or they run the risk of losing federal funding. Institutions use these programs to fund students' educations for underrepresented communities, so they can achieve higher education. Many universities have found themselves complying or under review, including Drexel University.
Interim President Denis O'Brien, shared an email on Feb. 19 stating that Drexel is "carefully assessing the implications of the DCL's assertions..." and they "will formulate a plan to ensure its programs and activities continue to serve our community."
There is yet to be an update on what Drexel's plan is, and there is not much to be known at the current moment. Regardless, students have concerns.
Student diversity club leaders and members may have to make changes, whether that would be club names or overall club adjustments. Although nothing is in full effect, this could greatly affect not only these clubs but also the Center for Inclusive Education and Scholarship programs, Student Center for Diversity & Inclusion services, Lindy Center for Civic Engagement and various other programs that share resources for underrepresented communities and minorities. Through these programs, students receive scholarships, BIPOC counseling centers, mentorship programs and diverse-focused events that include minorities and members of the LGBTQIA+ community.
In response to Drexel's statements, Idalys Suin, president of the Latinos for a United Campus, said, "It could've addressed any questions that [students doing valuable research] may have or provide resources that [student leaders of identity-based organization] may need. That is definitely something that I would want to hear as a student leader of an identity-based organization, especially because things are so uncertain. It would be really nice to hear that from the higher-ups in administration."
Suin further stated that the letter is "...an infringement on students," which can make this a major loss in their identity-based communities.
Although there are many unanswered questions, organization leaders are hopeful: "We are like-minded people, powerful, and dedicated individuals to where if push comes to shove, we will know how to respond and we will continue our mission for each of our organizations, and will continue to do what's right for our members."
More recently, federal judges have successfully stopped this executive order; however, nothing is official yet. Trump's order is awaiting a response from The House, according to the Washington Post. As reported by NPR, many others, including the American Association of University Professors, the National Association of Diversity Officers in Higher Education and other groups, filed lawsuits alleging that it violated the First and Fifth Amendments. Many people are opposed to this order, yet others are not. Many other colleges have followed this order and canceled any DEI-related initiatives.
For most, this takes them back to 2023, when the US Supreme Court found that race-based college admissions were unconstitutional, according to CNN. Colleges and universities previously employed affirmative action to increase the enrollment of students of color at predominantly white institutions.
There are many unanswered questions for students, student leaders and colleges; no one knows what to expect. Drexel has yet to release another statement alerting students on their future plans, leaving the university community uncertain. Students stay positive as they anticipate what the future holds.

Load-Date: February 28, 2025


End of Document
