




Newsweek.com
February 1, 2025 Saturday 8:14 AM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 824 words
Byline: Martha McHardy
Highlight: The crash comes just days after a fatal midair collision on Wednesday night in Washington, D.C.
Body


Newly released drone footage captures the devastating aftermath of a plane crash in Philadelphia on Friday night.
Why It Matters
The crash came just days after a fatal midair collision on Wednesday night involving an  passenger plane and a Sikorsky H-60 military helicopter.
The airline previously told Newsweek there were 60 passengers and four crew members on board, while the Black Hawk helicopter carried three soldiers. It is believed there are no survivors.
Recent airplane incidents and close calls nationwide have continued to raise concerns of safety protocols, and in a news conference on Thursday, President   initiatives were partly to blame for Wednesday night's crash near Washington, D.C.'s Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport.
What To Know
A medevac plane carrying a child and five others crashed shortly after takeoff in Philadelphia on Friday, according to the air ambulance company that operated it, which has yet to confirm any survivors.
The plane had departed from the Northeast Philadelphia Airport seconds before it plummeted to the ground and exploded into a large fireball in a residential area. The Federal Aviation Administration confirmed the plane was en route to Springfield-Branson National Airport in Missouri. From there, the passengers were due to travel to Tijuana, Mexico.
The crash occurred near the Roosevelt Mall on Cottman Avenue, a heavily trafficked area, during the evening rush hour.
The aftermath of the crash was captured in aerial footage. In a one-minute video shared to X, a busy street lined with homes and businesses can be seen engulfed in flames.
Thick, dark plumes of smoke billow into the sky while dozens of fires continue to rage along the roadway.
Multiple homes facing the street are seen consumed by flames, as emergency vehicles with flashing lights block off the area from both sides. Newsweek was not able to verify the footage, and the original source is unclear. The footage has been widely shared on social media.
Other drone footage obtained by Reuters showed emergency services on the scene, as burnt out vehicles were seen on the streets.
In a news conference on Friday night, Democratic Pennsylvania Governor  said: "We know that there will be loss in this region." Philadelphia Mayor Cherelle Parker said that there are "no reports on the number of fatalities."
While the identities of those on board have not been confirmed, one of the passengers is believed to have been a girl who was returning to Mexico after "receiving treatment for a life-threatening illness," Shai Gold, a spokesperson for Jet Rescue Air Ambulance—the plane's operator—told .
"All I can say is, the patient was sponsored by a third-partner charity to undergo life-saving treatment in the U.S.," Gold said. "She did her course of care. She was going home. She fought quite a lot to survive, and unfortunately, this tragedy on the way home."
The girl's mother, a pilot, a copilot, a doctor, and a paramedic were also on board. Everyone aboard the flight was from Mexico.
What People Are Saying
Shai Gold, managing director of Corporate Strategy for Jet Rescue Air Ambulance, told CNN on Friday night: "Terrible tragedy clearly, our condolences go to the families both the patient, her mother who escorted her, our crew of four, pilot, co-pilot, and a flight paramedic."
"This aircraft had an excellent maintenance record, it's a very reliable airplane that's been used before," Gold said. "This flight was a repatriation flight of a patient who recovered and was headed home. She was fit to fly, cleared to go back home, and we were contracted by a third-party charitable organization to transport her back to Mexico. So, the final destination was to be Tijuana International Airport. The flight...that Springfield Airport was what we call in the business a technical flight. It was for fueling and refueling and then we head straight south to Tijuana."
Shapiro said on X, formerly Twitter: "I've spoken with @PhillyMayor and my team is in communication with @PhillyPD, @PhilaOEM, and @PhillyFireDept. We are offering all Commonwealth resources as they respond to the small private plane crash in Northeast Philly. We'll continue to provide updates as more information is available."
Transportation Secretary Sean Duffy on X: "Just briefed the President and @GovernorShapiro from FAA HQ. I offered the full support of the @USDOT to the Governor and local officials. Investigators are on site.@FAANews."
President Donald Trump on Truth Social: "So sad to see the plane go down in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. More innocent souls lost. Our people are totally engaged. First Responders are already being given credit for doing a great job. More to follow. God Bless you all."
What Happens Next
Officials have not yet released the identities of the victims of the crash, and the cause is still under investigation.


Graphic

 
plane crash
Matt Rourke/AP
First responders work the scene after a small plane crashed in Philadelphia, Friday, Jan. 31, 2025.

Load-Date: February 1, 2025


End of Document
