




Fox News THE GREG GUTFELD SHOW 10:00 PM EST
February 26, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6681 words
Byline: Sean Hannity, Greg Gutfeld, Emily Compagno, Charly Arnolt
Guests: Mike Baker, Glenn Jacobs
Body


(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MONICA LEWINSKY, ACTIVIST: -- would have been to probably say it was you know nobody's business and to resign.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS HOST: Wow. By the way, secretservice.gov, if you're interested in the Secret Service. Please set your DVR. Let not your heart be troubled. Greg Gutfeld is next to put a smile on your face. Have a great night.
(AUDIENCE APPLAUDING AND CHEERING)
GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS HOST: I know. I would clap too if I were you. Good evening, everyone. So Michael Moore warns that America could be deporting illegals that might one day cure cancer or stop an incoming asteroid or even more troubling, they may fail to deliver his meat lovers pizza.
During an angry rant about DOGE on The Daily Show, Jon Stewart accidentally smashed a coffee mug and bloodied his hand. I guess Trump wasn't kidding when he promised a lot of new cuts.
(AUDIENCE APPLAUDING)
GUTFELD: Cheering violence. You sick people. Congressman Dan Crenshaw said if he ever sees Tucker Carlson, he would effing kill him. Note to Tucker, if you see Crenshaw coming, stay to his left.
(LAUGHTER)
GUTFELD: That is good. You have to admit. Terrible, but good.
(LAUGHTER)
GUTFELD: I don't care.
MIKE BAKER, FORMER CIA OPERATIVE: I just didn't see him coming.
GUTFELD: Yes, our new survey says 81 percent of Americans said they support deporting illegal immigrants who have committed crimes. The other 19 percent are illegal immigrants who have committed crimes. Trump appointee Alina Habba claims the Epstein files are being released next week. Meanwhile, Hillary Clinton claims that Trump appointee Alina Habba will mysteriously disappear before. It was a joke people. I don't think it's really going to happen.
Police busted a New Jersey sex parlor run by a woman named Soon Bang.
(LAUGHTER)
GUTFELD: They are now looking for her business partner. You Pay Now. A vulture has escaped a nature show in Georgia. According to officials, it won't stop circling this guy. They clapped that one. CNN's Jake Tapper is publishing a book about the cover up of Joe Biden's dementia titled "Original Sin." Its original title was CNN's cover up of Joe Biden's dementia.
Apple is under fire because its voice-to-text function reportedly turns the word racist into Trump. Worse, when you say freaking the sheets this photo pops up.
(LAUGHTER)
GUTFELD: Why are you making fun of me, Greg? Greg, I don't find that funny. I don't like the way you talk on that show. That show is very, very, very foul. I don't like it at all.
Finally, The Washington Post claims that more trans females are buying guns for protection, yes, just what trans females need, another bulge.
(LAUGHTER)
GUTFELD: All right. Got through that OK. So things are changing fast these days. The swap is being drained so quickly, we might start finding bodies from the Clinton administration. Everyone is feeling it, especially Hollywood. I mean, can you blame them? I mean, look who is on the cover of Variety?
(AUDIENCE APPLAUDING AND CHEERING)
GUTFELD: Now that's a man. It's something Hollywood wishes it had more of men, real men. You want proof? Well, according to the rap and entertainment rag, in movies, we're seeing a cultural shift towards more sensitive male portrayals, contrasting with the political climate influenced by Donald Trump's presidency, which may push towards traditional masculine stereotypes. Translation, (inaudible).
They just revealed what the Left most fears men emulating this guy. The rap also cites data that suggests many young men will look to Hollywood rather than real life for male role models, right. And men will watch the WNBA to learn how to dunk a basketball. True. This is (inaudible), true.
Young men today are often accused of being toxic, but why would they look to places like Hollywood who lead the pack and calling them toxic. And what kind of masculine man is Hollywood offering Really? This guy? My God, if this guy was any prettier, he'd be carrying Elon Musk's baby.
(LAUGHTER)
GUTFELD: So guys are looking to Hollywood for men. You're going to have to go back a few decades, you know Eastwood, Lee Marvin, Charles Bronson, Charles Nelson Reilly.
GLENN JACOBS, MAYOR OF KNOX COUNTY, TENNESSEE: Dom DeLuise.
GUTFELD: Or you could check out the current political landscape. You'll see masculine forceful figures like Trump, Pete Hegseth or border czar Tom Homan taking the reins of our nation. A far cry, not just from Hollywood, but what was in D.C. before. I mean, talk about a -- talk about a murderer's row of emasculation. These guys make the cast of RuPaul's drag race look like the Dirty Dozen.
The point is the last thing Hollywood wants is to endorse traditional masculinity. But Hollywood still believes it can create fiction and claim it represents reality. No wonder they thought they could imprint their values on politics, pushing their guilty white liberal version of reality on hours.
Men could be women; the criminal is the victim, and the victim is the criminal. Trump is Hitler. Seth Rogan is funny. There's just no end to those lies. And yet they lost, and they lost big, and Hollywood can't stand that a reality TV star, someone so lowly on the entertainment totem pole is actually in the White House. Here's actress Natasha Lyonne.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
NATASHA LYONNE, ACTRESS: It's very weird to have like a showbiz guy in charge, is surreal. I mean, because, well, I'm actually pretty horrified by how strategic and effective this whole thing has been.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: Now she says it's surreal, but what she really means it's unfair. I mean, why him and not us? Don't you like us anymore? I thought we were America's royalty, not that guy. How did he get to write and star in the movie while we couldn't? You see, their outrage stems from the fact that their fictions are now treated as fictions, and the real world has prevailed.
So my advice to Hollywood is stick to action movies. They're popular because they're built on one thing, the hero kicking the crap out of the bad guys. Period. To what most of us want to see justice prevailing that there's order in the world. We don't even care if the action hero can't speak English or happens to knock up his nanny.
The problem is, Hollywood might be too late. Trump just cornered the action movie market in real life, and every single day he's leaving Hollywood in the dust. It makes you wonder, is Hollywood really even necessary these days? We got an action hero in the Oval Office taking on forces that have been nothing but sinister for years, killer gangs coming over our border, government bureaucrats stealing our money, a liberal government blob that only grows larger and larger, eating anything in its way.
Hollywood may not like it, but that's where the real heroes are these days. So young men out there ignore Netflix. The real male role models are in real life, your fathers, grandfathers, people who fought wars and went to work and kept you fed, and yes, the men running things now trying to undo a twisted ideology that says gender is a choice, masculinity is toxic, and all achievement is aggression. Meanwhile, in Hollywood, the only man they care about these days is a guy named Oscar, and he doesn't even have a penis.
(AUDIENCE APPLAUDING)
(ANNOUNCER: PERIOD!)
GUTFELD: Let's welcome tonight's guests. He has a license to kill and a Viagra prescription to fill. Former CIA operative and host of The President's Daily Brief podcast Mike Baker. She's the life of the party and the death of my eardrums. Co-host of Outnumbered Emily Compagno. He's broken more chairs than Chris Christie, Mayor of Knox County, Tennessee, Glenn Jacobs. And she's been around so many fighters. Her favorite vegetable is cauliflower ear. Host of Outkick The Morning podcast, Charly Arnold.
CHARYL ARNOLT, OUTKICK THE MORNING PODCAST HOST: That's not true.
GUTFELD: Mike, I love the cardigan. You're kind of like a hip guidance counselor that gives you advice on your college choices while selling you weed.
BAKER: Yes, you know -- what I'm doing is I'm going for a mix between Matthew McConaughey and General Waverly from White Christmas.
GUTFELD: Very good. That is a quite a reference. I don't get it, and I should probably just move on. As a man in your early 70s, do you think --
BAKER: So you did come up with an insult?
GUTFELD: Yes, I did.
BAKER: OK.
GUTFELD: Do you think that we're living in a real life movie like the fact is that there's nothing more interesting than what's going on.
BAKER: Yes.
GUTFELD: In White House.
BAKER: No, absolutely. It's nothing more interesting than what's going on in the White House and, of course, overseas, right? I mean, all the (inaudible) that's happening around the world.
GUTFELD: Well, who cares about that.
BAKER: Who cares about that, but look, Hollywood, as you were talking, I was reminded of that fantastic South Park episode that was making fun of Kathleen Kennedy from Disney, where cart man was Kathleen Kennedy. And every time the Disney executives would come in and propose a new movie, like the new Bambi or something, then she would say, put a chicken and make her gay. That was always the answer that they had, right? And so anybody turning to Hollywood for any idea of what masculinity looks like at this point in time, right? They're lost.
GUTFELD: Put a chicken in, make her gay is exactly what I say when I have people over my hot tub.
(LAUGHTER)
ARNOLT: Things get interesting over there.
GUTFELD: One day, Charly.
BAKER: If you ever get out of the basement.
GUTFELD: Yes, Emily, do you agree that male Hollywood role models are failing men?
EMILY COMPAGNO, OUTNUMBERED HOST: Yes, I do, because Hollywood always sort of represented the -- created the machinated fantasy.
GUTFELD: Machinated.
COMPAGNO: Yes, and the whole point is that they were manufacturing fantasy that guys wanted, that they wanted to look up to, right? So whether it was superhero men, escapism during the depression, you know, hot, gorgeous, amazing women, but now the fantasy, instead of being what women and men want, is literally the opposite of reality in this perverse disgusting way.
I mean, look at we've had an epidemic of eunuchs. Thanks to Hollywood stamping and essentially elevating like all the beta males that would have been in movies, the friendzone ones, all of a sudden, those are the leading characters.
GUTFELD: The friendzone ones.
COMPAGNO: Exactly. I don't want to see the androgynous new bile (ph) super nice, like good at math, dork be the leading character, not at all. Right. You want he-man.
BAKER: Do you want Lee Marvin?
GUTFELD: Yes.
BAKER: You want James Coburn.
GUTFELD: Yes. Charles Nelson-Reilly.
COMPAGNO: A little younger. Little younger, but yes, exactly. So I think the reality to your point is that now Hollywood is sort of representing a total nightmare instead of an amazing fantasy. And then the amazing fantasy that when you want your role models, yes, it's people that have served their country in a masculine way, rather than -- and also, I will say this that I think this emphasizes the importance of the home to, because when these kids go to these movies and they see like, hey, dad, this person with boobs and, you know, bulge like, is that the right man? That's why the fathers need to say, hear, son, this is your role model, and it starts here.
GUTFELD: Boobs and a bulge.
COMPAGNO: I was trying to be G- rated.
GUTFELD: There is a bar like that downtown, Glenn. You're not going to go. I haven't talked to you -- I only have talked to you since the election, and isn't it, don't you find it such a weird contrast that I don't think I've ever lived in a political time like this, where there's like, something happening every single day, and I feel like, I feel like I'm in the third act of a great movie.
JACOBS: Yes, absolutely. You know, it's almost like a trilogy where the bad guy -- that the good guy makes his appearance, then the bad guy comes back, and then the good guy comes through at the end.
GUTFELD: Exactly first -- yes, if the first act 2016 second act 2020.
JACOBS: That's right. For the record, I would like to say, though that men, real men do wear spandex. OK.
ARNOLT: Yes, they do.
JACOBS: Unfortunately, sometimes --
BAKER: Honest to God, I'm wearing some now.
JACOBS: Sometimes Joy Behar does as well. I'm sorry for that terrible visual for everybody, but you guys are exactly right. Hollywood wants to distract from Trump because they want weak men and women. They want people who are dependent. They want people who are compliant. They're wolves that want us to all be sheep, and their worst nightmare is an alpha sheep dog like Donald Trump and the people in his administration, because they remind Americans of what this country really is and who we really are.
GUTFELD: Yes, you know.
(AUDIENCE APPLAUDING)
GUTFELD: I love it when they applaud my next question. So nice. Charly, it's pretty funny. Are you aware that there is a movie out about Trump? It's called The Apprentice. It's up for like Oscars. So it's totally anti- Trump. The director just got MeToo-ed.
ARNOLT: He did.
GUTFELD: Yes. I mean, it's like, it's like the world is being scripted, so that the guy who writes and directs a damning movie about Trump --
ARNOLT: The irony right?
GUTFELD: -- getting MeToo-ed and then Trump becomes President, it's perfect.
ARNOLT: Well, here's the thing. We all know that the Left is made up of a bunch of frauds, right? We know Hollywood is a bunch of frauds, so it doesn't actually surprise me at all that, of course, the director of this movie, the way he's trying to portray Trump, but it actually is being reflected upon himself. I mean, Hollywood is being run by the woke Left, specifically woke feminists who despise men and everything that they traditionally stand for, they call it toxic masculinity, but really it's just like a sort of dominant, strong protectors that we all like, really appreciate in men and it's just it's disgusting to see, because when we see the pivot and what Hollywood is trying to do now, like, look who just got signed to one of the biggest talent agencies, Joe Biden now has a talent agent.
Kamala Harris now has a talent agent. Good question. That's a great question.
GUTFELD: It's not breathing.
BAKER: No.
ARNOLT: I have no idea. And then also, you know, it's not a man, but it's a black, bisexual woman, Cynthia Erivo. She was the one who started Wicked. She's now being cast as Jesus Christ in the new production of Jesus Christ. Super -- yes.
GUTFELD: Hold on. I'm going to wait to see the trailer.
JACOBS: Yes.
ARNOLT: So all I'm saying is, listen, they are the last people we should be looking to for normalcy like, we want to bring back the Terminator. We want to bring back Rocky. We want to do away with the noodle boys, which everyone like, what's noodle boys? Timothee Chalamet, that little skinny twerp you put on our screen that who knew they're now saying is, like the new like, he's the masculine like identity. I think Emily, you probably can agree with me here. We want our men to have, just like a slightly higher body fat percentage like you do --
BAKER: Not a noodle. Something other than a noodle. So my biggest concern is they're searching for the new James Bond.
GUTFELD: Yes.
BAKER: And what the (inaudible) are they going to do?
GUTFELD: Yes.
ARNOLT: Right.
GUTFELD: You've aged out. Mike, you've aged out.
(CROSSTALK)
BAKER: I could be James Bond's. dad.
GUTFELD: Yes, you know, I think you know Rachel Maddow. She has the hair. Beautiful hair. Up next, Tulsi says good day to the pervs at the NSA.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(ANNOUNCER: A STORY IN FIVE WORDS)
GUTFELD: Tulsi to fire NSA perverts. Emily, the new Director of the National Intelligence Tulsi Gabbard, you know her, is firing the National Security Agency employees at the center of the kinky sex chat scandal. I think we told our viewers, if you watched last night that the workers used an internal agency messaging board to talk about their sex changes and graphic perversions, even too perverted, yes, even too perverted for me to go in depth, but you can meet me after the show. What a great first thing for Tulsi to handle, just a no-brainer.
COMPAGNO: Right. And I love her email in response to Elon Musk, which was like, let me tell you what I found my five bullet points. Look, here's what this totally demonstrates to me, that simply the title of, for example, as we learn in these group chats of trans alliance or trans community prosperity or pro-rights, just the title enabled these individuals not just to like prevent accountability, but complete immunity from even seeing what they were doing. And think about how much of our tax dollars have been wasted, the time wasted by people that simply said, oh, we're meeting now to do this, everyone. And there's nothing to show for it, because no one ever asked to see receipts. Let me see what you've been working on. Let me see what this group is doing, right?
And here's the other thing, is that this would have gone on for years and years, and we don't know how many years it was going on without this mandate from the American people via DOGE, this wouldn't have been uncovered, because again, the second you say, hey, trans alliance, can I see what you guys have been working on? You were the one that would have gotten fired.
GUTFELD: Transphobic.
COMPAGNO: MeToo-ed and exactly.
GUTFELD: That's the low bearing phrase that they throw at you. You know, Glenn, the thing that I -- when I look at this, I look at the bigger picture of this, and it feels like that this is a symptom of like people putting like they're defining themselves by their desires. And so that means that like, if this is who I am, my desires, I can do it at work. I can do it anywhere I want. If this happened in your office?
JACOBS: It wouldn't have happened in my office. I'm just really happy to know that The Gimp from Pulp Fiction is the one that has been snooping around my smartphone for the past decade.
GUTFELD: He can't blackmail you.
JACOBS: No, that's true. But it's -- these are the same people that define domestic terrorists as parents who showed up at school board meetings.
GUTFELD: Yes.
JACOBS: Pro-life activist. So it's wonderful to see Tulsi clean the house at the NSA. Kash cleaning house at the FBI. And I don't think that when we're talking about Elon's five bullet points, being a pervert counted as one of the things you've done last week.
GUTFELD: Yes. They would have five things of who they've done.
ARNOLT: Or getting hair in certain parts of your body, lasered off.
GUTFELD: Yes.
ARNOLT: That was something they talked about.
GUTFELD: Stick to the topic, Charly. My goodness.
ARNOLT: We'll talk about it after the show, right?
GUTFELD: Yes. You know, this was all under the ruse of DEI, you know, diversity, equity, inclusion, you could not complain about this.
ARNOLT: Well, that was their shield, and that's why they were able to get away with using our taxpayer dollars to do this on the job instead of doing their actual job, which is very, very important, mind you. I mean taking care of the security of our country, making sure that we're not infiltrated by, you know, foreign powers. But of course, talking about the kings and fetishes was more important to them, and I can just only imagine now that this news is coming out like the reactions coming from Putin, Xi Jinping knowing that we're giving national security clearance to people who identify as it.
GUTFELD: Yes.
ARNOLT: I mean, that's what they talked about. They identify as it, and it's really just disgusting to think about all of this. But I think we're entering a new time. We're done with this and now move on. It's time to get back to work. So thank goodness for people like Tulsi.
GUTFELD: Well, I'm not moving on. I love this spot. I'm going to squeeze the juice out of this lemon.
ARNOLT: These are probably people that would have been promoted in the last administration further bravery.
GUTFELD: Yes. Rachel Levine, you know, Assistant Secretary of Health or whatever that was done on purpose, you had to have a position of authority so that everybody else would know to keep quiet. Mike, you were in -- you were a CIA operative. You were intelligence. How does somebody get a security clearance for this?
BAKER: Yes.
GUTFELD: Do they just wave that?
BAKER: Well, that and so, yes, what you're alluding to is really the most important part of this, right? I mean, the woke nature of it, and the uselessness of DEI and all of this crap. That's all important. But top-line here is, this is a U.S. national security issue, right? Because, from a counter-intelligence perspective, right? If I'm a Chinese Intel officer, a Russian Intel officer, these are exactly the people I'm looking to target.
GUTFELD: Don't do corrections --
BAKER: As recruits. You remembered. The finest moments in my life. So because what are you doing as someone who's targeting these people? You're looking for people who are disgruntled, who are dissatisfied, who are angst ridden, who are whatever it is. And so this is a real problem, and I guarantee you, as we're talking the Chinese most likely, because they are the most adept and most motivated and resource, but the Russians probably as well. And some others know who most of these individuals are, because now they've been working this issue, right? Those are exactly the people you target to gather information and Intel. And those people had, regardless of the fact that they may have been an admin, they still had potential access to very, very classified information.
GUTFELD: Of course.
BAKER: So this is a real (inaudible), right, in a sense, and it shows you that, you know, the NSA, during the past few years, defined DEI as mission critical. That shows you how far off the rails we went. So I couldn't be happier that we're cutting these people loose.
GUTFELD: Yes, where are they going to end up? I mean, there's some openings at MSNBC. Up next, reporters pull out their hair because the White House becomes fair.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
(SINGING)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's coming your way, hey, hey. It's Video of the Day.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(APPLAUSE)
GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS HOST: The pompous, dishonest media elite will no longer decide who gets a seat. Our video of the day comes to us from White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt who is shaking up who gets to ask questions of the prez. Roll it, Helga.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: For decades, a group of D.C.-based journalists, the White House Correspondents' Association, has long dictated which journalists get to ask questions of the president of the United States. Not anymore.
We are going to give the power back to the people. Moving forward, the White House press pool will be determined by the White House press team. Legacy outlets who have participated in the press pool for decades will still be allowed to join. Fear not. But we will also be offering the privilege to well-deserving outlets who have never been allowed to share in this awesome responsibility.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: It sounds OK. Open up the questioning to more reporters, more voices. Make it fair for everyone. What's wrong with that? Everything, if you're the legacy media.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ABBY PHILLIP, CNN ANCHOR: We know why Trump wants only people he likes or who will ask softball questions to be around him. But the signal that this sends, I think, is very troubling.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Really concerning there, and with a big impact that it could have on the way the White House is covered.
LAURENCE TRIBE, CONSTITUTIONAL LAW PROFESSOR, HARVARD LAW SCHOOL: There is no precedent remotely like this in which basically they're turning the press corps from a watchdog to a mouthpiece.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You're trampling on the rights of the press. You're trampling on free speech. You're trampling on people getting the truth.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Ultimately when press access suffers, when press freedom suffers, the public suffers, and ultimately everyone suffers.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: If only he can pull his hair out over this.
(LAUGHTER)
GUTFELD: Glenn, if the media is upset, it's got to be good then.
GLENN JACOBS, MAYOR OF KNOX COUNTY, TENNESSEE: It is good. Greg, frankly, I haven't seen this many liberals fighting over access to a pool since Jeffrey Epstein's last pool party.
But look, this has nothing to do with First Amendment or anything like that. Donald Trump has been incredibly transparent. We saw today at his cabinet meeting. We see it when he's signing executive orders. This is not about a First Amendment violation. This is the fact that someone else is finally getting the chance, and the legacy media's monopoly on information has been broken. And my hat is off to White House for doing it. I think it's great.
(APPLAUSE)
GUTFELD: Yes, Charly, it's not like these people were breaking any stories. We had a demented president for four years. Where were these jokers?
CHARLY ARNOLT, OUTKICK HOST: Exactly. I do hear Gavin Newsom is starting a podcast. Maybe he's down to break some news. I would really love to see him vibe for one of the chairs in that room, because to see Karoline Leavitt shut down Gavin Newsom is definitely on something I would like to see in 2025.
But, yes, the legacy media, they're done for. People don't trust them. They understand now that they've been fed so many lies, not to mention people are consuming news in such a different manner now. But back to the distrust. We're at the point now where I think I can get on X, and I would sooner trust a random anonymous account, let's say, Fishbowl 69, than I would "The New York Times" at this point.
(LAUGHTER)
GUTFELD: Fishbowl 69, ay?
ARNOLT: I just made up on the spot.
GUTFELD: Charly, what is on your mind?
(LAUGHTER)
GUTFELD: Fishbowl 69, all right. Mike --
ARNOLT: Fishbowl 69, we're you at?
(LAUGHTER)
GUTFELD: Mike, aren't you not Fishbowl 69?
MIKE BAKER, FORMER CIA OPERATIVE: I'm sorry, Greg, I can't concentrate.
(LAUGHTER)
BAKER: So don't quote me on this, but I think the White House press association head, the head of that little cabal, has just accepted a job with MSNBC.
GUTFELD: You're right.
BAKER: I think that's correct. And the only other point I've got for that, because I've been told to tighten up my answers, is that I've actually -- you may have heard I host a daily podcast called "The President's Daily Brief."
GUTFELD: That's right.
BAKER: I've applied for a White House press pass.
GUTFELD: Good for you.
(APPLAUSE)
GUTFELD: Wait until they do that security check.
(LAUGHTER)
JACOBS: They'll be calling you.
GUTFELD: They'll find out about that weekend we spent in Monaco.
Emily, last word to you. The A.P., I guess, filed a restraining order against Karoline. What does that even mean?
EMILY COMPAGNO, CO-HOST, "OUTNUMBERED": To try to enjoin this from happening. Basically, to have the courts force her to let them back in the real -- here's what I find so ridiculous. So we have Laurence Tribe, constitutional law professor, up there saying there is no precedence for this. It's called the government of the will of the people and the fourth estate to be the messenger for that. So the fact that they are saying --
(APPLAUSE)
COMPAGNO: -- that there's no precedence for the people, the people to be able to directly access the president of United States, all this does is show people like how Brian Stelter says that this subversives the will of the people, that's a direct connection, because the president is a servant of the people. He is not a king.
So this whole idea, the A.P. suing Karoline Levitt and all of their shock and horror on this is based on the premise that they are an elite cabal, that the president is a king, and that there's zero interaction that a commoner could ever have with our commander in chief, and that is the biggest lie and threat of all. And the fact that we wouldn't have discovered, by the way, that the White House Association are the ones that determine who asked the question, all of this, we all didn't know what we didn't know. And thanks to the transparency commitment of our president, this is why we are now learning exactly who held those --
GUTFELD: It is funny, because we remember that they actually did get prewritten questions for Biden, right.
COMPAGNO: Yes.
GUTFELD: That's how you swear. You say F.M.
(LAUGHTER)
GUTFELD: Coming up, behold how green cards become gold.
(APPLAUSE)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Five more words.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(APPLAUSE)
GUTFELD: Gold cards for rich foreigners. All right, Charly, President Trump announced a new plan to sell $5 million gold cards to wealthy or talented foreigners, granting them green card residency and a path to U.S. citizenship. Is this fair to the people that can't afford that?
ARNOLT: I think we need to be looking out for ourselves for once. I feel like that's Trump's ultimate goal is to put America in the best place possible. So yes, this is fair. This is necessary. We need to cut down on our debt, and I think this serves a couple of purposes, not only just cutting back on the debt by also paying for recruitment.
And it's not like the government is not going to do their due diligence, because a lot of people have their critique right now, and they're saying this isn't bringing the best and brightest into our country. It's bringing those who can be incentivized who have the most money. But the government is not just going to let a bunch of Russian oligarchs into this country. They're going to make sure that it is done in a fair and constitutional manner.
But on the other hand, to the point that we need to cut down on debt, you need to also worry about the tax burden, because we have seen what happens when too many immigrants come in and can't pay their way. The burden falls on the people who are working hard in this country. So I think this is yet again another tremendous business savvy decision by Donald Trump.
GUTFELD: You know, Mike.
(APPLAUSE)
ARNOLT: Thank you, guys.
GUTFELD: For $5 million you get a gold card, but for $10 million we'll give you the gold card and prevent your wife from coming with you.
(LAUGHTER)
BAKER: That's genius right there. I was you would have ended up in the administration.
GUTFELD: I know, I know, I know. By the way, this is going to generate $5 trillion. And Charly is right. It may sound unfair, but that doesn't matter to us. Life isn't fair when you're facing a catastrophic economic crisis.
BAKER: I'm always puzzled when people think fairness is an element of life. It doesn't really work that way. I'm also not sure why you think it's a bad thing to let Russian oligarchs in the country.
ARNOLT: Listen --
BAKER: I'm confused over that. No, I'm kidding. I'm kidding. Don't let them in.
Anyway, there's precedent here, right. Talk to Canada. Many of the fine people who have moved to British Columbia, for instance, pay top dollar for their citizenship.
GUTFELD: They don't take dollars, do they?
BAKER: No, Canadian dollars, so it's not really money. Oh, God, the Canadians hate us, don't they?
(LAUGHTER)
BAKER: So this is not a new idea, but it's a fine idea. It's one element of this. And people lose their when he throws stuff out there. And oftentimes, you think, is that a crazy idea, but you think about it, it works.
GUTFELD: Emily, when I first heard it, I thought it was ridiculous, and then I thought to myself, no, it fits perfectly in the America first thing. And you don't have to think about the fairness because you're talking about American citizens. That's when fairness plays, not when it comes to immigrants.
COMPAGNO: And this is in addition, you could say, to the current EB-5 program, which charges $1 million currently for companies. So the projections of the revenue that we would make are based on, by the way, a lower number than the current waiting list. So it's not like they're plucking the numbers ought of being optimistic. They are literally lowering what's already waiting at the waiting room.
What I love about this is the concept of an immediate return on our investment, instead of under the old program that isn't going anywhere. But $1 million per card, then you have to hire 10 people. You invests as well, the $1 million. This means that we will immediately get the $5 million stimulus right away. So this isn't a long-term investment in the success of a company that looks to stoke the economy over a matter of time. This is immediate.
And you think about how many companies had their jobs exported to Ireland. I had a ton of friends that were going back and forth to Ireland, especially in the cybersecurity industry, for example. So now incentivizing businesses here, though, you get stimulus long-term, but also, currently, and to your point, that out-of-the-box thinking, finally we have someone at the helm that actually cares about efficiency.
BAKER: She said I had a point. I've never had a point before.
GUTFELD: Glenn, so it's like, if you get a million of these at $5 million, I've done the math myself, it's $5 trillion. And if you do that, you're going to lower the interest rates. You're going to keep us from going off a cliff. It seems like we should do this.
JACOBS: Yes, it's a great idea. And you've got Tom Homan kicking people out and we'll have Jennifer Garner bringing people in by saying what's in your wallet?
(LAUGHTER)
JACOBS: But we have an immigration system that should -- our immigration should be based on merit, people that come here that build businesses that invest here. Instead, we have an immigration system that is based on people coming here and feeding off of the American taxpayer. And that's wrong, absolutely.
But instead of paying down the debt, I have a better idea with what to do with all the money. We can buy a treadmill for J.B. Pritzker like my friend Congressman Tim Burchett said last week on Twitter.
GUTFELD: Yes, you need more than a treadmill.
All right, up next, stuff you already know in a book about Joe.
(APPLAUSE)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Is this even real?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(APPLAUSE)
GUTFELD: Tonight on "Is this even real?" and I find this incredibly hard to believe, but CNN's Jake Tapper is the coauthor of new book detailing the cover-up, the cover-up of Joe Biden's cognitive decline by the Democratic Party. Remember, Jake was the guy who said this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
LARA TRUMP, REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE CO-CHAIR: I think what we see on stage with Joe Biden, Jake, is very clearly a cognitive decline. That's what I'm referring to. It makes me uncomfortable --
JAKE TAPPER, CNN ANCHOR: You have no --
LARA TRUMP: -- watch somebody on stage search for questions.
TAPPER: -- It's so amazing, it's so amazing to me --
LARA TRUMP: And trying to figure out an answer.
TAPPER: A cognitive decline.
LARA TRUMP: You're trying to tell me that what I was suggesting was stuttering --
TAPPER: I think that you were mocking his stutter. Yes, I think you were mocking his stutter, and I think you have absolutely no standing to diagnose somebody's cognitive decline. I would think that somebody in the Trump family would be more sensitive to people who do not have medical licenses diagnosing politicians from afar.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: Emily, take it away.
COMPAGNO: That was most phenomenal receipt I've ever seen in my entire life to destroy the credibility of this individual essentially taking ownership of what we already knew. May this not go anywhere near "The New York Times" bestseller list, and may everyone point out exactly what it is, which is obvious.
I also wonder at whose direction he says him and Alex decided the next day to write this book, but at whose direction put that, and also put on the cover his choice to run again. We already had the assassination attempt, proverbially, against Biden. Why is this even necessary other than to cover their own tracks for doing stuff like that the loss four years, which is covering up and apologizing for it?
GUTFELD: Glenn, it is, to Emily's point, that he's kind of taking ownership of an idea, but he's taking it after Joe crashed and burned, right, after he destroyed the party in public. Now it's like oh, yes, we knew all along. I like Jake, but come on, dude.
JACOBS: I kind of feel like when I found out that Kane and the Undertaker weren't really brothers.
(LAUGHTER)
JACOBS: The mainstream media did everybody a huge disservice, not only the country but also Joe Biden himself. They hurt everyone. And ultimately when you ask who's running the country, now we found out it was a bunch of faceless bureaucrats. And thank goodness for Elon Musk and Donald Trump who are taking care of that.
(APPLAUSE)
GUTFELD: I'm not even sure it's faceless bureaucrats. I still don't know who ran the country. I'm still pretty sure it was Hunter.
COMPAGNO: Obama.
GUTFELD: No, I think it was Hunter. Hunter was in the White House the last couple of months.
So Mike, the one thing about that clip, we never knew about Joe Biden's stutter. No one ever talked about it until finally he would have public displays of cognitive failure, the media somehow acted like we were supposed to know about something we never knew.
BAKER: Shame on you for questioning him. Do you know he stuttered when he was younger?
GUTFELD: Yes.
BAKER: To your point about hopefully it doesn't hit "The New York Times" bestseller list, I don't know who is going to buy this book. The right is not going to buy it because they don't like Jake Tapper. The left is not going to buy it because they are probably pissed off that he wrote this book. But the idea that he's got the balls, right, to pretend that we are going to uncover this, I do admire it. Because it's just so out there.
Anyway, godspeed. Maybe he will sell a couple books and then we'll all find them at Costco.
COMPAGNO: The forward should have been written by Lara Trump.
GUTFELD: Yes, that would be funny. No, actually, that would have been ballsy if he does -- I haven't seen the book, but he should have a chapter in the book where he apologizes to Lara Trump.
ARNOLT: The whole book will be apologies if he actually does it correctly. It's going to have to be a very long book. A lot of apologies need to be issued. These people are absolutely shameless. But they know judgment day is coming, right. They have seen so many of their colleagues getting the ax. They see the direction that they could be headed in, and they're trying their best to stay relevant, right.
So now they are just turning on a dime. The things we said before, no, we never said them. Now we are going to reveal ourselves. And I can already imagine the sequel to this book. It's going to believing in Trump and MAGA since day one, by Jake Tapper.
(LAUGHTER)
BAKER: I don't think they have enough self-awareness, and I think they're going to end up doubling down. I think that's where this is all going to go. I don't think they're going to revert or move to a different position or try to get towards the center. Maybe people like Gavin Newsom, but I don't think in general, I don't think they will.
GUTFELD: Well, that was an interesting point that I kind of tuned out of.
BAKER: As did most of America.
(LAUGHTER)
GUTFELD: We'll be right back.
BAKER: I'm good with it.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GUTFELD: All right, before we go, we've got some great news and some not so great news, but it's going to end up being good news, if that makes sense. Last week Kat gave birth to a beautiful baby boy.
(APPLAUSE)
GUTFELD: Not so great news is that 15 hours before she went into labor, she was diagnosed with breast cancer. But the good news is that if she hadn't been pregnant, she would have never have known, and she's catching the cancer very early at a stage zero. So while she's away on maternity leave, she's going to go through and get treatment and get the cancer out, and she's going to be back on this show in a couple months, I would hope.
So we all wish her well. We love her. We miss Kat. And I'm sure she's doing great. She's a tough little bastard. And I don't even know if I'm using that word correctly, but it's true.
Thanks, Mike, Emily, Glenn Jacobs, Charly Arnolt, our studio audience. FOX NEWS AT NIGHT is next. I'm Greg Gutfeld. I love you, America.
(APPLAUSE)

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
