




East Carolinian: East Carolina University
February 20, 2025 Thursday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: THEEASTCAROLINIAN; Pg. 1
Length: 307 words
Body


An email was sent out by ECU on February 6 announcing that Domestic Diversity and Global Diversity classes are no longer required for students to graduate.
"Effective immediately, the UNC System Office has suspended all general education requirements and major-specific requirements mandating completion of course credits related to diversity, equity, and inclusion or any other topic identified in Section VII of the Equality Policy," ECU wrote.
In another email by ECU on February 11, ECU wrote, "If you are currently enrolled in an affected course, you may stay in the course if you would like to complete it." However, if a student wants to drop the course, it would not affect their credit hours and graduation.
This new policy came after President Donald Trump issued an executive order to eliminate many DEI policies in organizations. The new policy has had a mixed response from students. Most notably, senior anthropology major Matthew Patteson described the policy as "book burning in real time " in a post on Instagram.
Patteson worries that the policy will make students no longer sign up for the classes since they're no longer required to do so. Thus, many professors will lose their jobs due to nobody signing up for their classes.
"Those courses are just very important for getting a better scope of how people outside of your own country and culture operate and see things," Peterson said, speaking to the importance of the courses.
However, senior software engineering major Damien Teran does not believe those classes are important for his major.
"Global diversity courses and domestic diversity courses are good for general education classes, but they don't really help my major," Teran said.
Teran said that while he took a Native American history class and found it interesting, it did not help with his major or planned career.

Load-Date: February 20, 2025


End of Document
