




Daily Collegian: Pennsylvania State University
February 27, 2025 Thursday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 2518 words
Body


The eighth annual Student Press Freedom Day is Thursday, Feb. 27. Student Press Freedom Day is dedicated to recognizing the need for independence without censorship or threat and support in student journalism.
According to its website, Student Press Freedom Day celebrates student journalists' contributions and raises awareness for the challenges faced across the nation. Student Press Freedom Day calls for action to restore and protect First Amendment freedoms for student journalists.
This Student Press Freedom Day, The Daily Collegian's Board of Editors shared what student press freedom means to them and why it's worth defending.
Amy Schafer, Editor-in-Chief
Freedom of the press is essential to upholding democracy and keeping those in power accountable. Student journalism is crucial to training the next generation of reporters and holding those in our local community and at our university accountable. We keep the student body informed and educated on the issues on our campus that matter.
At the Collegian, we pursue stories passionately and without fear. Freedom of the press has been under attack both in our country and at our university this year. The White House declared its officials can control which journalists cover President Trump on Tuesday. In September, Penn State removed 35 of the Collegian's newsstands - an act of press censorship that demonstrates how important it is for those in our community and across the country to stand up for student free press.
Sam Woloson, Managing Editor
Press freedom is important for any student and any journalist. Having a voice and an avenue to publish that voice is not only a privilege, but a tremendous tool we can use to serve our audience. I believe in the public good that journalism can achieve; it influences me in that I want to write and edit to serve. Whether it's informational updates, profiles, sports recaps, blogs or investigative work, these all serve a function in the community, and the community and the reporters are both better for it.
The best way to defend student press freedom is to raise awareness about it. We saw firsthand during the Collegian newsstand situation how much people care and rally around student journalists. We had support from not only alumni but people completely unaffiliated with Penn State or the Collegian. The best thing we can do as journalists is continue to be advocates for our work as well as other outlets' work.
Alex Osman, Digital Managing Editor
Press freedom is valuable to me because it's comforting to know that I work for an outlet that has utilized that freedom to develop a reputation of independence. That allows our reporters to work with an established trust in the community.
It's worth supporting for many reasons. For one, it gives student reporters real experience working in an independent newsroom outside of university control, which is simply not possible when doing stories for class or university-affiliated projects. It also gives students a voice that can be critical of universities they attend.
Mercedes Hamilton, News Editor
To me, press freedom means the ability to tell stories honestly and accurately without fear of censorship or retaliation. At the Collegian, it allows us to ensure the campus community has access to the truth about how administrative matters and world issues impact them. Without press freedom, our efforts would be compromised. Press freedom is the foundation of responsible journalism and the only way we can serve our readers.
Student press freedom is essential because it ensures that the campus community stays informed about issues that directly impact them, like student activism or institutional missteps. As leaders of the Collegian, we can defend student press freedom by actively pushing against efforts to censor or intimidate us. It's important that we empower our reporters to do the same.
Daniela White, News Editor
To me, press freedom means that I can write about whatever I want, even if it can be controversial, but at least I know my rights will be protected. As a student writing at a news publication, there do come some worries about expulsion or serious accusations, but with having the right to press freedom, I know I'll be protected, allowing me to write about things I feel are important to the community.
Student press freedom is very valuable in the sense that it allows student journalists to dive deep into their potential and dip their toes into real-world reporting. Without it, I for one would be hesitant in my writing and reporting in fear of repercussions. Student press freedom is work-supporting because our generation is the future voice of the nation, so developing our craft to support the future is undeniably important.
Ritamarie Montagna, Lifestyle Editor
Having press freedom as a student news outlet allows us to seek and report the truth to further educate the Penn State community through unbiased and uncensored journalism. Student press freedom is invaluable. I can't imagine a world without it; we'd live in an extremely uneducated age.
As a leader of a student journalism outlet, my colleagues and I stress the importance of student press freedom through our editorials, unbiased coverage of all university events and our work as student journalists who strive to educate other Penn State students and members of the State College community.
Kaitlyn Murphy, Lifestyle Editor
Student press is worth supporting because it not only trains student journalists for professions in the industry after college, but it also builds trust between us and the Penn State student body because they know they can get accurate, fast news from us. That relationship is very important, especially with a paper as historic as the Collegian.
Being a student journalist has meant everything to me during my time at Penn State. The Collegian has not only given me experiences I never thought I'd have, like interviewing Disney Channel actors and the president of the university, but also the best friends I've made in college. We might support each other professionally by collaborating on stories or other projects, but more importantly, we're friends that love spending time together in and out of the newsroom. We have to fight as student journalists to protect our rights because it's our job to tell the stories of those who don't feel like they can speak up for themselves.
Zach Karpf, Sports Editor
I haven't experienced a lot of moments where press freedom comes into question reporting on and editing sports pieces. I think it primarily comes up in profile features. As reporters, we reserve the right to report factual pieces about someone whether it's positive or negative. It's incredibly important for the reporters to have the full opportunity to report on any topic necessary, as long as it's factual and in good faith.
Student press freedom is important because it gives students the freedom to report. I think it's as simple as that, student or not. Doing exactly what we're doing is its best defense - simply just reporting. Continuing to advocate for student journalism and anti-censorship while continuing our practices of factual and open journalism is the best possible way to advocate for student journalism rights.
Greg Finberg, Sports Editor
Press freedom means the ability to write and report on whatever journalists wish, without any fear of repression from higher authorities. The less freedom I have limits the questions I can ask and the range of my reporting. The value of student press freedom is the ability for student journalists to check the higher-ups at their university so they can't silence or deceive their constituents.
Being a student journalist has taught me the importance of organization, as well as checking to ensure I have all my facts straight in not just my reporting, but in my schoolwork as well. We can defend student press freedom by continuing to report on what matters in our community without censoring our content to serve anyone else but the public.
Joel Haas, Football Editor
To me, press freedom means the ability to report on all events free of censorship from any outside party. Freedom for the student press allows young journalists to hone their craft without fear of censorship. Student journalists deserve the same rights as professional reporters, considering they are often held to the same standards.
Being a student journalist has given me a purpose at Penn State and taught me more than all of my classes ever could. We can defend the freedom of the student press through the continuous dedication to reporting truth and showing the importance of student journalism and its impact on the community.
Cearra O'Hern, Opinions Editor
Student press freedom protects the voices and contributions of student journalists nationwide. It allows students to report without fear of censorship or repercussions. Student press freedom allows students to serve their communities and share fair, accurate stories within. Support for student press freedom is crucial, especially in our modern climate.
Students learn journalistic practice, skill and integrity through student-run outlets. I've seen such learnings in action with the Collegian. We must defend student press freedom and advocate for its protection. Its best defense is engagement. We must continue to produce student press and support other outlets of student press, using our voice to lift other students'.
Katelyn Garcia, Investigations Editor
Student journalists are some of the most hardworking and passionate individuals I've met thus far, and they're extremely important contributors to the world. We provide a unique perspective and dedication.
My time reporting for a student outlet is by far one of the most rewarding and informational experiences of my college career. The Collegian environment allows me to have a real-life opportunity to contribute to the journalism world, something I don't feel I always get in my classes. It's a fast-paced and, at times, a competitive environment that gives me a true sense of what I'm getting into.
Elbia Vidal, Newsletter Editor
As a student journalist, press freedom means having the ability to cover diverse perspectives and provide a platform for all voices without political limitations restricting our coverage. It ensures that no group is silenced due to external pressures or biases, allowing for a more comprehensive and inclusive narrative. This directly influences our reporting because we strive to represent the voices of all Penn State students, even when it's challenging to do so.
Student press freedom is crucial because it allows young journalists to develop their voices and engage with critical issues that shape society. Supporting student press freedom means investing in the future of journalism, as today's student reporters will become the professional journalists of tomorrow.
Defending student press freedom requires actively sharing our experiences with censorship, whether through articles, social media or other platforms, to raise awareness. Maintaining communication with university faculty and administration is also essential, as it allows student journalists to advocate for their rights and demand a space for independent reporting. By uniting as a community and standing firm against restrictions, we can ensure that student journalism remains a space for truth and diverse perspectives.
Kate Hildebrand, Photo Editor
Being a student journalist is the very center of my educational experience at Penn State. My experience working at the Collegian has taught me how to operate as a professional and given me the same levels of experience and access that professional journalists get.
Student press freedom is worth supporting because we, as student journalists, are the future of reporting. As leaders, we can advocate for our staff and continue to hold our staff to high standards of reporting. Press freedom is an integral part of our rights as Americans, and it isn't something I take for granted.
Chris Eutsler, Photo Editor
Freedom of the press to me as a student journalist means that we can make content without any sort of censorship. We're able to create freely and not have our unbiased coverage of events or topics limited. The value of student press freedom is the same as it is at all levels of the press. It impacts us because it is the foundation that allows us to do our job.
We can defend student press freedom by letting people know why it's valuable and what it looks like when we lose our press freedom as student journalists. Continuing to further understand our rights as journalists and what can and cannot be done to us is unbelievably important.
Joe Tuman, Social Media Editor
Without a free press, there isn't any room for me to be a true journalist. A free press allows journalists to report the truth and keep the public informed to the best of their abilities. Without a free press, there is a lot less integrity in reporting.
Student press is worth supporting because it plays a valuable role in keeping students and others on campus informed and up to date. We can defend student press freedom by continuing to do great and honest work for those who trust us with their readership and working hard to shed light on stories that affect the Penn State community.
Dan Perez, Multimedia Editor
Press freedom means having access. I try and willingly reach out to as many people as I can since I have that freedom when covering a story. Student press freedom gives student press the hands-on experience that's required outside of college.
It has shaped me and my educational experience. It has taught me that I need to be confident in the story I'm covering and who I am as a journalist.
Avery Tortora, Multimedia Editor
Having the freedom of the press as a student journalist is extremely important to me because it lets me report on any topic that speaks to me or is important to me without restriction. It's important to cover all aspects of what goes on in our community, and press freedom allows for that. My reporting can be more engaging and in-depth because I'm able to report on anything that I feel passionate about.
Supporting the value of student press freedom is supporting free speech. It's extremely important to give students a platform to have their voices heard because students are such an integral part of the community, and have valuable opinions just like everyone else.
Avery Hill, DEI Chair
Press freedom means allowing a free expression of ideas and observations without pressure of repercussions. Student press freedom is extremely valuable. As students, we don't typically have the leverage a seasoned journalist has, so it means we must be careful and "play the game" sometimes when we need a story done.
We can defend student press freedom by standing up to those who are acting unfairly. One person may not move the needle, but uniting and standing up against organizations who go against our freedom is important. We may be students, but we have a voice, and with confidence and support, we should use it.
Daily Collegian Opinions Editor Cearra O'Hern can be reached at 
MORE EDITORIALS

Load-Date: July 17, 2025


End of Document
