




Daily Collegian: Pennsylvania State University
February 6, 2025 Thursday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 532 words
Body


Penn State must demonstrate its commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion by speaking out in support of its programs following President Trump's recent executive order "Ending Illegal Discrimination and Restoring Merit-Based Opportunity."
Trump's order asks federal agencies to develop plans to discourage DEI programs at institutions of higher education with endowments over $1 billion - like Penn State.
There's a high potential this executive order may impact Penn State because it's a public university that relies on federal funding.
Penn State has affirmed a commitment to DEI in recent years. President Neeli Bendapudi identified fostering DEI as one of her five primary goals in February 2023.
Penn State's Human Resources also launched a DEI website with information on promoting inclusion through policy and inclusive hiring. Virtual training courses to "enhance" understanding of DEI are available through the Penn State Learning Resource Network. The university even offers a certificate program in diversity studies through the College of the Liberal Arts.
However, when its efforts are at risk, the university has remained silent.
Penn State hasn't been proactive in communicating how it plans to respond to federal pressure to eliminate DEI programs, nor has it shown explicit support of DEI programs since Trump's executive order. Its silence leaves students confused and uncertain of its position on something it claims is a fundamental value.
Penn State shouldn't wait to engage in discussions about the position of DEI initiatives across campus. There's tremendous change in our nation, and if federal funding is suddenly pulled or DEI programs are threatened, the student body may feel betrayed or frustrated with the university's hesitancy to take a stance.
Penn State's silence may cause students to reconsider if they feel campus is a safe and inclusive place and question the university's values.
With many universities facing pressure from the federal government to dismantle DEI programs, other Big Ten schools have already begun making changes. Michigan State University canceled an annual Lunar New Year celebration following the executive order and its consequential concerns for DEI, according to its student newspaper, The State News.
Rutgers University canceled a conference tailored to students from historically Black colleges searching for internships. The funding, coming from the Department of Labor, was held. According to the Associated Press, about 100 students and staff from historically Black colleges were scheduled to attend.
There's a sense of uncertainty surrounding DEI programs at universities across the country, and students are concerned similar cancellations might occur at Penn State. If Penn State truly values its DEI programs, it needs to stand behind its commitments.
Penn State students deserve to feel seen and represented. The university needs to speak up on this issue and be transparent about how it plans to respond to national pressure to roll back DEI initiatives. Penn State must lead in affirming its institutional support for DEI efforts.
Daily Collegian Opinions Editor Cearra O'Hern can be reached at  
MORE EDITORIALS

Load-Date: July 15, 2025


End of Document
