




MailOnline
January 21, 2025 Tuesday 2:14 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:4
Length: 682 words
Byline: Brittany Chain For Dailymail.Com
Body


                     Elon Musk has revealed the Department of Government Efficiency's first task since Donald Trump made the new agency official upon his return to the Oval Office. 
'It begins,' the tech billionaire wrote alongside a post from the department's official X account. 
DOGE has set to work removing the Chief Diversity Officers Executive Council website from the U.S. Office of Personnel Management. 
                     President Trump has been highly vocal about his intention to dismantle diversity, equity and inclusion offices across federal government, describing them as 'Marxist.'
'I will end all of the Marxist diversity, equity and inclusion policies across the entire federal government immediately,' Trump said in December. 
Now, Musk is ensuring that Trump's vision is carried out at the highest level, with the removal of the executive council website.
Just yesterday the website described its services as the 'principal interagency forum to implement and sustain a national strategy for DEIA across Federal government.'
But Musk's call to wipe the website from the personnel platform indicates the entire department will be - or has already been - shuttered.
The website now shows a 404 server error with the message: 'Page Not Found.'
'Deleted,' Musk wrote. 
The DOGE X account described the development as 'progress.' 
Musk's DOGE has been tasked with reducing government expenditure and improving productivity within the public service.
He claims it can save $1trillion - but that number has already been worked down from the initial $2trillion he promised recently.
Trump and Musk's supporters immediately began celebrating the fast action, describing January 20 as 'the day DEI died.'
Others are pleading with Musk to declare 'how much money is saved with each action.' 
'This day can't get any better. So much progress in 12 hours. We are so back,' one supporter wrote. 
The announcement comes just hours after a coalition of veterans, public health professionals, teachers, consumer advocates and watchdog groups filed a legal challenge in federal court against DOGE.
The lawsuit was filed just after Trump's swearing-in in Monday afternoon. 
It seeks an injunction against DOGE under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, alleging that Trump is operating the group without complying with federal transparency laws.
The suit demands that the activities of private commissions must be made public.
Musk was appointed head of DOGE alongside one-time presidential hopeful Vivek Ramaswamy, but on Monday it was revealed Ramaswamy will no longer serve in the nongovernmental agency.
Ramaswamy has signaled plans to run for governor of Ohio.
'Vivek Ramaswamy played a critical role in helping us create DOGE,' spokesperson Anna Kelly said in a statement. 
'He intends to run for elected office soon, which requires him to remain outside of DOGE, based on the structure that we announced today. 
'We thank him immensely for his contributions over the last 2 months and expect him to play a vital role in making America great again.'
Last week, the FBI revealed it had shuttered its own internal diversity, equity and inclusion office in anticipation of Trump's return to the top job.
Trump launched a scathing attack of the department on Truth Social on Thursday night, demanding the FBI 'preserve and retain all records, documents and information on the now closing DEI office.'
An FBI spokesperson told DailyMail.com earlier on Thursday that steps to close the office began weeks ago.
The closing of the DEI office just ahead of the swearing in signals that the FBI is anticipating reforms from the incoming administration when MAGA diehard Kash Patel is expected to take over. 
But Trump said the office 'never should have been opened and, if it was, should have closed long ago.'
'Why is it that they're closing one day before the Inauguration of a new Administration? The reason is, CORRUPTION!'
The DEI has been the target of multiple complaints and concerns, particularly among Republicans who fear the prioritization of inclusion and diversity over merit and ability has been detrimental.

Load-Date: January 21, 2025


End of Document
