



CNN ERIN BURNETT OUTFRONT 7:00 PM EST
February 3, 2025 Monday


Copyright 2025 Cable News Network All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; International
Length: 7371 words
Byline: Erin Burnett, Jeff Zeleny, David Axelrod, Manu Raju, Tom Foreman, Pete Muntean
Guests: Katie Drummond, Gerry Connolly, Doug Ford, Tarang Amin
Highlight: Democrats are going to war with Elon Musk as he is trying to dismantle the federal government. President is Trump backing down twice in a day, now putting a hold on his tariffs on Mexico and Canada. So what changed? The CEO of a popular cosmetics company is going to come out, to talk about why he believes in diversity, why he is not caving to Trump like so many other companies have.
Body


[19:00:36]
ERIN BURNETT, CNN HOST: OUTFRONT next:
The breaking news, cease your purge. Democrats going to war with Elon Musk as he is trying to dismantle the federal government. Tonight, exclusive new details on the young men Musk has reportedly recruited to help him.
Plus, Trump backing down twice in a day, now putting a hold on his tariffs on Mexico and Canada. So what changed? Were these always empty threats or not?
And, embracing DEI. The CEO of a popular cosmetics company is going to come out, put his face to it to talk about why he believes in diversity, why he is not caving to Trump like so many other companies have.
Let's go OUTFRONT.
And good evening. I'm Erin Burnett on this Monday.
OUTFRONT tonight, the breaking news Musk dismantling the government. Exclusive breaking details OUTFRONT tonight about the young man Elon Musk is sending in as his lieutenants. The editor at "Wired", who broke the details about who they are and what they're doing, is OUTFRONT in just a moment, because it comes as the world's richest man now has unprecedented power and access to critical government operations, among them -- well, one of the things he's trying to do is shut down the agency in charge of U.S. humanitarian aid.
So Musk has tweeted about this a whole lot. But I think this one summarizes the whole mantra here. USAID is a criminal organization. Time for it to die.
They're all pretty much like that. And he's got Trump's blessing on this one.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: If there's fraud, these people are lunatics. They're tremendous fraud. They turn out to be radical left lunatics.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BURNETT: So he's talking about the people there.
It's also about the programs. I mean, USAID is a big organization. They do spend money on a whole lot of things. Fighting disease and starvation are on the list.
And the most important thing actually just boils down to this. If there are legitimate concerns about USAID and fraud and its spending money, then investigate it. Let the American people see it and take care of it.
But to just shut it down without telling anybody what you're doing on the whim of one man who is not elected and who isn't even employed by the federal government -- well, that is something that, at least in terms of the structure of the United States, is an un-American way to do it.
There is a way to shine a light on USAID. It would be by going before Congress.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. GERRY CONNOLLY (D-VA): And, Elon, if you want to run AID, get nominated by Trump and go to the Senate. And good luck in getting confirmed.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes, yes.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BURNETT: Right. You get confirmed, you go in. Well, then you could dismantle it.
Well, Congressman Gerry Connolly is going to be with us in just a moment, but this is not Musk's only major move right now. According to "The Wall Street Journal" tonight, Musk is also leading Trump's charge to essentially shutter -- shutter the Department of Education. And then there's this: Musk and his team gaining full access to the treasury's massive federal payment system, basically, the checkbook for the whole federal government.
So, you know, the $6 trillion that goes in all sorts of things, you know, to households and businesses -- well, it goes through there. And up until this point, only a small number of career officials have controlled the treasury's payment systems. That is until this weekend, when a top official left after a standoff with Musk's team, where team Musk tried to stop some payments.
Make no mistake, this is a major coup for Musk.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: He's got access only to letting people go that he thinks are no good if we agree with him. And it's only if we agree with them.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BURNETT: All right. Let's begin with Jeff Zeleny, OUTFRONT live at the White House tonight.
And, Jeff, I know that you were able to question the president on a lot of this today. How much power is he willingly giving Musk?
JEFF ZELENY, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: Erin, it's really difficult to compare to anyone else in the government because Elon Musk has the broadest portfolio, certainly for an unelected official and for an unconfirmed official. I mean, we are seeing example after example, hearing story after story from really agencies across Washington.
But I was there in the Oval Office this afternoon asking the president questions, and I was struck by this answer. We asked the president, you know, is there anything that you would not allow? And he said, if there was something that didn't have my okay, I'd let you know about that really fast.
What would that possibly be? I mean, no examples really come to mind of what the president would not allow Elon Musk to do. Also, what about all the government contracts he has? Would there be a conflict of interest? And the president said, oh, sure, if there is a conflict of interest, he would stop that. But again, there is no one policing any of this.
So the bottom line here is Elon Musk is really spreading his wings throughout this federal government, largely with the help of just a handful of employees. Some may not even be employees of the government. He is what's called a special government employee.
Presidents of both parties have brought people on with that experience and expertise to work in the government on a part time basis. This goes far beyond anything that we have ever seen before. That's why there are so many questions about this.
So from USAID, yes, the president says he believes that he can make these decisions. He does not believe that it's the purview of Congress to do it. We will see there are legal challenges, but for Elon Musk, there are a few checks on his power, Erin.
BURNETT: It seems only -- only the check of one man, which of course has not been used.
Jeff, thank you very much.
OUTFRONT now is Katie Drummond. She is the global editorial director of "Wired". And they have these incredible exclusive new details about who Elon Musk is bringing in, sending in to these federal agencies.
So, you know, Katie, these stories are sort of amazing. And then you're, you know, you're thinking, what world are we living in where you have, you know, an unelected, unconfirmed individual with so much power going into a system with trillions of dollars of payments and other government agencies, you've been focusing on six computer engineers. They're all men and they are young. The youngest is 19?
KATIE DRUMMOND, GLOBAL EDITORIAL DIRECTOR, WIRED: And, Erin, just to be clear, this -- this is the world we are living in and wired has been documenting a few sort of small parts of this world, including -- yes, we have identified and our reporting has identified six young men. All of our reporting indicates they are between the ages of 19 and 24. They are either recent high school or recent college graduates.
BURNETT: High school.
DRUMMOND: High school graduates in at least one case, all with ties to either Musk owned companies or Peter Thiel owned companies.
So, one is a former Palantir intern, another intern at SpaceX. One is a Thiel fellow. Another recently completed a summer internship at Neuralink, which of course is also owned by Elon Musk.
BURNETT: All right, so what -- what are they? What are they actually doing? And -- and who's paying -- paying them for the work?
DRUMMOND: Well, it's -- to be, to be candid, a little bit difficult to ascertain exactly what they are doing. What we do know is that they are working across several federal agencies, including DOGE, of course, as well as the Office of Personnel Management, which is essentially the HR function for the government and the General Services Administration, which oversees things like federal buildings, leases and then technology and IT.
So what we do know is that these young men are working at the behest of Musk and his team that he has brought in across these agencies, on, you know, a number of engineering related tasks.
BURNETT: So, okay, Elon Musk wants anyone, you know, talking about this, sharing the names of these DOGE employees charged with a crime. Obviously, these are people who are going in and now going to have access to payment systems that are, you know, affect hundreds of millions of Americans. Possibly if you talk about treasury or and certainly federal employees, he's got the backing of the U.S. Trump attorney in Washington says the FBI and prosecutors are investigating.
DRUMMOND: Yeah.
BURNETT: Has Musk reached out to you or any of his lawyers or anything?
DRUMMOND: We haven't heard from Musk or his legal team. Obviously, what I would say is that our reporting speaks for itself. It is rigorously reported and fact checked and vetted by our spectacular legal team, and we look forward to continuing doing the work, trying to figure out exactly what Elon Musk and his team are doing inside of these federal agencies.
BURNETT: And it's important work. It's brave work.
DRUMMOND: Thank you. BURNETT: When in terms of what they're doing, do you know what they're doing when they go in this? I mean, are they -- I don't know, looking at this data, putting this data somewhere else or do we know what they're doing?
DRUMMOND: Well, let me give you sort of one specific example that we were able to ascertain in, in at least some instances. You know, these men appear to be essentially evaluating the work product of federal employees. So, you know, one of the sort of departments that sits inside one of these federal agencies is tasked with essentially IT and technology.
So we do know that one of these young men in 19 or a recent high school graduate who -- who interned at Neuralink, was part of meetings where federal employees in this department were asked to submit code if they were engineers, as well as a one sheet documenting their productivity. So sort of recent wins, barriers to productivity, barriers to efficiency, which actually calls back to Elon Musk's Twitter takeover, if you recall, he also in that instance, asked Twitter employees to submit one sheets documenting their productivity, as well as, you know, conducted code review.
So we know that at least one of these individuals with a with a Gmail email address, I should add, as of late last week, has been meeting with federal workers to review their -- their code and their productivity. So that's -- that's what they're up to.
BURNETT: It's incredible.
All right, Katie, thank you very much. I appreciate it. Katie Drummond and a team at "Wired" doing such incredible work.
I want to go now to Democratic Congressman Gerry Connolly of Virginia, the top Democrat on the Oversight Committee.
[19:10:03]
It's safe to say you don't have any oversight over this, right? I mean, I would imagine some of this, in a sense, is news to you, Congressman? You got a 19 year old recent high school graduate with access -- demanding productivity and code from federal workers and a group of young men who are associated with Elon Musk or Peter Thiel between 19 and 24, doing much of this just from the reporting that Katie just shared.
CONNOLLY: Yeah, I think it's outrageous. Think about it. The world's premier development humanitarian aid organization, the Agency for International Development of the United States government, is going to be allegedly shut down or merged with State Department based on the findings of six young men from the ages of 19 to 24, hundreds of years of aggregate experience in humanitarian assistance, child and maternal health care, famine relief, refugee assistance, disaster assistance is going to be thrown out the window by a team of six young men just graduating from high school or college.
That is outrageous. It's unacceptable, and it really gives the lie to any kind of idea that thoughtful analysis has gone into this kind of decision making.
BURNETT: So, Congressman, you went to USAID headquarters today along with other Democrats, made yourself heard today.
So when Musk -- Trump has said, you know, there's fraud, there's fraud. He's said that multiple times as we played. Musk calls it a, quote, criminal organization. Is there anything to that?
CONNOLLY: Not that I know of. I can -- I can tell you what I do know about AID. It is the world's largest food aid program, period. It is one of the -- if not the number one -- it's the number two largest health care provider in the world. It is fighting schistosomiasis in almost defeated it. It's fighting polio. It's fighting COVID. It's fighting HIV.
It is feeding people who are on the nutrition brink. It is providing maternal and child health care, saving millions of lives. That's a criminal enterprise?
I can only say. I guess it takes one to know one. A convicted felon convicted of 34 felony counts, ought to be able to recognize a criminal enterprise when he sees one. AID is not one.
BURNETT: So, on the oversight committee, all right. And just if we can for a moment, put aside the six individuals that Katie and "Wired" are reporting on, just -- just to say you're on the oversight committee and you've got individuals that work for Musk who are in there, regardless of their age or gender.
Do you have any idea what they're doing with the data that they're looking at, or whether it's being copied or stored somewhere? Do you know anything about what's happening with it?
CONNOLLY: We don't. And in fact, that has led to some resistance, both in the Treasury Department and at AID. What is Elon Musk doing getting into payment systems, which gets into databases, right?
So he has access now to financial and sensitive data on every American based on the payments process at the Treasury Department that touches every home and every business in America. He also now has access to very sensitive data at AID in terms of the nature of our mission and the kinds of programs we're running, sometimes they're very difficult to rein.
So what is he doing with all that? Why did he get access? How did he get access, and what is he doing with it?
And I'm calling tonight for Chairman Comer of our committee to subpoena Elon Musk and bring him before our committee so we can have answers to those questions.
BURNETT: All right. And when the president says, you know, he was asked whether you needed an act of Congress to shut down USAID, right, whether Congress was being circumvented, right, violation of the Constitution?
His response was, I don't think so. Not when it comes to fraud. When it comes to fraud, you don't have to have an act of congress.
Does he have any point there?
CONNOLLY: Well, he's the one who, of course, resisted fraud charges against him and failed. But that's -- I'll put that aside the point.
Congress created at the urging of President John F. Kennedy in 1961, the foreign assistance program, and we codified it in the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 that's been amended myriad times over the last 64 years.
If you create an agency by statute, as we did, then to -- to transform it or to meld it into another agency or dismantle it, in my humble opinion, requires an act of Congress, too. So, no, I think the president is dead wrong.
And I think he's bluffing when it comes to saying, no, if there's fraud involved. By the way, he hasn't proved a single fraud, then all bets are off. That's not true.
BURNETT: All right. Well, Congressman, I appreciate. CONNOLLY: The law has to be abided by.
BURNETT: All right. Well, I appreciate your time. And thank you very much for taking the time, Congressman Connolly.
CONNOLLY: My pleasure, Erin.
BURNETT: All right. And next, the breaking news, Trump backing down on those tariffs, calling off his threat to hit Canada with tariffs hours after backing down from the tariffs on Mexico. The premier of Ontario, Doug Ford, who threatened to cancel his Starlink contract with Musk because of the tariffs, is OUTFRONT.
Plus, the breaking news: the so-called architect of Project 2025 is getting closer to being confirmed as Trump's budget boss. This is a CNN investigation tonight finds Trump's first weeks in office are -- well, when you look at it and compare it to Project 2025, that Venn diagram is pretty stunning.
And we're learning the pilot of the doomed American Airlines flight did make a last second move trying to avert disaster before that collision with a helicopter in Washington.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
[19:20:30]
BURNETT: Breaking news Trump stands down on his tariffs twice today, just hours before they were going to take effect, President Trump and the Canadian prime minister, Justin Trudeau, both announced that Trump is pausing 25 percent tariffs on Canada for 30 days. In exchange, they, Trump says, for new border security and a so-called fentanyl czar. It comes after Trump also agreed to pause tariffs on Mexico after he spoke to the Mexican president, Claudia Sheinbaum. Well, fears about Trump's tariffs sent the Dow plunging as much as many as 665 points. It did recover significantly, only down 122 for the day a massive swing.
The White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt, telling CNN their characterization is this, quote, Canada is bending the knee just like Mexico.
But here's the reality, okay? And the reason the markets were down so much is because Trump said he was going to do something. He was firm that he was going to do it. And then he did a complete about face because just days ago, he insisted there would be absolutely no concessions in any way, shape or form that Canada or Mexico could offer that would stop these tariffs.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REPORTER: Is there anything China, Canada and Mexico can do tonight to forestall your implementation of tariffs tomorrow?
TRUMP: No, nothing. Not right now. No. We're not looking for a concession, and we'll just see what happens.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BURNETT: OUTFRONT now, the Ontario Premier Doug Ford.
And Premier Ford. Let me just give you a chance to start by responding to the U.S. Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt from the White House. She says, quote, Canada is bending the knee just like Mexico.
Is that what it is, bending the knee?
DOUG FORD, ONTARIO, CANADA PREMIER: Well, Erin, first of all, thanks for having me on.
I think it's good that there's a 30-day reprieve. I think it's important that cooler heads prevail. And I've always said, Erin, you know, I want to work with the U.S. I know all of Canada does, and all the elected officials.
We want a stronger and can fortress. And make sure that were more prosperous and safer and the most vibrant two nations in the world. And that's what we should be focused on. The only people that win here, Erin, is China. Canada loses, the U.S. loses, and we need to work together.
BURNETT: And look, I appreciate that you're not, you know, responding in kind to comments like Canada is bending the knee just like Mexico. But I am curious, premier, when you have two countries that are so close and so tied together as the United States and Canada are, sister countries, right? To be spoken to like that? Does that have longer term consequences on a relationship?
FORD: Well, you know, Erin, that's the presidents comments. I just want to move forward. We're the third largest trading partner, Ontario alone to the United States. And Canada is the number one export destination to the United States.
We want to work together. We never asked for this fight. We don't want to fight. We want to work together and work collaboratively to create more jobs in the U.S. and more jobs in Canada.
BURNETT: So within moments of Trudeau's announcement, you did announce you'd be pausing retaliatory measures in Ontario against the U.S. you had laid out what those would be, and you just pointed out third largest trading partner, Ontario alone. You had in yours a focused, in part on Elon Musk specifically announced that you'd be this is -- your words, quote, will be ripping up the province's contract with Starlink. Ontario won't do business with people hell bent on destroying our economy.
Musk responded, oh well -- you know, to obviously show his disdain for that.
What do you say to Musk is that now all off the table?
FORD: Well, right, right now, I think cooler heads need to prevail. As I was saying earlier, not only that, we're the largest producer of liquor in the entire world. I should say buyer of liquor in the entire world. And that would affect 3,600 products, 35 states, and as well as our procurement.
But we need to work together. We need to work together to build two stronger nations. That's what we really need to do.
BURNETT: And most people would agree with that. However, you're dealing with an unprecedented and hard to explain situation, one that pretty much nobody would have imagined until we are where we are.
And, Premier, President Trump, as part of this, right, has announced again and again and again one thing.
[19:25:05]
And he said it so many times at this point, I think it is silly to treat it as a complete joke. Here it is.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: Canada is very, you know, we're not treated well by Canada. Canada is very tough. They're very, very tough to do business with. And we can't let them take advantage of the U.S.
What I'd like to see Canada become our 51st state. If people wanted to play the game right, it would be 100 percent certain that they'd become a state.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BURNETT: A hundred percent certain that they would become a 51st state.
Look, he says it again and again at this point, how do you respond to that?
FORD: Well, just like the banner behind me, Canada's not for sale. There's no reason for it to be sold for sale. And we will never agree to that. What we need to do is build two stronger nations.
And again, the only people that get rewarded when two of the closest allies and friends in the entire world, it's China. They win. We don't want China to win. We want Americans to win. We want Canadians to win and thrive and prosper and grow together.
BURNETT: All right. Well, Premier Ford, I appreciate your time. Thank you very much.
FORD: Thank you so much. Appreciate it. Thank you.
BURNETT: Doug Ford, as you can see in that Canada not for sale behind him. Appreciate your time very much, Premier.
And I want to go now to David Axelrod, former senior adviser to President Obama.
David, I just want to start with the fact that the premier of Ontario is sitting in front of a screen that says Canada is not for sale, and this is actually really happening. It's really happening. This is a real thing.
This is -- this is CNN. This is actually occurring right now. And I'm sort of stunned by it.
DAVID AXELROD, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Yeah, it's a little bizarre. This whole episode is a little bit bizarre. I think I told you the last time we spoke about this, when the when then president- elect Trump raised it was I'm sure there are a lot of Republican politicians trying to calculate what, how many electoral votes and congressional seats Canada would receive if they became part of the U.S. I think if they did the math, they'd be even more appalled by the idea.
But look, I can't explain. Here's what I think -- we have to back up and think about what is the strategy of the president with all of this. And I think when you think about his message, right when he ran for president, his message was Biden is weak. The world is out of control. I'm strong. You know, I'll get in there and we'll, you know, I'll push folks around and well get respect.
And I think so much of what he's doing now, now, a lot of it has real consequences, and this has real consequences in the long term if he keeps doing it. But so much of it theater to me, I think he is trying to, you know, chalk up, uh, what he thinks are easy wins. Now, you describe them as him backing away. There were other news organizations that said to, you know, quick wins for Trump.
BURNETT: Right, that's right.
AXELROD: That's how the White House is going to be -- you know, I'm not sure that -- I mean, I think the Canadians must be laughing because they, you know, they didn't really do very much. And they had a lot of it in the works already because they anticipated this as -- as the premier mentioned, uh, Canada contributes very little to the fentanyl epidemic that we have in this country, but --
BURNETT: I believe 2/10 of the seat, 2/10 of a percent of the seizures of fentanyl in the U.S. were on the Canadian border last year if I'm correct.
AXELROD: Yeah. So, I mean, the idea that this whole thing roiling the world markets, was predicated on that seems highly, highly unlikely. I think he had other -- other things in mind. And I think a lot of it has to do with performative tariffs rather than tariffs that are --
BURNETT: David, can I get your view on that though? Because look, in the sense of, you know, as, as, as Americans, you all every American should want the president to succeed from a pure strategic perspective. If you're going to go out and say you're going to do 25 percent tariffs and the day before say absolutely nothing is going to make you change your mind, and then you back off them.
And I understand they'll say it was a win, 30-day pause. I understand that aspect of it. However, do you risk losing people believing you and that sometime maybe somebody calls your bluff? Is that a real risk at this point?
AXELROD: Yes. And I think you lose credibility as well. And you send a signal to your, your -- your trading partners around the world and allies around the world that your word can't be trusted and they don't know how to plan. And so they start looking around. And this goes to the premier's point.
This is a blessing for China, because, you know, as, as they, as countries look for other markets to trade with, they're obviously a large one, and, and so there's real danger to this.
[19:30:03]
And, you know, there's a cost to U.S. credibility and there's a cost to Trump's credibility by bluffing like this and then pulling back. I'm glad he pulled back. You saw what happened in the markets.
Everyone's costs would go up, which was, of course, the central pledge of the Trump presidential campaign was to bring down costs. This would have sent costs soaring. So I'm glad he pulled back. But there is a cost to it.
BURNETT: All right. Well, David, I appreciate it as always. It's great to see you -- David Axelrod.
AXELROD: Thank you.
BURNETT: And next, the breaking news, one of the architects of Project 2025 now a step closer to joining Trump's cabinet as a CNN investigation looks into just how many of Trump's executive orders are directly out of the Project 2025 manual.
Plus --
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
NARRATOR: There are more men on U.S. corporate boards named Richard, Rich or Dick than entire groups of underrepresented people. That's a lot of Dicks and not enough of everyone else.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BURNETT: I talked to the CEO who approved that ad. He is not backing down from Trump's DEI threats.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
[19:35:34]
BURNETT: Breaking news, one of the architects of Project 2025 is now a step closer to joining President Trump's cabinet. The Senate just now voting to move forward with Russell Vought confirmation to run the White House Budget Office. Vought once boasted about Trump's involvement in Project 2025, captured on at the time, a hidden camera saying this:
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
RUSSELL VOUGHT, PROJECT 2025 CO-AUTHOR: He's been at our organization, he's raised money for our organization. He's blessed it. So he's very supportive of what we do.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BURNETT: He being Trump and Vought making those comments as Trump was actually publicly denying any involvement, saying he hadn't read anything about it.
Manu Raju is OUTFRONT.
So, Manu, let's just start here. Russell Vought is so obviously so central to that particular project. Does it appear he'll be confirmed?
MANU RAJU, CNN CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: It really does, Erin. Despite the efforts by Democrats to try to drag out this process as long as possible to try to fight Russell Vought's nomination tooth and nail. In fact, last week, when the committee that was considering the nomination met to send this nomination to the floor, Democrats boycotted the proceedings altogether. The 11 Republicans voted in unison to send this to the Senate floor.
And today, the Democrats forced the Senate to jump through an additional procedural hoop that essentially was cleared along straight party lines. And then there will be a vote in the middle of this week to shut down debate. Democrats trying to force the Senate to go through all the use, all the hours of debate, ultimately to force a final confirmation vote as late as late Thursday night.
But no question about it, he has the votes to be confirmed. And this is one of the most powerful positions in the U.S. government, even though it is not well known outside the Washington, the White House budget office allows goes through all the major regulations that will be put forward by the federal agencies, essentially gets reviewed by this office, as well as dealing with key issues of funding, how to deal with funding the federal government, negotiations on Capitol Hill over things like raising the national debt limit and to avoid government shutdowns and major policy decisions. All will go through his office.
But, Erin, despite the controversy and Russell Vought's role in Project 2025 and the things that he has said in his questionnaire, even questioning the legitimacy of Joe Biden's victory in 2020 and his questionnaire with senators. Nevertheless, Republicans very much falling in line, expected to give Russell Vought his job by the end of the week, Erin.
BURNETT: All right. Thank you very much, Manu.
And Vought's likely confirmation I apologize, mispronounced his name a moment ago, comes as Democrats are calling out Trump for executing the Project 2025 blueprint in his first few weeks in office.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. SARAH MCBRIDE (D-DE): They lied during the course of the campaign when they said that they wouldn't be implementing project 2025. Well, this is Project 2025.
(END VIDOE CLIP)
BURNETT: CNN investigation finds dozens of Trump's executive orders so far come straight from that playbook.
And Tom Foreman is OUTFRONT.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
TRUMP: We're getting rid of all of the cancer. I call it cancer. The cancer caused by the Biden administration.
TOM FOREMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Reforming or doing away with the Federal Disaster Relief Agency, FEMA; dismantling diversity programs; rolling back environmental restrictions; accepting only two genders; replacing nonpartisan federal workers with administration loyalists; and aggressively pursuing undocumented immigrants -- all of those ideas are being pushed by President Donald Trump and according to CNN's analysis, many reflect deep ties to Project 2025, the 900- page plan of action put out by the conservative Heritage Foundation.
During the campaign, Trump repeatedly denied any ties to the project.
TRUMP: I have nothing to do with Project 2025. That's out there. I haven't read it. I don't want to read it purposely. I'm not going to read it.
FOREMAN: And yet, of the 53 executive actions in his first week in office, CNN's analysis found more than two thirds align with the project's proposals, including the use of active duty military personnel along the border. At least 140 Trump administration officials and dozens of allies helped craft that document, including his new CIA director, chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, and Tom Homan, the border czar.
TOM HOMAN, BORDER POLICY ADVISER: We're going to go we got to go, whether it's a school, a church or a hospital.
FOREMAN: More specifics. When the South American country of Colombia initially refused to accept military planes loaded with deportees, Trump quickly and aggressively threatened to impose a punishing tariff, right on script with what Project 2025 proposed.
[19:40:07]
TRUMP: As you know, in Colombia, they agreed with us almost immediately after I got involved.
FOREMAN: Trump immediately revoked the security clearance of top government officials suspected of not supporting his goals. And he's talked up more oil drilling in the far north, where the Project 2025 plan says Alaska is a special case and deserves immediate action.
For all that, a Trump spokesman still insists the new president had nothing to do with Project 2025, and he's just securing the border, restoring common sense, driving down inflation and unleashing American energy.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
FOREMAN (on camera): Of course, White House critics are going to say that is just nothing more than Trump 'splaining. Look at what has happened. Look at the facts. Look at the pattern they say. And what you will see is for all their denials, it looks exactly like the roadmap of project 2025 -- Erin.
BURNETT: All right, Tom, thank you very much. An important analysis.
Next, the breaking news, our KFILE is reporting that the man Trump wants to help lead the State Department attended a conference with white nationalists and said, quote, competent white men must be in charge.
Plus, just in, brand new video capturing the moment that jet plunged from the sky and crashed into a Philadelphia neighborhood.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
[19:45:47]
BURNETT: Breaking news, President Trump offering one of the highest positions in the United States State Department to Darren Beattie, despite the fact that our KFILE back in 2018 had revealed Beattie attended a conference with white nationalists and Trump at the time had removed him after that report. But tonight, he is back serving as the acting under secretary of state for public diplomacy. He also proudly recently posted this on X, quote: Competent white men must be in charge if you want things to work.
I mean, I guess if attending a white national conference was actually a tell. I mean, hey, going to post something like that.
It comes as more U.S. companies tonight are abandoning DEI policies amid pressure from Trump. Some, though, are refusing to back down popular cosmetics brand E.L.F. Beauty in a new ad pounding the table on the value of diversity.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
AD NARRATOR: There are more men on U.S. corporate boards named Richard, Rich or Dick than entire groups of underrepresented people. That's a lot of Dicks and not enough of everyone else. That's why were changing the board game. We believe seats at the table are for people of all ethnicities and genders.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BURNETT: The man who approved that message is the CEO of E.L.F. Beauty, Tarang Amin. He joins me now, a publicly traded company.
So you put out this ad when -- and that ad is to be noticed, okay, right? How many Dicks are at the table? Okay. At a time when a lot of companies are trying to quietly put their tail between their legs and zip off with those DEI policies. What's giving you the courage?
TARANG AMIN, CEO, E.L.F. BEAUTY: Well, I think what gives us the courage is who we are, what we stand for. And our mission is to make the best of beauty accessible to every eye, lip and face. One of the best ways we know how to live that mission is to have an employee base that reflects the community that we serve.
For context, our employees are 74 percent women, 76 percent Gen Z and millennial, over 44 percent diverse. They reflect the community we serve.
And we go even a step further. We're one of only two public companies in the U.S. that have a board of directors with 78 percent women and 44 percent diverse. And as proud as we are of that, what we decided is --
BURNETT: It's not as if you're doing that instead of making -- that's why I emphasize you're a public company, right?
AMIN: No.
BURNETT: So should you do that and sacrifice? I mean, it's kind of a ridiculous conversation to have, but let's just have the question. Does that mean you're sacrificing results because you're putting women and diverse people on your board or as your employees? AMIN: No, we just reported in November, our 23rd consecutive quarter of net sales growth. We're one of a few public companies, consumer companies that have had 23 consecutive quarters of net sales growth, averaging at least 20 percent. We're also the only cosmetics brand in the U.S. out of 1000 tracked by Nielsen that's posted 23 consecutive quarters of market share gains.
I would argue our diversity is a key competitive advantage in terms of our results.
BURNETT: So competent white men must be in charge if you want things to work. I mean, how do you -- I can't even believe that such a thing is okay to even say. I mean, it's obviously counterfactual, but how do you respond to the fact that this is now an environment -- this is an administration where something like that is not swept under the rug or hidden or denied, but embraced and put proudly center stage?
AMIN: Well, I think were unwavering in our commitment. We stand with every eye, lip and face. We're all about positivity and inclusivity and accessibility, and we have been for many years. This is not a new initiative.
And so, for us, it's really making sure people understand what we're about. And importantly, our community loves it. We put out a lot of our messaging to our community, overwhelmingly positive sentiment. This is why by E.L.F., this is why I love E.L.F. E.L.F. stands with everyone and E.L.F. cares so.
BURNETT: So -- but when I said it takes courage, it does take courage. And I'm not saying every company is running to abandon their DEI, but some have quite notably done so. Costco is not, right? They have been very clear that they believe in it as a core operating principle. Target, who had had been a company very much in support of these principles, is now dialing back its program. They are announcing they're ending their pledge to increase its black workforce by 20 percent.
They are dismantling an executive racial equity committee that they had. They're changing its, quote/unquote, supplier diversity team, which had been focused on bringing in black owned and diverse suppliers. Aldi no longer mentions DEI in its U.S. career section. It's gone.
[19:50:04]
What is the outcome of all this going to be?
AMIN: Well, you know, I have yet to meet a CEO who didn't want the best possible talent or the best possible performance. Some of these big companies are under tremendous pressure. What I can tell you is target is a partner of ours. They've been a terrific partner.
And if you look at Target, they're a very ethical company. I've worked with them for 30 years. Their workforce is highly diverse.
And so, I don't know how many of these changes are cosmetic versus real, but I know people --
BURNETT: To use -- to use a word, you know well, yeah.
AMIN: Exactly, exactly. But -- but most like I say, most people that I talked to are absolutely committed to having the most diverse, highest performing workforce they can find. And we very much found that.
BURNETT: So you don't feel that suddenly this permission structure that's been put in place is now allowing a lot of people who felt that all this was a bunch of bogusness to -- to suddenly be empowered.
AMIN: Well, certainly there are some people who are emboldened by it, but I'd say almost every CEO I've talked to is committed to making sure they have the best possible workforce, the best possible results, and we're living proof of that.
BURNETT: And do you worry at all about retaliation?
AMIN: You know, we are who we are, so I -- we can only control what we can control. We have a real commitment to our diversity, our inclusion. I mean, we operate with positivity, inclusivity and accessibility. That's what we're all about.
You know, last night I thought Alicia Keys, who's one of our partners. We created a brand called Keys Soulcare with her. I thought at the Grammys. She said it best.
She said DEI is not a threat. It's a gift. The more voices, the more powerful the sound. We very much believe that.
BURNETT: All right. Well, thank you very much. And I appreciate you coming out and talking about it.
AMIN: Thank you.
BURNETT: All right. And next new dash cam video that we have just gotten of that Learjet slamming into the crowded Philadelphia neighborhood. We've got this new video. We're just literally pulling it in right now. We'll have it after the break.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
[19:56:30]
BURNETT: Breaking news. Incredible new video into CNN showing the moment a medical flight crashed into a neighborhood in Philadelphia.
(VIDEO CLIP PLAYS)
BURNETT: I mean, just the shock of -- of considering to be in your car during that, you can see that massive explosion. That is a dash cam that caught it on the screen. As you see, coming from behind and looking like some sort of a bomb.
Seven people died in the crash, six on board the flight, including a pediatric patient from Mexico. One person died on the ground in their car. Others are critically injured fighting for their lives tonight.
It comes as questions are growing about why a passenger jet collided with that army helicopter in Washington, even as early flight recorder data now indicates that they should have been more than 100 feet apart.
Pete Muntean is OUTFRONT tonight.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
PETE MUNTEAN, CNN AVIATION CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): New images from the site of the worst air disaster in decades show the power of the collision over the Potomac River, as the National Transportation Safety Board begins the painstaking work of figuring out exactly what went wrong.
JENNIFER HOMENDY, CHAIR, NTSB: It's a major accident, a major event.
MUNTEAN: NTSB Chair Jennifer Homendy tells me she has launched 100 investigators to this crash. Their latest focus downloading data from the black box recorder on the Army Black Hawk helicopter and lining it up with what investigators already recovered from American Flight 5342.
That data shows the pilots tried to climb one second before the crash.
HOMENDY: Every piece of information is critical to the investigation. So when we can provide that, I think that will be helpful to provide some additional context. And what were looking at in this investigation.
MUNTEAN: Crews armed with cranes made more grim discoveries Monday, spending hours removing a jagged portion of fuselage from the water. Slow salvage work that could take more than a week to complete.
COLONEL FRANK PERA, U.S. ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERING BALTIMORE DISTRICT: Tomorrow our goal is going to be the cockpit. That goal may be impacted tomorrow by a couple of environmental conditions, notably the wind.
MUNTEAN: The NTSB says parts from the Potomac will be brought to a hangar here and laid out to evaluate the angle of the collision. Investigators are also looking at whether air traffic controllers were able to accurately see the altitude of the helicopter on radar. They have now pulled radar tracks from another air traffic control facility, and have interviewed those in the tower at the time of the collision.
HOMENDY: They have been very cooperative and we really appreciate their support on this. I'm sure it's very difficult.
MUNTEAN: Still, the major question how collision could occur at 325 feet above the 200 foot altitude restriction for helicopters here. The FAA has closed helicopter corridors near national airport temporarily, but has not said whether the move will be permanent. In a new company wide memo, American Airlines executives called the change welcome news and said the airline will work tirelessly with the administration and leaders in Congress to make our aviation system safer.
HOMENDY: That at any time the NTSB can issue an urgent safety recommendation, we don't have to wait till the end, and if we see there's a need, we'll do it.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
BURNETT: Pete, investigators have just issued an update that you've obtained. What are they saying?
MUNTEAN: Well, investigators now say they have the log books for the pilots of each aircraft involved in this collision. That means a record of the pilots' flights and their training. And now a team is going back in time to essentially recreate a history of the pilots last few days leading up to the tragedy here.
But the bottom line from investigators, it's much too soon to speculate on the cause, and a lot of factors at play here, Erin.
BURNETT: All right, Pete, thank you very much. Incredible. Though they tried to pull up in that last second with the speeds here, they wouldn't have needed a whole lot more for this to have ended as a near miss.
Thank you so much, Pete.
And thanks to all of you for joining us.
"AC360" starts now.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: BREAKING NEWS

Publication-Type: Transcript

Transcript: 020301CN.V31

Subject: GOVERNMENT & PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (91%); GOVERNMENT BODIES & OFFICES (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FAR LEFT POLITICS (79%); NATIONAL SECURITY & FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); NEGATIVE NEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HUMANITARIAN AID (73%); ESSENTIAL BUSINESSES & WORKERS (71%); CRIME, LAW ENFORCEMENT & CORRECTIONS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); Democratic Party (%); Elon Musk (%); Congress (%); Government (%); Politics (%); Donald Trump (%); Canada (%); China (%); Mexico (%); Government (%); Policies (%); Trade (%); World Affairs (%); DEI (%); Business (%); Government (%); Politics (%)

Industry: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TOILETRIES MFG (90%); COSMETICS (77%); CABLE TELEVISION (74%)

Person: ELON MUSK (94%); DONALD TRUMP (89%); GERRY CONNOLLY (59%)

Geographic: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (93%); MEXICO (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

Load-Date: February 4, 2025


End of Document
