




The Associated Press
February 13, 2025 Thursday 3:26 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS; INTERNATIONAL NEWS
Length: 656 words
Byline: JON GAMBRELL, Associated Press
Dateline: DUBAI, United Arab Emirates 
Body


DUBAI, United Arab Emirates —  called on Thursday for the United States to “delete entire agencies” from the federal government as part of his push under  to radically cut spending and restructure its priorities.
Musk offered a wide-ranging survey via a videocall to the World Governments Summit in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, of what he described as the priorities of the Trump administration interspersed with multiple references to “thermonuclear warfare” and the possible dangers of artificial intelligence.
“We really have here rule of the bureaucracy as opposed to rule of the people — democracy,” Musk said, wearing a black T-shirt that read: “Tech Support.” He also joked that he was the “White House’s tech support,” borrowing from his profile on the social platform X, which he owns.
“I think we do need to delete entire agencies as opposed to leave a lot of them behind,” Musk said. “If we don’t remove the roots of the weed, then it’s easy for the weed to grow back.”
While Musk has spoken to the summit in the past, his appearance on Thursday comes as he has consolidated control over large swaths of the government with Trump’s blessing since assuming leadership of the . That’s included sidelining career officials, gaining access to sensitive databases and inviting a constitutional clash over .
Musk's new role imbued his comments with more weight beyond being the world’s wealthiest person through his investments in SpaceX and electric carmaker Tesla.
His remarks also offered a more-isolationist view of American power in the Middle East, where the U.S. has fought wars in both Afghanistan and Iraq since the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks.
“A lot of attention has been on USAID for example,” Musk said, referring to Trump's dismantling of the U.S. Agency for International Development. “There's like the National Endowment for Democracy. But I’m like, ‘Okay, well, how much democracy have they achieved lately?’”
He added that the U.S. under Trump is “less interested in interfering with the affairs of other countries.”
There are “times the United States has been kind of pushy in international affairs, which may resonate with some members of the audience,” Musk said, speaking to the crowd in the UAE, an autocratically ruled nation of seven sheikhdoms.
"Basically, America should mind its own business, rather than push for regime change all over the place,” he said.
He also noted the Trump administration's focus on eliminating diversity, equity and inclusion work, at one point linking it to AI.
“If hypothetically, AI is designed for DEI, you know, diversity at all costs, it could decide that there’s too many men in power and execute them,” Musk said.
On AI, Musk said he believed X's newly updated AI chatbot, Grok 3, would be ready in about two weeks, calling it at one point “kind of scary.”
He criticized Sam Altman's management of OpenAI, , describing it as akin to a nonprofit aimed at saving the Amazon rainforest becoming a "lumber company that chops down the trees.” A court filing Wednesday on Musk's behalf in the OpenAI dispute said he'd withdraw his bid if .
Musk also announced plans for a “Dubai Loop” project in line with his work in the Boring Company — which is digging tunnels in Las Vegas to speed transit.
A later statement from Dubai's crown prince, Sheikh Hamdan bin Mohammed Al Maktoum, said the city-state and the Boring Company “will explore the development” of a 17-kilometer (10.5-mile) underground network with 11 stations that could transport over 20,000 passengers an hour. He offered no financial terms for the deal.
“It’s going to be like a wormhole," Musk promised. "You just wormhole from one part of the city — boom — and you're out in another part of the city.”

Load-Date: February 13, 2025


End of Document
