




Newsweek.com
February 14, 2025 Friday 1:00 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 468 words
Byline: Theo Burman
Highlight: Vivian Jenna Wilson criticized the removal of transgender references from the site as the erasure of "queer history".
Body


Elon Musk's transgender daughter has criticized the decision to remove references to transgender people from the Stonewall National Monument website.
Vivian Jenna Wilson, daughter of Musk and his first ex-wife Justine, said that the change was an erasure of queer history.
Newsweek contacted Stonewall via email for more information.
Why It Matters
The police raid on the  on June 28, 1969, is one of the most significant events in LGBT history. The response was a key moment in the growth of queer activism and public support for gay rights. The monument in New York recognizes the event, and any change to it would have a significant impact on the LGBT community.
What To Know
On Thursday, references to transgender people were removed from the  which is managed by the National Park Service.
The abbreviation LGBTQ+ has been reduced to LGB on the site, with its statements only acknowledging lesbian, gay, bisexual people.
Writing on Threads, which is a social media site designed to rival her father's X (formerly ), Wilson wrote: "Queer history can not and should not be erased. We need to remember the generations whose shoulders we stand on."
Wilson came out as a transgender woman when she was 16, and Musk has attributed her transition to his opposition to progressive transgender policy.
Speaking with political commentator and psychologist , Musk said : "It happened to one of my older boys, where I was essentially tricked into signing documents for one of my older boys, Xavier, before I had any understanding of what was going on. I was told Xavier might commit suicide.
"They call it deadnaming for a reason. The reason that it's called dead naming is because your son is dead. So my son Xavier is dead, killed by the woke mind virus. So I vowed to destroy the woke mind virus."
Since entering the White House, the Trump administration has clamped down on pro-LGBT policies, such as the use of .
Transgender identities have frequently been singled out, with Trump moving to ban transgender people from 
What People Are Saying
The Stonewall National Monument site now reads: "Before the 1960s, almost everything about living openly as a lesbian, gay, bisexual (LGB) person was illegal. The Stonewall Uprising on June 28, 1969, is a milestone in the quest for LGB civil rights and provided momentum for a movement."
What Happens Next
The Trump administration is continuing to roll back on DEI initiatives and other policies associated with progressive thought within federal organizations during its first month in power.
Do you have a story we should be covering? Do you have any questions about this article? Contact .


Graphic

 
Elon Musk
Getty Images
Elon Musk delivers remarks as he join U.S. President Donald Trump during an executive order signing in the Oval Office at the White House on February 11, 2025 in Washington, DC.

Load-Date: February 14, 2025


End of Document
