




Fox News THE FIVE 5:00 PM EST
February 11, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7261 words
Byline: Jesse Watters, Jeannine Pirro, Richard Fowler, Dana Perino, Greg Gutfeld
Body


WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: -- buddies 15 years from now, hey, remember that time you picked your nose on national T.V. in front of the president? Yes, Little X will be able to tell that story, or rather, his buddies will tell that story to him years into the future. He was the star of the show with the world's richest man and the president, it was Little X's show.
Thanks for joining us from the heart of America.
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Hello, everybody. I'm Jesse Watters along with Judge Jeannine Pirro, Richard Fowler, Dana Perino and Greg Gutfeld. It's 5:00 in New York City and this is THE FIVE.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: X, are you OK? This is -- this is X, and he's a great guy, high I.Q.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Elon Musk and his son, Little X, showing up in the Oval Office as President Trump signed off on some E.O.s, backing up DOGE. The world's richest man dismantling the Democrat hysteria over his cost cutting operation point by point.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ELON MUSK, CEO, X: If the people cannot vote and have their will be decided by their elected representatives in the form of the President and the Senate and the House, then we don't live in a democracy. We live in a bureaucracy.
The people voted for major government reform. There should be no doubt about that. That was on the campaign. The president spoke about that at every rally. The people voted for major government reform, and that's what people are going to get. They're going to get what they voted for.
TRUMP: It's going to be probably close to a trillion dollars. It could be close to a trillion dollars that we're going to find.
MUSK: If you add competence and caring, you'll cut the budget deficit in half. And I fully expect to be scrutinized and get a, you know, a daily propology exam, basically.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: And while Musk and Trump were artfully articulating why DOGE is needed to cut the federal budget deficit in half, Democrats were holding their daily anti-Musk rage fest rallies and letting the F-bombs fly.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I said, (EXPLETIVE DELETED) Trump.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We are going to beat, I was going to say (EXPLETIVE DELETED) , but no, we're not. No, I'm not going to say that.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I don't swear in public very well, but we have to (EXPLETIVE DELETED) Trump, please don't tell my children that I just did that.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Greg, the difference between Elon Musk holding court in the oval and the Democrats screaming outside, it's pretty stark.
GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: First, you got a guy whose kid is crawling all over him like he's a climbing wall. He's talking about waste, fraud and abuse, and the kids treating him like a jungle gym, yet he can handle it.
Meanwhile, you got these other -- these other -- I don't know what you call them, but they're acting like children. I think that what has happened is, absent of any policies or vision, they resorted to a consistent, nonstop tantrum.
You know, I've been watching a lot of Netflix, Jesse, and every show has somebody tied to a chair. Have you noticed this? Every -- like the hero or the villain is tied to a chair, the Democrats and the media are tied to a chair, and what they're trying to do is they're trying to turn people against each other, like they're trying to get -- maybe Trump will get jealous of Musk. Maybe Musk could get tired of Trump, because they don't have anything to do.
The problem is, they're not the hero, they're the villain. They're not going to get out of that chair. And then they're also doing these things that, oh my god, USAID, there are programs there that help people, but they neglect to point out that that's the point of the programs, to point them out, to say, look at these programs while you steer the attention away from the wet work you're doing in other countries. They're like, the good programs are like the makeup and the skirt on the person about to roofie your drink.
And that's the -- that's why, again, no heads of state are saying, please don't take USAID away from us. It's only the Democrats, only the Democrats that are saying, please don't do this to us, because they know the gravy train is coming to an end, and it is, I hate to say this, the tip of the iceberg.
But I want -- the way they're acting, they are like the mafia. The mafia kills, what, a dozen people a year. But then, you know, they hand out toys at Christmas in Little Italy, as if that that's enough.
WATTERS: I would hate to see your recommended for you Netflix. That would get scary. You were tied to a chair. Do you agree that you're tied to a chair, Richard?
RICHARD FOWLER, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: No, I mean, am I tied now?
WATTERS: You might be in a minute.
FOWLER: No, I'm not tied to a chair.
WATTERS: It was an analogy, Richard. Just go along with it.
FOWLER: I didn't -- I didn't understand. I guess I didn't get it.
All right, either way, listen, I do agree with Mr. Musk that people there - - you know, the American people voted. Any time you vote for the opposite party in charge, you want something different.
But once again, I think our constitution prescribes how this is supposed to get done. It says that when it comes to how spending is allocated, that happens via the United States Congress, they are the pa -- they are the purse. The nickname for the Congress is called the purse. They are the ones who determine how money is allocated, how money is spent, right? Not Elon Musk.
And so, if -- and listen, I agree with Greg, if there is the -- if the people do want reforms, they do want to change agencies, then it's job of the Congress to do that.
I think what's very interesting in this moment is many of the things that are happening, many of the reforms are happening are things that Republican members of Congress have advocated for years, and they haven't been brave enough to go to the well and actually vote for those things to happen, because they're afraid of how voters will respond to it. So now they have the richest men in the world doing their dirty work for them.
GUTFELD: It's not dirty work, in fact --
(CROSSTALK)
FOWLER: But I didn't interrupt you, allow me to finish.
GUTFELD: No, I'm responding to you. Every time the Republicans would try to cut something, you guys would say, oh, you're going to kill grandma.
FOWLER: Well, no, but wait a second, but let's just talk about one of the things that he's prescribing to cut. He wants to get rid of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
Here's what it's done for the folks at home. It's limited overdraft fees at banks. It's limited credit card late fees. It's made it easier for you to switch banks. It's removed medical debt from people's credit report so that you can actually get a -- get rent after you've got been sick. It's gone after banks who've taken advantage of people.
GUTFELD: What is the argument?
FOWLER: My argument here is, these are things that have protected the American people every day, and Elon wants to get rid of them because it doesn't work for millionaires and billionaires.
No, they did not. They did not vote to get rid of it.
GUTFELD: Yes, they did.
FOWLER: I'm sure Donald Trump --
GUTFELD: Where were you on November 5th?
FOWLER: Donald Trump did not go to the American people and says, I want to raise your overdraft fees. Did he? No. I don't think so.
GUTFELD: They made it clear what DOGE was when he was running for president.
FOWLER: He did not go to the American people and says, I want to raise the amount you pay on late fees. Actually, the opposite of that. He said, I'm going to -- I'm going to calculate these. That's not what's happening when you get rid of the Consumer Protection Bureau.
You're right, it is too late, so hopefully America will wake up to see what's happening.
JEANINE PIRRO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL LEGAL ANALYST: You know what this is like? This is like saying that a prosecutor, if that prosecutor sees fraud and abuse --
FOWLER: This is not fraud and abuse, Jeanine.
PIRRO: Can I finish? Let me finish. If you see fraud and abuse, you should just ignore it. Here's the bottom line, there is so much fraud, abuse over spending and corruption in our government, and the Democrats never wanted us to know about it, never gave us the ability to look at it, and so now we have a man who had four years out of office to say, you know what? There's a lot more going on than we know.
And all of a sudden, now, and this isn't rocket science, you go in, it's like bringing in a forensic account and saying, can you look at these books? No one is losing anything. There's a temporary hold. We're going to decide what we're going to do with this. And in three weeks, they've unearthed incredible things that the American people are disgusted with.
We're paying for transgender operas in foreign countries having nothing to do with promoting American interests. And all of a sudden they want to say, well, you know, this is all for Elon's billionaire buddies. Got nothing to do with that. It's about saving my hard earned taxpayer dollars.
And in the end, they want to turn it into something that it's not. But this has gone on for years. And finally, we're taking a look at the books, and now we've got a judge to say you can't look anymore. I want to stop you from looking at the books. How un-American is that that we can't even decide where there's fraud and abuse?
And people, 83 percent of the people in this country want a change in this government. And as Elon Musk said, it's about competence and caring.
And you know what? I care about the fraud in this government, and they're unearthing it. Every -- they've only been through DOGE -- through USAID, wait until we get to education and everything else.
WATTERS: So, who's winning the DOGE debate, Dana Perino in Washington?
DANA PERINO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Well, I think that when these members of Congress, we've seen this for the past three weeks, when they get up there at their rallies, they think that cursing is persuasion, and they look ridiculous.
And they're trying to match -- like, sometimes President Trump curse, right? And then they would like, oh, my stars. I can't believe you did that. But now they're trying to match that, instead of trying to say, OK, well, they have a better idea. There's no better idea, they're not trying to explain that to people. So I think they're losing there.
The other thing is, for example, last night on CNN, they had a segment that read, we are three weeks into Trump's second term, and there are warnings that the U.S. is dangerously close to a constitutional crisis. But they've been saying this so long that it's become the boy who cried wolf.
I just want to mention one other thing. Think there's a new nemesis here that people need to think about, and that is government labor unions. These are labor unions that are formed for government employees, and then they work against the American taxpayer who's paying their salary.
So, a lot of these lawsuits and things where they're going to try to gum up the works and slow things down, go back to government labor unions. And people ought to pay attention to that.
WATTERS: And they also dominate. I mean, they donate strictly to Democrats.
PERINO: 100 percent.
WATTERS: And Richard has a lot of late fees on his credit card. I think we found that out.
FOWLER: No, I mean --
WATTERS: Just pay your monthly balance, Richard, it's going to be fine. We don't need a government to tell you what to do. I will help you out.
FOWLER: Not all government labor union support just Democrats. Last -- I mean, the Border Patrol labor union also endorsed Trump.
PIRRO: Yes, for good reason.
PERINO: And why did they do that?
FOWLER: I'm just pointing out the facts.
WATTERS: All right, Richard, we're about to DOGE you.
Up next, President Trump, threatening to unleash hell on Hamas while pushing Arab nations to embrace the Trump Gaza plan.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GUTFELD: President Trump promising to let all hell break loose if Hamas terrorists don't release all Israeli hostages by noon this Saturday, he doubled down on his promise while hanging with the King of Jordan.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: I don't think they're going to make the deadline, personally, I think they want to play tough guy, but we'll see how tough they are. A bully is the weakest person, and they're bullies. Hamas is bullies.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You said, all hell will break out if all the hostages are not released on Saturday. What did you mean by that?
TRUMP: I've looked at what -- at the condition of people coming out of the hostage situation, and it's horrible.
I don't want to do two and then we do another two in another week, and then we do four in three weeks. No, they either have them out by Saturday at 12:00 or all bets are off.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: All bets are off. Trump also giving more details on his Gaza Plaza plan.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: We're not going to buy anything. We're going to have it, we're going to keep it, and we're going to make sure that there's going to be peace and there's not going to be any problem, and nobody is going to question it, and we're going to run it very properly.
And eventually we'll have economic development at a very large scale, maybe the largest scale, on that site. And we'll have lots of good things built there, including hotels and office buildings and housing and other things. And we'll make that site into what it should be.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: You know, Judge, I'm glad he brought up the condition of the hostages, because we keep hearing this like, almost in equating these sides. This is like, I mean, they look like they are survivors of the Holocaust. And it's like, you know, there should be no Fs given, you know, when dealing with these guys, these animals.
PIRRO: You know, if you know anything about Donald Trump, you know that when he saw that, that that really infuriated him.
And if you recall, it was during his first administration that he heard about chemical weapons being used against kids in Syria. And he had, I think was the mother of all bombs. I'm not sure, but he did the strategic strike at the chemical weapons factories in Syria, in and out because he didn't like what was happening kids.
The same thing with these Holocaust looking survivors who I understand, Greg, were force fed the last week before they were being released.
And what we've got to understand is that we have given hundreds of prisoners back to the -- to Gaza or the Palestinians. And you know, these are prisoners versus hostage who hasn't done anything.
And you know, the terrorists now, they're saying, you know, that the Israel isn't living up to its end of the deal. They think they're dealing with Joe Biden. They are not dealing with Joe Biden. They're dealing with Donald Trump.
And so, when -- I kind of tied the A block, and this last thing I'll say is that we will -- we all know the two-state solution hasn't worked. It's not going to work. Don't try it again.
But all the money that we're wasting on USAID and all the fraud and corruption, we've got to figure out a way to get the Palestinians out of Gaza for them to rebuild Gaza, whether you move into one half and then build in that half, or whether you pay money to Egypt and Abdullah in Jordan, who's got a resistance to them because of what happened on Black September, because of what the PLO did. But you know, we got money. We can force countries to clear out Gaza.
GUTFELD: That's the -- that's the problem, is like, these countries nearby don't want to upset their political balance, which is fragile, by taking in like half a million Palestinians, because then they lose power in Egypt or Jordan.
PERINO: But actually, no one has ever cared about the Palestinians as much as the Americans have. And I say that because who helps them? They don't sort of pretend to help them. Iran says, here, we'll help you if you kill Israelis, if you kill Jews. And then Jordan is like, we've got so many and, you know, their economy is not great. Egypt was like, well, we don't want them here. We've got problems with the Muslim Brotherhood.
It is nuanced. It is complicated. It's complex. But what is not complicated is the issue of right and wrong when it comes to these hostages.
So, what he's saying is, we're not going to be like Biden anymore. The Bidens, they were slow walking weapons to the Israelis, like, well, we don't want to -- we don't want to go too far and actually win this thing. We want to -- we want to draw out the pain for as long as possible.
I actually do have a question, though, for the president, does he mean noon, our time or their time, because it matters?
GUTFELD: It does matter.
PERINO: Right? It could be --
GUTFELD: What's the time difference?
PERINO: Seven hours.
GUTFELD: Seven hours.
GUTFELD: Are we talking 5:00 a.m. This is the middle of Shabbat. I don't know what's going to happen on that front.
I also think this, Hamas doesn't know how to deal with Trump. You're going to give Trump an ultimatum, I don't think so. Like you're going to try to try to out negotiate him, and you think he's joking?
But I will end with this, I understand the sensitivity for the families of the hostages who we believe are alive, because right now, they are possibly in more danger than they have ever been in these next few days.
So, I'm hoping that Hamas does the right thing and turns them over, as Jeannine said, we've already -- I should say the Israelis have released 200 convicted terrorists. Did any of them look like they've been starved? Where's the United Nations?
My last point on this, actually, is we had hostages that were being held in some of the UNRWA (ph) camps. This was money that we were paying that they were giving to them.
So, the Bidens had it backwards. They held back the weapons, but gave the aid to Gaza. That's not the promise, like the opposite of what should have happened.
GUTFELD: Right. So, I wanted the opposite of nuance. Let's go to Jesse, the Gaza stan. Do you think it's going to happen? Is it a negotiation tactic?
WATTERS: It is because there's a grand bargain. What to do with the Palestinians. You do the displacement and the rebuild, but you also work in, you want to redo the diplomacy between Saudis and the Israelis, and you also have to deal with the Iranian nuclear weapons. So it's all one big negotiation.
I don't know how it plays in but as Jeannine said, they cannot peacefully coexist, the two state solution living side by side. It's an unrealistic expectation.
So, this Gaza stand is the only alternative. I'm not saying it's the answer, but right now it is the only alternative that's realistic.
So, until the Arab powers come with their idea, this is the only idea at play right now.
I love the deadline, Greg, I love having deadlines. You saw how great deadlines were with tariff threats. Now there's a military threat to back that up.
And Hamas could miscalculate, because they want to stretch the negotiation once they give away all the -- all the hostages, they don't have any more bargaining chips, then the cease fire is over and anything could happen.
So, if they're going to test the Israelis and the Americans, the Americans and the Israelis have to understand if they're going to enforce them blowing off this deadline, they're going to have to risk, possibly risking the lives of the hostages by going in with heavy strikes. Are they willing to take that risk? I don't know, but the Arab world, the Europeans, the media, they're not pressuring us. They're not pressuring the Israelis. We have a free hand here.
But this population in Palestine is hostile. It's uneducated. It's even more radicalized than they were at the beginning of this. I mean, now they have no homes at all. They're even more hateful of the Israelis, and their birth rate is explosive.
The average Palestinian woman has 5-1/2 babies. The average Israeli woman has only 2-1/2 babies. So demographically, they're a threat, not to mention the national security threat. There is no way you can have these two peoples living side by side.
GUTFELD: Interesting. All right, Richard, close this out. What is going to happen on Saturday? Give us your projection.
FOWLER: I don't know, but I do hope that Hamas does release these hostages, and I hope they do it soon.
I have a lot of questions about the president's plan to sort of re -- I think he said he's going to make sure that there's peaceful. There's going to be hotels, office buildings, etcetera.
And the reason why I have that is because I think no matter what side of the aisle you're on, we've sat at this table, you and I, Greg, while we were talking about Afghanistan and long American deployments, and the idea of maintaining peace in this region, to me, sounds like the beginning of a long American deployment.
I want to know who's going to rebuild it. I want to know who's going to pay for it. I want to know how we're going to enforce the peace. I want to know how long we're going to enforce the peace. And I want to know if it's going to be another long American deployment to make that happen.
Because I think whether, no matter what side you live, no matter how old you are, I don't want to see more American troops over there, because, to Jesse's point, you have two group of people who do not like each other, who one group is more radicalized. I think the Netanyahu government does not like the Palestinians. I think we're in a world in which the ideal of maintaining that peace will require a long American deployment. And I don't know if I like that.
GUTFELD: All right, up next, President Trump is making the IRS audit the border.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
PERINO: The IRS might be switching from deductions to deportations, and we are here for it. DHS is thinking about having tax agents track down illegal immigrants, investigate human trafficking, money and check out businesses hiring undocumented workers. Border Czar Tom Homan us all in on the plan.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TOM HOMAN, WHITE HOUSE BORDER CZAR: We'll put them to work. For the law enforcement officers, we can certainly put in work in helping secure some of these at large operations. They don't have immigration authority, but they can certainly cover back door. They will take them. We can use all the help we can get.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERINO: I think some of the IRS agents would be like, yes, let's go.
GUTFELD: See, I'm the -- this is my worst nightmare. And I mean that literally, that I've had dreams where I come to Fox and they've changed my job so that I'm actually reporting from like Gaza or something. You know, I'm no good on the road. I have fair skin. I can't ride a horse.
FOWLER: Sunscreen, Greg.
GUTFELD: No, but I'm like, I need structure but I do like the fact that they're going after like real criminals instead of us. I wonder if human traffickers will, you know, claim their hostages as deductions.
And I can't think -- I mean, all they're doing is they're moving assets from one department to one that is most urgent, most urgent priority. And it just raises that question, why is it so easy to shut down the border now? It's almost as though the free flowing migrants wasn't by accident, it wasn't just the cartels getting rich off this.
PERINO: The other thing is, Judge, maybe this will make the IRS focus on, as you said, the real criminals, and stop going after grandmas who are making a few extra dollars on Etsy with their homemade goods.
PIRRO: On Etsy and what was it, the $600 Venmo thing.
PERINO: Yes.
PIRRO: But you know, who better you know to work on some of the financial charting of human trafficking as well as drugs, as well as businesses that employ illegals. I mean, these IRS agents clearly can work together. It's like a task force that we used to create all the time. You bring state, local, federal, you all work toward one goal. You're not part of the same office but you get it done because you bring expertise and buy every --
But if I can just add one thing. I mean, the FEMA -- the FEMA money I just want to say that I am so outraged that FEMA in this block has given the $59 million to New York City to hotels to house illegals. Only $19 million went directly to the hotels. The rest went to food and security which I read as corruption and kickbacks like the -- you know, USAID. A lot of money being spent improperly, Richard.
PERINO: Richard, are you OK with IRS agents being assigned for the border?
FOWLER: I actually have two points to this. Number one, I -- because when you read it, they're actually being assigned to figure out what's happening and how money is being spent. I always felt for a long time that that was sort of the back door to the undocumented problem in the country is that that you have companies who are hiring undocumented workers and for a long time in the -- in this sort of immigration football, it's been a lot of companies do not want to do eVerify. They don't want to tell people that they're hiring undocumented folks to work in their companies. And as a result more and more undocumented folks have come.
Republicans and Democrats, the Chamber of Commerce, they've all sort of had this football and like we don't want to talk about this part, we don't want to deal with this part. Now, I think we're getting to the solution there. This is sort of been a bipartisan football that everybody's been hiding that we're now getting to the bottom of it, so I appreciate it.
I want to talk about what we've seen sort of happening on Capitol Hill which is we've seen a number of Trump's cabinet secretaries send a letter to Capitol Hill saying we need more money for immigration reform. They've asked for additional transportation to help facilitate deportations. They've asked for materials and workers to help finish the border wall. They've asked for additional immigration judges and they've asked for monies to help build facilities to help with -- to detain immigration folks.
The funny part about that is all of those things seem very similar to the bipartisan immigration bill that Joe Biden and Kamala Harris tried to get past last year.
PERINO: Last year after they'd opened the border for years.
FOWLER: Sure, very true, but what stopped that bill last year was the fact that a lot of Republicans wouldn't vote for that bill. Now, this is they're asking --
PIRRO: Because it led too many people in.
FOWLER: But it's the same -- but it's -- these are the same thing.
PERINO: So now --
PIRRO: It doesn't matter if you keep the border open.
GUTFELD: Except for one thing, it's not letting people in.
PERINO: Yes, I think in the long run --
FOWLER: But now, all I'm saying is this. For this bill to pass, they're -- it's going to require Democrats to join Republicans. And I hope Democrats show Republicans a little grace --
PERINO: You can't just assign.
FOWLER: No, no -- huh?
PIRRO: What?
PERINO: You can't just -- the President can't just decide to --
FOWLER: No, no, no. This is -- this is -- this is the power of the purse, and this is going to require 60 Republicans --
PIRRO: If there's additional funding that's needed.
FOWLER: Yes, additional -- this is additional funding which is why the letter went to the Congress.
PIRRO: Well, for the judges and all that other stuff.
FOWLER: Yes. This is money that's -- yes, this is --
PERINO: All right, I walk us right into the weeds. Let us pull back out and ask Jesse --
FOWLER: So, it's going to -- hopefully Democrats are willing to give some grace and pass this bill --
PERINO: Jesse, tell us about IRS agents at the border.
WATTERS: I'm with Greg. So, you're a numbers cruncher who's antisocial, your best friends with a calculator, and you're dream job is sitting behind a desk scaring at a computer screen. You got a pension. Your idea of a good time is karaoke. They're going to give you a Glock and then you're going to send you out to sweep the streets with Tom Homan. These people are not ready.
I love -- Richard, it pains me to say this. You were right. We do need some high-profile raids against some of these companies --
FOWLER: Because of the bill.
WATTERS: -- who are hiring these illegal aliens because it's a magnet. And once you do that, you put it on Fox and show everybody. It'll scare them out at doing it and it'll boost the wages of the American worker. And it'll kill the remittances that are going to Mexico and weaken Mexico. But you also, Richard, you have to cripple the cartels because they're the muscle that bring in the migrants. And we have to stop doing so much cocaine.
GUTFELD: Not yet, Jesse.
WATTERS: I know it's good but that's the real problem. If we kicked the cocaine habit, we wouldn't have these cartels driving these migrants here in the first place. And that's why we need maha (ph). Richard, if you're healthy, spiritually, and physically, you don't feel depressed and you don't have the need sniff so much blow.
GUTFELD: You don't need cocaine, Richard. You don't need the coke.
FOWLER: I know you want that --
WATTERS: Richard, stop doing so much cocaine.
FOWLER: I know you want that for your show, but Dr. Phil already beat you to the punch, buddy.
WATTERS: Do what?
FOWLER: He's already on the -- he's already on the raids. He's already doing the raids. Sorry.
WATTERS: Oh.
PERINO: We'll get to it. We'll get to it.
FOWLER: Next time.
PERINO: Good to know that we don't need to do cocaine.
WATTERS: OK.
PERINO: All right. Got you.
WATTERS: Out of the weeds.
PERINO: Up next, Liberals are flooding therapy offices to complain about President Trump.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Donald J. Trump is now President of the United States.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PIRRO: President Trump is still making the liberals scream and needing therapy. D.C. psychologists announcing an uptick in Democratic patients after the election because of how fast 47 is getting stuff done. One neuropsychologist telling Axios, "I think we can take so much of something before the human brain just like peters out and says I can't keep up."
And it sounds like these Democrats should lie down on a couch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): Everyone knows there's waste in government and should be cut, but DOGE is using a meat axe.
REP. MAXINE WATERS (D-CA): Why does Elon Musk want to get rid of all of this? Because he's a thief. He's a gangster.
REP. AYANNA PRESSLEY (D-MA): Keep his grubby hands, his greedy grubby hands off of our government.
REP. JAMIE RASKIN (D-MD): A rally a day keeps the fascists away.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PIRRO: All right, Richard, so the Democrats are having a breakdown according to D.C. psychologist. Are you headed for therapy after THE FIVE today?
FOWLER: No. I see my therapist once a week regardless. It's just good. Therapy is good for everybody, period. I don't care what side of the aisle you live on, it's good to talk to somebody about your feelings, all right?
PIRRO: Yes. Are you frustrated? I mean, any of this went back in you?
FOWLER: No, no, no. I actually -- no, I just actually believe in that. I think that -- and I think healthcare companies just like you go see your doctor for a checkup every year, you should be allowed to see a mental health person for your checkup every year. That's -- if we did that more as a country, there'd be less violence in the county.
GUTFELD: Richard, same time next week?
FOWLER: Yes, sure. I actually do believe that.
PIRRO: All right, you know, if they say, Jesse, that it's rapid fire breakneck speed that's causing some to experience too many collective stressors. But you know, the interesting thing is the way I look at it. I was stressed over the last four years over the lack of action and the embarrassment of the other president. No one cared about that.
WATTERS: And you bottled it up and you took it out on Harold Ford. I don't like these shrinks violating the sanctity of the doctor-patient relationship.
GUTFELD: Yes, good point.
WATTERS: These psychiatrists can't just blab to the media, I have all these Dems coming in complaining about it.
GUTFELD: It's true.
WATTERS: You can't do that. Great segment for us though.
PIRRO: Yes.
WATTERS: You cannot let other people upset you. Then you give them control over yourself. And the minute, Richard, you feel a little upset about something, you take a deep breath and you don't have to pay a shrink to talk. Your boyfriend, your girlfriend, your wife, your husband -- if a Greg upsets me and he says something flip and insulting about my hairpiece which I don't have, I go to Emma and I just tell her what he said and then just the mere act of telling that someone something makes you feel better.
FOWLER: I'm sure Emma has a therapy build that cost you a lot of money because she has to deal with you.
WATTERS: Don't you dare talk about Emma. They're also treating Trump like COVID. Remember how Trump had like daily press conferences? This is the new thing. The Democrats just have a press conference every day and they treat him like a pandemic.
Yesterday, we talked about the guy with the ear muffs. Let's move on. The woman with the all-leather is very distracting. Again, you have to dress somewhat in a standard fashion for me to listen to what you're saying or else I can't stop staring at the leather.
PIRRO: So, she stressed you out?
WATTERS: It didn't stress me out. I was confused.
PERINO: You need to talk about it?
FOWLER: Ayanna Pressley is causing you to get some therapy?
WATTERS: Yes. I'll just tell Emma.
PIRRO: All right, so the roll-back of DEI and ICE and, you know, closing the borders are stressing people.
PERINO: I guess they're probably going in to tell their therapist that their party is terrible. Like, that should be the most depressing part is that they can't get up off the mat. But I also think that no -- we shouldn't have to think about our government so much. Like, we live in a country where you have -- blessed with opportunity and freedom, and your government should just work. You shouldn't have to think about why is it that there's so much trash on Sixth Avenue, that you shouldn't have to worry about that, Mr. Mayor. I shouldn't have to worry about it.
The goal should be that you go on about your life. You do your job, you do your hobbies, you enjoy your family, you get to travel once or twice a year, you have all -- and you don't have to worry about the government so much. That should be the goal.
PIRRO: I agree. You want to wrap it up, Greg?
GUTFELD: Yes. You know the -- what the difference is? And I don't like getting emotional on THE FIVE or any show. I just -- I do not -- it does -- I don't think it is helpful when you're talking about this stuff to be emotional.
They have steered in the opposite direction and somehow they put this on Trump. But Trump didn't create this mental illness, it's generated by their own team. When you tell your team that the world's going to end on 2020 -- in 2027, climate hysteria, if you tell them there's a racist under every bed, if you tell them that if you're against, you know, trans surgery for kids you're going to have a rash, an epidemic of teen suicides, you're creating a world of apocalyptic predictions and lies. It's no wonder that they've reframed their brain so that they're incapable of anything but doom. And they're emotional, they forget the world outside is actually fun. There's other people out there that are different than you.
I think they should follow the Dana Perino rule which is you agree to meet with somebody who's been bothering you for a while. You meet him for 10 minutes. It's a limited hang just to get it out of your way.
PERINO: Yes.
GUTFELD: That's what these people should do with Trump.
PERINO: Oh, yes.
GUTFELD: They should just go -- like go, you know what, it's not so bad. Get it out of your system. Just admit a few things and just move on, man. Move on.
PIRRO: All right, we're going to move on.
Up next, President Trump has a plan to save the apex predator sharks and plastic straws.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
FOWLER: President Trump is saving plastic shark -- straws and sharks. 47 is signing an executive order telling federal agencies to ditch paper straws. And believe it or not, he believes it can actually save the ocean's apex predator. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: We're going back to plastic straws. These things don't work. I've had it many times and on occasion they break, they explode. If something's hot, they don't last very long, like a matter of minutes. Sometimes a matter of seconds. It's a ridiculous situation. So, we're going back to plastic straws.
I don't think that plastic is going to affect a shark very much as they're eating -- as they're munching their way through the ocean.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
FOWLER: Dana?
PERINO: I just love it when he said that they're munching their way through the ocean because you could sort of like imagine it. This is another one of those 90-10 issues. 90 percent of the public is like yes, we agree with him. And look, if you want to buy a paper straw, you can. He's not saying you're going to -- he's not banning them. He's just saying that the government doesn't need to keep worrying about this so much.
FOWLER: Greg?
GUTFELD: Well, you know what? Think about like Trump the 90-10 issues, showerheads, toilet flushing --
PERINO: Dishwashers.
GUTFELD: -- dishwashers -- these are all visceral things that you kind of go like oh, I can -- I know. Paper straws suck. And as you were talking in the break, it sucks when you're doing cocaine.
PERINO: I know.
GUTFELD: You need a plastic straw and --
PERINO: I always say that.
GUTFELD: You always say that. It clogs it up. So, it's like people understand when you talk about straws. They don't understand when you talk about gender awareness or climate inequity or inequality. None of that stuff -- you can't -- you can't feel it. But everything Trump talks about you can feel. Visceral, Richard -- visceral.
FOWLER: Jesse?
WATTERS: I want to know what he meant by the plas -- the straw explodes.
FOWLER: So do I. I've never seen a straw explode.
WATTERS: Like, is he talking of like an explosion or it just kind of --
PERINO: Implosion maybe.
WATTERS: An implosion?
PERINO: Like, it's all soggy.
WATTERS: And what is he -- what is he what hot liquid is he drinking from a paper straw?
PERINO: Not sure.
WATTERS: That's what I want to know. I also know that they did this originally to save the seagull. But if anyone's been at the beach --
FOWLER: Probably the turtle.
PERINO: It's the turtle.
WATTERS: We'll get to that. If anyone's been to the beach, and you see these seagulls come in hard --
PIRRO: Oh yes.
WATTERS: I had a hoagy in my hand one time and a seagull came and dive bomb, took the whole thing out. These things aren't affected by plastic straws. It was the sea turtle. It was a media hoax. They had a sea turtle in 2015 and some doctor of the ocean -- what do they call those people?
GUTFELD: DOO.
PERINO: Oceanographers?
FOWLER: Oceanographers?
GUTFELD: Doctor of the ocean.
WATTERS: Whatever. They pulled a plastic straw out of the seagull's nostril on TV and went viral. That motivated the ban.
GUTFELD: Do you know what saved tortoise's lives? Plastic. Because people were making their eyeglass frames out of tortoise shells.
WATTERS: And that turtle was sniffing cocaine.
GUTFELD: Yes. In a paper straw.
WATTERS: That's how it got stuck.
PERINO: And it doesn't work.
GUTFELD: And it exploded killing the tortoise.
WATTERS: We have to stop doing so much cocaine, turtles included.
FOWLER: OK. Hold on. Hold on. Judge Jeanine, please save us.
PIRRO: OK. 59 percent of Americans want plastic straws, OK. And I'm tired - - look, if you're concerned about the environment or the sharks or the turtles, you know, don't put it on me, you know. Then punish someone for littering, OK. It's like you punish us by locking things up at CVS. It's the consumer who's always getting punished. You know, punish the criminal. Don't punish me. And you stop putting the burden on the consumer.
Also, have you ever thought about if you were president for a day, what's the one thing you would do?
WATTERS: Lock up Greg.
PIRRO: Yes, lock up Greg. OK. But I mean, get rid of plastic straws. Think about it.
FOWLER: So, you're in favor of tickets for littering.
PERINO: I wonder how RFK feels about plastic straws?
PIRRO: Yes.
FOWLER: Are you in favor of tickets for littering?
PIRRO: Yes. Absolutely.
FOWLER: All right. Dana, you can --
PERINO: No, I just wonder what RFK Jr thinks about plastic straws. I bet he's not for them.
PIRRO: Who knows?
PERINO: I bet not.
FOWLER: I know we are for them.
PERINO: Let's check it out, Richard.
PIRRO: As long as we don't eat them, I don't think he cares.
FOWLER: We are for "ONE MORE THING" which is up next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: It's time now for "ONE MORE THING." Dana.
PERINO: Well, I have some friends, JJ Quimby and Scott --
GUTFELD: Really?
PERINO: And -- I'm sorry. It is -- you guys gotten me off the track.
WATTERS: It was good.
PERINO: JJ and Jacob Quimby. They got to go on this really great ski trip, right? But this is what happened and it's every parent looking very successful.
WATTERS: Yes.
PERINO: Big band having so much fun and Jacob slept through the whole thing. And I would say that was a very successful ski day for the family.
WATTERS: Love it. Love it. Sometimes you got to just knock them out. They punched him out, right?
PERINO: It was probably Benadryl.
WATTERS: Probably. Not to be underestimated on a plane. Congrats to Fox's record-shattering Super Bowl ratings. 126 million viewers watch the game. We peaked at 135 probably during that amazing halftime show. Congratulations to the Eagles and everybody at Fox that put on a great event.
And tonight, "JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME," ladies get ready. Watch this group of men perform at 8:00 -- Glenn Greenwald, Hawley, Gad Sad, and Chris Hansen. I'll be there but I know I'm not as hot. Tonight, 8:00 Eastern.
PERINO: Oh, my God.
WATTERS: Greg?
GUTFELD: All right, tonight, oh I got a great show too. Jamie Lissow, Joe Machi, Tyrus, Kat Timpf. You can't beat that at 10:00 p.m. Hey, let's do this.
Let's go to the Canary Islands. Let's take a look at one of our more reclusive celebrities. Actor Steve Buscemi taking an extremely rare deep- sea dive --
WATTERS: It's true.
GUTFELD: -- on a rare trip. He usually doesn't -- isn't seen swimming with his -- without his shirt on, but Mr. Buscemi taking a break between his various movie roles enjoying some solitude off the Canary Islands. Kudos Steve Buscemi.
PIRRO: Wow.
WATTERS: Judge Jeanine.
PIRRO: All right. Have you ever seen something so outrageous that you couldn't believe your eyes? Well, the Martin County Sheriff's Office in Florida had to do a double take when they saw a dinosaur paddle boarding towards shore. Thankfully his little arms were strong enough to get him to the dock where he was able to be a land creature once again.
And question, why don't you ever fight a dinosaur? Because you'll get Jur- ass-kick. Thank you, Dana and Jesse.
WATTERS: Nice job.
PIRRO: Thank you.
PERINO: That was very good.
WATTERS: Richard?
FOWLER: A Washington rower was visited twice in two days by a seal. Todd Silver was a was a single rower racing out and -- on Commencement Bay when he -- when his boat bumped into this cute little seal. He's been doing this thing for 30 years and this is the first time he's ever encountered a seal. And it's happened twice in two days. Isn't that a cute seal?
PIRRO: Very cute.
PERINO: A lot of aquatics tonight.
WATTERS: Did you guys see that Super Bowl commercial where a seal's face was on the --
PIRRO: Yes. What was that about? Was that weird?
WATTERS: It's the best. That was the best.
FOWLER: So, Greg was rooting for the Eagles, Jesse?
WATTERS: That's when we peak with our ratings.
PIRRO: Yes.
WATTERS: That's it for us. Have a great night.

Load-Date: February 11, 2025


End of Document
