




Fox News THE WILL CAIN SHOW 4:00 PM EST
February 11, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; International
Length: 10207 words
Byline: Will Cain
Guests: Tim Kennedy, Christian Whiton, Benjamin Baird, Buck Sexton
Body


WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Live from the heartland, this is "The Will Cain Show."
It's 4:00 on the East Coast. And at the White House, President Trump keeps ticking off his to-do list. Right now, as we speak, he's in the Oval Office with Elon Musk signing executive orders. We're going to bring that to you the second we get it in here at FOX.
But let's keep you caught up with the rest of the day for President Donald Trump. Right now, American teacher Marc Fogel is on his way home from Russia, where he's been held prisoner since 2021. President Trump's special envoy, he struck a deal for that release just three weeks into the presidency.
Also today, meeting with a crucial ally in the Middle East, the king of Jordan sitting down with President Trump to talk hostages and Gaza.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I have a Saturday deadline. And I don't think they're going to make the deadline, personally. I think they want to play tough guy, but we will see how tough they are.
They either have them out by Saturday at 12:00 or all bets are off.
KING ABDULLAH II, JORDAN: One of the things that we can do right away is take 2,000 children that are either cancer children or in a very ill state to Jordan as quickly as possible. I truly believe that, with all the challenges that we have in the Middle East, that I finally see somebody that could take us across the finish line to bring stability, peace and prosperity to all of us in the region.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Trump also checking off more than just funding cuts or even more funding cuts. DOGE slash $900 million today from the Education Department.
And if all of that isn't enough, how about this?
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED ACTOR: I just want to say one word to you, just one word.
DUSTIN HOFFMAN, ACTOR: Yes, sir.
UNIDENTIFIED ACTOR: Are you listening?
HOFFMAN: Yes, I am.
UNIDENTIFIED ACTOR: Plastics.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Back in 1967, plastics were the future. Now President Trump wants to bring us back there.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: You have a lot of things on your plate that you're going to do. But right now...
TRUMP: Well, you know one thing I did last night that's very powerful, really? The straw.
They gave us a paper straw. It melts. It's horrible. You start -- they should make it in flavors because, by the time you finish, it is so horrible. I ended the paper straw. We're going to go back to plastic.
BAIER: That might be a 90/10 issue.
TRUMP: It's about a 99...
BAIER: Because no one loves the soggy straw.
TRUMP: Well, no, but I took it out.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Ending the paper straw might alone win him the Nobel Peace Prize.
And that's -- while we're at it, we can think of a few other things, like banning people from getting up on airplanes and rushing to the front the minute the plane lands. Until then, that catches you up on Trump's to-do list. We need to get a graphics package with a report card showing you every day what he's checked off on that to-do list. It's hard to keep up, but we're going to try right here every day at 4:00 p.m.
The question, though, is why Democrats are trying to sabotage all of this accomplishment? And that brings us to today's "Big Three." Why is the question. Why would one try to sabotage such an aggressive agenda?
But, first, let's establish that there is a clear attempt to try to sabotage. In the voice of Casey Kasem or Rick Dees, I want to give you today's latest viral hit. It dropped just this week, and it's going to go straight to number one.
Two weeks ago, I could have told you that the number one hit in the country of Democratic talking points was oligarchy. One week ago, it was shadow government. But, today, with a bullet at the top of the hit chart, I present to you constitutional crisis.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. HAKEEM JEFFRIES (D-NY): Are you ready to push back against Elon Musk's unconstitutional, unlawful orders?
REP. PRAMILA JAYAPAL (D-WA): Trump and Vice President Vance are saying we don't have to listen to the courts. That is a constitutional crisis, and that, by the way, is how dictators come into power.
REP. AYANNA PRESSLEY (D-MA): You don't know how much you benefit from your government or your democracy until someone comes through with a wrecking ball and creates a constitutional crisis.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: President Trump and Elon Musk are breaking the law. It is that simple.
REP. JAMIE RASKIN (D-MD): We are going to bring back the rule of law in America. We're going to bring back the Constitution.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This is the future of our Constitution.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This will be a congressional fight, a constitutional fight, a legal fight, and on days like this a street fight.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: In the spirit of pandemic of the unvaccinated and threat to our democracy, the new tick is constitutional crisis.
Let's first establish there is and there are court challenges to Donald Trump. Many of executive orders have been put on hold by federal district judges across the country, actions like federal employee buyout programs or federal spending cuts or DOGE's access to U.S. Treasury data, even the transfer of transgender inmates in prison, and, of course, the birthright citizenship order.
I don't want to just start on third base. If we might, and I don't sound too professorial here, let me back up to first base. There are about a little over 600 federal district judges across this country. The way the justice system works is, you have federal district court judges that appeal to the appellate court level, nine of those across the country, Texas, Louisiana, and Mississippi in the Fifth, California in the Ninth.
And then the third and final level of appeals arrives you at the Supreme Court of the United States. But among the 600 federal district judges out there, you can shop for one in a blue district that hates Donald Trump.
And right now the question is whether that federal district judge has the power or should have the power to stop the executive branch from hiring employees of the executive branch. But that's just a little lesson exactly what's happening that creates this -- quote, unquote -- "constitutional crisis."
But let's be clear. Number three, this is insincere. This is not something that anyone cares about on the left. From the advent of the progressive era, the Constitution has been an impediment to progressives. They have tried to make it a living Constitution. They have attacked it from every angle, including threatening to pack the court, laid out well today by Trey Gowdy.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TREY GOWDY, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: I can't think of an executive maybe beyond Madison who did not kind of test the outer limits of executive authority.
Remember, Dana, it was Barack Obama who said, I will do with or without you. And those same Democrats you just showed at those rallies stood up and cheered on the House floor when an executive said, I don't need you. They cheered. So executives do this. And then it's up to the other branches to push back.
I hate that this is being litigated in the court. It really ought to be debated on the floor of the House and the Senate. By no means is Donald Trump the first president to try to test the boundaries of executive power.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: It's insincere and it's laid bare when you understand that they never once asked to save our constitutional republic. They only repeated their last viral hit. They wanted to save our democracy. It's always been a problem for them, our constitutional republic.
So, if that's insincere -- and, personally, I think their protection of all these different spending programs are insincere. Do you really think Chuck Schumer cares about DEI plays in Ireland? The question becomes, why are they standing on this wall? Why are they suggesting that any cuts to federal spending are a constitutional crisis?
Now, to get to the answer to that question, let's go to one of the co-hosts of "The Clay Travis & Buck Sexton Show," Buck Sexton, my very long longtime friend Buck Sexton.
Buck, what do you think is going on? I think the why question is really interesting. I don't think they, of course, care about the Constitution. I don't even think they care about these, in particular, spending programs. So why are they fighting so hard against Elon Musk and Donald Trump?
BUCK SEXTON, FORMER CIA COUNTERTERRORISM ANALYST: Well, I think there are a lot of reasons. The most important ones, though, are, first of all, they have nothing else.
The resistance, if we remember, remember #resistance from 2016, it isn't there anymore. They look exhausted, leaderless, rudderless. And so they're just trying to object for the sake of objection. I think that they recognize the arguments that they have to make on these issues ring hollow right away or just seem in bad faith.
I totally agree with your point about that. They don't really care about some of this stuff, so much as they just want to say, not Donald Trump. It's really the equivalent of a tantrum being thrown by an entire political party and their media allies all at once because they don't want to actually engage in a debate.
Fraud, wasteful spending, things like that, most people -- and that's not even a partisan thing, right? Most people can understand why you should get rid of that. But then I think that actually leads into the other reason why they object to this. And it is because the Democrats, and you got to hand it to them, devious, but effective, have spent decades building an apparatus of government, the fourth unelected branch, if you will, the bureaucracy.
And that allows them to get their way, to govern, to regulate, to harass, and to support their pet causes and even pet media outlets using taxpayer dollars to do it. And this is the first time we have really seen anybody with Trump, DOGE, Elon Musk, trying to pull back the covers on this and show everybody what's really going on.
And they realize this is a big problem for them.
CAIN: That's it. I think that's exactly it, Buck.
They don't care about the Constitution. They're not worried about a constitutional crisis. They're not actually trying to fight for our democracy. In the famous words of Elon Musk,they have been fighting for our bureaucracy. And to see that bureaucracy now threatened represents a real threat to what that bureaucracy is for them, power on the left.
It didn't take long, Buck. It took three weeks. And not only have hostages been released from Gaza back into Israel, but now Steve Witkoff has come back home from Russia with Marc Fogel. He's a teacher who was arrested in Russia in 2021 for a small amount, having, I think, a small amount of medical marijuana. Watch.
(BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)
MALPHINE FOGEL, MOTHER OF MARC FOGEL: When he called this morning, it was just a total shock, first of all, because of the time he called, and with the news. So it's just an unbelievable situation.
Right now, we're just waiting and waiting to get him into the U.S. I think the first thing he will do was stoop down and kiss the ground.
(END AUDIO CLIP)
CAIN: That's Marc Fogel's family celebrating his release, his return back on soil tonight in America, Buck.
SEXTON: It turns out, Will, no surprise to you, me or this audience, but having a commander in chief who is of sound mind makes a difference.
Having somebody who is able to look across the table at allies and adversaries and say things that they will take at face value and take seriously makes a difference. I think we all know that, when it came to Russia and Putin, Putin's view of Joe Biden -- and whatever one thinks of Putin, he's a crafty fellow and he could tell that Biden should have a blanket across his knees feeding squirrels, not being president of the United States.
So there was no heft from the top of the executive branch for four years. That's now changed. You have a dealmaker. You have a guy with an incredibly forceful personality and also one who understands negotiation and strategy in Donald Trump. And I'm just happy for the family that gets their loved one back today.
And I think that we're seeing, whether it's Hamas, Russia or anybody who sits across from us on the other side of the table, there's a recognition that there's a new sheriff in town. His name is Donald Trump. And his deputies as well are not messing around.
CAIN: It's such an image of Buck's native New York City, sitting on a green park bench in Central Park with a blanket over your lap feeding squirrels. It's -- not sure that happens everywhere, but I know it happens in New York.
(CROSSTALK)
CAIN: It's lovely. You're right. It's the future of our former President Joe Biden.
(LAUGHTER)
CAIN: Really quickly, Buck, there's a vote tonight on Tulsi Gabbard to be confirmed as the new DNI.
SEXTON: Yes.
CAIN: All indications, Buck, point to her confirmation. This one, I think, was the longest shot of all of Trump's Cabinet appointees, but it looks like it may go through. Are you surprised?
SEXTON: You know, I actually thought, Will, that RFK Jr. was the longest shot, but to each his own.
Tulsi, with a military background, I think they viewed it as somewhat transferable to an intelligence background, although, as you know, I come from a CIA background. And so all these different three-letter agencies, they all have their own cultures, their own way of doing things, and they all think that they're the ones that should have primacy on the mission.
Tulsi, I think, is getting through largely because, one, it's tough to make the case that she's some kind of crazy radical when she was running for Democrat in 2020. I know she's come over to our side and is going to faithfully execute the responsibility under Donald Trump, but also she brings a very sane perspective to an intelligence community, which is, hey, what are we really doing here?
Are we getting enmeshed in things we shouldn't be doing? Are we thinking outside the box or just going along with the ossified consensus of the I.C., the intelligence community, as it is? And I think that she's going to be very effective in the role because she knows how to talk to people, she understands large bureaucracy, and I think she's very reasonable and a true patriot.
(CROSSTALK)
SEXTON: So, when you add all those things together, it's a challenge. The I.C. is huge and a massive bureaucracy, and they're very good at playing hide the football, Will.
But I do think that she's going to be able to get some real reform, and she certainly has Trump's stamp of approval to get it done. So I wish -- I know Tulsi a bit. I wish her all the best. I think that she's going to really make us all proud in the role. Same with Kash, by the way, who's also slated to get through as FBI director, another great patriot who's really necessary to clean up.
(CROSSTALK)
SEXTON: But we didn't even talk about the F -- can we talk about the FBI another time, Will? FBI is a mess, man. It is a mess.
CAIN: Well, you have an absolute invitation, an open invitation here on "The Will Cain Show."
Tulsi Gabbard, Kash Patel, Pete Hegseth, and we're expecting the vote on Thursday for RFK, all not just patriots, but disrupters. That's the key tie to binds. That's the thematic similarity, all disrupters.
Buck, in just a minute, you and I are going to exit this conversation. We're going to turn it over to Elon Musk and Donald Trump signing executive orders.
I'm curious what you would expect to hear from really, honestly, the world's two most powerful men.
SEXTON: Elon Musk and Donald Trump?
Look, I think that Trump recognizes and Elon recognizes that, in this moment, their strategy of all at once and everything they can has got their opponents completely off balance. We are not tired of winning, but we are drowning in winning right now, which is fantastic.
I think it's setting a new standard for what an executive branch can do when it's focused, has the right personnel and decides to go on mission, and not listening to what's being sort of chirped about in the cheap seats up at CNN or wherever. And I really think that the work of DOGE should be bipartisan. I mean, it should be bipartisan in terms of support.
Finding waste, fraud and abuse, this is something that every American should be able to get behind, which is why I think the media has been so focused on how these are teenagers or whatever it is that they're saying.
So my expectations are, you will see more of what we have seen from Trump and Elon, which is a fantastic partnership, the most important political figure of our era and the most important CEO of our era tag-teaming the biggest problems the country faces. I mean, Will, it's dream team stuff.
So we have front-row seats to it. It's a beautiful thing. I just hope they continue.
CAIN: Right, Buck. All right. Appreciate you, Buck. Thanks for being here with us today.
Check him out on "The Clay and Buck Show." He's on every day at noon, and we hope to see him more here on "The Will Cain Show."
SEXTON: Good to see you, man. Thank you.
CAIN: Thank you so much, Buck.
It's amazing to think about just a few short weeks ago. You don't even have to go back a month. The concept of cutting government waste and fraudulence was something that was bipartisan. The idea of DOGE at its inception, the Department of Government Efficiency, was something bipartisan.
In fact, it was something that Democrats were looking to participate in, because the idea of having an efficient government wouldn't think -- one wouldn't think, is left or right, is Republican or Democrat.
But not only has that proven to be untrue. It has turned Elon Musk currently into public enemy number one on the left. And, in just moments, we're expecting Elon Musk to join President Trump in the Oval Office. Today, I'm sure they will not only be signing executive orders, Elon Musk standing with Donald Trump while he signs executive orders, but, as has become customary for President Trump, to take unscripted, wide-ranging, open questions from the press.
That's coming here in just a moment from the Oval Office. In fact, let's take a moment now and see if we can step inside the room and listen in on this executive order signing event with Elon Musk and Donald Trump.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
(LAUGHTER)
ELON MUSK, OWNER, X: Come here.
TRUMP: X, are you OK? This is X, and he's a great guy. High I.Q.
He's a high-I.Q. individual.
MUSK: And he's got -- check out this cool chain he's got on.
TRUMP: So thank you very much. We had a busy day today. The king just left, and we have had a great discussion, terrific discussion concerning Gaza and everything else.
We had discussions also about Saturday at 12:00. It's going to be a big moment. We will see what happens. I don't expect much happening with these people, but we will see what happens. And we're going to be signing a very important deal today.
It's DOGE, and I'm going to ask Elon to tell you a little bit about it, and some of the things that we found, which are shocking, billions and billions of dollars in waste, fraud, and abuse. And I think it's very important. And that's one of the reasons I got elected. I say, we're going to do that. Nobody had any idea it was that bad, that sick, and that corrupt.
And it seems hard to believe that judges want to try and stop us from looking for corruption, especially when we found hundreds of millions of dollars worth, much more than that, in just a short period of time. We want to weed out the corruption. And it seems hard to believe that a judge could say, we don't want you to do that.
So maybe we have to look at the judges, because that's a very serious. I think it's a very serious violation. I will ask Elon Musk to say a few words, and we will take some questions.
Elon, go ahead.
MUSK: Sure.
So, the -- at a high level, if you say what is the goal of DOGE or -- and I think a significant part of this presidency, is to restore democracy. This may seem like, well, aren't we in a democracy? Well, if you don't have a feedback group at the X, you would have to -- if you...
(LAUGHTER)
MUSK: That's all right.
I tell you, gravitas can be difficult sometimes. So, if there's not a good feedback group from the people to the government, and if you have rule of the bureaucrat, if the bureaucracy is in charge, then what meaning does democracy actually have?
If the people cannot vote and have their will be decided by their elected representatives in the form of the president and the Senate and the House, then we don't live in a democracy. We live in a bureaucracy. So it's incredibly important that we close that feedback loop, we fix that feedback loop, and that the public, the public's elected representatives, the president, the House, and the Senate, decide what happens, as opposed to a large, unelected bureaucracy.
This is not to say that there aren't some good -- there are good people who are in the federal bureaucracy, but you can't have an autonomous federal bureaucracy. You have to have one that is responsive to the people. That's the whole point of a democracy.
And so -- and if you looked at this, if you asked -- looked at the founders today and said, what do you think of the way things have turned out, we have this unelected fourth unconstitutional branch of government, which is the bureaucracy, which has in a lot of ways currently more power than any elected representative.
And this is -- it's not something that people want, and it's not -- it does not match the will of the people. So it's just something we have got to fix. And we have also got to address the deficit. So we have got a $2 trillion deficit. And if we don't do something about this deficit, the country's going bankrupt.
I mean, it's really astounding that the interest payments alone on national debt exceed the Defense Department budget, which is shocking, because we have got a lot -- we spend a lot of money on defense. But -- and if that just keeps going, we're essentially going to bankrupt the country.
So what I really would say is like, it's not optional for us to reduce the federal expenses. It's essential. It's essential for America to remain solvent as a country. And it's essential for America to have the resources necessary to provide things to its citizens and not simply be servicing vast amounts of debt.
TRUMP: And, also, could you mention some of the things that your team has found, some of the crazy numbers, including the woman that walked away with about $30 million, et cetera?
MUSK: Right.
Well, we do find it sort of rather odd that there are quite a few people in the bureaucracy who have ostensibly a salary of a few hundred thousand dollars, but somehow manage to accrue tens of millions of dollars in net worth while they are in that position, which is what happened to USAID.
We're just curious as to where it came from. Maybe they're very good at investing, in which case we should take their investment advice perhaps. But just -- they seem to be mysteriously they get wealthy. We don't know why. Where did that come from?
And I think the reality is that they're getting wealthier at the taxpayer expense. That's the honest truth of it. So we're looking at sort of, say, well, you just -- if you look at, say, Treasury for example, basic controls that should be in place, that are in place in any company, such as making sure that any given payment has a payment categorization code, that there is a common field that describes the payment, and that if a payment is on the do not pay list, that you don't actually pay it, none of those things are true currently.
So, the reason that departments can't pass audits is because the payments don't have a categorization code. It's like just a massive number of blank checks just flying out the building. So, you can't reconcile blank checks. You have got comment fields that are also blanks. You don't know why the payment was made.
And then we have got this truly absurd, a do not pay list, which can take up to a year before an organization to get on the do not pay list. And this -- we're talking about terrorist organizations. We're talking about known fraudsters, known aspects of waste, known things that do not match any congressional appropriation can take up to a year to get on the list.
And even what's on the list, the list is not used. It's mind-blowing. So, what we're talking about here, we're really just talking about adding commonsense controls that should be present that haven't been present.
So, they say like, well, how could such a thing arise? That seems crazy. When you understand that really everything is geared towards complaint and minimization, then you understand the motivations. So, if people receive money, they don't complain, obviously.
But if people don't receive money, they do complain. And the fraudsters complain the loudest and the fastest. So, then, when you understand that, then it makes sense. Oh, that's why everything just -- they approve all the payments at Treasury, because if you approve all the payments, you don't get complaints.
But now we're saying that, no, actually, we are going to complain. If money is spent badly, if your taxpayer dollars are not spent in a sensible and frugal manner, then that's not OK. Your tax dollars need to be spent wisely on the things that matter to the people.
I mean, these things, like, it's just common sense. It's not draconian or radical, I think. It's really just saying, let's look at each of these expenditures and say, is this actually in the best interest of the people? And if it is, it's approved. If it's not, we should think about it.
So, there's crazy things, like just a cursory examination of Social Security, and we have got people in there that 150 years old. Now, do you know anyone who's 150? I don't. OK. They should be on the Guinness Book of World Records. They're missing out.
So, if that's the case, where, like, I think they're probably dead. It's my guess. Or they should be very famous, one of the two. And then there's a whole bunch of Social Security payments where there's no identifying information.
Well, why is there no identifying information? Obviously, we want to make sure that people who deserve to receive Social Security do receive it, and that they receive it quickly and accurately. Also, another crazy thing. So one of the things is, like, we are trying to sort of right-size the federal bureaucracy, just make sure that this -- obviously, there needs to be a lot of people working for the federal government, but not as many as currently.
So we're saying, well, let's -- OK, if people can retire with full benefits of everything, that would be good. They can retire, get their retirement payments, everything. And then we're told -- this is actually, I think, a great anecdote, because we're told that the most number of people that could retire possibly in a month is 10,000.
We're like, well, why is that? Well, because all the retirement paperwork is manual, on paper. It's manually calculated and written down on a piece of paper. Then it goes down a mine. And I'm like, what do you mean a mine? Like, yes, there's a limestone mine where we store all the retirement paperwork.
And you look at a picture of this mine, we will post some pictures afterwards. And this mine looks like something out of the '50s, because it was started in 1955. So it looks like -- it's like a time warp. And then the speed, the limiting factor is the speed at which the mine shaft elevator can move determines how many people can retire from the federal government.
And the elevator breaks down sometimes. And then nobody can retire. Doesn't that sound crazy? There's like 1,000 people that work on this. So I think, if we take those people and say, you know what, instead of working in a mine shaft and carrying manila envelopes to boxes in a mine shaft, you could do practically anything else, and you would add to the goods and services of the United States in a more useful way.
So, anyway, so I think that's an example. Like, at a high level, if you say, like, how do we increase prosperity, is, we get people to move -- to shift from roles that are low to negative productivity to high productivity roles. And so you increase the total output of goods and services, which means that there's a higher standard of living available for everyone.
That's the actual goal. Everyone is very quiet, by the way. Is it normally -- are people normally this quiet?
QUESTION: Your detractors, Mr. Musk...
MUSK: What?
QUESTION: ... including a lot of Democrats.
MUSK: I have detractors?
QUESTION: You do, sir.
MUSK: I don't believe it.
QUESTION: Say that you're orchestrating a hostile takeover of government and doing it in a nontransparent way. What's your response to that criticism?
MUSK: Well, first of all, you couldn't ask for a stronger mandate from the public. The public voted. We have a majority of the public voting for President Trump, won the House. We won the Senate.
The people voted for major government reform. There should be no doubt about that. That was on the campaign. The president spoke about that at every rally. The people voted for major government reform. And that's what people are going to get.
They're going to get what they voted for. And a lot of times, people, they don't get what they voted for, but in this presidency, they are going to get what they voted for. And that's what democracy is all about.
QUESTION: Mr. Musk, the White House says that you will identify and excuse yourself from any conflicts of interest that you may have. Does that mean that you are in effect policing yourself? What are the checks and balances that are in place to ensure that there is accountability and transparency?
MUSK: Well, we actually are trying to be as transparent as possible.
In fact, our actions -- we post our actions to the DOGE handle on X and to the DOGE Web site. So all of our actions are maximally transparent. In fact, I don't think there's been -- I don't know of a case where an organization has been more transparent than the DOGE organization.
And so the kind of things we're doing are, I think, very, very simple and basic. They're not -- we're -- what I mentioned, for example, about Treasury, just making sure that payments that go out, taxpayer money that goes out is categorized correctly, that the payment is explained, that organizations on the do not pay list, which are -- takes a lot to get there, that actually are not paid, which currently they are paid.
These are not individual judgment decisions. These are about simply having sensible checks and balances in the system itself to ensure that taxpayer money is spent well.
So it's got nothing to do with, like, say, a contract for some company of mine at all.
QUESTION: But if there is a conflict of interest when it comes to you yourself -- for instance, you have received billions of dollars in federal contracts when it comes to the Pentagon, for instance, which the president, I know, has directed you to look into.
MUSK: Yes.
QUESTION: Are you policing yourself in that? Is there any sort of accountability check and balance in place that would provide any transparency for the American people?
MUSK: Well, all of our actions are -- are fully public. So if you see anything, you say, like, wait a second, hey, Elon, that doesn't -- that seems like maybe that's -- there's a conflict there, I felt like people aren't going to be shy about saying that. They will say it immediately.
QUESTION: Including you yourself?
MUSK: Yes. But it's -- transparency is what builds trust, not simply somebody asserting trust, not somebody saying they're trustworthy, but transparency, so you can see everything that's going on.
And you can see, am I doing something that benefits one of my companies or not? It's totally obvious.
TRUMP: And if we thought that, we would not let him do that segment or look in that area, if we thought there was a lack of transparency or a conflict of interest.
And we watch that also. He's a big businessman. He's a successful guy. That's why we want him doing this. We don't want an unsuccessful guy doing this.
Now, one thing also that Elon hasn't really mentioned are the groups of people that are getting some of these payments. They're ridiculous. And we're talking about billions of dollars that we have already found. We found fraud and abuse. I would say those two words, as opposed to the third word that I usually use, but, in this case, fraud and abuse.
It's abusive because most of these things are virtually made up or certainly money shouldn't be sent to them. And you know what I'm talking about. It's crazy. So -- but we're talking about tens of billions of dollars that we have already found.
And now a judge who's an activist judge wants to try and stop us from doing this. Why? Why would they want to do that? I campaigned on this. I campaigned on the fact that I said government is corrupt. And it is very corrupt. It's very, very -- it's also foolish.
As an example, a man has a contract for three months and the contract ends, but they keep paying them for the next 20 years, because nobody ends the contract. You got a lot of that. You have a contract that's a three-month contract. Now, normally, if you're in a small -- in all fairness, it's the size of this thing. It's so big.
But if you have a contract and you're in a regular business, you end the contract in three months. It's a consultant. Here's a contract for three months, but it goes on for 20 years. And the guy doesn't say that he got money for 20 years. They don't say it. They just keep getting checks month after month, and you have various things like that and even much worse than that actually, much worse.
And I guess you call that incompetence maybe. It could be corruption. It could be a deal's made on both sides, you know, where the guys gets the money, he kicks -- I think he has a lot of kickback here. I see a lot of kickback here.
MUSK: There's a lot of kickbacks.
TRUMP: Tremendous kickback, because nobody could be so stupid to give out some of these contracts. So he has to get a kickback.
So that's what I got elected for, that and borders and military, a lot of things, but this is a big part of it. And I hope that the court system is going to allow us to do what we have to do. We got elected to, among other things, find all of this fraud and abuse, all of this horrible stuff going on.
And we have already found billions of dollars, not like a little bit, billions, many billions of dollars. And when you get down to it, it's going to be probably close to a trillion dollars. It could be close to a trillion dollars that we're going to find. That will have quite an impact on the budget.
And you will go to a judge where they handpick a judge and he has certain leanings. I'm not knocking anybody for that, but he has certain leanings. And he wants us to stop looking? How do you stop looking? I mean, we have already found it.
We have a case in New York where a hotel is paid $59 million, $59 million because it's housing migrants, illegal migrants, all illegal, I believe.
MUSK: And they were being paid twice the normal room rate at 100 percent occupancy.
TRUMP: Unbelievable.
MUSK: So it's a racket.
(CROSSTALK)
QUESTION: ... question.
MUSK: Well, if I may sort of just go in for the president's comments, at a high level, well, what -- how -- what are the two ingredients that are really necessary in order to cut the budget deficit in half from $2 trillion to $1 trillion?
And it's really two things, competence and caring. And if you add competence and caring, you will cut the budget deficit in half. And I fully expect to be scrutinized and get a daily proctology exam, basically. I sort of just camp out there. So it's not like I think I can get away with something.
I will be scrutinized nonstop. And -- but with support of the president, we can -- we can cut the budget deficit in half from $2 trillion to $1 trillion. And then with deregulation, because there's a lot of sort of regulations that don't ultimately serve the public good. We need to free the builders of America to build.
And if we do that, that means I think we can get the economic growth to be maybe 3, 4 percent, maybe 5 percent. And that means, if you can get a trillion dollars of economic growth, and you cut the budget deficit by a trillion, between now and next year, there is no inflation. There's no inflation in '26.
And if the government is not borrowing as much, it means that interest costs decline. So, once the mortgage, the car payment, the credit card bills, anything -- the student debt, the monthly payments drop. That's a fantastic scenario for the average American.
I mean, imagine they're going down the grocery aisle and the prices from one year to the next are the same, and their mortgage, all their debt payments dropped? How great is that for the average American?
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: We had no idea we were going to find this much. And it's open. It's not, like, complicated. It's simple stuff.
(CROSSTALK)
MUSK: It's a lot of work, yes.
TRUMP: It's like we can't believe it, a lot of work, a lot of smart people involved, very, very smart people.
But it's -- you're talking about anywhere, maybe $500 billion. It's crazy, the kind of numbers you're talking about.
MUSK: It's really crazy.
TRUMP: Normally, when you're looking at something, you will find -- you're looking for one out of 100. Here, you're almost reversing it. You look for one that's good.
MUSK: Yes.
TRUMP: And you can look at the title and you say, why are we doing this? Why are we doing that? And the public gets it. The public gets it.
You have seen the polls. The public is saying, why are we paying all this money? This is for years this has gone on.
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: Yes. Go ahead. Wait. Go ahead.
QUESTION: Senator Rand Paul today said that DOGE cuts will ultimately need a vote in Congress. Do you agree with that? Is that the plan?
TRUMP: I really don't know. I know this. We're finding tremendous fraud and tremendous abuse.
If I need a vote of Congress to find fraud and abuse, it would be -- it's fine with me. I think we will get the vote,although there will be some people that wouldn't vote. And how could a judge want to hold us back from finding all of this fraud and finding all of this incompetence?
Why would that happen? Why would even Congress want to do that? Now, Congress -- if we do need a vote, I think we'd get a very easy vote because we have a track record now. We have already found billions of dollars of abuse, incompetence, and corruption, a lot of corruption.
QUESTION: If a judge does block one of your policies, part of your agenda, will you abide by that ruling? Will you comply...
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: Well, I always abide by the courts, and then I will have to appeal it.
But then what he's done is, he slowed down the momentum, and it gives crooked people more time to cover up the books. If a person's crooked and they get caught, other people see that and all of a sudden it becomes harder later on.
MUSK: Yes.
TRUMP: So, yes, the answer is, I always abide by the courts, always abide by them, and we will appeal. But appeals take a long time.
And I would hope that a judge -- if you go into a judge and you show him here's a corrupt situation, we have a check to be sent, but we found it to be corrupt, do you want us to send this corrupt check to a person, or do you want us not to give it and give it back to the taxpayer, I would hope a judge would say, don't send it, give it back to the taxpayer.
MUSK: Yes, if I can add to that, what we're finding is that a bunch of the fraud is not even going to Americans.
So I think we all agree that, if there's going to be fraud, it should at least go to Americans. But a bunch of the fraud rings that are operating in the United States and taking advantage of the federal government, especially in the entitlements programs, are actually foreign fraud rings that are operating in other countries and actually exporting money to other countries.
We should stop that. And this is big numbers -- we're -- big numbers, from about $100 billion to $200 billion a year, serious money.
QUESTION: Mr. Musk, you said on X that an example of the fraud that you have cited was $50 million of condoms were sent to Gaza.
But after fact-check this, apparently, Gaza and Mozambique, and the program was to protect them against HIV. So, can you correct the statements, that it wasn't sent to Hamas actually, it was sent to Mozambique, which makes sense why condoms were sent there?
MUSK: Yes.
QUESTION: And how can we make sure that all the statements that you said were correct, so we can trust what you say?
MUSK: Well, first of all, some of the things that I say will be incorrect and should be corrected. So, nobody is going to bat 1000. I mean, any -- we will make mistakes, but we will act quickly to correct any mistakes.
So if the -- I'm not sure we should be sending $50 million worth of condoms to anywhere, frankly. I'm not sure that's something Americans would be really excited about. And that is really an enormous number of condoms, if you think about it. But if it went to Mozambique, instead of Gaza, I'm like, OK, that's not as bad, but, still, why are we doing that?
QUESTION: Mr. Musk, can you talk a little bit about how closely you're working with agency heads as you're directing these cuts? Do they have the -- how much input do agency heads have when you're making these decisions?
MUSK: Yes, we work closely with the agency heads.
And, yes, so there are sort of checks in place, so it's not just us just going in and doing things willy-nilly. It's in partnership with agency heads. And I check frequently with the president to make sure that this is what the president wants to happen.
So we talk almost every day, and I double-check things to make sure, is this something -- Mr. President, do you want us to do this? Then we will do it.
QUESTION: USAID has been one of your main targets. Are you concerned at all that some of the cuts or that shutting that agency all together may lead to diseases or other bigger problems starting in other countries that then come to the United States?
MUSK: Yes, so that's an interesting example.
So that's something where we work closely with the State Department and Secretary Rubio. And we have, for example, turned on funding for Ebola prevention and for HIV prevention.
QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)
MUSK: Yes, correct.
And we are moving fast, so we will make mistakes, but we will also fix the mistakes very quickly.
QUESTION: Do you think that's a worthy cause, USAID?
MUSK: I think that there are some worthy things.
But, overall, if you say what was the bang for the bank, I would say it was not very good. And there was far too much of what you USAID was doing was influencing elections in ways that I think were dubious and do not stand the light of day.
QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) a follow-up to the Pentagon contracts?
If you have received billions of dollars in contracts from the Pentagon and the president is directing you to look into the Department of Defense, is that a conflict of interest?
MUSK: Yes, we definitely need to do and are going to do at the president's request.
QUESTION: Does that present a conflict of interest for you?
MUSK: No, because you would have to look at the individual contract and say -- first of all, I'm not the one filing the contract. It's people at SpaceX or some of the people who will be putting in for the contract.
And I'd like to say, if you see any contract where it was awarded to SpaceX and it wasn't by far the best value for money for the taxpayer, let me know, because every one of them was.
QUESTION: The president said the other day that you might look at Treasuries. Could you explain that a little bit? What kind of fraud -- or that question goes to both of you. What kind of fraud are you expecting to see or do you see right now in U.S. Treasuries?
MUSK: I think he means the Treasury Department, as opposed to Treasury bills.
QUESTION: You also referenced Treasuries on Air Force One the other night.
TRUMP: Yes, go ahead.
QUESTION: Well, the -- as I mentioned earlier, really, the first order of business is to make sure we're actually collecting -- sorry for this.
Otherwise, I might enjoy this, but it's -- he's sticking his fingers in my ears.
(LAUGHTER)
MUSK: So, it's a bit hard to hear sometimes. Hey, stop that.
(LAUGHTER)
MUSK: So, no, the stuff we're doing with the Treasury Department is so basic that you can't believe it doesn't exist already. So, for example, like I mentioned, just making sure that when a payment goes out, it has to have a payment categorization code.
It's like, what type of payment is this? You can't just leave the field blank. Currently, many payments, the field is left blank. And you have to describe, what's the payment for, some basic rationalization. That also is left blank. So this is why the Pentagon -- when's the last time the Pentagon passed an audit?
I mean, a decade ago, maybe, if ever? Really? And we want to -- just in order to actually pass audits, you have to have financial information that allows you to trace the payments. So -- and once in a while, the Treasury has to pause payments if it thinks the payment is going to a fraudulent organization.
Like, if a company or an organization is on a do not pay list, we should not pay it, as I'm sure you would agree. It's like, if it's quite hard to get on that payment -- do not pay list, it means that this is someone that is -- just like dead people, terrorists, known fraudsters, that kind of thing.
We should not pay them. But, currently, we do, which is crazy. We should stop that.
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: And, by the way, hundreds, thousands of transactions like that. We have a big team.
And for the sake of the country, I hope that the person that's in charge and the other people that report to me that are in charge are allowed to do the right thing, namely, make sure everything's honest, legitimate and competent. But we're looking at just -- when you look at USAID, that was -- that's one.
We're going to look at the military. We're going to look at education. There are much bigger areas. But the USAID is really corrupt, I will tell you. It's corrupt. It's incompetent and it's really corrupt. And I can't imagine a judge saying, well, it may be corrupt, but you don't have the right -- you got elected to look over the country and to, as we say, make America great again, but you don't have the right to go and look and see whether or not things are right that they're paying or that things are honest that they're paying.
And nobody can even believe this. Other people, law professors, they have been saying, how can you take that person's right away? You're supposed to be running the country, but we're not allowed to look at who they're paying it to and what they're paying. We have massive amounts of fraud that we caught.
I think we probably caught way over a lot of billions of dollars already in, what, two weeks?
MUSK: Yes.
TRUMP: And it's going to go to numbers that you're not going to believe.
And much -- as I said, much is incompetence and much is dishonesty. We have to catch it. And the only way we get to catch it is to look for it. And if a judge is going to say you're not allowed to look for it, that's pretty sad for our country. I don't understand how it could even work.
(CROSSTALK)
QUESTION: Can you personally guarantee that...
TRUMP: Which one?
QUESTION: The buyout program, the offer to federal workers, can you personally guarantee that the workers who opt in to resign now will be paying through September?
TRUMP: Well, they get their money, but they're getting a good deal. They're getting a big buyout.
And what we're trying to do is reduce government. We have too many people. We have office space. It's occupied by 4 percent. Nobody's showing up to work because they were told not to. And then Biden gave them a five-year pass, some of them, 48,000 of them, gave them a five-year pass that, for five years, you don't have to show up to work.
And let me tell you, this is largely, and much of this stuff is because of Biden. It's his fault. He allowed this country -- what he did on our border. What he did on our border is almost not as bad as what he did with all of these contracts that have come out.
It's a very sad day when we look at it. I can't even believe it, but many contracts just extend and they just keep extending, and there was nobody there to correct it. And that cannot be -- I can't imagine that could be held up by the court. Any court that would say that the president or his representatives, like secretary of the Treasury, secretary of state, whatever, doesn't have the right to go over their books and make sure everything's honest, I mean, how can you have a country?
You can't have anything that way. You can't have a business that way. You can't have a country that way.
Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: Marc Fogel will be at the White House tonight at about 10:00. If you want to come over, you can say hello to him, all right?
QUESTION: Did you give anything in return?
TRUMP: Not much. No, they were very nice. We were treated very nicely by Russia, actually. I hope that's the beginning of a relationship where we can end that war and millions of people can stop being killed.
They have lost millions of people. They have lost, in terms of soldiers, probably 1.5 million soldiers in a short period of time. We got to stop that war. And I'm interested primarily from the standpoint of death. We're losing all those soldiers. And they're not American soldiers. They're Ukrainian and Russian soldiers.
But you're probably talking about a million-and-a-half. I think we got to bring that one to an end, OK? Thank you. Thank you very much.
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: Ten o'clock, 10:00 tonight at the White House.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: All right, guys.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Thanks, everybody.
(CROSSTALK)
CAIN: Fascinating, compelling, wide-ranging Q&A with President Trump and Elon Musk from the Oval Office.
The aesthetics, first and foremost, hard to watch, hard to look away, actually, hard to stop watching what just took place on your screen right there on FOX, President Trump turning over a remarkable amount of time to Elon Musk.
Among these forums, on these stages, I don't think we have ever seen President Trump turn over to someone else so much of center stage, Elon Musk taking a wide-ranging Q&A, talking about conflicts of interest, talking about transparency, but perhaps the star of the past 40 minutes was Elon Musk's son X.
Personally, I think we might want to trust a man to scour the government for waste and fraud who doesn't waste money on a babysitter. And perhaps the biggest victory when it comes to the last 45 minutes, little X managed to finally clear that nostril out from whatever was hanging and bothering him for most of that executive order signing in the Oval Office.
President Trump and Elon Musk laid out that many people on the federal do not pay list are continuing to get paid. That doesn't make sense, said Trump and Musk. Why is that we continue to pay people who are not supposed to be paid?
He talked how hard it is for someone to actually retire from the federal government. Elon Musk described a little mine shaft of envelopes going up and down that allows someone to get across the finish line of retirement for the federal government.
Musk was asked about conflicts of interest. He said a very interesting thing. He said trust is earned through transparency. Trust is not accomplished through acclimation. You don't simply say, trust me. You earn trust with transparency. He said he would be transparent on his own businesses at the DOD or at NASA when it comes to looking for government efficiency.
It was absolutely fascinating to hear President Trump say this could all add up to hundreds of billions of dollars, perhaps trillions that we could save by scouring through the federal government's expenditures.
One other note. President Trump and Elon Musk laid out the types of payments that are going out your door, the types of payments that are coming out of your pocket, the taxpayer. There was a line in there. I hope you caught it. Elon Musk said, in some cases, going to fund terrorists.
That's what I want to talk to you about next, an absolutely stunning story that was just reported from the Middle East Forum. After years of doing research and looking into USAID funds, they found $164 million going to radical groups tied to terrorist organizations.
They did, again, a multiyear study of USAID and they -- quote -- "found complicit in financing jihad."
Our next guest is one of the authors of that report.
He's the Middle East Forum Action director, Benjamin Baird, and he joins me now.
Benjamin, you just heard that from Elon Musk and Donald Trump. Musk pointed out that federal government dollars going to terrorists. You did the multiyear study. Please explain to me how USAID is funding terrorists.
BENJAMIN BAIRD, ACTION DIRECTOR, MIDDLE EAST FORUM: Right.
President Trump said very clearly that USAID is incompetent and corrupt. He said that just now. And it is. Just look at the "Sesame Street" program in Iraq or look at the condoms that USAID sent to the Taliban to the tune of hundreds of thousands of dollars.
But it's also dangerous, extremely dangerous. You got it right, $164 million to radical groups and $122 million to terror-linked organizations. That's what we found in a review of USAID that goes back to the Obama years. And these groups, they're not the Cub Scouts of America, to quote Senator John Kennedy, who took a look at our study.
CAIN: Right.
BAIRD: USAID recipients have celebrated the October 7 attacks. They have called for their lands to be cleansed of the impurity of Jews.
These are deeply anti-American organizations, these so-called charities that view the U.S. as a colonizer and a great evil.
CAIN: Right. Benjamin, if I could jump in...
BAIRD: But these grantees aren't just extremists and -- sure.
CAIN: If I can jump in, and I apologize, just because I'm short on time here.
BAIRD: Of course.
CAIN: As that Oval Office signing with President Trump and Elon Musk ran for most of the program.
I actually just want to list off some of the specifics that came from your study, so that the audience understands clearly. We're talking about funds that went to Al Qaeda, Sudan, that, in one case, one of America's most famous terrorists, Anwar al-Awlaki, had his college tuition paid to Colorado state by USAID.
And in some cases Hezbollah, a designated terrorist organization, USAID materials were found in the same place as weapons caches. Is this the types of specifics we're talking about when it comes to terrorists?
BAIRD: Oh, absolutely.
You have USAID recipients who have recently held meetings with Hamas royalty. The son of slain Hamas commander Ismail Haniyeh, who was killed in Iran, a USAID recipient of $900,000, recently held a conference with this group. It's absolutely deplorable.
CAIN: It is horrific to think about. And it's been denied, by the way. We have seen condescension from the likes of CBS' Margaret Brennan saying that's not happening.
You at the Middle East Forum have done the study. So when Elon Musk stands in the Oval Office today and says some of your government waste is going to funding the other side of a jihadi war, you have laid it out at the Middle East Forum.
Benjamin, thanks so much for being with us and helping us highlight that today.
So how is it possible we Americans have spent so much money on potential terrorist activities? Maybe my next guest can help answer that question.
Former State Department official Christian Whiton and Save Our Allies founder Tim Kennedy both joined us now.
But, Tim, I have got to start with you. You're a Green Beret. To hear that, I mean, the United States' dollar is going to the other side of a war you fought, maybe not directly with some of these organizations, Hezbollah, Hamas, but you were Afghanistan. You were in Iraq. You fought against this jihadi ideology.
TIM KENNEDY, FOUNDER, SAVE OUR ALLIES: Yes, it's not surprising.
I think every GWOT veteran can recognize, especially special operations guys, that we have seen USAID logos and banners at radical camps throughout Africa and the Middle East.
It absolutely undermines our credibility when we're trying to make -- spread the idea that is the beautiful thing about America and create stability and security throughout the world, so that it's a safer world, when we go to a radical or terrorist camp and then see American taxpaying dollars supporting that radical group. It's heartbreaking.
CAIN: But, Christian, we just -- again, we just heard from Elon Musk and Donald Trump in the Oval Office talking about how this happens, right, how these checks go out.
You worked at the State Department. Help me understand how this happens that we fund something that we are so clearly against as Americans.
CHRISTIAN WHITON, FORMER U.S. DEPUTY SPECIAL ENVOY: Yes, there's a couple, two things. One is that a USAID has, as Tim just implied, a real problem with enemy identification.
And they also have a problem understanding that they're part of U.S. national security. A lot of people who work at AID don't. They think they work for some giant NGO that's in charge of do-goodery and just giving handouts for the sake of giving handouts. And the idea that that should be aligned with foreign policy is alien to them.
The first time I was at the State Department in the Bush administration, AID was giving lots and lots of food aid to North Korea. And we said, hey, maybe this isn't such a good idea. North Korea can just sell this on the black market, convert it to cash. A lot of dissidents were showing up, defectors, with pictures of this stuff in the black market.
And they thought they could be clever and send wheat instead of -- or, bulgur, instead of wheat, and get around this and just cluelessness about it. And you see this with that grant they gave, that scholarship they gave to al-Awlaki. The idea that you can bring someone who's an Islamist over here, and he will understand America and see America and become a liberal, just doesn't happen.
One of the intellectual heavyweights of the Muslim Brotherhood actually studied, ironically, also in Colorado came here, hated it, and said that it was part of his radicalization. So they don't understand political Islam. They don't understand how to fight it. And they don't understand that giving out money should enhance our national security when we do it.
CAIN: Incredible.
I'm just going to ask you guys both this really quickly, about 30 seconds. This is -- we have established now through this study, and you guys' both life experience, what we have done here, what we have funded with these dollars. You both just listened, I'm sure, to Musk and to Trump.
Just to hear the way we waste money, Tim, just not even as part of the war fighter class, but just as a taxpaying American, your thoughts?
KENNEDY: I'm a small business owner, and I know in the private sector we have to count every single kernel, every single bean. I'm taxed when I store stuff. I'm taxed when I sell stuff. I'm taxed the property on it. I'm taxed in every imaginable way.
And then to see the waste, fraud, and abuse that's happening within our own government with those tax dollars, it's heartbreaking. And I think it is -- it's a slap in the face to every single American. But we saw that in November that demanded change.
And now they're trying to get in the way of some confirmations, the Kennedys and the Tulsi Gabbards and the Kash Patels.
CAIN: Right.
KENNEDY: So it's only American people to continue to push because we have to demand change.
CAIN: Right.
KENNEDY: If we don't know, this beautiful republic is destined to fail.
CAIN: Not just heartbreaking, infuriating, honestly. We all have to behave this way with our personal finances and our businesses, but apparently it doesn't have to be done with the United States government.
Christian Whiton and Tim Kennedy, thank you both so much.
All right, we like to do this at the end of the show, and I think it's important today, "Will of the People." You have some things to say, but what we just saw and what you see on your screen right now.
First, the mistake that I made.
The Reform Republican says: "Hey, Will, there are 13 federal circuit courts, not nine."
You're correct. I always think I got that wrong because the Ninth, California, is the furthest West one. So I'm just reading it east to west, but there are 13 appellate courts.
Babe says: "Will, you got that Donald Trump outfit down to a T."
Every time you wear a red tie, you get accused of cosplaying Donald Trump.
Another user says: "Someone help will. There's a problem with his makeup between his eyes."
I don't think so, What's Up GOP. I think it's because I'm tired from the Super Bowl, getting four or five hours sleep every night. It's just a little bit sleep-deprived lines in my forehead.
Patty said: "Two hours of FOX to watch while preparing for dinner and enjoying cocktail. Life is good."
Thank you, Patty.
And, finally, C.J. said: "Little X's buddies, 15 years from now, hey, remember that time you picked your nose on national TV in front of the president?"
Yes, little X will be able to tell that story,or, rather, his buddies will tell that story to him years into the future. He was the star of the show. With the world's richest man and the president, it was little X's show.
Thanks for joining us from the heart of America.

Load-Date: February 11, 2025


End of Document
