




thetimes.co.uk
February 6, 2025 Thursday 4:01 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 1853 words
Byline: David Charter and Hugh Tomlinson, Washington
Highlight: From DEI to the FBI, more than 2 million federal workers have been offered the chance to resign — and warned they could be fired if they don’t
Body


Elon Musk’s mass redundancy scheme for US federal employees was put on hold by a judge hours before a midnight deadline to reply to his “fork in the road” email offering up to seven months pay to quit.
About 40,000 staff were said to have replied by Wednesday by emailing the word “resign” to the US Office of Personnel Management (OPM), after the offer of payouts was masterminded by Musk’s Department of Government Efficiency (Doge).
This is about 2 per cent of the workforce, some way short of the 5 to 10 per cent anticipated by 

 in a post on X. Some 6 per cent of federal workers retire or resign in a typical year, according to Partnership for Public Service, a non-partisan charity group.
The 

 administration was temporarily blocked from implementing its plans when George O’Toole Jr, a district judge in Boston, put them on hold until a full court hearing on February 10 to consider challenges from unions to the legality of the process.
Officials said the pace accelerated after a second email clarifying that most of those leaving would be placed on administrative leave rather than required to work out their notice, after confusion over the vague terms of the 

.
Staff woke up on Thursday morning to a third email emphasising that the offer expired at midnight and telling workers that if they did not accept it they could still lose their jobs. There are reports that OPM has an ultimate target of cutting between 30 and 70 per cent of all civilian federal staff. “At this time,” the message read, “we cannot give you full assurance regarding the certainty of your position.”
The original email copied the phrasing of the resignation ultimatum received by Twitter employees after Musk took over in 2022, although that gave employees only 24 hours to make up their minds.

All but a few categories of the 2.4 million civilian federal employees were told they could apply and should do so if they did not want to comply with President Trump’s executive order to work in the office five days a week or to accept “enhanced standards of suitability and conduct”. Security and border staff were initially excluded, as were most of the approximately 2.2 million members of the military.
Numerous federal jobs have already been cut or directly targeted during the first weeks of the Trump administration. There has been an outcry because Musk was neither elected nor formally appointed through a process that would have brought public scrutiny of his powers.

Trump made clear that Musk retains his full support, saying on Monday: “He’s a very talented guy from the standpoint of management and costs. We’re trying to shrink the government, and he can probably shrink it as well as anybody else, if not better.”
Trump’s reforms are beginning to bite across numerous federal departments and agencies, including:
The CIA
The Central Intelligence Agency was originally omitted from the “fork in the road” email but followed suit a week later with offers of paid redundancy to employees, the agency said on Wednesday. It declined to say how many employees received offers or whether they had a deadline.
John Ratcliffe, Trump’s nominee as director, promised big changes during his Senate confirmation hearing. The CIA has been criticised for sending the White House an unclassified email listing employees hired in the past two years, in connection with the cost-cutting drive. “These moves are part of a holistic strategy to infuse the agency with renewed energy, provide opportunities for rising leaders to emerge and better position the CIA to deliver on its mission,” the agency said.
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
The CFPB’s work has been frozen during a review. It was set up by 

 after the 2008 financial crisis to protect consumers from financial abuses and has long been in Republican crosshairs. Its director, Rohit Chopra, a Biden appointment, was fired last weekend, more than a year before the end of his term.
Chopra had led the bureau since 2021, issuing regulations to limit overdraft fees, cap credit card late fees and ban medical debt from appearing on credit reports.
Defence
Trump ordered the Pentagon to begin a review that is expected to see transgender people 

 in the US military and serving personnel discharged. “A man’s assertion that he is a woman, and his requirement that others honour this falsehood, is not consistent with the humility and selflessness required of a service member,” Trump’s executive order stated.
Pete Hegseth, the secretary of defence, was given 30 days to submit a plan to implement the order. An estimated 15,000 military personnel are transgender across active duty, the reserves and National Guard.
Separately, the West Point officer-training academy sent out an order disbanding various clubs and societies, including the National Society of Black Engineers Club, the Native American Heritage Forum and the Society of Women Engineers Club.
Diversity, equity and inclusion
Federal departments were ordered to place all staff involved in delivering diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) policy on leave by January 22 in line with Trump’s first-day executive order to “terminate, to the maximum extent allowed by law, all DEI, DEIA [which includes ‘accessibility’] and ‘environmental justice’ offices and positions”.
No grand total has emerged of staff facing dismissal but the Department of Veterans Affairs reported that it had placed 60 employees on paid administrative leave.
“We look forward to reallocating the millions of dollars the department was spending on DEI programmes and personnel to better serve the men and women who have bravely served our nation,” Morgan Ackley, a department spokeswoman, said.
Education
Trump is preparing an executive order to dismantle the Department of Education, which has 4,400 staff. However, to close down the department formally would require an act of Congress with 60 out of 100 votes in the Senate, which would be impossible given that Republicans have 53 seats and no Democrats are likely to back it.
Trump said on Tuesday he had told Linda McMahon, his nominee for education secretary: “Linda, I hope you do a great job and put yourself out of a job … what I want to do is let the states run schools.”
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
The federal agency that enforces laws against workplace discrimination is a commission of five members appointed by previous presidents. Two Democratic members have been fired by Trump, including Jocelyn Samuels, who was appointed in Trump’s first term to fill a Democratic seat and was in her second term, supposed to run until July 2026. The term of the other fired commissioner, Charlotte Burrows, was due to expire in July 2028.
Inspectors general
Trump fired 17 of the officials responsible for auditing and fraud prevention at each government department. Trump told reporters that “it’s a very common thing to do” and he would “put good people in there that will be very good”.
But inspectors general (IGs) are not normally removed at the start of a new presidency. At least one Democratic appointee, Michael Horowitz, an Obama appointee at the Department of Justice, was not dismissed.
Schumer called the firings a “chilling purge”, while Chuck Grassley, a veteran Republican senator, said that while “there may be a good reason the IGs were fired … regardless, the 30-day detailed notice of removal that the law demands was not provided to Congress”.
Justice

, the attorney-general sworn in on Wednesday, immediately created a task force to examine the “weaponisation” of the Department of Justice. It will investigate the former special counsel Jack Smith, who brought two federal criminal cases against Trump, and “federal co-operation with the weaponisation” by the offices of the Manhattan district attorney, Alvin Bragg, and the New York attorney-general, Letitia James, both of which brought charges against Trump.
An initial purge of Department of Justice staff was begun soon after Trump’s inauguration by an acting attorney-general, James McHenry, and Emil Bove, a defence lawyer in the Stormy Daniels hush-money case. McHenry fired more than a dozen prosecutors who worked on Smith’s two federal criminal cases against Trump, saying they could not be trusted to implement the president’s agenda.
The FBI
Bove ordered officials in each state to compile a list of prosecutors and FBI agents involved in the inquiry into the US Capitol riot by Trump supporters on January 6, 2021.
Jamie Raskin, the leading Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee, called this a “repulsive affront to the rule of law”.

The names of about 5,000 agents were reportedly gathered. In a memo to staff, Bove wrote: “Let me be clear: No FBI employee who simply followed orders and carried out their duties in an ethical manner with respect to January 6 investigations is at risk of termination or other penalties. The only individuals who should be concerned about the process initiated by my January 31, 2025 memo are those who acted with corrupt or partisan intent, who blatantly defied orders from Department leadership, or who exercised discretion in weaponising the FBI.”
National Labor Relations Board
The Trump administration has fired Gwynne Wilcox, a Democrat, from the five-member board, leaving it with just two members, and, because of two vacancies, short of the quorum it needs to adjudicate cases. Trump also fired Jennifer Abruzzo, the general counsel, a Biden appointee who fought to expand workers’ rights. Liz Shuler, a union leader, said the board had been effectively shut down.
Treasury
The highest-ranking career official in the Treasury retired abruptly after a reported dispute with Doge officials seeking access to the government payment system that disburses more than $6 trillion annually.
David Lebryk had been made acting Treasury secretary before Trump’s nominee, Scott Bessent, was confirmed by the Senate. His departure cleared the way for Doge officials to gain “read-only” access to the systems that distribute social security and Medicare benefits, federal salaries, grants, payments to government contractors, tax refunds and other payments, as well as the private information of tens of millions of Americans.
US Agency for International Development
On Monday, Musk posted on X: “We spent the weekend feeding USAid into the wood chipper.”
Almost all 10,235 employees of the overseas development agency will be put on paid leave from Friday, facing the prospect of redundancy, as part of the most sweeping agency overhaul of Trump’s federal cost-cutting drive.
USAid’s workers and contractors overseas have been given 30 days to return to the US, with exceptions for hardships such as safety or medical reasons, followed by “termination of … contracts that are not determined to be essential”.
The evisceration of the 63-year-old agency has been accompanied by a publicity barrage from Musk to highlight USAid spending he considers wasteful.

Load-Date: February 7, 2025


End of Document
