




Fox News JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME 8:00 PM EST
February 4, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6587 words
Byline: Jesse Watters
Guests: Kevin McCarthy, Dana Loesch, Jim Hanson, Alina Habba, Anna Claire Howland
Body


CHRIS BEDFORD, POLITICAL COLUMNIST: He's very lucky to have mostly an executive agenda, very little he needs the Congress for right now, except to fund border security and deportations.
He spent four years in the wilderness getting sharper. Democrats will regret -- regret the rest of their lives -- the way they treated him because now he is back better than ever.
LAURA INGRAHAM, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST, "THE INGRAHAM ANGLE": All right, Chris, thank you so much for joining us late in the show.
That's it for us tonight. Jesse is next.
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST, "JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME": Fox News Alert: Donald Trump just wrapping up a joint news conference with Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu, floating the idea of the United States owning and operating the Gaza Strip.
We'll have more on that later in the show.
They're using the old good cop, bad cop routine in Washington. Trump is the good cop, Elon is the bad cop, and Trump's fine with it.
"The Times" says he is moving at a speed and scale that's shocking civil servants. As Elon and his team are working with a frantic around the clock energy, beds are being moved into the Eisenhower Building so Musk's men can sleep at the office.
Elon's nerd army, a bunch of 18 to 25-yea-olds who rejected seven figure salaries in Silicon Valley to trim fat in DC. Young engineers in black backpacks, underpaid patriots hitting the federal bureaucracy with AI and seeing what kind of waste, fraud and abuse spills out.
For decades, bald, 60-year-old inspector generals audited federal agencies found pork, wrote a report that no one read, and nothing changed.
Finally, Trump assigned it to a pack of whiz kids, and we're already saving a billion bucks a day. Pink slips are flying like confetti at the RNC.
Bureaucrats are showing up to the office, and before they get coffee and log on, DOGE says, come into the conference room and sit down. This will only take a minute.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KRISTINE DRYE, CONTRACTOR, USAID: DOGE was in the building. We started -- we took down our pride flags. We took down -- I took out many books I felt would be incriminating.
No one was talking. We heard they started taking transcripts automatically of all of our Google Meets. We -- they unplugged the news in the little kitchen galleys. It didn't feel good.
And then Saturday, all of the websites went down, and then I lost complete access to my computer.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Elon says we spent the weekend feeding USAID into the wood chipper. He could have gone to some great parties, did that instead.
Musk treating our foreign aid office like a crime scene. Democrats in Congress tried to see what DOGE was doing, but the doors were locked.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So Elon Musk just shut the whole place down?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So you're asking questions of individuals who don't have the answers for you, except all of the wonderful press release that were released to the public. USAID is closed.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Okay, so you are aware, this agency is very busy currently and they are not able to take a meeting currently. They advised that they will be in contact shortly and that best to contact the Department of State at this time if you need any further comments.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Who is they?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The front office of the administrator.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Trump basically shut the government out of government, and the Democrat shrugged, turned around and went to dinner.
This is what Democrats are fighting to save.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: These are some of the insane priorities that that organization has been spending money on.
$1.5 million to advance DEI in Serbia's workplaces.
$70,000.00 for a production of a DEI musical in Ireland.
$47,000.00 for a transgender opera in Colombia.
$32,000.00 for a transgender comic book in Peru.
I don't know about you, but as an American taxpayer, I don't want my dollars going towards this crap, and I know the American people don't either, and that's exactly what Elon Musk has been tasked by President Trump to do, to get the fraud, waste, and abuse out of our federal government.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: We can keep going. $20 million for Iraqi Sesame Street, $2 million for Moroccan pottery classes, $11 million to tell Vietnam to stop burning trash, $27 million to give gift bags to illegals before we deport them.
Millions to help Afghanis grow crops instead of opium. That program was such a success that opium production doubled. We also gave Afghanistan $300 million to build diesel fuel power plants, but they couldn't use them because diesel was too expensive. $200 million on a dam that was too unsafe to ever be used. We could have used that dam in California.
$250 million on a road that was never used. We literally built a road to nowhere. Oh, and we gave Syrians nine mil for humanitarian aid, but someone messed up and it went to al-Qaeda. A million for bat research in Wuhan. That equates to a million dollars for each dead American.
USAID was funding Fashion Week in Paris. France isn't even paying its NATO dues, and we're paying for their Fashion Week.
USAID is a $40 billion deep state social justice slush fund, and the president says it's a little fishy.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REPORTER: Elon Musk, how often are you talking to him? And have there been ideas that he has brought to you that you've said, oh, no, wait a minute. This is going a little too far.
DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Well, many ideas, but look, he's done a great job. Look at all the fraud that he's found in this, USAID. It's a disaster. What the people -- radical left lunatics -- they have things that nobody would have even believed. The whole thing with -- a hundred million spent on, you know what? With money going to all sorts of groups that shouldn't deserve to get any money.
With the money, I'd like to see what the kickbacks are. How much money has been kicked back? Who would spend that kind of money?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: USAID is an American intelligence cutout. They have been caught staging coup after coup across Latin America, funding paramilitary groups and getting kicked out of countries for subversive activities.
The deeper we investigated USAID, the more it looks like a dark money Democrat Super PAC. And if you take all the executives from USAID, the Clinton Foundation, the Gates Foundation, the World Bank, the WHO, you get a Venn diagram that would tickle Kamala Harris.
Burisma got a contract with USAID through Hunter. It was so shady that the Obama White House was like, nice try and canceled it.
Hunter's firm was repping clients who were trying to cash in on USAID disaster relief in Haiti. And by the way, the Clinton Foundation worked arm in arm with USAID in Haiti, and a billion dollars disappeared and Haiti is still Haiti.
USAID was pouring billions into the hands of open borders groups. We were literally funding the invasion and buying them gift bags as they left.
Here's Stephen Miller.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
STEPHEN MILLER, DEPUTY CHIEF-OF-STAFF OR POLICY AND HOMELAND SECURITY ADVISER: There is probably no entity in the government that is more of an entrenched power center of unelected bureaucrats with less accountability, less oversight than USAID.
They funnel money to their cronies all over the world through a swampy network of NGOs, non-governmental organizations, and cutouts, including potentially some very troubling elements of focusing on things like regime change and destabilizing foreign countries.
But this is not about America's interest. Donald Trump is courageously restoring democracy. Americans voted for one man, Donald J. Trump. They voted for Donald Trump to make government accountable to the taxpayer.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: And USAID is only 0.7 percent of the federal budget. If they found this much fraud and corruption in this one tiny agency, imagine how bad the rest of it is. Imagine what we'll find in the Pentagon.
We hit a nerve, and of all the things that Trump's done in three weeks, of all the things, the media chose, foreign aid, getting DOGE'd to go to war,
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JEN PSAKI, MSNBC HOST: What's happening right now is a hostile takeover of the US government.
VAN JONES, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: I'm going to tell you right now, people are going to die in very large numbers around the world who are expecting the United States to live up to our promises, to get them medicine, to get them help. Donald Trump says we don't care. You go die.
JOY REID, MSNBC HOST: If this were happening in any other country right now, I promise you, I'd be on the air calling it a coup.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Cutting foreign spending isn't a coup. A coup is when you whack a doddering president from the ticket.
AOC whose district turned into a red light district because of Biden's migrants, doesn't have a crush on Musk anymore. Now she thinks he's dumb.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ (D-NY): This dude is probably one of the most unintelligent billionaires I have ever met or seen or witnessed.
They don't do their homework. Clearly, like they're putting 19-year-olds in at the Treasury. This dude is not smart and the danger in the lack of intelligence and the lack of expertise that Elon has, I mean, this guy is one of the most morally vacant, but also just least knowledgeable about these systems that we really know of.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: A dumb billionaire doesn't shoot men into space like Musk, a dumb billionaire opens borders and prisons like Soros. Chuck Schumer dropped his Corona and guac and started singing.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): And we will win. We will. Win, we will win. We will win. We will win. We won't rest. We won't rest. We won't rest.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Chuck sings better than he grills, but it wasn't just him. The whole Congress is hysterical.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. ELIZABETH WARREN (D-MA): No one elected Elon Musk to nothing.
REP. MAXINE WATERS (D-CA): That's right.
WARREN: Not one Democrat in America voted for Elon Musk.
REP. JASMINE CROCKETT (D-TX): What we are not going to do is stand around while they pull this bull (bleep). We are going to be in your face. We are going to be on your asses.
REP. AYANNA PRESSLEY (D-MA): We will see you in the courts, in Congress, in the streets.
Elon Musk is a Nazi nepo baby.
REP. BECCA BALINT (D-VT): Every movement needs a scrappy little (bleep) and I am that person.
I need each and every one of you to get in touch with your inner scrappy little (bleep).
WATERS: Nobody elected your ass. This is not Elon Musk's country.
REP. JANELLE BYNUM (D-WA): Take your foot off my neck.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: It's all women screaming and Chuck singing.
No one voted for Dr. Jill, but she was president for four years. When did Democrats start caring about chain of command? They got caught running a shadow government. The commander-in-chief had nap times. He had note cards to tell him where to sit.
Senate Democrats say they're going to retaliate because unless Iraqis watch Sesame Street, the Constitution is in tatters. For them, it's about power, not your tax dollars.
Democrats need dark money agencies like USAID to staff their cronies, launder money, wage information warfare and sabotage Trump, but Musk sniffed it out and DOGE'd them.
They're not mad about the money, they're mad they got caught.
Former Speaker of the House, Kevin McCarthy is back.
All right, McCarthy, why is foreign aid the thing that makes the Democrats squeal so loud?
KEVIN MCCARTHY (R), FORMER SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE: Well, the one thing it shows is they learned nothing from this campaign, that they would defend the transgender operas and what's going on. It also shows the true belief that Democrats, they don't care about taking your hard working money and spending it here.
This is the worst thing I could ever think they could do. They learned nothing in this campaign, and it will only drive them further.
I don't care if you're Republican or Democrat, if you're an American, and they're going to take the tax dollars from you and send them to a foreign country to spend it on these items, no one would defend that.
We have been trying to stop this for years. Thank God, we've got President Trump back into the White House to be able to do it.
WATTERS: So they're saying Musk is unelected. He has all these powers that were not given to him by the American people. We're going to hear that a lot. What's Trump going to say about that?
MCCARTHY: But AOC, you've got to ask AOC, what does she drive? She bought a Tesla. She drives a Tesla.
I'm sorry. Elon Musk is the Thomas Edison, Michelangelo of today. The man is brilliant, and you may not have elected him, but this is -- this is what -- this is what Kennedy actually told us, don't ask what you get from your country, ask what you could do for your country.
These young individuals volunteering, sleeping on the cot, because they could be making millions of dollars, but they're willing to use their brain power, the technology to who? To represent the hard working taxpayer and speak for your money for once, where you actually have a say in.
WATTERS: yes, Musk's crew is sleeping at the office because they're working so hard, and the rest of the bureaucrats are not even going into the office. They're probably double dipping and taking second checks.
How is this going to work? I mean, are they just going to sue and stop the cuts? The Democrats and the senator now, they're just going to put a hold on all Trump nominees. What's that going to look like?
MCCARTHY: Well, they want to stop government from happening. I think that won't stop President Trump. That's the uniqueness about this man. He will go through the brick wall, if that's what it takes.
Did they not learn anything with all the fake stuff they put before him? All the false charges they put before him? It will not stop him. They'll always be looking out for the American person.
And the uniqueness here is, this is exactly what Elon did when he needed to turn around Tesla. I remember calling him, and he said, look, I have about a billion-and-a-half left. I got to get to 5,000 cars produced.
He is living in the factory. He removes engineers that don't know how, and he is hands-on retooling his own manufacturing to get the cars built. That's what he is volunteering to do for America today. You shouldn't be criticizing him, we should be celebrating him.
And because this government has gotten too big, too large, why wouldn't you want to eliminate waste? They're going to fight over -- these are small dollars, really. We need to find even the bigger ones. But this is just the beginning, and if they fight for this, I think the American public will even lead them further. Remember how far the Democratic Party has fallen in the polls, and I think it shows why.
WATTERS: All right, Kevin McCarthy, thank you so much. Really appreciate you coming on JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME.
Are the Democrats planning another coup?
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: Big news, America. Joe Biden's going Hollywood.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REPORTER: What do you think about Joe Biden signing on with a talent agency?
TRUMP: You've got to be kidding. He signed on with a talent agency?
REPORTER: He does. He's got some entertainment agents now.
TRUMP: I think he's got bigger problems than that. I really to do. I think he's got much bigger problems than that, but I wish him well.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: The Big Guy is signing with CAA, the same powerhouse talent agency that reps the Obamas. Is Joe going to write another book or produce Netflix hits like Michelle? You know, the former First Lady is doing a dating show for seniors, maybe after Dougie Fresh made a move on Dr. Jill, Biden wants to be the next Golden Bachelor.
But Joe is not just taking lunch meetings in LA, he has also met the new DNC chair, straight White man, Ken Martin. Mr. Martin's first order of biz as the head of the party, factcheckers.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KEN MARTIN, DNC CHAIRMAN: For the Democratic Party, these first 100 days, we have to do a few things. One is we have to stand up the War Room, which is to make sure that we are stamping out the misinformation and disinformation campaign of the Republican Party.
What we mean by a War Room is making sure that we take on the misinformation, the disinformation that we take these folks on in real time.
The War Room isn't just about going on the offense against Donald Trump, it is also defining who we are as a party, giving people a sense in this country, again, that the Democratic Party is their party. We haven't forgotten about them.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Mr. Martin should tell Chuck Schumer to knock off the props, but Jon Stewart beat him to the punch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JON STEWART, "THE DAILY SHOW" HOST: Your response to the trade war is to (bleep) tell us guacamole is made of avocados.
Democrats, can you please stop (bleep) trotting Schumer out there every time Trump traverses into the unreal, he's not good at this.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: On November 5th, the country spanked the Democrats and told them they were too wacky to wield power. If Democrats want to avoid going politically extinct, they'll have to un-crazy themselves. But it's not going well.
Rank and file leftists are hooked on the race card.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
CROCKETT: I am tired of the White tears. I know that I had to work 10 times as hard as they did just to get into the seat. When you look and you compare me to Marjorie Taylor Greene or me to Lauren Boebert, there is no comparison, and that is the life that we have always lived.
So the only people that are crying are the mediocre White boys that have been beaten out by people that historically have had to work so much harder.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: And after complaining they got creamed by trans ads, first thing they do, they hold a rally for sex changes for kids.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: My best friend's kid is trans. And my kid's best friend is trans.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It is unlawful to deny anyone medical care in this city. What a shame. You will never deny our trans children, our trans youth.
We will continue tonight when we take out to the streets for trans revolution for everyone.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Last week, a trans woman, whatever that means, tried to assassinate Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent.
Democrats really aren't sending their best.
Nationally syndicated radio host, Dana Loesch is here. So how is the new Democratic Party going in February, Dana?
DANA LOESCH, NATIONALLY SYNDICATED RADIO HOST AND AUTHOR: I think their sanity is on life support, Jesse, the stuff that you're playing is -- it's scary because it's true. They can't uncrazy themselves.
This is a whole ideological belief set that is built on an ecosystem of rewarding this stuff. They reward the craziest people amongst them. They reward the craziest soundbites, the most insane proposals.
I mean, to have somebody like Jasmine Crockett say blatantly racist things, and there to be no accountability for that, while they're simultaneously accusing everyone else of the offenses that they're actually carrying out against everyone.
I mean, there's just no self-awareness. And by the way, I have to say I have no idea what Joe Biden is going to do. This is the first time he's having to work in the private sector, I think my whole life. I don't know that he's ever worked in the private sector.
Maybe they're doing a "Weekend at Bernie's" part two or three, and he's going for that. That would be great casting. So I could see, you know, CAA having to get involved in that.
But this party is off the rails. The only way to go for them is down. They're going to have to completely start all over again from scratch, because they're never going to be able to be what they were like the Kennedy Democrats in the 60s, they're never going to go back to that. The new members won't allow it.
WATTERS: When Stewart says, send Chuck home, does that carry weight?
LOESCH: No --
WATTERS: No?
LOESCH: I really don't think it does. I think that Jon Stewart thinks that it carries weight --
WATTERS: Stewart has no juice?
LOESCH: -- but I don't think so.
WATTERS: Okay, so you're going to see Schumer every day for four years.
LOESCH: I think Chuck Schumer is like -- he is like the sanest person in the party right now, which is kind of, I can't even believe I've said that. I can't believe I just said that he's like the sanest person in the Democratic Party right now. That's how crazy they are, Jesse.
They're making him look like he's reasoned and rational, and we both know that that's not the case, but I don't think that Jon Stewart can even walk this back.
They made a grift off of this, off of the party going so far left, lurching so far left. They made money off of that. They encouraged it. They're part of the reason why the left is so far gone, and now they want to try to pull it back, like they're the ombudsman of this? That's not how it works.
WATTERS: You know, the two rallies that the Democrats have held since this inauguration. One was in LA where they were burning American flags, and the second one was here in Manhattan, when they were screaming about doing sex change operations on children. How do you think the streets are doing?
LOESCH: Yes, not -- they are not following that, for sure. I mean, I think, you know, you and I have talked about this before, this election was like the election of the normies, where the normies rose up and they thought, this is too crazy even, you know, for like, maybe typical classical liberals, this is too crazy for us.
And so all of these normal people went over to the Republican side of things, and they voted for normalcy. They voted for Trump and Democrats are still doubling down on this, which just -- it goes to show you, they're more devoted to this message of ideological insanity than they are the voters that they're claiming that they are activating to serve.
There's no -- they still haven't proposed anything that they believe would do better for voters than what Trump is offering right now. And I've got to tell you, I may not agree with everything that Trump is talking about lately, particularly some of the stuff with Gaza, but I have never seen a politician wake up and go from morning to night getting the business done of the American people.
I don't think, Jesse, you and I don't even have his energy. I think he's a robot. He's just going, going, going and delivering on all of this stuff. Meanwhile, Democrats, al they are doing is bitching and moaning about trans and sex changes and having taxpayers fund all of this and fighting against deportation and accountability.
That is not going to win a single voter. I would like to have multiple healthy party system, but Democrats can't be a part of it. That party is dead. It's a dead party. They're just -- it's a ghost anymore.
WATTERS: That's such a great point that they're serving their ideology instead of the voters. I just didn't know that guacamole came from avocado, and I'm so glad crying Chuck Schumer enlightened me. I don't know what I would have done on Super Bowl Sunday.
LOESCH: And he hold up a can of Corona, a can.
WATTERS: Never, never from a can.
Dana Loesch, good to see you.
Gaza is getting a Trump Tower. Right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: Fox News Alert: President Trump just said the United States is taking over Gaza.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: Everybody I've spoken to loves the idea of the United States owning that piece of land, developing and creating thousands of jobs with something that will be magnificent and a really magnificent area that nobody would know.
I don't want to be cute. I don't want to be a wise guy, but the Riviera of the Middle East, this could be something that could be so -- this could be so magnificent.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Who thought we'd have an American state in Gaza before a Palestinian state? You thought the Israelis were going to occupy Gaza? The Americans are.
Trump says he wants control of the Strip so he can finally bring peace and prosperity and seaside condos. The media suddenly started hating nation building.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JIM SCIUTTO CNN ANCHOR AND CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: It's preposterous, and it's illegal by any understanding of international law.
VAUGHN HILLYARD, NBC NEWS: This is not anything of a plan. This is a complete American imperialism at its roots, at its core. Donald Trump suggesting that this land in the Middle East would be better occupied and overseen by America.
I just don't think we can really begin to even comprehend what we're hearing two weeks in from this administration.
RULA JEBREAL, PALESTINIAN POLICY EXPERT: Clearly, America is now, you know, expressing clearly that they want to occupy permanently, probably Gaza. They want the ethnic cleansing of Palestinians.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Trump shooting to be the greatest deal maker in history. There's one deal no president has ever been able to make, peace in the Middle East. Is taking over Gaza the solution? We don't know.
Do the Palestinians want this? We'll have to send Johnny to Gaza to find out.
But you're not going to get results by doing the same old thing over and over again.
Middle East Forum Affiliation chief editor, Jim Hanson is here.
So what's the deal with this one?
JIM HANSON, ARMY SPECIAL FORCES VETERAN AND CHIEF EDITOR AT MIDDLE EAST FORUM: Jesse, I'm sorry you interrupted me, I was looking at ocean front property on the MAGA Strip, maybe Mar-a-Lago on the Med.
Look, this is Donald Trump doing what he does better than anyone. He kicked over the conference tables. He said, nothing anyone has done in the past 75 years has been even slightly fruitful. Let's go to the source of the problem.
The source of the problem is the Gazans and the Palestinian Authority and the predecessors have been trying to drive the Jews into the sea and own the land from the river to the sea for far too long. Let's not do that anymore. Let's make it great again.
WATTERS: Does it have to become a US state? I mean, we're already adding stars for Canada, Greenland, potentially Panama.
HANSON: Yes, I don't know if we make it a state, a territory, or if we just rebuild it and make it an international economic zone. I don't know.
Donald Trump seems to be able to do whatever he sets his mind to these days. Let's get him and Elon working on this, and some of the rest of the brainiacs they know, and figure out a better way for that piece of land to stop being one of the biggest problems on the planet.
WATTERS: He also said today that he'd obliterate Iran if they ever made mischief again. Is this proposal also aimed at the Iranians?
HANSON: It tells the Iranians that you may have proxies you've been paying to cause trouble and to turn that region into a hell hole for a long time, and that's not the way it's going to be anymore.
And if you come for the king, you're not only going to miss we're going to squash you flat. I think the messaging is clear, do not mess with the big dog because he's coming off the porch.
WATTERS: So we'll just evict the Iranian sponsored tenants who have been reigning mayhem with condom bombs all over Israel. And the Saudis do want to deal, Trump is also trying to get the Saudis and the Israelis together. Does this play into that?
HANSON: You know, that would be the biggest parlay in the world. I think let's not underestimate the difficulty of this. This is a massive undertaking, but so has everything else been, and leaving them there is just a guarantee of more terrorism.
So let's get the Saudis. Let's get the rest of the Gulf Arabs involved. Let's get the Europeans involved, everybody has a stake in something better than what's going on.
And if the two-state solution is Israel and Jordan and Egypt on the other side, then I think that's better than what anybody has come up with so far, let's give it a try.
WATTERS: I mean, if the Democrats were all on board to rebuild Afghanistan, I mean, Gaza should just be just -- that's child's play.
Hanson, I've got to go, but thank you so much for joining us in this breaking news environment.
HANSON: Always great, Jesse.
WATTERS: Alina Habba is the counselor to President Trump, and joins me now.
Was this idea that people were kind of spit balling throughout the day. How did this idea come together?
ALINA HABBA, COUNSELOR TO PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: There is nobody better at making a deal than the man who wrote "The Art of the Deal." That's the truth, Jesse.
Listen, he wants one thing, and that's the art of peace. I think that should be his next chapter, and this is a big step towards that.
There is nobody who will be better, as we've seen, and just look at what he's done since we've been in. It has been so fast and so rapid that even the left-wing media can't keep up with how much good we're doing and that's what we need in America.
We're going to help. We're going to have collaborative help. We're going to do things such as tell people that we will tariff you if you're taking advantage of America, and then we will work together, because the end result and the end goal is one thing, and that's the truth, Jesse, and this is something we've talked about ad nauseam every day since we've gotten in.
Let's make the world better by making America stronger and we've seen that that works, and it works under President Trump. And there's only really one person that could have done this, and that's the president himself.
WATTERS: Well, the Democrats have been crazy about freezing foreign aid. This one unleashed some considerable foreign aid, rebuilding Gaza, do you think that this is something that maybe the Democrats could agree to?
HABBA: I think they should, if they care about world peace. I think they should, if they care about, stop spending 70, you know, however much money they're spending on DEI plays and operas in Colombia.
We've seen $50 million to Gaza for condoms that they're using for bombs. We're seeing all kinds of spending being cut.
So why not spend that money on protecting people in the world who have been persecuted and prosecuted, much like President Trump, who are going to be given a safe haven, and while they do, let's take that strip and let's make it great again.
Let's make the world great again by making America great again. And that's what President Trump is doing. He is literally using this position to do as much good as humanly possible, not just for America, but for humanity and the left's spin that you're talking about, you and I know it well, it is a panic.
It's a frantic grasp for air so that they can twist and turn all the good that he is doing, but America sees what it is. They had a mandate on November 5th. It was clear. They wanted peace. They wanted strength. They want peace through strength, and that is what President Trump is going to do, not just for us, but for everybody and I think this is a clear signal of that.
WATTERS: You know, he used the same play to seduce Little Rocket Man. He said, just put the missiles away. We could build beautiful housing in the Korean Peninsula. We don't need to fight each other. We can all live happily.
It's the same thing here. Do you think these countries are going to go for it? Some of these people in Gaza, he might want to have go to Egypt or Jordan.
HABBA: I think we should look at what's happened already. I think facts speak very loudly, and I like to speak in fact, maybe it's the lawyer in me. But let's look at what happened with Colombia. Let's look at what happened with Mexico. Let's look at what happened with Canada. Our facts speak louder than anything else, and the history of this administration in the past few weeks, only a few weeks, speak louder than words and that is strength.
We are going to make the world better. We really are. Maybe it should be make the world better again and great again. But that is what we're working at. It's not just about America.
When America is strong, everybody wants to get on board. And we're seeing that now, maybe we have to say we're going to tariff you, we will sanction you if you don't behave yourself, if you take advantage of our economics, if you bring fentanyl into our country, which is what they're doing. It's a fentanyl crisis right now. We're not going to let you kill our people.
And we're not going to let you kill other people that are innocent, and that's what President Trump is standing for, what's righteous, what's good and what's clean. And I think that that's unfortunately going to upset some bureaucrats that were making money off of this regime in the last administration. But those days are long gone.
WATTERS: All right, well, Alina is already looking at land in the Mediterranean. It is a hot market. You want to get in now, get in while you can. Alina is going over. MAGA of the Mediterranean. Thank you so much, Alina Habba.
HABBA: Thank you.
WATTERS: Breaking news on RFK, Jr. and Tulsi Gabbard and the mystery MAGA Cover Girl, next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: Fox News Alert: "The Wall Street Journal" is reporting the CIA has reportedly just offered a buyout to its entire workforce. Everyone in the agency is telling employees late today, they can quit their jobs and receive about eight months of pay and benefits. It is a part of Trump's push to downsize the federal government. More as we get it.
Another Fox News Alert: Moments ago, Pam Bondi was confirmed to serve as the US Attorney General. She'll be leading the charge in cleaning up the Justice Department.
And today, Tulsi Gabbard and RFK, Jr. cleared some major hurdles on their way to getting confirmed, surviving tough committee votes. This is a big win for the Trump team.
Tulsi and RFK were always going to be the hardest to get through and if Trump can pull this off without losing any political capital, then the Golden Age becomes a lot easier.
America has embraced the MAGA movement. Nearly 80 million Americans voted for Trump in November, but for some women, a vote for Trump is a deal breaker.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I met this pretty girl, right? Everything was looking real. I was like, man, I finally found the one right. Then we were talking, and she said, so what do you do? I said, I do a about different work or whatever. I'm not going to tell y'all. And then we talked, and she said, what else do you do? I said, I post a little bit online. She said, oh, let me see. I started my TikTok account.
Instantly cut me off.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Seventy-three percent of women say they would be less likely to date someone who's a Trump supporter, even though half the country voted for him. But it's not just the dating world. Democrats are deciding to get mean. They're turning into bullies, embracing their inner Regina George, and they're ready to fight, fight, fight.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SUZANNE LAMBERT, CONTENT CREATOR: One thing that Regina is really good at, she is good at organizing. She's good at garnering attention. She hits back. She sticks up for herself and that's something that we haven't seen historically from Democrats.
You don't fight fire with a little drippy water hose. You fight fire with equal exertion of force. And I think that we need to do that. I want people to feel more comfortable fighting back, and I also want people to see other people fighting for them.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: "New York" Magazine is taking the Mean Girl motto to heart, smearing a group of young conservatives as the Cruel Kids Table, but the college student at the center of that hit piece is finally speaking out. Here she is.
Anna Claire Howland joins me now.
How are you doing, Anna?
ANNA CLAIRE HOWLAND, MAGA'S COVER GIRL: I'm good. How are you?
WATTERS: Good.
So what's it like being famous?
HOWLAND: It's definitely been a whirlwind of a week. I've received a lot of unexpected attention, positive and negative from this article. So, it's definitely been interesting, for sure.
WATTERS: So they call you a cruel kid. Are you cruel?
HOWLAND: They do call me a cruel kid. I wouldn't consider myself one, but thankfully, I've had a lot of people standing up for me on the internet, people I know, and then also just people that have the same beliefs as me. So that's really helped me through this process.
WATTERS: Have you gotten any marriage proposals?
HOWLAND: I've gotten a few of those, a few asked to a Mavs game, so I might have to take some people up on that one.
WATTERS: Was Johnny one of those people who proposed to you?
HOWLAND: Maybe. I can't say names.
WATTERS: Okay. Well, you hear about these numbers, these women won't date MAGA supporters. I'm sure you've dated MAGA supporters. Tell the people who don't understand what that's like.
HOWLAND: I don't know. As a conservative woman, I haven't had many problems dating people just because of my political views. But I also don't think there's an issue dating somebody with maybe different slight views as you. I'm not really sure, I haven't had much experience with that.
WATTERS: Have you ever dated a liberal guy?
HOWLAND: I haven't.
WATTERS: No. Okay, I think that pretty much sums it up. What is it with politics and dating? Why does it have to be such a big deal?
HOWLAND: I'm not sure. I think nowadays, things are super polarized and so -- and there's also a stigma with the media, if you lean one side, then you can't associate with the other in friendships and in romantic relationships.
I've kind of seen that as I branched out from my hometown and met different people, but here with the right people, people with good character, it doesn't matter what side you lean on, they'll still associate with you.
WATTERS: Why do you think you and you know some of your younger friends were voting for Donald Trump?
HOWLAND: I just agree with more of the policies. I think, after doing my own research, it's the kind of direction I want our future, to head in our nation, to head in. And I just -- I stand on that side.
WATTERS: All right, well, Anna, thank you so much for joining JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME. You're not cruel.
HOWLAND: Thank you. And thank you so much for having me.
WATTERS: Of course, we're going to send Johnny down to your school to bother you. Sorry. It's just going to have to happen. Have a great night.
More PRIMETIME straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: I've been doing the cold plunge backwards. You're supposed to go hot then cold. I've been going cold then hot. I haven't been able to even enjoy any of the benefits of the cold plunge because I've had it backwards, blank, backwards.
But now that I've been doing it the right way, the last two days, I feel different, feeling much better. Just took me nine months to figure it out.
Let's do some texts.
Steve from Conroe, Texas: Everybody relax. When you trim the pork, the pigs will always squeal.
Earl from Milwaukee, Wisconsin: Jesse, can you remind me how many rockets has AOC built?
None comes to mind.
We have Lawrence from Michigan: Jesse, how do I become as dumb as Elon? I need the money.
A dumb billionaire oxymoron.
Chris from Lander, Wyoming: I wish I could have seen Johnny's face when you said you might send him to Gaza.
Might be the last trip Johnny ever makes.
Mike from Canton, Connecticut: Can't wait to be sipping out of a coconut on the beach at Trump National Gaza in 2030.
Come on, man, that's going to be on time and under budget. Try 2028. Got to do that the last year you're in office.
Zach from Salem, Ohio: Let's not forget, Regina George got hit by a bus.
I didn't watch that movie. My staff thought it would be funny to write that into the script, and I read it like an idiot.
Blank you, Sandy. I go. I'm Watters, this is my world.

Load-Date: February 5, 2025


End of Document
