




MailOnline
February 7, 2025 Friday 3:19 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: MEDIA; Version:1
Length: 989 words
Byline: Lauren Acton-Taylor For Dailymail.Com
Body


One of Elon Musk's DOGE staffers who goes under the self-proclaimed nickname 'Big Balls' has left a CNN host discussing his moniker on-air shocked. 
In a segment where Outfront's Erin Burnett claimed that Musk's 'government experts' at DOGE were not given a background check, the host shared the anatomical pseudonym of Edward Corestine.
'So, this is a 19-year-old high school graduate who has used the unfortunate nickname "Big Balls" online,' said Katie Drummond, Global Editorial Director for Wired, while appearing on the segment. 
'He is now working at Musk's behest inside DOGE,' she continued, before revealing the staffer had also founded multiple companies. 
'Including one with another unfortunate name "Tesla dot Sexy LLC" which he established in 2021, he would have been about 16 years old,' she said. 
'Now, this LLC controls dozens of web domains,' she continued, before claiming that some of the web connections 'would raise red flags on a background check.' 
Burnett then pointed out how DOGE has been filled with young staffers like Coristine, who now have access to the country's 'private information.' 
'So now you look at these young men who are now in data and in the private information about maybe hundreds of millions of Americans as young as nineteen, [like] "Big Balls" here,' Burnett said. 
'Most of them are in their early twenties, there's an exception I'm gonna get to in a minute. I'm curious though, Kara, how well does Musk even know these young men do you think?' 
'I have no idea, I think there was no vetting whatsoever, as you can see, that's taken place,' said Kara Swisher, who has interviewed and covered Musk for decades. 
'I could make a joke, that's probably why he was hired for all this ridiculous nonsense and other nefarious things.' 
'They are careless. I don't believe any bit of them when they say they vetted these people... They're people that will listen to whatever Elon says and do whatever he wants and thinks it's a ball to do this, and very funny. 
'And so, they're willing to do things, say adults wouldn't be willing to do, or cross lines that they wouldn't be,' Swisher said.
'He wants these malleable young men in particular to do this, and they think it's fun and it probably is for them.'
'The arrogance is massive, and the ignorance is even bigger,' Swisher declared on the segment. 
The criticism of Musk's DOGE picks comes as another staffer resigned after his questionable digital footprint linked him to various racist social media posts promoting eugenics. 
Marko Elez was one of two employees at DOGE who were granted access to $5 trillion in the Treasury payment systems following an 11th hour court hearing on Thursday. 
But by Thursday afternoon, the 25-year-old trusted Musk ally had resigned after The Wall Street Journal probed his links to the since-deleted social media account.
According to the publication, the X account 'advocated repealing the Civil Rights Act and backed a "eugenic immigration policy".'
Other posts allegedly read, 'You could not pay me to marry outside of my ethnicity', and 'normalize Indian hate.'
Another allegedly read: 'Just for the record, I was racist before it was cool.'
The account also weighed in on the Israel-Palestine crisis, with a post that read: 'I would not mind at all if Gaza and Israel were both wiped off the face of the Earth.'
 White House spokesperson Karoline Leavitt said that Elez had resigned from his role.
Elez graduated with a computer science degree from Rutgers University and went on to work for Musk's SpaceX, Starlink, and X, with a focus predominately in AI.
Not all of CNN staff have criticized DOGE, such as the outlet's 'black sheep' Scott Jennings who reminded the network's stable of liberals why Musk was brought in in the first place. 
Musk has been a controversial figure since joining team Trump and being named the chairman of the Department of Government Efficiency, aka DOGE.
Democrats have slammed Musk for attempting to shut down the U.S. Agency for International Development and other government programs.
Jennings, the left-leaning network's most prominent conservative voice, defended Musk on Wednesday night, responding specifically to The View co-host and anti-Trump conservative Alyssa Farah Griffin.
'The American people elected Donald Trump because they thought he was going to be a sledgehammer against this government and against the out-of-control bureaucracy,' Jennings said.
DOGE has long been pitched as Musk's attempt to eliminate billions of dollars in excess Washington spending.
'Elon Musk is the instrument of the destruction,' Jennings added, describing Musk's efforts as 'radical transparency.'
'Did you know your money's going here? Did you know your money's going there?' Jennings said of what Musk is doing. 'It's all upside for Trump.'
Musk's role with the Department of Government Efficiency is primarily to reduce unnecessary government spending.
'DOGE is saving the Federal Government approx. $1 billion/day, mostly from stopping the hiring of people into unnecessary positions, deletion of DEI and stopping improper payments to foreign organizations, all consistent with the President's Executive Orders,' DOGE said in a statement.
'A good start, though this number needs to increase to > $3 billion/day.'
Musk's DOGE has hit the ground running much like the rest of the Trump administration in the first week on the job.
His officials are now proposing the deployment of artificial intelligence to upgrade government systems.
Trump's DOGE is also offering cushy 'buyout' deals to federal employees in the hopes of cutting back between five and 10 percent of the workforce.
A White House official confirmed to DailyMail.com on Thursday that more than 40,000 federal workers had accepted the offer before the quickly approaching midnight deadline.
Additionally, DOGE has set to work removing the Chief Diversity Officers Executive Council website from the U.S. Office of Personnel Management.

Load-Date: February 7, 2025


End of Document
