




MailOnline
February 13, 2025 Thursday 9:36 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 614 words
Byline: Ed Holt
Body


                     Elon Musk has urged President Trump to 'delete entire agencies' as part of his push to radically cut the US government's spending.
Musk made the comment during a video call to the World Governments Summit in Dubai where he spoke at length about what he described as the priorities of the Trump administration.
He also made multiple references to 'thermonuclear warfare' and the possible dangers of artificial intelligence. 
'We really have here rule of the bureaucracy as opposed to rule of the people - democracy,' Musk said.
He added: 'I think we do need to delete entire agencies as opposed to leave a lot of them behind.
'If we don't remove the roots of the weed, then its's easy for the weed to grow back.'
While Musk has spoken to the summit in the past, his appearance today comes as he has consolidated control over large swaths of the government with Trump´s blessing since assuming leadership of the Department of Government Efficiency. 
DOGE announced last week that thousands of employees at USAid had been ordered to stay at home and the department's headquarters in DC was closed.
On top of this, DOGE has terminated nearly $1billion in Department of Education contracts and has been given access to classified information regarding USAid and Medicare despite not having proper security clearance.
Musk's new role mean his comments at the summit carry more weight beyond being the world's wealthiest person through his investments in SpaceX and electric carmaker Tesla.
His remarks also offered a more-isolationist view of American power in the Middle East, where the U.S. has fought wars in both Afghanistan and Iraq since the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks.
'A lot of attention has been on USAID for example,' Musk said, referring to Trump's dismantling of the U.S. Agency for International Development. 'There's like the National Endowment for Democracy. But I'm like, "Okay, well, how much democracy have they achieved lately?"'
He added that the U.S. under Trump is 'less interested in interfering with the affairs of other countries.'
There are 'times the United States has been kind of pushy in international affairs, which may resonate with some members of the audience,' Musk said, speaking to the crowd in the UAE, an autocratically ruled nation of seven sheikhdoms.
He spoke while wearing wearing a black T-shirt that read: "Tech Support." He also joked that he was the "White House´s tech support," borrowing from his profile on the social platform X, which he owns. 
'Basically, America should mind its own business, rather than push for regime change all over the place,' he said.
He also noted the Trump administration's focus on eliminating diversity, equity and inclusion work, at one point linking it to AI.
'If hypothetically, AI is designed for DEI, you know, diversity at all costs, it could decide that there´s too many men in power and execute them,' Musk said.
On AI, Musk said he believed X's newly updated AI chatbot, Grok 3, would be ready in about two weeks, calling it at one point 'kind of scary.' 
He criticized Sam Altman's management of OpenAI, which Musk just led a $97.4 billion takeover bid for, describing it as akin to a nonprofit aimed at saving the Amazon rainforest becoming a 'lumber company that chops down the trees.'
Musk also announced plans for a 'Dubai Loop' project in line with his work in the Boring Company - which is digging tunnels in Las Vegas to speed transit. However, he and the Emirati government official speaking with him offered no immediate details of the plan.
'It´s going to be like a wormhole,' Musk promised. 'You just wormhole from one part of the city - boom - and you're out in another part of the city.'

Load-Date: February 13, 2025


End of Document
