




The Independent (United Kingdom)
February 6, 2025 Thursday 7:17 AM EST


Copyright 2025 Independent Print Ltd  All Rights Reserved


Section: TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY NEWS, Airline industry news, US news & US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT NEWS
Length: 463 words
Byline: Gustaf Kilander
Body


Transportation Secretary Sean Duffy announced Wednesday that 's Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) will take part in upgrading the U.S. 
"Big News," Duffy wrote on X. "Talked to the DOGE team. 
 "With the support of President @realDonaldTrump, the @DOGE team will aim to make rapid safety upgrades to the air traffic control system. Just a few days ago, the FAA's primary aircraft safety notification system failed for several hours!"
Musk has had a difficult relationship with the  since at least 2023, according to . The FAA accused Musk's company  last September of having used a launch control room for one of its missions which had not been approved by the agency. The FAA ended up fining SpaceX for that and a number of other violations more than $600,000. 
Following Musk's objections, former FAA administrator Michael Whitaker announced that the FAA would delay a scheduled launch of a SpaceX rocket. Musk called for Whitaker to resign on a number of occasions, and the FAA administrator left his post on President 's inauguration day last month,  noted, just days before the deadly crash last week between an Army helicopter and American Airlines flight in Washington, D.C that killed 67 people. 
Even as the U.S. is suffering a shortage of air traffic controllers, the Trump administration included the FAA in its massive buyout offer to federal employees. Following last week's collision before almost no details were known, Trump blamed diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) initiatives. 

Biden Transportation Secretary  blasted the administration, accusing the Trump team of creating a chaotic atmosphere at the FAA before the crash. 
"They can't spin this away. The Trump administration contacted air traffic controllers, offering buyouts to leave their jobs. It's a very easily proven fact," he wrote on X on February 2. "Now they claim the controllers aren't eligible for buyouts after all. What changed? Why were they sent the offer? At best - and this is being generous - it was disturbingly sloppy, in a field which demands precision and competence."
Critics on social media blasted the news shared by Duffy, with conservative commentator Charlie Sykes  that it was the "scariest thing I've read today. And that's saying a lot."
Trump critic attorney Ron Filipkowski : "Is there going to be any oversight or transparency on this one or is it going to be another 'trust me bro' where anyone who asks questions about it gets investigated by the DC US Attorney for DOGE harassment?"

Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
