




Fox News THE FIVE 5:00 PM EST
February 26, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7047 words
Byline: Jeanine Pirro, Harold Ford Jr., Jesse Watters, Dana Perino, Greg Gutfeld
Body


BEN VAN ROO, CO-FOUNDER AND CEO, YURTS: It's a pro-business. It's a pro- A.I. It's a pro-jobs play.
WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Right. I got to leave right there, Ben. We've come to the end of the program in a big conversation. Ben Van Roo, thanks so much for being with me.
All right, thanks for being with us here today as we get to the heart of what matters from the heart of America. Now it's time for THE FIVE.
JEANINE PIRRO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL LEGAL ANALYST: Hello, everyone. I'm Judge Jeanine Pirro, along with Harold Ford Jr., Jesse Watters, Dana Perino and Greg Gutfeld. It's 5:00 in New York City, and this is THE FIVE.
President Trump holding a blockbuster first Cabinet meeting of his second term, as he once again proves that he is the most transparent president in history. A new analysis shows 47 is absolutely smoking his predecessors when it comes to talking to the media. In just his first month, Trump took a staggering 1,000 questions, compared to sleepy Joe's sad, measly 140.
And that number was before today's hour long juggernaut session where he answered more than 30 additional questions. The president convening the heads of his executive departments and bringing along his DOGE tech support, Elon Musk.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We have a mandate to do this, and this is part of the reason I got elected.
ELON MUSK, CEO, TESLA MOTORS: It's not an optional thing. It is an essential thing. That's the reason I'm here and taking a lot of flack and getting a lot of death threats, by the way. I mean, like, stack them up.
But if we don't do this, America will go bankrupt. We bring the receipts. So, people say, like, well, is this real? Just go to DOGE.Gov, we line item by line item, we specify each item.
So -- and we -- and I should say we also we will make mistakes. We won't be perfect, but when we make mistake, we'll fix it very quickly.
TRUMP: This country has gotten bloated and fat and disgusting and incompetently run.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PIRRO: Musk also defending his now infamous DOGE name five things you did e-mails.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MUSK: That e-mail perhaps was best interpreted as a performance review, but actually it was a pulse check review. Do you have a pulse? Do you have a pulse and two neurons?
So, if you have a pulse and two neurons, you can reply to an e-mail.
TRUMP: Those million people that haven't responded though, Elon, they are on the bubble. You know, I wouldn't say that we're thrilled about it. They haven't responded. Now, maybe they don't exist. Maybe we're paying people that don't exist. Maybe they're not around. Maybe they have other jobs.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PIRRO: Meanwhile, critics of DOGE are getting even more bizarre. The media is now fear mongering about how DOGE cuts could lead people to be eaten by bears.
And liberal "Daily Show" Host Jon Stewart got so worked up, he drew blood.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You want some information about the force? Maybe a good place to camp or trail to hike on, or maybe you're scared about bears. You come to a place like this, your local ranger station, but because of the recent firings, this one won't be open anytime soon.
JON STEWART, THE "DAILY SHOW" HOST: It would be embarrassing if it was a small drop in the bucket, and that the American people didn't expect that we should negotiate for all their (EXPLETIVE DELETED) drugs, because we've already paid for it without subsidies. (EXPLETIVE DELETED). Come on.
I'll be going to the hospital.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PIRRO: You know, Dana, I'll start with you. Since you were press secretary, over a thousand, I think, and 39 now, questions answered, and what I thought was most interesting, and I'm curious as to what you thought, bringing in Elon Musk into this first Cabinet meeting the earliest, apparently, in decades, to literally answer questions, not just to the Cabinet, but to the American people.
DANA PERINO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Yes, one, I love Cabinet meetings. I used to complain a lot that Biden never had any. Then I realized why he didn't have any, because then towards the end of his administration, we found out that if he wanted to talk to the Secretary of Treasury about inflation, he had to have a scripted talking points. So, you really can't do that in front of the cameras.
Depending on what issue is happening. You might have somebody in the Cabinet or a staff member, or somebody an expert, perhaps somebody from the CIA, in this case, tech support, Elon Musk, be able to answer questions to anybody in the Cabinet or present, make sure that everybody is singing from the same song sheet. And that's what a Cabinet meeting really is. Is to air ideas, grievances, problems, get on the same page. This is their first one.
A team meeting is not a bad thing, but the thing that President Trump does is he invites everyone to see it as well. So, they might have had additional meetings behind the scenes, because there are some things -- there are some things you might say -- not say in front of the press.
I don't understand what's happening with the curtains in the Cabinet Room. That really kind of threw me off, because it's such a pretty room. Maybe the lighting was bad and it was really sunny today in D.C., or something like that.
But the fact that the president has answered 1039 questions, which by the time I say these words, it might be 1050, just shows you how different the previous administration was. They didn't talk to you about anything.
And actually, if you go back and watch Karine Jean-Pierre's briefings, she actually never really answered the question. She would always say, I can't comment on that. I've already been very clear. We've got -- we're not going to talk about that. That's an insulting question. Like never answering the question. That's not what you're getting here.
They might not like the answers, but at least they're getting to ask the questions.
PIRRO: You know, Jesse, I thought it was fascinating when the president started talking about Zelenskyy in the mineral deal, and when he talked about the fact that $300 million -- $300 billion that we gave to Ukraine and Zelenskyy, whereas Europe only gave $100 billion but the money that Europe gave to Ukraine, they gave us a loan, which meant Ukraine had to pay them back. The money, the 300 billion that Biden gave was not a loan. He just gave him the money like a fool.
And now what we've got is a president who says we're going to get our money back, and from now on, we're not going to be footing the bill for a country that is paying other people back, but not us.
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Yes, we're ending wars and we're getting hostages and cash back. And remember, he said during the Iraq war, we should have cut a deal to get some oil, and that's something that really helped him during the Republican primary when he ran in 2016. I think a lot of Americans agree that with this economy the way it is, you need a little something, something on the back end.
You know, Joe Biden his Cabinet meetings, Jill ran them. And people are upset that Musk is in this meeting? Dr. Jill was heading up Cabinet meetings. He didn't have a Cabinet meeting for a year, and like Dana said, it wasn't a Cabinet meeting, it was a movie shoot. You were getting questions ahead of time. The president's going to call on you at 21 minutes into the meeting. What are you going to say? It was pretty bad.
Now, I'm grateful if I was one of these Cabinet secretaries that Musk is in there, because it's like, "Good Cop/Bad Cop". He's doing all the firing, he's doing all the spending cuts. He's like the bad guy. You don't have to do anything.
You know, like, I wanted to keep you around, but Musk said you had to go. I'm just, I'm sorry, and it works. And he doesn't mind taking the slings and arrows, and that's good. Somebody has to.
Smashing mugs for attention. Even Greg doesn't go that far.
GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: He's daring me.
WATTERS: The bears --
PIRRO: Would you smash that one in particular?
GUTFELD: I could not do that to my poop mug.
PIRRO: The bears.
WATTERS: The bears. So, when you go camping in a national park, Judge, the first thing you do is you go to the park ranger and ask, should I feed the bears? No, I did a little research on bear attacks and fatalities in North America. During the pandemic, we shut down the national parks and we didn't have a single park ranger.
How many people died from bear attacks that year when there was zero park rangers? One American. When we rehired all of the park rangers the next year, 4,000 park rangers. You know how many bear attacks? One. The amount of park rangers has nothing to do with how many people's lives they save from bear attacks. It is ridiculous.
PIRRO: Thank you for that.
WATTERS: You're welcome.
PIRRO: Greg, what do you want to say about the bears?
GUTFELD: I am pro-bear. There's a nice little bar downtown. I'm going to take you guys there. I am -- I'm done with the transparency. You know, he can retire that jersey, the trans -- but he won it. There's no going back. It's now about spontaneity.
And you brought it up. In order for the Democrats to succeed, they needed a script. They have to film the movie. It's -- but what you're seeing right now is an environment where you really can't lie. You could say maybe this or maybe that, shoot the ball. We could probably do this. Maybe we'll do -- I don't know. But as for a cover up or a fraud, that's impossible to do. You cannot lie on the fly, believe me, I've tried.
But you know, I noticed that the -- like a change in political act -- the change in political action mirrors the change in the internet. When it can't comes to information, it's so much faster, you can't control anything, you can't keep up. And it made me realize that Joe Biden really was dial up, you know? You know, he was slow, agonizing, undependable, prone to failure, makes a funny noise when you turn it on. That was Biden.
Trump is basically we are now -- we now have high speed fiber internet, and we can't -- we're like, how to slow this thing down?
As for the critics, this freak out reminds me of another area where they -- where we moved from non-transparency to transparency. Our voting system, the reaction was hysterical and hyperbolic and it was all about one thing, voter identity.
And it made you wonder, like, what are they trying to hide? The meltdown over voter I.D.? What are they actually trying to hide? Because when you think about it now, we're back -- we're back in this era of common sense. How absurd was it that they were making an argument against voter I.D., the media and the Democrats couldn't find one voter who didn't have an I.D.
So, you'd ask them, do you have evidence that this is like discriminatory and they could not find it. It didn't exist.
So, now we're in this world where we are picking out absurdities and destroying them, men in women sports, a porous border. We got to go after the voting system. We got to fix this stuff. We got to put voter I.D. in because we were bamboozled with load bearing phrases like racism or discrimination. It was all just falling, just like this, DOGE.
PIRRO: You know, you have to admit, Harold, that it was incredible watching the president in this first Cabinet meeting and everyone was there. Elon was there to say what he was doing, to answer questions, the Cabinet member, the agency heads. I mean, the transparency is really stunning compared to what we have seen, and Trump said, I'm accountable. Buck stops with me.
HAROLD FORD JR., FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: I think that the country -- I listened to our network earlier, and it was, I think maybe Art Fleischer was on and was saying that you have to admire the fact the president's come before the country and his Cabinets coming before the country.
We had a little of this in the Biden era, but not enough. But look, I'm done with Joe Biden, and I hope some around the table, I hope everybody can be done with him after a while.
We now have a new president who not only has answered a lot of questions, he does two press conferences a day. So, that kind of transparency and access, I think people have to be excited about, and I think we understand the excitement in the air because of -- because what we saw today, even Elon Musk being there, I still wish he'd put a shirt and tie on, not wear a t-shirt, but him being there and answering questions.
It was quite obvious to me, also, that some of the Cabinet members weren't altogether too crazy about him, but that's another conversation.
I think, at the end of the --
PIRRO: You could tell by looking at them?
FORD JR.: Well, there was a -- there was a time -- I watched the whole thing, the president made a little comment, and that you could tell from some of their reaction.
But look, Elon being there and answering the questions something you didn't see over the last four years. I don't -- I don't disagree with your proposition.
But here's where I think we have to be candid also, this is the first month or two. I mean, it's amazing. It feels like it's been eight months. It's been less than two months. And President Trump last night enjoyed a great victory in the House. The Congress passed the blueprint for the budget. One of the challenges with that is that budget blueprint they passed did not have encapsulated in it consideration for the no taxes on tips or overtime, which I know the president campaigned on, which I support, and I hope he is able to get.
Two, the president's talk on tariffs, whether we like it or not, has unsettled things in terms of prices not going down. If we are having this conversation, and we will be about President Trump in six months from now, and prices are not going down, I would remind that today, the Department of Agriculture, the president's own Department of Agriculture suggested that prices on eggs would go up somewhere between 30 to 40 percent this year alone. That ground beef and so on prices would go up 10 percent, the prices on cars, in washing machines and dryers, that wasn't from Ag, but from another agency, that they would go up.
So, I hope they don't, and I hope that the president understands, and today is a good indication he's coming before the country. I hope he continues to come before us, and hope he continues to answer questions about, how do you lower these prices?
Because at the end of the day, Judge, that's why he won. Working class people said we don't believe Kamala Harris and Joe Biden have a plan. We believe that Donald Trump does, and that will be -- that will be discussed --
PIRRO: Or we just don't believe Joe Biden and Kamala Harris, period. Thank you for that, Harold.
FORD JR.: That might be true, but that -- but they elected Donald Trump. So, at some time, at some point, he's going to have to answer these questions.
PIRRO: Well, I think he's doing a great job so far. Up next, greasy goes the Joe Rogan route. Gavin Newsom is launching a podcast.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GUTFELD: The liberal Joe Rogan is finally here, and they added a greasy pile of hair. Gavin Newsom launching a podcast to go toe-to-toe with MAGA.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GOV. GAVIN NEWSOM (D-CA): We need to change the conversation, and that's why I'm launching a new podcast, and this is going to be anything but the ordinary politician podcast. I'm going to be talking to people directly that I disagree with, as well as people I look up to.
Look, there's an onslaught of information that we take in, so let's take it to the sources without the typical political mumbo jumbo.
In the first few weeks, we're going to be sitting down with some of the biggest leaders and architects in the MAGA movement.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: This is so funny. How does this guy have the time to do this? It's not like California is running smoothly. They got fires, homelessness, drug addicts, crime. I'm going to start a podcast. We're going to start a conversation. Oh, there you go, Harold, hey, let's have a conversation. How long do you think this podcast is going to last, Harold? He's going to run out of platitudes in five minutes. You know what? I don't want to hear from you, Harold.
FORD JR.: You want me to talk now?
GUTFELD: Yes.
FORD JR.: So, I agree with you. I don't understand how in the middle of trying to -- trying to manage an enormous state, if not the biggest state, sixth biggest economy in the world, but Gavin is a smart guy, he's got a lot of energy. I hope if he is able to pull it off, that what he does is really listen and have a lot of people on who don't necessarily agree with him.
In fact, I would probably have the first six months people who didn't agree with me at all, and try to listen to them and understand them and counter a little bit where you can but figure out why someone's life experiences that you think would lend themselves to supporting you didn't support you. And as opposed to demonizing people. I'm not saying he would, but I think that's what the instinct might be.
So, I'm happy to hear he's doing his Zoom, but I don't disagree with your first thing, Greg, it seems like he has a lot on his plate as is. So, I hope he doesn't spend too much time with this, because I think the real thing is to fix something, to repair something, to reform something, and to make life better for your constituents.
GUTFELD: You know, Harold has changed my mind. I think this is a great idea.
PERINO: Why?
GUTFELD: Well, when you think about it, it's like the problem with the Democrats is they can't listen to other people's ideas, and they're stuck in identity politics, and they don't understand the terrain of the podcast. They don't understand how to make their ideas last. Their ideas are built for a 12-person panel on CNN, like, talk for two minutes and then say, let's have a conversation. What he -- maybe this is the step out of identity politics, where they try to explain themselves.
PERINO: OK, maybe that could -- that could be and I wrote down, like, what do you need for a good podcast? You need to be curious, to have authenticity. You have to have some humility, not a lot of that going on, and you have to have some humor, OK?
Also, he has a terrible approval rating right now in California. He's not doing anything that would actually help him get the fact that everybody in California just voted against him on that reform bill, on the bail reform and the crime reform bill, the Prop 36. 70 percent of the state went against him on that.
His own national appeal is limited. We talked about transparency in the first block. He is so transparent. The only reason he's doing this is because he wants to run for president in 2020 and he thinks a podcast is the way to do it.
And I have one other thing. So, the graphics of the podcast, you pull those up, the light blue and the yellow, that's fresh, that looks -- that looks good, then cut to his backdrop, and what it looks like. He's in an olive green study, fake study, with a little lamp on the side.
Like, honestly, what are you doing that does not say fresh, that does not say new, that doesn't say anything. But maybe you want to be a psychiatrist.
GUTFELD: Yes, it's true. You know, it is funny. He's very ambitious. Whatever job he's doing, he's not doing it because he set his sights on the next job. When he was mayor of San Francisco, he' looking at governor. But would you go on? If he asked you, Jesse, would you go on?
WATTERS: No, he has to come on my show. And then I'm not out in California a lot, and when I am, I want a vacation. I don't want to work. I don't want to do a podcast.
The downside for me is tremendous on that show, but you know, compared to all these other Democratic politicians, he's doing better than they are. At least he's trying. He's trying to get out of that bubble, because the road to the Democrat nomination is not through CNN, "60 Minutes", it's through Fox. He's going to have to do a Democrat primary debate on Fox News. He might actually have to do exclamation point. He might actually have to do this show. He's going to have to do maybe Rogan. He's going to have to do bar stool.
That old media game, like you were just saying, you're two minutes and you're out, that game is done. That is deadly for Democrats. Look what happened with Kamala. She tried it, she failed.
I just like the fact that at least he's accepting the fact that his game is over and he needs to try something new. The Democratic Party hasn't accepted that. So, you're right.
If you do a long form interview, you have to dig deep on an issue.
GUTFELD: Yes, you can't say let's have a conversation.
WATTERS: Right. You have to know the issue. And if you come on --
FORD JR.: What's so wrong with that?
WATTERS: No, usually Democrats don't do that. They go on "60 Minutes," they ask nothing, and then they edit it.
So, if you do my show, I will argue with you, or I'll just confront you, or I'll interrupt you, and it forces you to respond honestly.
GUTFELD: If you're doing a two-hour podcast, Judge, about, let's say men in women sports, and he just goes, well, that's transphobic, then that's the end of the conversation. You have to actually argue everything behind that.
PIRRO: Right. And you know, the truth is that he's not a guy who goes that deep. He's too ideological, all right? It just stopped right there with the ideology.
Do you remember a couple weeks ago when the Democrats were looking for their own Joe Rogan? We did a segment on it, and they had these media moguls, and they were trying to figure out who should they put their money behind? Maybe they ended up with Gavin Newsom, you know, maybe they said, well, He's our guy.
But you know, the truth is that when he says things like, you know, as the reason I want to do this podcast is I want to understand where the MAGA people are coming from.
I mean, how dumb is that? And the truth is that what he's trying to do is he's trying to be the number one guy to run for president, and yet, it's not possible right now, because the Democrats are so locked into their identity politics, that there isn't any room for discussion or dialog or disagreement, or, you know, they're just not capable of it.
And finally, he already has a podcast. Did you know that?
PERINO: No.
PIRRO: He already has a podcast. And now this is just like a rebranding. I think they should call it a fireside chat. OK?
And finally, the people who are smart in the Democrat Party are people like Fetterman, who say, you know what? Maybe we can do something together. You know, maybe we ought to listen to them.
Gavin Newsom is all performative. There's nothing deep about him, and there's nothing about us. It's about him.
GUTFELD: All right, but he does have great hair, Jesse. Look at that. Nothing close.
Up next, ICE spy creeps, Tulsi terminates sex jet perverts in the government.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
PERINO: Well, here's a headline I never thought I'd read. Director of National Intelligence Tulsi Gabbard says she'll fire more than 100 Intel employees who allegedly use sensitive government chat rooms to have sexually explicit conversations. And it was done all under the guise of DEI. The sex chats are even too explicit for us to --
GUTFELD: For you?
PERINO: -- for us to show you. But I'll just let Jesse handle it.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: This one guy had just had his manhood surgically removed. One of the weirdest things that gives me euphoria is when I pee. I don't have to push anything down to make sure it aims right.
Here's another. Getting my blank zapped by a laser was shocking.
Fine. I'll just do one more. This one guy is talking about how excited he is that the bulge is gone and he can wear bikinis after his sex change surgeries. I know.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERINO: You almost got through it all with a straight face. Almost just at the very end.
WATTERS: There was so much stuff I couldn't talk about, and I wanted to talk about, but my producer said no, Jesse, you can't do it. So, it looks like Biden's equity thing that caused this. So, he hired people specifically because they were trans or because they were gay and lesbian. And a lot of these gays and lesbians end up transitioning while they were working from home, and then they were talking about it on this government chats. And they had no fear of getting fired because you can say or do anything under that atmosphere.
And so, they got caught, and now they're gone. And these people put our national security at risk because if you imagine you're Russia, you're China, you find out these people are doing this stuff --
PERINO: Right.
WATTERS: -- you blackmail them. What kind of people go to a hospital and say doctor please cut my manhood off and then go back to work and try to keep our country safe. I don't think you're mentally sharp enough when you're telling a doctor you want to do that to go keep our secret safe. But that's what we're dealing with. And I'm sorry but I had to share that on television.
PERINO: Judge, this is -- for Tulsi Gabbard, this is like a home run first issue for her to say, OK, firing them, nobody's going to question it. I don't think there's going to be a protest outside of any of these departments.
PIRRO: Yes, no.
PERINO: But maybe there will be, I guess.
PIRRO: Yes, you make a great point. I mean, it's a great way for her to start. You know, she comes across as strong, someone who's you at least got a moral compass. And when you think about this, you say to yourself, this is a total betrayal of the public trust. These are people -- and we're talking about 15 agencies that were involved in this across the National Security Agency Intel link, so it's not just one agency.
Why were these people so comfortable? You know, why did they feel that they could engage in this openly when they knew that they were involved in sensitive communications in a job where as Jesse said they could be blackmailed, they could have text about it, they could have gone into a room and talked about it, they could have gotten on the telephone and talked about it. They decided to do this at work.
And you know if you're dumb enough to do that at work, I mean, how are you smart enough to work for any of these Intel agencies.
PERINO: Right.
PIRRO: It is an embarrassment. And you know, so, good for Tulsi. And if this is what DEI is about, then shame on Joe Biden and shame on all of them. But it isn't just DEI. They celebrated the death of Pat Robertson, the televangelist. They attack Christians, heterosexuals, Italians -- and I'm not saying that because I'm not Italian.
PERINO: Italians.
PIRRO: I'm not Italian. Dana is. They attack -- they're just haters. You have to also wonder, Harold, about the security clearance process.
FORD JR.: Sure. Look, I think if these people violated the rules and the laws around employment at any of these agencies, they should be fired. I want to be clear. I don't think anyone that that is -- I don't think you were saying this, but I want to make -- I think someone who -- the freedom to do what they want to do with their body, if they're a good agent, they should be perceived and be regarded as a good agent. My issue with the transgender is your kids playing sports in the bathroom stuff.
PERINO: What about the -- on the government phones during work hours talking about this stuff.
FORD JR.: So, I'll get back to this topic. If this is against rules at these places, they should be fired. And she did --
PIRRO: Well, what if there are no rules that specifically talk about this? Aren't there -- isn't there acceptable mode of behavior?
PERINO: Yes. I don't know if I would have thought of like we need a rule for this.
FORD JR.: Well, I -- when you work for a company, you're not allowed to use your phone to do -- all I'm saying is we're all saying the same thing. I'm not disagreeing with any you. You just want to disagree with me. I don't want to disagree with you. She did the right thing.
GUTFELD: I disagree with you, Jesse. You can't blackmail people who are parading their fetishes. It's like, what are you going to do? I have pictures of you with a ball gagged in your mouth. Oh, can I see them? But this is a symptom of something worse where --
FORD JR.: Oh, gosh.
PIRRO: Yes.
GUTFELD: -- we live in a society where our self is now defined by our desires and we no longer think about how this affects the people around us. It's what I want. You don't think about your family. You don't think about your friends. You don't think about the workplace. And worst of all, you don't even think about your future self. You don't even think about how would this affect me a week from now, a month from now, a year ago. You are a slave to yourself.
So, how do we get here? I'm going to go back to something that the freaking media would never touch, former U.S. Assistant Secretary for Health Rachel Levine. When I for saw the picture of Levine, I thought it was a joke. This is the Assistant Secretary of Health. This is a comical meme, a visual joke. This can't be real. How can this be in charge in the top echelons of health? It's absurd and it's wrong.
And then you saw the policy recommendations. This is a person who said gender affirmation care was medically necessary, effective, and safe for non-binary youths. I wonder how that happened. Levine also said any attempts to keep trans women out of female sports was going to lead to despairing deaths among trans. So, these are the recommendations from somebody put there. What does this have to do with the chats? I'm getting there.
In order for public acceptance of abnormal behavior, you need approval from the top, and that's what this was. You had to advance tolerance as the rule, and to do that you had to do it through the form of authority. You had to sanctify a behavior -- a behavior by having somebody in charge so that you wouldn't say anything, you wouldn't say anything, the other bureaucrats, the media wouldn't say anything because look, there's somebody running the health department.
And so, the result is the trickle down from all this -- and I mean that in purest sense -- you get approved in the NSA trans sex chats within the agency on intercompany email sexual whims paraded because it's your desire, it's yourself.
WATTERS: Worst president ever.
PIRRO: Yes.
WATTERS: I think we can all agree.
PIRRO: I agree.
WATTERS: Even Harold.
FORD JR.: Look, I think it a terrible judgment on these people. They should have never been hired. I think Dana raised the right point about intelligence backgrounds.
PERINO: How did you get them --
FORD JR.: How did you even get passed that?
PERINO: Well, I think -- I think -- but Greg answered that.
PIRRO: Yes.
PERINO: Because the permission structure was provided.
GUTFELD: Yes. You put you put somebody up top. No -- like, I can't say anything. Levine is in charge.
WATTERS: I mean his son Hunter.
FORD JR.: No, but I'm talking about security.
WATTERS: Look at his son.
PIRRO: Yes. You don't have to say about that, Harold.
PERINO: All right, up next, President Trump has a new plan to pay down our debt. It is called Gold Cards. We'll be right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: Get your golden ticket for the golden age. President Trump giving more details on his $5 million Gold Card Visa plan to attract wealthy foreigners and invest in America during today's marathon cabinet meeting.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: If we sell a million, right, a million, that's $5 trillion -- $5 trillion. No other country can do this because people don't want to go to other countries. They want to come here. Everybody wants to come here especially since November 5th.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: You love this idea.
GUTFELD: You know, at first, I -- when I was listening to Harold -- was that yesterday or two days ago?
WATTERS: Don't listen to Harold.
PIRRO: Yesterday.
GUTFELD: I was -- I saw his -- I saw his point. But then I was thinking, you know, it sounds like it's discriminating against class. But guess what, it's not about them. It's about us. It doesn't matter what we do to them, right? It's America first. If we can get $5 trillion out of people who are going to pay it, I don't care if it makes some poor people unhappy who want -- who -- by the way, the rich are going to come anyway. We're just charging them. I think this is a great idea.
You know, it's like getting an easy pass in Disneyland, you know.
WATTERS: Fast pass.
GUTFELD: Fast pass. And by the way, Harold, it can be temporary until we get our -- we can admit. Like, we can admit that this may not meet your assumption of fairness. That like it's fair to the poor immigrant or whatever, but life isn't fair when your entire country is in jeopardy with a mountain of debt. So, you could pay this off temporarily. It's not about immigration. It's about giving our country, you know, a future. You have to agree with me.
WATTERS: Harold, do you disagree?
FORD JR.: So, I listened to the President today and Mr. Lutnick today. They believe we can sell a million club memberships to the United States of America for $5 million a piece.
WATTERS: Yes.
FORD JR.: I have no idea how you structure that, what the people get for the $5 million. And don't -- let me be clear. Do not get rid of that thing at Disney World where you're able to get to the front of the line. That's - - I think that is totally different. But $5 million per person. If we can raise $5 trillion and you put limits around it about what they can do, the kind of rights -- if they have super rights because of that, I don't want that. But I'm willing -- I'm willing to entertain the idea.
GUTFELD: The cost of your service.
PIRRO: Oh, that's not what you said yesterday.
FORD JR.: But what -- because what I don't want to have happen is that a hardworking middle-class guy, comes across the border, follows the rules, takes border follows the rules, takes him 12 years to become a citizen --
WATTERS: Comes across the border isn't following the rules.
FORD JR.: No, no. When you come across the border -- no, no, when you come across the border, you legally --
PIRRO: With a visa.
FORD JR.: Can I finish?
WATTERS: No. You can't finish.
FORD JR.: If you legally come across, you legally enter, you follow the rules, you wait 12 years, 10 years, nine years, you get there, he is contributing to the country. But if we let a guy who $5 million is say I'm coming, here's my $5 million.
GUTFELD: Different path.
PIRRO: OK. But here's the problem.
FORD JR.: Can I finish my point? If you're going to use all the money -- I didn't mean to be rude -- but if you're going to use all the money to pay down a debt like he proposed, I'm open to the idea. I'm open to the idea.
PIRRO: OK. But here's the problem. We've got 12 million who came across who didn't have any public means of support. And the whole concept of immigration has to do with people coming to this country who are not a burden on the rest of the Americans who are working hard, paying taxes so that they can get free education, medication, health care, and a hotel, along with culturally acceptable food, OK.
FORD JR.: Cultural what?
PIRRO: From 1996, Bill Clinton said that -- he made clear, aliens should not depend on public resources to meet their needs and a sponsor of a non- citizen should at least be able to reimburse the state when we give them public welfare. And now, immigrants have to be financially sufficient.
What is wrong with that? Nothing. The $5 million gold card ensures that newcomers contribute to society. And I don't want to be in a society where Americans who sometimes pick between drugs and foods have to pay taxes so that illegals can get everything without investing in this country.
FORD JR.: There would be no Statue of Liberty if this was a (INAUDIBLE). We will not be the country we are.
PIRRO: You know what? There is a Statue of Liberty if you get a visa if you come here. You do not come here without an invitation. That's not what America is about.
FORD JR.: I'm open --
PIRRO: You prove your allegiance to this country.
FORD JR.: You've made me -- you've made me go back to my original position. We are a country built on hard work and people and selling membership the country --
PIRRO: Yes, and following the laws.
FORD JR.: Most immigrants do -- making us a club membership, I am bothered by it. I like paying down the debt. I'll be -- I'll listen, but I'm not for club memberships to be a United States.
WATTERS: But you're open --
FORD JR.: We're bigger than that.
WATTERS: You're open -- you're open to the concept is what I'm hearing.
GUTFELD: We should sell the Statue of Liberty.
WATTERS: France, your bid.
PERINO: So, I think that you can have -- this is a yes and.
WATTERS: Yes?
PERINO: OK. So, you could have a concept like this. It already sort of exists in the law. So, you could have a concept like this while also in addition saying OK, tech companies, well, we try to get our education that is abysmal in order. You -- if you want to get more tech engineers from other country -- you want to do that, then you have to pay. I think a lot of those companies would say fine, we need more of them. Let's do that.
And can you say for the legal person, the asylum seeker or the somebody who can do it legally, like I think all of these things can happen. And you get back to that thing that I guess everybody hates but what you really need which is either you do it in one big beautiful bill to get comprehensive immigration reform or you do them in little piece meals in order to get it done. But I think you can have yes and in this situation.
FORD JR.: But listen to this. Don't assume that all rich people are just great people and that poor people are bad people.
PERINO: Yes. And also, like how many Chinese get to do this? That's what I want to know.
FORD JR.: Rich people are not -- they're not -- just because you're rich, doesn't mean you're morally superior than someone who's middle class. That's what I was objecting to, yes. Not you but that argument.
PIRRO: Wait a minute. We're not vetting anybody anyway. Now, all of a sudden we're going to vet them. We're -- now you're concerned about it, Harold?
FORD JR.: I'm open to Greg's idea.
WATTERS: Harold is very picky about who he's letting into the club, OK. We get it, Harold.
FORD JR.: We got to do it right. We're a great club.
WATTERS: Ahead -- you don't want to ruin the club. I get it. Just let anybody in. Ahead, passengers are splashing holy oil on their planes. Find out more next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
FORD JR.: Welcome back. The latest shocking airplane headline. A Southwest flight forced to abort their landing to avoid potentially hitting a jet on a runway at Chicago Midway's airport. It got folks scared. One woman was filmed rubbing holy oil in the shape of a cross on the outside of a JetBlue plane before stepping aboard.
Jesse, your thoughts on this. It's got to be -- for those who travel, it's got to be a little unsettling here.
WATTERS: I burned incense on my last flight in the bathroom. It did not go over well. I was handcuffed by Air Marshals and then escorted out when we landed. But if you have some ritual that you need to do, do it. Just don't burn something. I learned that the hard way.
FORD JR.: Dana, obviously that story impacted you. You've not done that. What is your response?
PERINO: Hey, look, if this lady wants to fly in the flights I'm going on, I would take her. I'll take her with me. But I still think flying is still safe and I also thank goodness for the pilots that were smart enough to figure out a way to avoid those last two crashes.
GUTFELD: I totally get this.
FORD JR.: Mr. Gutfeld, what are your thoughts on this?
GUTFELD: I usually perform a centurion right where I slaughter a goat right in the jetway as I'm -- and it makes -- it's messy but everybody's so grateful, and they all get a big scoop of flesh and they bring it on with him. It's great.
FORD JR.: Judge, what is your ritual?
PIRRO: I don't have a ritual.
FORD JR.: Good. What are your thoughts on this ritual?
PIRRO: Yes, if she wants to do it. I would have expected it on Spirit Airlines as opposed to this airline.
GUTFELD: Oh, yes.
PERINO: Very good.
GUTFELD: Spirit Air.
FORD JR.: This is an important time to get the FAA and others and figure out what they need more of and get these private airports. I hope -- I hope Secretary Duffy --
PIRRO: You need to get rid of the DEI mess.
FORD JR.: DEI had nothing to do with this. "ONE MORE THING" is up next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
PIRRO: It's time for "ONE MORE THING." Greg.
GUTFELD: All right, tonight, we got a banger of a show. Mike Baker is back, Emily Compagno, Glenn Jacobs, and Charly Arnolt. That's tonight.
And speaking of "THE GUTFELD SHOW," let's talk about Kat Timpf. Last week, Kat Timpf gave birth to an adorable baby boy.
PERINO: Let's go.
FORD JR.: Congratulations, Kat.
GUTFELD: Yes. But part of that came with some interesting news. About 15 hours before she went into labor, she was diagnosed with breast cancer. So, in what was going to be one of the most beautiful moments of her life, she got some interesting news. But the good news is, it's stage zero.
PIRRO: Zero.
GUTFELD: So, they're confident that it hasn't spread and that with the -- with you know, quick and thorough treatment, she's going to be healthy and back to work. And our love is -- goes out to you, Kat. I know you're watching with your family right now. And hopefully, she'll be back in probably a few months, you know.
PERINO: Yes.
GUTFELD: But --
FORD JR.: Best to her.
PIRRO: She a real hero, I tell you. She worked right till the end and then this. But she can handle it, Dana.
PERINO: Absolutely. And she'll be in the best of hands.
GUTFELD: She's a tough little bugger.
PERINO: She is. And she's going to come back and torture you, and I can't wait for it.
Hey, I want to show you this. Our producer Sean O'Rourke has a cat, and this cat has unique talent for eating ice cream. Check this out. He just loves it. This is I imagine how Brian Stelter eats --
WATTERS: Dana.
GUTFELD: Yes.
PERINO: Sorry. I was --
GUTFELD: You're corrupted. You have --
PIRRO: Jesse.
WATTERS: All right, new Fox Nation series, The Tides That Bind: Inside Alabama Football. It takes viewers inside the locker rooms' practice, dorms, as players and coaches adapt to a year of unprecedented change. Spring ball, summer workouts, fall camp, the whole season 2024. Episode two available on Fox Nation today.
"JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME" tonight, Pam Bondi, Jillian Michaels, and Karoline Leavitt.
PIRRO: That's it for us. Have a great night, everyone.

Load-Date: February 26, 2025


End of Document
