




Emory Wheel: Emory University
January 23, 2025 Thursday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 666 words
Body


A day after U.S. President Donald Trump's Jan. 20 inauguration, an unknown person took to the Clairmont Campus field to share their thoughts on the president's political comeback, writing "F*** Trump" in the fresh snow. In addition to feeling mixed emotions about his election to the White House, Emory community members are also considering the impacts of a second Trump term on their futures.
Compared to 2016, the political landscape Trump navigates now is less restricted, according to Associate Professor of Political Science Andra Gillespie.
"What's different about this second term for Trump, as opposed to the first term, is that he's operating in an environment where the recent Supreme Court decision defines presidential immunity," Gillespie said.
Trump's inauguration marks the beginning of a presidency that many Emory professors and political organizations expect will have significant policy and cultural impacts, particularly on younger Americans.
Gillespie emphasized the economic challenges young people face as a key challenge for the Trump presidency, including inflation and employment.
"He's going to have to prove that he's capable of reducing inflation," Gillespie said.
Gillespie also noted potential policy changes related to diversity, equity and inclusion , which could affect both public universities and private institutions like Emory.
"That is something that I will be paying attention to, to see whether or not we see executive orders that might actually put pressure on universities who accept federal funding - which is just about every college or university - to change their DEI practices," Gillespie said.
Trump has made his intention to target DEI clear. On Jan 21, he signed an executive order ending "radical and wasteful government DEI programs and preferencing" and race-based hiring within government agencies in the name of forming a "colorblind" and "merit-based" society.
Additionally, Associate Professor of Political Science Zachary Peskowitz highlighted the fact that some of Trump's economic policies may harm young Americans.
"The challenge for Trump on the economy is a lot of the economic policies potentially could exacerbate that inflation and increase the cost of living," Peskowitz said.
Emory College Republicans President Si Kai Feng (28C) is also considering the impacts of Trump's ascension to the presidency, describing the mood within the organization as optimistic.
"I'd say we're all relatively happy at the peaceful transfer of power and, obviously, the Republican president ascending to the highest office," Feng said.
Feng noted a sense of passivity among students when he described the mood on campus following Trump's inauguration.
"Most people, at least to my understanding, and among the people I've spoken to, recognize that even though Trump says many things and the Republicans say many things that are very different from the Democrats, the majority of times, neither party really radically overhauls the entire country," Feng said.
Feng acknowledged that some students may be apprehensive about Trump's presidency. He explained that some students at Emory have undocumented parents, which leaves their families at risk under Trump's plans for mass deportation.
"Obviously, that's a major source of stress and concern for them," Feng said.
However, Feng added that many fears, including the deportation of undocumented immigrants, surrounding Trump's policies are unsubstantiated.
"He's a president in a very well-established democratic system with checks and balances, so even if you strongly dislike Trump, there's no need to worry about your safety or your family's safety in a new administration," Feng said.
Despite what students and professors think of Trump, his ideal for the United States is clear: glory and power. His vision is evident in the promises he made during his inaugural speech.
"We will be the envy of every nation, and we will not allow ourselves to be taken advantage of any longer," Trump said at his inauguration.

Load-Date: January 23, 2025


End of Document
