




USA Today Online
February 20, 2025 10:33 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Section: ISRAEL NEWS & MIDDLE EAST NEWS
Length: 677 words
Byline: Rebecca Morin, USA TODAY
Body


One of the most influential political leaders of the era says he'll exit the Senate next year. The bodies of the youngest Israeli hostages were turned over to Israel. And a hockey match between the U.S. and Canada is going to be must-see TV.
Hiya!  here. Let’s get rockin’ to Thursday’s news. 
But first: Not a scavenger, but an influencer.  Vultures often get a bad rep, but these "scary" birds are 
Mitch McConnell to say goodbye to DC
After spending nearly half a century shaping Republican priorities in the nation’s capital, Sen. Mitch McConnell will not seek reelection when his term ends next year. McConnell, the Kentucky Republican who turned 83 on Thursday, is the longest-serving Senate party leader in history. Last year, he gave up his position as Republican leader in the Senate chamber, passing the torch to Sen. John Thune of South Dakota.  
After LA blazes, Trump terminates 
Trump gave schools 2 weeks to get rid of DEI. 
Bodies of Bibas boys returned to Israel
The red hair of two Israeli boys became a symbol of Hamas’ Oct. 7 attack on Israel after they and their mother were captured by Hamas militants. Now 16 months later, the bodies of Shiri Bibas and her two sons, Kfir and Ariel, were turned over to Israel by Hamas leaders. The Bibas boys were the youngest Israeli hostages and the only children still held by Hamas after 100 hostages were released in a short-lived ceasefire agreement in November 2023. Hamas has claimed the Bibas boys and their mother were killed in an Israeli airstrike that month, but that has not been independently confirmed.  

Real quick
Who really votes for the Oscars? The group behind .
Oh no! People can give their cats bird flu, 
Inside London Fashion Week. .
What National Park Service layoffs 
What we know about 
Support the Short List and 
Charges dropped for three in Liam Payne's death
Charges have been dropped against three people that were linked to the tragic death of One Direction singer Liam Payne. Payne’s friend Roger Nores, as well as two hotel employees, had their charges dropped after an Argentina Court of Appeals ruling. Two hotel employees who acre accused of supplying Payne with drugs are still facing prosecution and a possible trial.
How did Payne die? Payne, 31, died in October after falling from a hotel balcony in Buenos Aires. Traces of alcohol, cocaine and a prescription antidepressant were in his system in the 72 hours before his death, toxicology testing found.  
More fireworks on the ice?
Team USA and Canada are set face off Thursday night in the finals of the 4 Nations Face-Off in Boston. It has become one of the most highly anticipated American international hockey games in years after the two countries' drama-and-fight-filled previous matchup. 
What happened at the last game? Five days ago in Montreal, three fights broke out within the first nine seconds of the USA-Canada game, which the U.S. won 3-1. And the Canadian crowd booed "The Star-Spangled Banner" when both countries' national anthems were played before the opening faceoff.  
Feel free to hate me,  | Opinion
Why US athletes should get used to  | Opinion

A break from the news
Too many streaming apps? .
‍♀️ Time for a makeover. Stylist-approved tips for .
Try not to cry! TikTok mourns the death of 
Rebecca Morin is a senior national news reporter at USA TODAY. Got thoughts or feedback? Reach out to her at .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: February 20, 2025


End of Document
