




MailOnline
February 19, 2025 Wednesday 3:27 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 529 words
Byline: Joe Hutchison For Dailymail.Com
Body


Endeavor Air has been slammed on social media for being too focused on DEI after one of their planes crashed at Toronto Airport on Monday. 
The Delta subsidiary had been operating Flight 4819 when it crash-landed at Toronto Pearson Airport amid windy weather.
The cause of the crash - which left 18 people with minor injuries - is not yet known, with the 80 people onboard making it out alive after it ended up on its roof. 
Social media users have since been picking apart Endeavor's TikTok page which include a video of one of their female pilots who also moonlights as an Ironman athlete. 
Users took issue with the types of posts being made to their social media pages, and for seemingly promoting diversity, equality and inclusion initiatives. 
One person commented on one of their TikTok's saying: 'I'd rather not fly an airline that's so woke and DEI [if] it only employs women. 
'Not only is it discriminatory it's dangerous as the Delta airline incident has shown. women don't hold up under pressure.'
Another added: 'Maybe focus on safety instead of wokeness'. 
One other sarcastically commented: 'Thank goodness you have such a huge following on social, it really helps to get people to their locations safely.'
Delta Airlines has been committed to continuing their DEI efforts, despite companies rolling back their own programs due to the new Trump administration. 
At an earnings call just last month, External Affairs Officer Peter Carter said: 'DEI is about talent, and that's been our focus.
'We are steadfast in our commitment because we think they are actually critical to our business.'
On Wednesday, Delta Air Lines CEO Ed Bastian said that the crew on board the regional flight from Minneapolis were all highly-experienced. 
'There is one level of safety at Delta,' Bastian said. 'All these pilots train for these conditions.'
On Tuesday, new footage emerged of the plane sliding down the icy runway at Toronto Pearson before bursting into flames. 
The jet can be seen smoothly flying down towards the strip before hitting the the ground. 
As it touches down, orange flames shoot out from the underside of the commercial jet as it scrapes along the runway, with thick black smoke billowing from the plane. 
Survivors have described the chaos that erupted inside the aircraft as the plane battled wind gusts as it attempted to landed.
One passenger explained how they were left 'hanging upside down like bats' after the aircraft clipped its wing and flipped over. 
Another noted 'there was a big fireball on the left side of the plane', and one more described the landing as 'very forceful'.
At least 18 people were left injured, including a child, following the horror crash at the airport at around 2.15pm local time.
The crash was the fourth major aviation accident in North America in the past three weeks. 
A commercial jetliner and an Army helicopter collided near Reagan National Airport in Washington, D.C., on January 29, killing 67 people.
A medical transportation plane crashed in Philadelphia on January 31, killing six people on board and another person on the ground. 
That was followed by a plane crash on February 6 in Alaska that killed all ten people onboard. 

Load-Date: February 19, 2025


End of Document
