




TheHill.com
February 7, 2025 Friday


Copyright 2025 NEXSTAR MEDIA INC.  All Rights Reserved


Section: ENVIRONMENT NEWS
Length: 372 words
Byline: Rachel Frazin
Body


The  (EPA) has put more than 160 workers who tackle pollution in overburdened communities on leave.
The employees were part of the agency’s Office of Environmental Justice, which sought to help people in areas with significant levels of pollution — including minority neighborhoods. 
EPA spokesperson Molly Vaseliou confirmed that 168 staff members in the office  since “their function did not relate to the agency’s statutory duties or grant work.”
Vaseliou also cited President Trump’s executive order that  all federal diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) staff to be  and said that the EPA is “in the process of evaluating new structure and organization to ensure we are meeting our mission of protecting human health and the environment for all Americans.”
According to an email sent to staff and obtained by The Hill, employees were told they would still receive salary and benefits, although they could not do their work. 
In addition to the suspensions, a tool known as  which showed how pollution data intersected with demographic and income data, was offline as of Friday.
Studies, including , have found that Black Americans in particular face high levels of pollution, and that the disparities they face are more pronounced than disparities faced by the poor. 
Matthew Tejada, a former environmental justice official at the EPA, said the move shows “this administration’s chest thumping about clean air, clean water and clean land is being proven a lie right in front of us.”
“The communities in our country that face the greatest pollution challenges and that need the most help from their government to enjoy the same sort of clean environment that most of us take for granted are being cast aside,” he said. 
Tejada also noted that communities that are helped by the office are “facing some of the most dangerous things that human beings can face” such as lead, toxic substances such as : and and radioactive wastes. 
The news comes after the Senate  former Rep. Lee Zeldin (R-N.Y.) to lead the agency late last month.


Load-Date: February 7, 2025


End of Document
