




States News Service
February 14, 2025 Friday


Copyright 2025 States News Service
Length: 425 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


The following information was released by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA):
Today, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Lee Zeldin, with the assistance of the Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE), cancelled nine contracts related to DEI, environmental justice, and more, resulting in $59,776,673.70 in taxpayer savings.
"The American people deserve accountability and responsible stewardship of their hard-earned tax dollars. At President Trump's direction, EPA, with the assistance of DOGE, are reviewing every dollar spent. There will be zero tolerance for waste and abuse, and by canceling these contracts, we are delivering nearly $60 million in immediate savings to the American people," said Administrator Zeldin.
"The American public spoke loud and clear last November. The EPA will deliver on President Trump's priorities, ensuring taxpayer dollars go towards our core mission of protecting human health and the environment, as well as unleashing energy dominance, implementing permitting reform, making America the AI capital of the world, and bringing back the American auto industry," continued Administrator Zeldin.
The cancelled contracts represent $59,776,673.70 saved from wasteful DEI and environmental justice initiatives. Additional monies were allocated for DEI training for staff, expanding environmental justice content through the America's Children and the Environment Program, contractors to advance agency DEI initiatives, and more. More savings have been accrued through the agency's cancellation of outside contractors hired to plan office-wide retreats, and from other contracted work that could be insourced.
EPA has worked diligently to implement President Trump's executive orders, including the "Ending Radical and Wasteful Government DEIA Programs and Preferencing," as well as subsequent associated implementation memos.
Earlier this week, Administrator Zeldin announced that the agency found $20 billion parked at a financial institution by the Biden-Harris Administration in an effort to obligate money with reduced oversight. Administrator Zeldin called for termination of the financial agent agreement, and for the immediate return of the entire fund balance to the United States Treasury to ensure EPA oversight.
The Administrator also identified and cancelled a $50 million Biden-era environmental justice grant to the Climate Justice Alliance and announced that the agency would not be renewing nearly half a million dollars in media subscriptions to Politico and its subsidiaries.

Load-Date: February 15, 2025


End of Document
