




The Daily Telegraph (London)
January 28, 2025 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Pg. 11
Length: 807 words
Byline: Joe Barnes
Body


THE European Union's top general has said the bloc should deploy troops to Greenland after Donald Trump suggested he could seize the territory.
General Robert Brieger, the Austrian head of the EU's military committee, claimed the move would send a "strong signal", as well as act as a deterrent to Russian and Chinese activities.
His comments came after Mr Trump suggested using military force to take over Greenland, an autonomous region of Denmark.
The territory holds a military significance for Washington, with 200 American troops stationed at the Pituffik
Space Base, which is part of a missile early warning system, as well as a space and satellite surveillance command hub. "In my view, it would make perfect sense not only to station US forces in Greenland, as has been the case to date, but also to consider stationing EU soldiers there in the future," Gen Brieger told Germany's Welt am Sonntag newspaper. "That would send a strong signal and could contribute to stability in the region."
The general suggested that melting ice caps and Europe's desire to control critical minerals, used in the production of green technologies, was one of the main reasons for a greater EU presence there.
"With increasing ice melt as a result of climate change, this also creates a certain potential for tension with Russia and possibly China," he added.
The melting ice caps could shorten shipping routes between the Pacific and Atlantic. While Greenland is not a mem- ber of the EU, its security is guaranteed by Denmark, which is one of the bloc's 27 member states.
Copenhagen has promised Mr Trump it will do more to bolster security around the territory in response to the
US President's musings about acquiring it. But Mr Trump told reporters on Air Force One this weekend: "I don't really know what claim Denmark has to it, but it would be a very unfriendly act if they didn't allow that to happen because it's for the protection of the free world.
"It's not for us, it's for the free world.
Right now, you have Russian ships, you have Chinese ships, you have ships from various countries. It's not a good situation."
He added: "I think Greenland will be worked out with us. I think we're going to have it. I think the people want to be with us."
Deploying an EU mission to Greenland is seen as one option for addressing Mr Trump's security concerns. He has repeatedly bemoaned Europe's reliance on Washington as the continent's main security guarantor. Such a deployment would require political sign-off from the bloc's national capitals because its military committee has no army of its own to conduct missions.
Danish officials have been urging their EU colleagues to keep their interventions on Greenland low-key to avoid further inflaming tensions between Copenhagen and Mr Trump's administration. Some European nations have recommended adopting a more combative approach to handling the US President's interventions on Greenland. Denmark has sought to diplomatically convey the territory is not for sale, while welcoming Washington's interest in the Arctic.
"Denmark has been urging others to keep cool on the Greenland situation so as not to inflame tensions," a diplomatic source said. "But, if we start seeing American warships sailing towards Greenland, then we might just need to start having different conversations."
War on transgender soldiers New orders to reconsider roles
DONALD TRUMP pushed ahead with his anti-diversity agenda yesterday as he signed executive orders reconsidering the role of transgender troops and reinstating those dismissed for refusing the Covid vaccine.
The President was also expected to further outline rollbacks in diversity programmes as his controversial pick for defence secretary, Pete Hegseth, began his first day in the job. The orders further clarify initial directives Mr Trump issued shortly after his inauguration last week, when he removed protections for transgender troops put in place by Joe Biden and banned diversity initiatives at federal agencies.
Mr Trump had tried to impose a ban on transgender troops during his first term, but it was tangled up in the courts for years before being overturned by Mr Biden shortly after he took office in 2021. The President's new order on transgender troops does not impose an immediate ban, but directs the Pentagon to come up with a policy on their service ibased on military readiness.
Mr Hegseth told reporters as he arrived at the Pentagon that his first official day would be busy, with additional executive orders expected "on removing DEI [diversity, equity and inclusion] inside the Pentagon?this is happening quickly".
The new defence secretary also referred to Fort Moore and Fort Liberty by their previous names, Fort Benning and Fort Bragg.
They had been changed under Mr Biden as part of an effort to rechristen bases named for Confederate officers.

Load-Date: January 28, 2025


End of Document
