




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 11, 2025 Tuesday 5:15 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 621 words
Byline: Sara Fischer
Body


February 11th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )

As part of the shift, sources tell Axios Disney is moving and changing the content disclaimers it started releasing around  
The big picture: The changes, while less dramatic than those introduced by other Fortune 500 companies in recent weeks, speak to the pressure brands face trying to adjust to new expectations in the second Trump era.
Zoom in: In a note to employees sent Tuesday morning, chief human resources officer Sonia Coleman outlined ways Disney's DEI efforts will change.
Other Performance Factors (OPFs): Beginning this fiscal year, Disney will replace the "Diversity & Inclusion" performance factor that it used to evaluate executive compensation with a new "Talent Strategy." The new "Talent Strategy" factor includes concepts from its old "Diversity & Inclusion" factor, but is more focused on how values drive business success.
New website and DEI rebranding: Disney is getting rid of its controversial Reimagine Tomorrow initiative, and the corresponding website, which was used to highlight stories and talent from underrepresented communities. The site, which came under fire from conservatives, was replaced externally in December by an updated hub on Disney's corporate website, and also on Disney's internal website.
Employee Groups: The company has rebranded its "Business" Employee Resource Groups (BERGs) to "Belonging" Employee Resource Groups. The transformation, which began last year, is meant to highlight the focus on BERGs in strengthening the employee community and workplace experience.
Between the lines: While not announced as part of Coleman's note Tuesday, sources confirmed to Axios that Disney is updating the language of the content advisories that run before certain titles on its streaming services, and moving them to the details section of those titles.
The entertainment giant is removing the auto-play content advisory disclaimers that run before some older titles on Disney+, like "Dumbo" and "Peter Pan," that warn viewers the film "includes negative depictions and/or mistreatment of peoples or cultures."
Instead, the shortened advisory in the details section will read, "This program is presented as originally created and may contain stereotypes or negative depictions," two sources familiar with the changes confirmed to Axios.
The big picture: For more than 100 years, Disney has prided itself on being a family-friendly brand that doesn't get involved in politics.
But the Mouse House found itself in the political crosshairs when Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis waged a public battle against the company over its opposition to Florida's " 
Since returning to the company as CEO in 2022, Bob Iger has made it a priority to lean into the company's original values.
"Our primary mission needs to be to entertain, and then through our entertainment to continue to have a positive impact on the world. I'm very serious about that. It should not be agenda-driven, it should be entertainment-driven," he said at the company's 2023 annual shareholders meeting.
What to watch: To date, Iger's efforts have been working. Disney's reputation score among Republicans jumped significantly last year, compared to 2023, according to the annual  
Disney was the top North American box office distributor in 2024, thanks to the success of several family-friendly franchises, such as "Inside Out 2" and "Moana 2.
Go deeper:  


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 11, 2025


End of Document
