




The Daily Caller
February 20, 2025 Thursday 06:59 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: DAILY-CALLER-NEWS-FOUNDATION; defense
Length: 587 words
Byline: Wallace White, Contributor, 
Body



A military watchdog sued the U.S. Air Force and the Department of Defense (DOD) Thursday to obtain records pertaining to an LGBT pride event hosted by the Pentagon in June 2024.
The Center to Advance Security in America (CASA) filed two lawsuits against the  and the  to compel them to disclose communications, calendar entries and other records CASA requested through the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) detailing the “13th annual Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Questioning/Queer, and Intersex+ community (LGBTQIA) Pride event” held at the Pentagon.
CASA first submitted the   on June 6th, 2024, but neither the DOD nor the Air Force have responded to the requests since their initial filing. The pride event  to be a commemorative affair that included  from top Pentagon personnel celebrating LGBT service members.
“Given the high priority the Biden DoD placed on LGBTQI+ advocacy, we are confused why the Department has not been more forthcoming regarding the release of records and communications involving the planning and implementation of their 13th Annual LGBTQI+ Pride Ceremony held on June 5, 2024.” CASA Director James Fitzpatrick told the Daily Caller News Foundation. “The American people have a right to know how much official military time and resources were being spent on these initiatives, particularly regarding specific planning conversations and duties related to this most recent signature event. This lawsuit will force the DoD to finally provide this information to the public.” 

A person holds pride flags during the 2024 NYC Pride March on June 30, 2024 in New York City. (Photo by Noam Galai/Getty Images)
Under former President Joe Biden, LGBT initiatives ran  in the  with the help of taxpayer dollars, but the Trump administration's arrival has seemingly  an end to LGBT activism in the armed forces.
The Biden administration once  out an $850,000 grant project, known as Centerstone's LGBTQI+ Family Support Program (Family+), intending to provide “affirming interventions for 230 youth and their families” and train 100 staff in delivering “evidence-based interventions.” The administration also  sex change surgeries for service members during its tenure, a policy which was promptly shot down in February by Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth, who  transgender-identifying  troops as well and funding for sex change procedures and drugs.
Moreover, Biden also  other left-leaning  in the armed forces, including diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) policies and providing reimbursement payments to service members who incurred costs for traveling out of state for an abortion. A  released by the Arizona State University Center for American Institutions in June found that the Pentagon's current policies were hampering military readiness and creating a sense of divisiveness among service members.
The Air Force and the DOD declined to comment.
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Graphic

 
Birds fly near the Pentagon building over the U.S. Air Force Memorial on December 22, 2024 in Arlington, Virginia. (Photo by Tom Brenner/Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
