




The Daily Caller
February 5, 2025 Wednesday 01:01 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: DAILY-CALLER-NEWS-FOUNDATION; education; education; education; education
Length: 749 words
Byline: Jaryn Crouson, Contributor, 
Body



Parent advocacy groups are urging the Senate to swiftly confirm President Donald Trump's nominee for Secretary of Education in order to repair the damages done to the department by the previous administration.
American Principles Project sent a  Tuesday to the United States Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions commending nominee Linda McMahon's “strong background and the necessary qualifications to lead and improve the Department of Education.” The letter, signed by Moms for Liberty, Claremont Institute, Family Research Council and Eagle Forum, warned that the department “desperately needs a complete overhaul after years of incompetence, hyper-partisanship, and a purposeful anti-Christian agenda.” 
“All that experience will serve her well at the Department of Education, which has gone off the rails under the Democrats' rule,” the letter said of McMahon. “The Biden-Harris administration has used the Department of Education not to educate America's children - who are steadily falling behind - but instead to push their radical cultural agenda on America's kids and to punish anyone who dares stand in their way. Kids today are taught to hate their country, divide themselves by race, and embrace a pervasive gender ideology.”

WASHINGTON, DC - OCTOBER 17: U.S. President Joe Biden and Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona (R) leave after Biden spoke on the student debt relief at the South Court Auditorium at Eisenhower Executive Office Building on October 17, 2022 in Washington, DC. President Biden gave an update on student debt relief portal beta test. (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images)
The education department under former President Joe Biden “decided to wage war” against  and stifle trade schools in order to “protect the higher education cartel against competition” and uphold “cultural marxism,” the letter states. The American Principles Project  in 2024 that Christian institutions and career colleges made up nearly 70% of penalties imposed by the Office of Enforcement despite these schools representing less than 10% of college students.
The previous administration took a similarly unfavorable stance against the parental rights movement. Former Education Secretary Miguel Cardona was  behind a push to use the FBI to  parents who  against schools that brought critical race theory and  into classrooms, reportedly calling on the National School Boards Association (NSBA) to author a letter labeling such parents as “domestic terrorists.” The American Principles Project released a  at the time, claiming that the letter was intended to “intimidate concerned parents into submission.”
Biden's Department of Education also attempted to allow  to utilize women's restrooms, locker rooms and participate on women's sports teams through its  which expanded protections against sex-based discrimination to include gender identity. 
Trump has already worked to root out  (DEI) practices in K-12 and higher education as well as rampant  and  (CRT). The president is reportedly considering  the department entirely, an idea that he floated while on the campaign trail in 2024. Trump has said that the department's responsibilities may be better managed by the states, though he enthusiastically  McMahon to right the ship of the department in November 2024.
“We are confident that once confirmed to the position, she will end the Department's weaponization towards certain colleges, promote education choice, and bring back common sense,” the letter concludes. “Linda McMahon has never backed down from a challenge, and we know she will fight for all of America's students. We thank the Committee for considering our views and urge that she be confirmed in a timely fashion.”
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Graphic

 
WASHINGTON, DC - SEPTEMBER 17: Administrator of the Small Business Administration Linda McMahon speaks as U.S. President Donald Trump listens during the inaugural meeting of the Presidents National Council for the American Worker in the Roosevelt Room of the White House on September 17, 2018 in Washington, DC. (Photo by Oliver Contreras - Pool/Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
