




The Daily Caller
January 29, 2025 Wednesday 11:00 AM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: POLITICS
Length: 764 words
Byline: Reagan Reese, White House Correspondent, 
Reagan Reese is the White House Correspondent for the Daily Caller. She previously served as an education reporter at the Daily Caller News Foundation. Before that, she graduated from Hillsdale College with a degree in Rhetoric, where she played softball. She now serves as a standout outfielder on the Caller softball team.

Body



President Donald Trump is expected to sign an executive order Wednesday that will prohibit federal funding to K-12 schools that teach Critical Race Theory (CRT) or radical gender ideology, the Daily Caller has learned.
While on the campaign trail, Trump promised to sign such an executive order that would cut funding to any school that taught “Critical Race Theory, transgender insanity, and other inappropriate racial, sexual, or political content.” As a part of the order, the  will have 90 days to provide the president with a plan on how to end CRT and radical gender ideology lessons within K-12 schools, according to a White House memo obtained by the Daily Caller. 
The order aims to focus the nation's schools back on “excellence and patriotism” to cultivate “patriotic citizens ready for the workforce, not political activists,” the memo reads. To do so, the executive order will also reinstate the 1776 Commission, which was previously set up under the first Trump administration to “work to improve understanding of the history and the principles of the founding of the United States among our Nation's rising generations.”
CRT holds that America is fundamentally racist, yet it teaches people to view every social interaction and person in terms of race. Its adherents pursue “antiracism” through the end of merit, objective truth and the adoption of race-based policies.

Former US President and 2024 Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump stands with his grandchildren, son Donald Trump Jr. (R) and former Administrator of the Small Business Administration Linda McMahon (L) on the third day of the 2024 Republican National Convention at the Fiserv Forum in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, on July 17, 2024. (Photo by ANDREW CABALLERO-REYNOLDS/AFP via Getty Images)
Trump originally  the 1776 Commission in 2020 in response to The New York Times' “1619 Project,” which pushes slavery to the center of America's founding. Former President Joe Biden ended the commission during his first few days in office via executive order.
“Critical race theory, the 1619 Project, and the crusade against American history is toxic propaganda - an ideological poison that, if not removed, will dissolve the civic bonds that tie us together,” Trump  when he announced the commission in 2020. “The only path to national unity is through our shared identity as Americans. That is why it is so urgent that we finally restore patriotic education to our schools.”
The order, according to the White House memo, also directs Trump's attorney general to work with state AGs and local district attorneys “to file actions against teachers and school officials who sexually exploit minors or practice medicine without a license through 'social transition' practices.”
 President Trump says he will sign an executive order to create a “national commission to promote patriotic education.”
 It will be called “The 1776 Commission” 
 - Daily Caller (@DailyCaller) 
At the height of the COVID-19 pandemic, when classrooms went virtual and were brought to the kitchen and living room, education became a hot-button issue for conservatives. In the summer of 2020, the killing of George Floyd sparked racial outrage throughout the country. The nation's education system, both K-12 and universities, responded by racing to affirm their anti-racism and diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) bona fides.
Grassroots organizations like Moms for Liberty and Parents Defending Education began and became the parental choice movement. The movement ignited conservatives' fight against ,  initiatives, sexually explicit  in schools and age-inappropriate . 
That movement intensified under the Biden administration and left Trump and his House and Senate majority with the task of reeling in Title IX to reducing left-wing bias from academia and teacher training. 
“The Marxism being preached in our schools is also totally hostile to Judeo-Christian teachings, and in many ways, it is resembling an established new religion. Can't let that happen. For this reason, my administration will aggressively pursue potential violations of the Establishment Clause and the Free Exercise Clause of the Constitution. That's very simple,” Trump  in a 2024 campaign video on his education priorities.

Graphic

 
U.S. President Donald Trump acknowledges the crowd before addressing the 2025 Republican Issues Conference at the Trump National Doral Miami on January 27, 2025 in Doral, Florida. The three-day planning session was expected to lay out Trump's ambitious legislative agenda. (Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
