




The Daily Caller
January 29, 2025 Wednesday 04:02 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: DAILY-CALLER-NEWS-FOUNDATION; politics; politics
Length: 625 words
Byline: Harold Hutchison, Reporter, 
Body



Republican Sen. Joni Ernst of Iowa reintroduced legislation to move nearly a third of Small Business Administration (SBA) bureaucrats outside the Washington, D.C., area Wednesday.
Ernst, who  a package of legislation intended to move bureaucrats across multiple agencies out of the Washington D.C. area Jan. 7, submitted  legislation in December. The , called the “Returning SBA to Main Street Act,” requires the agency to move at least 30% of its employees outside the Washington, D.C. area and to reduce its office space by a similar percentage. 
“Every small business owner knows that if your customers can't reach you, your doors won't be open very long,” Ernst told the Daily Caller News Foundation. “The SBA might as well have had a closed for business sign on its door for the last four years with bureaucrats permanently out of office. There is no better way for the Trump administration to help the SBA improve its customer service and better serve the American people than to get bureaucrats out of the beltway bubble and closer to Main Street.”
 Taxpayers will no longer be forced to pay for vacant buildings!
 We are going to continue to condense office space, sell off the excess, and downsize government. 
 - Joni Ernst (@SenJoniErnst) 
The legislation is a scaled-down version of the Decentralizing and Reorganizing Agency Infrastructure Nation-wide To Harness Efficient Services, Workforce Administration, and Management Practices Act () that Ernst re-introduced in January, which targets multiple government agencies with a similar mandate to move workers out of the D.C. area and to cut back their office space.
The legislation requires the SBA to “promote geographic diversity, including consideration of rural markets” when relocating employees from the D.C. area and to ensure adequate staffing throughout the regions of the Administration, to promote in-person customer service.”
Witnesses from Iowa told a Senate Small Business and Entrepreneurship Committee during a Sept. 19  of difficulties in getting assistance from the SBA, which Ernst attributed to liberal telework policies in place during the Biden administration. The legislation prohibits granting relocated employees permission to telecommute.
Trump  an executive order Jan. 20 requiring federal employees to return to working on-site. A Jan. 21  by Trump directed federal agencies to shut down Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) offices.
Ernst issued a 60-page  Dec. 5 that covered findings from Ernst's investigations into telework since she sent an August 2023 letter to 24 government agencies seeking a review of the  involved with telecommuting. 
The report detailed issues telework created involving , an adjustment to the basic pay of civilian employees in the federal government intended to make sure that federal employees have comparable compensation to private-sector counterparts in a given area of the country, and from the effects that largely  had on the working environment.
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Graphic

 
(Photo by Scott Olson/Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
