




Fox News FOX HANNITY 9:00 PM EST
February 19, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7752 words
Byline: Sean Hannity, Ari Fleischer, Charlie Hurt
Guests: Donald Trump, Elon Musk, Mike Huckabee, Reince Priebus, Kristi Noem
Body


SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS HOST: And welcome to "Hannity".
And tonight, more in just a moment of my exclusive interview with President Trump and Elon Musk moments away.
First, I -- I want to kind of take a moment here to reflect on all that's happening in the country, the Washington swamp. You know, for the first time in decades real common sense sanity is returning to our government.
But don't expect the extreme radical left, the Democrats, the state-run legacy media mob to ever appreciate anything Donald Trump ever does. He cured cancer tomorrow. They -- they would still call him Hitler, Stalin, Mussolini and a racist. And now, they extend that same warm welcome and courtesy to Elon Musk.
Look, I don't usually agree with Jon Stewart, nor does he agree with me. I don't think he likes me, but I don't care. At least Stewart has enough intellectual honesty in him to realize, the Democratic Party, they have lost the plot, hook, line and sinker gone.
Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JON STEWART, TV HOST: I'm very big on and I know it's annoying, but specificity and nuance. And I think if you cry fascism at every administrative overreach, even the ones that are constitutionally okay, you will find yourself out of fascism bullets, when the time really comes to remind people of, because you will -- I think what the media has done over the last 10 years is cry wolf to the point, where they numbed everybody. It was an anesthetic.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: He's dead on accurate, can't argue with that. Democrats who cried wolf are not doing themselves any favors. I -- look, I argue, maybe Fetterman is the only example. I argue almost the entire Democratic Party has become this woke green new deal extreme ideologues.
In fact, look at this, new Quinnipiac poll congressional Democrats are at their lowest approval rating in history at 22 percent, and meanwhile, a majority of Americans trust Donald Trump and Elon Musk to rein in our federal government. Trump has been regularly polling in the mid-50s, Rasmussen this week had Musk at an approval rating of 55 percent, and all for good reason.
You know, in the course of meeting Elon Musk, I talked to him on the phone, never met him, it's not his money that impresses me, although it's pretty impressive, right? It's his incredible intellect, love of life, hard work ethic, incredible, brilliant brain power, accomplishments, that any objective, clear-thinking person with common sense would be impressed with.
This is a guy who's done incredible things for our country, for humanity. You know think about what he's accomplish in his life. PayPal, Tesla, you think liberals would love Tesla. Now they're mad at Tesla. Starlink, he's got robotics, Starlink makes satellites available, communications available in over 100 countries.
He was the chief engineer at SpaceX. You got to be pretty smart to do that. This is the first company to launch astronauts into orbit, first private company, is a dreams of going to -- to Mars and so much more. In fact, Musk is sending SpaceX to rescue the American astronauts that are now stranded on the international space station, they were only supposed to be there eight days, that they over nearly 300.
He also founded Neuralink. This -- this blows me away, and a revolutionary company working in part to use A.I. to and blindness and he's quick to help our fellow Americans in need. You know, like the people of North Carolina that had no communications. He sent Starlink over immediately, did the same after the California wildfires.
So you got to ask yourself and why -- why all this hatred? Why the rage from the left?
Well, all right, first, the obvious. He's working with Donald Trump. They hate the site, name, mention of Donald Trump, they get triggered, his -- and number two, and they should really be embarrassed by themselves over this because we played for you the other night, we played -- let's see Al Gore, Bill Clinton, Barack Obama, you know, Washington has been talking about and giving lip service to eliminating waste fraud and abuse and corruption now for decades and decades.
And let's look at your screen. Look at this. Look at this waste. You know, what -- this is what DOGE and Elon Musk have un covered so far, billions in wasteful, horrific spending.
Steve Miller was on fake news CNN and asking, why are you not celebrating this accountability? Kind of epic. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
STEPHEN MILLER, WHITE HOUSE DEPUTY CHIEF OF STAFF: This president for the first time in history is committed to restoring accountability at every level of the federal government. You may assert there's no waste in the Pentagon. You may assert there's no waste in Treasury. You may assert there's no waste in HHS.
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST: Well, Stephen, I'm not asserting -- I don't think anyone will assert that, Stephen. Stephen, I don't think anyone --
MILLER: Then, why are you not celebrating these cuts if you agree there is waste, if you agree there is abuse, if you agree there is corruption, why are you not celebrating the cuts, the reforms that are being instituted? Every day that no action is taken, the entire salaries --
KEILAR: Stephen, let's calm down.
MILLER: -- of American workers that are taxed disappear forever.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Now I spent years of my early adult life living paycheck to paycheck, years and years, wasn't fun. Keep it mind, the average American makes 66 grand a year. We have over $37 trillion in debt. That is not sustainable.
Now if smearing, slandering, you know, this American that is working for free to fix it, is if this the -- this is the hill that Democrats want to die on and rob our children and our grandchildren of their future using your hard-earned tax dollars to pay for DEI musicals, transgender surgeries, LGBTQ and wasting billions upon billions with shady left-wing NGOs and the radical green new deal, have at it. If that's what you represent.
A Democratic Party this extreme would never win another election. But what worries me is that if the left keeps treating people like this, F Donald Trump, F Elon, you know, and the ridiculous predictable singing and screaming and slogans, you know, they've been chanting since the 1960s, they're like in a time warp, ask yourself, how many Americans in the future that are this successful are ever going to want to sacrifice massive amounts of money and want to serve their country?
And look at after all they have done to Donald Trump and all they said about him, Jon Stewart nailed it. Guess what? Democracy won. Democracy's on the ballot.
Yeah, well, democracy kind of lost the battle then by the American people, and they spoke loudly. And all this noise, you know, has rendered the legacy state run media mob irrelevant because they don't tell the truth and they just, you know, they bubble and fizz like Alka-Seltzer in water at the very sight of Donald Trump.
You know, who's strong enough and willing to put everything on the line for service to their country. Now, we're kind of lucky and thankful. I'm a conservative you can disagree with me politically, I don't care, you know?
But Donald Trump, Elon Musk are now sacrificing a lot Trump, risked it all. They're sacrificing for the good of the country because this -- that kind of spending is unconscionable should shock the conscience and the soul of a nation. But after this latest wave of smears, you know, I'm sick of the oh, so pious Democrats that they always have a monopoly on compassion and a love of science and progress and innovation.
Did I forget to mention that Elon has a robot company and that will take care of menial tasks and probably by the time it'll -- when they go into mass production, maybe the most of the middle class in this country will be able to afford it, all while ruthlessly -- they just want to tear down one of the great innovators in American history. The Democratic Party, they've just completely lost their way.
Tonight, honestly, I'm -- I'm going to be frank. I'm grateful that they graciously -- meaning Donald Trump -- President Trump and Elon Musk answered my questions about conflicts of interests, you know, the stupid question I had to ask it, I'd get slaughtered by the media, who's in charge, that was not an easy -- that was -- that was not a hard answer to figure out. They know who's in charge.
And they can't stop -- stop obsessing over Donald Trump. Now they can't stop obsessing and hating on Trump and Elon Musk. And they even was -- so I had no idea going into this interview. I'm grateful. I had no idea how long this interview would be. They allowed me to spend more than an hour speaking with them at the White House and then more time behind the scenes.
I had no idea going in, you know, how long I had with them when we started. I'm lucky they did stay long as -- as long as they did. After tonight's show, by the way, we are putting up on foxnation.com, the full, unedited interview. You can watch it all start to finish. It's on foxnation.com.
But first, more of my exclusive interview with President Trump and Elon Musk. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
ELON MUSK, DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT EFFICIENCY: So people ask me like, what's -- what's the -- what's the -- what's like the -- what's your biggest surprise in D.C.? And I'm like, the sheer scale.
HANNITY: It's massive. So, you love the challenge?
MUSK: Well, I mean, to the --
(CROSSTALK)
MUSK: -- point --
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: That's the only thing you can say. He'll never do anything.
MUSK: I mean, you do something slightly better and you save billions of dollars for the American taxpayer, just slightly better.
HANITY: When you say --
MUSK: Slightly.
HANNITY: -- tech support --
MUSK: You're 1 percent better, and it's like, you know, tens of billions of dollars saved for the American taxpayer.
Now, if I may address the point that you -- the question you asked earlier which is, you know, how do we assure people --
HANNITY: They want to know.
MUSK: Yeah, how do we assure people that we're going to do the right thing, that their -- that their Social Security benefits will be there, that the medical care will be good and -- and, in fact, how do we make it - - ensure that there's better medical care in the future? How do we improve their benefits? How do we make sure that the Social Security check goes further than it did in the past and not -- it doesn't get weakened by inflation?
So, the -- if -- if we address the massive deficit spending, the sort of -- the waste in the government, then -- then the -- we can actually address inflation. So provided the economy grows faster than the money supply, which means you stop the government overspending and the waste, and the output of real, useful goods and services exceeds the increase in the money supply, you have no inflation.
HANNITY: Yeah.
MUSK: And you also drop the interest payments that -- that people pay, because if the government waste --
HANNITY: It's too high.
MUSK: Yes, the reason the interest payments are so high is because the national debt keeps increasing. So, the government is competing for -- to sell debt with -- for -- with the private citizens, this drives up the interest rate. So if you have a -- if you have a -- if you cut back on the deficit, you actually have an amazing situation for people because you get -- you get rid of inflation and you drop the interest rates.
And that means people's mortgage payments go down, their credit card payments go down, their car payments go down, their student loans go down, everything, their -- their life becomes more affordable and their standard of living improves.
HANNITY: How quickly? Because I think people are suffering now. You -- we're still living under the Biden --
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: Sean, you have states right now, you have some states that operate that way. They operate as well as any corporation. They really operate well.
MUSK: Yeah.
TRUMP: They have surpluses. They --
MUSK: Texas has surplus, for example.
TRUMP: When they look at New York and California and some of these places that should have an advantage -- I mean, there's a big advantage. Or Pritzker does such a bad job in Illinois, it's horrible how bad he is, and they don't have that advantage.
You know, New York has stock exchange and lot of things, and California has the weather and the beautiful water and all the things (ph) --
MUSK: It's great weather, the most expensive weather on Earth.
(LAUGHTER)
TRUMP: Yeah, but -- but --
HANNITY: I like Florida.
MUSK: Yeah.
TRUMP: But some states operate the way he's talking about.
HANNITY: Efficiently.
TRUMP: When you go into some of these states, you're going to find very little. You're going to find almost nothing. They really operate well, big surpluses, low taxes, and --
HANNITY: My taxes went up the first time you were president, because you took away the SALT deduction --
TRUMP: I -- well, I did.
HANNITY: -- which, by the way, I thought was the right decision.
TRUMP: It was the right decision. In fact, Reagan tried to do it because it rewards badly run states. But at the same time, it's a tough -- it was - - it's tough for the states. I mean, it really is tough for the states. The sad part is, it rewards really badly run states.
HANNITY: Yeah.
TRUMP: And Reagan tried to do it. He was unable to do it. I got it done.
HANNITY: You got it done, and I --
TRUMP: And now we're going to give some back.
HANNITY: How quickly can you balance the budget? And -- and when do we start paying down that debt?
TRUMP: Well, potentially, very quickly. Between what he's doing and with income coming in from tariffs and other things, I mean, I hope we can -- I don't want to give a date because then these people are going to say, oh, well, he didn't make the date. But I think we can do it very quickly.
We would have never done it if this didn't happen, never. It would have never been -- it would only get worse and worse, and ultimately, it would have exploded. This country was headed down a very bad track, and the whole DEI thing -- that was a -- that was a trap. That was a sick trap.
And you know, we've destroyed that. That's gone. That's pretty much gone.
HANNITY: I agree.
MUSK: I really want --
HANNITY: We're not -- we're not funding it.
MUSK: I really want -- I really want to emphasize to people that this is a very important point, if we don't solve the deficit, there won't be money for medical care.
TRUMP: Right.
MUSK: There won't be money for Social Security.
We either solve the deficit or all we'll be doing is paying debt.
HANNITY: Nobody's --
MUSK: So it's -- it's got to be solved or there's no medical care. There's no Social Security. There's no nothing.
It's got to be solved. It's not optional. America will go bankrupt if this is not done.
That's why I'm here.
HANNITY: The president --
TRUMP: Europe takes advantage of this.
MUSK: And I like to also just send a message to, like, because as the president said, like there's -- there's lot a lot of rich people out there -- they should be caring more about the country because the reason they should be caring more about the country is if America falls, what do you think is going to happen to your business? What -- what do you think -- do you think you're we going to be okay if the ship of America sinks? Of course, not.
Like what -- what -- what -- what I'm doing here, what the president's doing is, it's just long-term thinking. The ship of America must be strong. The ship of America cannot sink. If it sinks, we all sink with it.
TRUMP: Sean, Europe --
HANNITY: This is what drives you.
MUSK: Yes.
HANNITY: This is important. It says "tech support". So you're not trying to be president as the media suggest.
You are really here because your heart and your passion is this, and the president described you as being -- this is the biggest thing you've ever done. Now, you're trying to bring (INAUDIBLE) --
TRUMP: There could be nothing bigger.
HANNITY: You're sending ships up to Mars, you know, spaceships up in the sky all the time and astronauts. That's pretty big.
TRUMP: That's peanuts. That's peanuts compared to what we're talking about, yeah.
HANNITY: Peanuts. You agree with that?
MUSK: Well, it's -- it's essential that America be healthy, that America's economy be strong.
HANNITY: Yeah.
MUSK: And if that -- basically, like my concern is like if -- if -- if -- America is the central pillar holding up Western civilization. That pillar must be strong. If that pillar falls, the whole roof comes crashing down.
TRUMP: Including his ships.
MUSK: There's no place to hide.
TRUMP: Including his ships.
MUSK: There's no place to hide (ph).
TRUMP: Nothing. There's nothing left.
HANNITY: Why -- why if this is your goal, your motivation, you're losing money in the process, you're offering -- you do all these nice things for people for free, you're trying to solve, you know, blindness, you're going to rescue astronauts, you help the people of North Carolina, California, you're cutting money that was sent abroad that's not helping the American people, then why the rage?
MUSK: Actually, like it was not helping the American people and hurting people overseas to be fair.
HANNITY: Why this rage against you now? First, they hated him. Now, they hate both of you.
MUSK: Well, I think we're seeing an antibody reaction from -- from those who are receiving the wasteful and fraudulent money.
HANNITY: They're being exposed.
MUSK: Yes.
HANNITY: Nobody wants to be exposed with --
(CROSSTALK)
MUSK: I'll tell you a lesson I learned at PayPal. You know who complained the loudest and -- the quickest and the loudest and with the most amount of righteous indignation? The fraudsters. That's who complained first, loudest, and they would generally have this immense overreaction. That's how we knew they were the fraudsters.
HANNITY: Uh-huh.
MUSK: That's how we knew. That's a tell.
HANNITY: What -- did -- I've never -- I've never met you before today.
MUSK: Yes.
HANNITY: And it's nice to meet you, by the way. Thank you for doing this.
You guys are really friends. I could -- you guys -- I could see you kicking up your shoes (ph) --
TRUMP: Well, he doesn't do this kind of thing, and the way I figured that you'd get to know him is if I did it with him. I said, come on, let's do it together.
HANNITY: Yeah.
TRUMP: He doesn't do this. I think he's smart in not doing it overall because, you know, I mean, he's done very well without doing it.
HANNITY: Right.
TRUMP: But he doesn't feel it's really worthwhile. He wants the product to speak for itself or whatever he does speak for itself, but he views it as, you know, does it matter? And I'm doing this with you today because I wanted to have people understand him, and I think it's very important.
I disagree with him that I think it's very important that they do understand him. He doesn't need this. He doesn't need it.
Now, I happen to think it's made him very popular. I think it's he's more popular now because there are so many people, you know, you're talking about the radical left, they have the lowest ratings. MSNBC is dying. CNN is dying.
They're all dying. "The New York Times" is doing lousy. "The Washington Post" is doing horribly. They're all doing bad deadly because people don't buy it anymore.
But I think it was important that he do this one interview. You've been a very fair guy. I think you were the right guy to do it. If we could get some radical left guy and they' do just as well frankly because it's -- it's all about common sense.
But this --
HANNITY: They would attack him as being unconstitutional -- fascist.
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: It was important for people to understand. He's doing a big job. He's doing a very thankless job. It's really a thankless job.
But he's helping us to save our country. Our country was in serious trouble, and I had to get the best guy, somebody with credibility because if he were just a regular good, very -- good solid businessman, he wouldn't have the credibility. He's got the best credibility for this.
And people also know he's an honest guy. He's an honest guy. He's just a very, very smart guy who's done amazing things.
And this will be the biggest thing he's ever done because, you know, his companies are all great but if this country goes bad, I guess where he is a little selfish is this, he knows one thing and probably doesn't think. But if his -- if this country goes bad, his stuff is not going to be worth very much, I can tell you.
MUSK: Well, like I said, if the -- if the ship of America sinks, we're all go going down with it. You know, this idea that people can escape to New Zealand or some other place is false. If the central pillar of western civilization that is America falls, the whole roof comes crashing down and there is no escape.
HANNITY: Do you anticipate you'll be here four years? My last question.
MUSK: I'll -- I'll be as helpful as long as I can be helpful.
HANNITY: Yeah.
TRUMP: That's a good question. I mean, I was thinking about that just now. I wonder how long he's going to be doing it.
You can't get somebody like this. He cares and he's brilliant and he's got energy.
You need energy also, in addition to those other things.
MUSK: Yeah.
TRUMP: You know, I have a lot of guys that are very smart but they have no energy. They want to sleep all day long.
You need a lot of energy. He got a lot of energy. He's doing a great job.
If there's any conflict, he -- he will stop it, but if he didn't, I'd stop it. I'd see if there's a conflict. I mean, we're talking about big stuff, but he's under a pretty big microscope. I mean --
MUSK: Yeah, it's true.
TRUMP: Everybody's watching him. If there's a conflict, you're going to be reading about it within about two minutes after the conflict.
MUSK: Exactly.
TRUMP: So --
MUSK: There's the -- the possibility of me getting away with something is zero percent, 0.0.
HANNITY: Yeah.
MUSK: I'm scrutinized to a ridiculous degree and the other thing is that we -- you know, what -- what's -- you know what's better than saying trust -- trust me is just full transparency. So what we're doing with -- with the DOGE -- DOGE, just go to DOGE.gov, you can see every single action that's been taken.
HANNITY: Uh-huh.
MUSK: And now -- and I want to be clear, we are going to make some mistakes. We're not going to be perfect. Nobody bats a thousand, but we're going to fix the mistakes very quickly. That's what matters.
Not that you don't make mistakes but that you fix the mistakes very fast.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
HANNITY: All right. They gave us so much extra time. You can watch the full unedited, start to finish, no interruptions at all version of this interview with President Trump and Elon Musk. Just go to foxnation.com.
When we come back, reaction to the interview. We'll check in with Reince Priebus, Mike Huckabee. They will join us.
Also, Kristi Noem might be using a polygraph to get to the bottom or who may be tipping off some of the gangs about pending ICE raids, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. At this hour, we are awaiting Donald Trump's arrival. The president will be back at Joint Base Andrews. We're going to take you there when it happens.
First, joining us now with reaction to our exclusive interview with President Trump, Elon Musk, nominee for U.S. ambassador to Israel -- I can't think of a better choice -- former Governor Mike Huckabee and former White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus who himself just got appointed to a position.
Good to see you both.
Governor, let me start with you. And why is this -- why -- why are they hating this guy for discovering and exposing I think one of the greatest most corrupt scandals in D.C. history?
MIKE HUCKABEE, U.S. AMBASSADOR TO ISRAEL NOMINEE: Sean, let me first of all say that of all the interviews, you've done, other than the ones you've done with me, that's -- is the best interview I've ever seen on your show. Absolutely fantastic because --
HANNITY: What about your daughter? She counts.
HUCKABEE: Well, she's good, but she's nowhere near what you did with Elon Musk and President Trump. And I'm going to tell you why, because you let the American public see these two incredible human beings who love this country who have nothing to gain by what they're doing and everything to lose, and yet they're doing some things that will save this country, not just save it some money that will save this country.
And one of the things that I realized in watching the interview was that you come to understand why these guys are so compatible. First of all, you have Elon Musk. I consider him with bringing in all those young geniuses, this is revenge of the nerds.
He has brought together all these people who have taken on the big fraternity and have destroyed them, and they can't stand it. But here's the thing about both these guys, they're both politically agnostic. People try to say -- is he conservative? Is he liberal?
And people have said that about Donald Trump. I keep telling people -- forget trying to put Donald Trump on the horizontal spectrum of left or right. He is a pragmatist. So is Elon Musk.
And here's what that means, when Donald Trump is faced with an issue, he has two things he cares about. One, does it work? And number two, will it make things better?
That's exactly what Elon Musk looks at. Will it work? And will it make things better? You put the two of them together and you have magic going on and your interview helped reveal why these guys are the best hope we have to get this country back on track.
HANNITY: And he's done so much good, Reince. I mean, even -- we're doing our little DOGE accomplishments to date and they think, this is just the tip of the iceberg. It's going to be well over a trillion dollars. By the way, that's Joint Base Andrews, President Trump is arriving.
And -- and what's amazing to me when he said that we've -- we have no option. We've got to save this country because we're also saving the world. The world will never be the same without a strong America. I couldn't agree more and yet, the vitriol.
I would think that kind of spending that I was scrolling earlier and that we scrolled during the interview, I would think that this is something, left, right, center, that everyone would agree on, but no. The -- the left has dug in. They -- they want more of this reckless spending abroad, the hundreds of billions?
REINCE PRIEBUS, FORMER TRUMP WHITE HOUSE CHIEF OF STAFF: Well, you know, what I took from the interview was it was sounded like a real battle for control. You know, Elon Musk said there's an antibody reaction to everything we're doing, and the president brought up. He said, you know, why are people so upset about this?
I mean -- and here's the reality, Ronald Reagan -- it reminded me a lot about the battles that Ronald Reagan had and he -- all the funny things he said about the size of government. And one of the things he said about this fight for control is that either you have -- you were going to control the government or the government's going to control you.
The good news for Donald Trump though is that -- and he talked about it in interview, too, is that the Democrats found themselves on the wrong side of normal.
And so, the American people know that. And so, here he's got this amazing opportunity, he's got a wide open receiver in the middle of the field, and we've got an opportunity supported by the American people to cut the size of government and -- and -- and this is really what I took from it, that this battle exists, and Donald Trump is allowing Elon Musk, a super smart guy with all his engineers to get in there and to have this battle to see who will win for the American people.
And look, when you're $36 trillion in debt, I think it's a pretty easy case to make that cutting the size of government is the first step, and that's the step that they're taking and I just thought it was brilliant.
HANNITY: You know, what has happened to the party where Bill Clinton, Al Gore, going back to Reagan and the Grace Commission, you can take it back decades, Governor Huckabee. We -- we live this, you know?
And Barack Obama -- they all use the same words, a lot of Republicans elected. They -- they say they want limited government, greater freedom, cutting, waste, fraud, abuse, getting rid of corruption, but nobody ever did it. Now, it's this is -- this is what could be so transformational, and this -- this could make this the most consequential presidency.
He wants peace in Europe. He wants peace in the Middle East, doesn't want anyone else to die. I want all of that, too.
Does that make me a horrible person?
HUCKABEE: Well, you're a horrible person but not because of that. It's other things that make you that.
But that aside, Sean, Mark Twain once said everybody talks about the weather but nobody does anything about it. You know, everybody talks about government spending, but for the first time in our entire history, President Trump is actually doing something about it. It's like he's changing the weather.
And the reason that the Democrats are going berserk and they're going out and singing these dumb songs and screaming and using profanity into microphones and making fools of themselves is very simple, there's an old saying that when you turn on the lights, it's the rats and roaches that start to run.
HANNITY: Yeah.
HUCKABEE: And that's what we're seeing.
HANNITY: Reince, before we go, do you want to call me a horrible person, too, like Governor Huckabee? It's okay, I've been called worse.
(LAUGHTER)
PRIEBUS: I don't think you're a horrible person. You know, as Reagan said, the status quo, yeah, that's the mess we're in and these guys are breaking that status quo.
HANNITY: All right. We appreciate both of you, even if I'm horrible. Thank you. I'm used to it. It's -- it's only been like 30-some odd years.
HUCKABEE: I love you, Sean.
HANNITY: I love you back.
All right. Coming up next, Department of Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem has ordered that polygraph test be used to determine if members of that department are leaking ICE raids to the press which, by the way, would put ICE agents' lives in jeopardy. She's next, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: And breaking moments ago, President Donald Trump landing at Joint Base Andrews. He delivered remarks in Miami. We are told that he spoke with the press. As that gets fed into us, we will bring it to you momentarily.
Now, the Department of Homeland Security has a message for illegal immigrants: get out before you're deported. And anyone thinking of coming here illegally should think again.
Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KRISTI NOEM, SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY: If you try to enter illegally, you will be caught. You will be removed and you will never return.
Follow the law and you'll find opportunity. If you break it, you'll find consequences.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Now, the new ad campaign comes as the Department of Homeland Security is trying to figure out the source of leaks that have disrupted ICE enforcement operations around the country. The department is now warning that polygraph tests have been ordered to determine whether or not staff for involved in any of these leaks.
And the Secretary of Homeland Security Kristi Noem joins us now with all the latest.
Well, first things first, we know these leaks have occurred, correct? We -- we're 100 percent sure of that.
NOEM: Correct, yes. We do have leaks that have occurred in the last couple of weeks that have jeopardized operations that we've had in different areas, different cities and towns, and they have put law enforcement officers and our agents at risk.
So we won't tolerate it anymore, and we're going to use every tool that I have available to me to find out where they're coming from and make sure that those who have leaked will face consequences.
HANNITY: And you -- you hit the keywords, it's putting ICE agents' lives at risk because the element of surprise is now gone.
Do you have suspicions where it's coming from? Because you did speak briefly in the past about that.
By the way, the president has just arrived. He's leaving -- he's departing Air Force One now.
NOEM: I see that. I'm -- I'm glad that he's -- that he's back.
But I -- what I would say is that we are in a situation where, yes, I do have suspicions, but I need to be sure and I need to be certain. So we have different tools we can use and one of those is ensuring that we're using polygraphs, to look at all of our employees, all of our people involved in these operations, to make sure that they are telling the truth on what they have done in the past that may have jeopardized some of our operations, that the Department of Homeland Security is a national security agency, it's a law enforcement agency.
So this is one of the authorities that I have and I'm going to use it to make sure that we find those who have done this nefarious activity and that it will no longer be tolerated.
HANNITY: You know, a lot of -- a lot of people on the left and a lot of Democrats, they're scratching their head. They can't really figure out -- well, what happened in November.
How big a part that -- they lied about the economy, they lied about Joe's cognitive state, they protected the Biden syndicate.
And then they lied about immigration repeatedly. Your predecessor telling the American people -- President Joe Biden, Vice -- Vice President Kamala Harris, the border is closed, the border is secure.
I mean, it's such a spectacular lie. Did they think the American people didn't have eyes to see?
NOEM: Yeah. Well, the people could see because it was changing in their communities right around them, and we watched families lose their children.
We saw families like Laken Riley's family that tragically lost a daughter that they'll never have in their lives again. They saw children that were trafficked, drugs that were killing our generation of kids, and it was all happening because of that open border.
So the American people knew what was happening and saw it, and there was consequences for that.
And now, we have a president that puts America first, and that has closed the border, has secured it, and is allowing us to deport people in record numbers and we are deporting dangerous criminals.
In fact, Sean, we're picking up people that have been raping children, have been trafficking children and proliferating the use of drugs and going out there and, you know, murdering and raping individuals. And we're getting them out of the country.
Every day, we're saving lives because of the work that we're doing. And so, we're going to make sure that we do it and do it with integrity and continue to make sure that we're securing the homeland of the United States of America.
HANNITY: You know, the thing, Madam Secretary, that scares me the most is that we have -- well, I used -- I'm kind of --
NOEM: I thought you said madam secretary was scaring you.
HANNITY: No, no, no.
NOEM: Yeah.
HANNITY: And you did a great job as governor. I'm sure the people of South Dakota are proud of you, but also probably miss you.
But the thing that scares me the most is -- well, first of all, do we have an actual number of how many illegals were unvetted allowed in the country? Do we have any idea the number of known terrorists?
We know we have terrorists. We know Biden and Harris admitted, you know, around 15,000 murderers and then we had about the same number of rapists and other violent criminals. We have cartel members, gang members.
Do we know about how many? And how -- how do we ever -- how do we root out every single one of them?
Because every one of them to me represents a threat to the homeland.
NOEM: We have hundreds of thousands of criminals that were let illegally into this country. That means they have criminal records. They've perpetuated crimes in this country. They're members of gangs and cartels that have committed crimes around the world.
And tomorrow is the day that we're going to be able to make sure that gangs and cartel members are foreign terrorist organizations, and it'll give us new authorities to go after them and get them out of the country.
So this is not a small operation, Sean. This is an operation that we're going to have to work aggressively at for a period of time to make sure that we're getting all those dangerous individuals out of our country, and then go on to those who have overstayed and have final removal orders. We're going to go forward and make sure that our federal laws are upheld and that every single law is followed in this country.
The Biden administration didn't do that. They didn't ensure that the American people were their number one priority and that's why we're in the situation that we're in today.
So what keeps me up at night is the fact that until we get all of these dangerous individuals out of the country, I can't ensure that we won't have another family that loses a child because of these people that were let into the country by the Biden administration, that -- that we have families that may still lose their kids and grandkids to fentanyl and to drugs because it's being trafficked over the border by -- you know, the cartels that are partnering with the Chinese government, to take out our next generation.
They're weakening and destroying America from the inside, and it's my job as secretary to make sure that I'm stopping it, and getting up every single day using every tool that I have to make sure that we're making America more safe.
HANNITY: You know, do -- but we -- do we have a total number or around a total number? I've heard estimates, 10 million, 11 million, 14 million. Do we -- do we even know?
NOEM: Well, you've heard the president talk about the fact that there 20 million people in this country here illegally, but we literally do have hundreds of thousands of people that are criminal aliens. We have many -- over thousands of them that are on the suspected or known terrorist watch list.
We know that we have thousands of gang members, just TDA members. We have - - we're using Gitmo, you know, as a detention center right now, and our camp five and six are full of TDA members, entire gang members that we're getting out of this country and off of our streets.
So these are individuals that are the worst of the worst from other countries that President Biden invited to come to America and other countries sent them to us. We are now sending them back.
HANNITY: And, by the way, the -- the -- currently, the Department of Homeland Security, you do administer polygraphs during the hiring process for CBP officers, agents for suitability for employment. This -- you know, oh, this is overreach, this is too much, they're going to check at people.
You already do that when they get hired, don't you?
NOEM: Absolutely and we're a national security agency. We're a law enforcement agency. We have the authority to do this, and we'll continue to do it.
It'll be random. It'll be a process that we'll use to make sure that we're not going to allow these leaks anymore and we'll be able to use it when we have suspected activities going on as well.
HANNITY: All right. Department of Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem, we appreciate that update. Thanks for your time as always.
NOEM: Thank you, Sean.
HANNITY: When we come back, all right, we're expecting the left, the media mob statement -- their attacks on the president continue. You're not going to believe what one Democratic lawmaker said on that hard-hitting new show "The View".
And also, apparently a gaggle on Air Force One, that tape as it arrives. We'll bring it to you live, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: This is a FOX News alert. We are told that President Trump spoke to reporters on Air Force One. As soon as we get that tape, we'll bring it to you.
But, first, let's bring in FOX News contributor Ari Fleischer, along with "FOX & Friends Weekend" co-host, all friends of the program, Charlie Hurt.
You know, it was interesting. If you watch the CEO of Delta was on "CBS Mornings" with Gayle King and King tries to politicize the crash in Toronto and put the blame on Trump's policies and she was stunned that the Delta CEO, Bastian, said, no, the cuts are something people are talking about.
We've got over 50,000 people that work at the FAA, Ari, and the cuts I understand with 300 people, non-critical safety functions. It's like they want to believe the worst and in 2023, the FAA was warned that they didn't have enough employees and that they didn't have safety procedures.
ARI FLEISCHER, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Well, you would think that the media would go after Canada in this case then, right, since the accident happened in Canada, attack the Canadians. But no, they just attack Donald Trump and his administration.
Ed Bastian, the CEO of Delta, knows a little about the airline industry. He knows the insides and outsides of the FAA.
But this whole notion that when something goes wrong in America, we blame our political opponents, Sean, this is part of the destruction of our unity. There have been a series of mishaps in the sky. Can we get to the bottom of what happened without saying it was the fault of this politician or that politician?
They very well most likely had to do with pilots or with things that connected to the aircraft. Not the system itself, certainly not the people who fund the system, i.e., the politicians. There's no evidence of that.
HANNITY: You know, Charlie, I listened to the leftwing freak out, the singing, the `60s chants. You know, Jasmine Crockett on that hit news show "The View" on ABC, your hospitals in rural America will be shutting down more. You won't have social security, you'll understand why Medicaid and Medicare goes away, and planes fall out of the sky and, you know, you'll realize maybe sleepy Joe is what we wanted because we could sleep at night.
I -- really? I mean, what else do you want to call? What else do you want to say about conservatives? You said everything else, it didn't really work.
CHARLIE HURT, "FOX & FRIENDS WEEKEND" CO-HOST: Right. Yeah, all I can say is, you know, say a prayer for these people. They are lost in the wilderness.
HANNITY: You want to pray for them? All right.
HURT: They don't know what to do. Yeah, I think so. I think that --
HANNITY: You're right.
HURT: I really do think -- I think they're -- that's how bad a shape they're in right now that's how lost they are. And when you look at what uh Donald Trump is accomplishing just so far in the first three and a half weeks of his presidency, we're talking about things that matter a lot to people across the partisan lines. These are not partisan issues.
When you look at the -- at the DOGE, and you look at the efforts that Donald Trump has made at trying to bring an end to the war in Ukraine, you look at what he has done at the border, these are all issues that are 60, 70 percent issues for people.
And Democrats have nothing left except to go into hysterics, sing, cry and try to blame Trump for a plane that fell out of the sky in Canada and I think they've reached the depths of desperation, and I think it's going to get worse before it gets better.
And I don't see any indication whatsoever that there are any Democrats who are -- have the knowledge, have the wisdom, have the interest of people of their own party to step up and start leading them out of the wilderness.
HANNITY: So let me get this straight, Ari. The Democratic Party wants to double down and put the rights of illegal immigrants over the safety of Americans. They want to champion men playing in women's sports.
Then, they want money -- hundreds of billions of dollars that we're now identifying, spent overseas, not for this country, to advance their radical green new deal, DEI, wokeism, transgenderism and LGBTQ, and that's the -- that is that Democratic Party, that's -- that's the majority of Democrats now?
FLEISCHER: And they want to drive up the price of energy for everybody because they don't like fossil fuels and so they want to make energy so expensive, that makes renewables more e economically viable.
Look, the problem that Democrats have is their playbook is not working and that is the reality that's setting in. They used to be able to decry any federal cut and find somebody to go on camera and say I was hurt, and it would back Republicans down.
All of a sudden, the Republican Party is growing a spine when it comes to spending cuts led by Donald Trump and Elon Musk. They used to be able to go on the air and call Republicans the party of the rich. Now, the rich vote Democrat. It is the one group Kamala Harris did better than Joe Biden in 2020, that she increased her vote among those who make more than $100,000 a year.
She lost among every other demographic group compared to Biden in 2020. She did better with the rich. So much of the Democrat rhetoric, they used to be able to take to the bank, is now failing them and that's why they're flailing. They don't know what to do. They don't know how to oppose Donald Trump. They're in the minority and they're losing much of the country. That's their deeper problem.
HANNITY: No introspection, no change of -- there's absolutely no change in what they're doing. They seem to have doubled down on dumb and dumber, Charlie, which if this is who they want to be, I'm like -- I'm all for it, go ahead because hopefully we can save the country.
HURT: Well, one thing though I think it's important to note, this is not a majority of Democrat voters because Democrat voters do not support this stuff and the polling shows that they don't support this stuff and you mentioned the most important one that I left out which is, of course, men - -
HANNITY: Well, a lot of them voted for Kamala, though.
HURT: Yeah, they did but they don't -- but polls show that they don't support men playing in women's sports, for example.
HANNITY: Yeah.
HURT: Or open borders or any of these other things. But the politicians, the Democrat politicians, they don't have any other playbook that they're familiar with. And so that's why --
HANNITY: That's it.
HURT: -- they're lost and they're going to be lost for a long time.
HANNITY: Thank you both.
More "Hannity" straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: A reminder, before we go, my interview with President Trump and Elon Musk went much longer than I thought. By the way, I'm grateful. You can watch the full, unedited, uninterrupted interview with President Donald Trump, Elon Musk. It's on foxnation.com right now.
That's all the time we have left this evening. Thank you for being with us and making the show possible.
Please set your DVR, so you never, ever, ever miss an episode of "Hannity".
In the meantime, let not your heart be troubled. Greg Gutfeld, he'll put a smile on your face next. Have a great night.

Load-Date: February 20, 2025


End of Document
