




The Gateway: University of Nebraska at Omaha
February 20, 2025 Thursday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 1278 words
Body


Exactly a month into his presidency, Donald J. Trump continues to sign executive orders which have been met with legal challenges and criticism from some organizations. The long-term effects of these executive orders remain to be seen, but UNO students and people across the country have kept a close eye on Trump's actions during his second term.
Executive orders allow presidents to pursue agendas they are unable to get through Congress. Some orders take effect immediately, others take longer to implement and some are faced with legal challenges which slow or stop them altogether.
Congress and the courts can also block executive orders by ruling that they are unconstitutional, and that the president lacks the authority to make such a change. Or by other ways, such as ruling the order unlawful.
Among the executive orders include ending diversity, equity and inclusion programs, withdrawing from the Paris Climate Agreement as well as the World Health Organization , cracking down on immigration and sweeping tariffs.
The Paris Climate Agreement is an agreement that was negotiated in 2015 between 192 states to combat climate change. Trump withdrew from the climate agreement in his first term, arguing that other countries weren't contributing proportionally to the U.S.
Former President Biden brought the U.S. back into the climate agreement in 2021. Trump once again pulled the U.S. out, using an executive order signed his first day back in office.
"These agreements steer American taxpayer dollars to countries that do not require, or merit, financial assistance in the interests of the American people," stated the order.
Student Peter Boyd noted the withdrawal from the Paris Climate Agreement could be a cost-saving measure but expressed uncertainty about its effectiveness. In addition, Boyd observed that Trump has taken a more assertive approach to executive actions in his second term.
Along with withdrawing from the Paris Climate Agreement, Trump also removed the U.S. from the World Health Organization, the United Nations agency for combating global health.
Trump previously withdrew from the WHO in 2020, citing mismanagement of the COVID-19 pandemic as well as other global health crises and unfairly demanding payments from the U.S. The recent executive order mentions that China, who has 300% more population, pays 90% less than the U.S. does.
Kydist Negus, a pre-med student at University of Nebraska at Omaha, believes that withdrawing from the WHO could have negative effects on the health of the United States.
"The U.S. is a major proponent of information regarding health in that way," Negus said. "I think we need the global collaboration in order for cures to be found."
Withdrawing from the WHO means the U.S. will no longer have access to its global health database, which some argue could hinder global health collaboration. This includes information about the formulation of vaccines, the collection of data on diseases and the eradication of diseases such as polio.
Supporters of the decision argue that reallocating WHO funding could improve public health initiatives in the U.S.
To withdraw from the WHO and the Paris Climate Agreement, both require written request and payment for the entire fiscal year. It is unsure whether Trump can officially withdraw with an executive order.
Some of Trump's most controversial executive orders deal with immigration, which has divided Republicans and Democrats for years. One of his first actions was declaring a "national emergency" at the border. The action will free funding to build more sections of the border wall, decrease border crossings and send troops to the southern border.
In other executive actions, Trump has attempted to redefine birthright citizenship which has since encountered multiple lawsuits blocking it. Additionally, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement workers are conducting more arrests with the newfound ability to arrest at "sensitive locations," such as schools, hospitals and places of worship.
A University of Nebraska at Omaha student who would like to remain anonymous has a personal connection to the recent immigration policies. As a daughter of Mexican immigrants, she mentioned that she could see what Trump is trying to do by keeping certain people out of the country but stated that she doesn't think it's the "best" way to go about it.
"My parents didn't cross the border to do drugs, crimes, or anything [else]. They crossed the border to give their kids a better life," she said. "There [are] other ways that they can go about securing the border."
Trump also issued an executive order which impacted DEI initiatives by overturning an executive order signed by Lyndon B. Johnson in 1965 that prohibited hiring discrimination based on race, religion, color, national origin and sex.
The executive order Trump signed, called "Ending Illegal Discrimination and Restoring Merit-Based Opportunity," aims to return to an entirely "merit-based" system, stating that DEI programs violate civil-right laws and promote race and sex-based preferences.
Negus stated that she feels DEI has been demonized by the Republican party, without realizing that it is not just people of color who benefit from DEI initiatives.
"They seem to think DEI means undeserving, unworthy, or unqualified, but the opposite of that is true," Negus said.
Trump has also signed executive orders regarding tariffs. Tariffs are a tax paid on goods that are exported to the U.S. and have been used to protect domestic industries and to protest other countries' trade practices.
Trump has argued that imposing tariffs will incentivize domestic production. However, critics warn that tariffs could lead to retaliation measures from other countries. While the 25% tariffs on Canada and Mexico have been paused, Trump has levied a 10% tariff on Chinese goods and a 25% steel and aluminum tariff on all countries.
"Tariffs are a back-and-forth relationship, from my understanding," UNO student Kenna Jordan said. "If we raise tariffs on another country, they might do the same to us."
Tariffs are paid by the consumer, which has worried many citizens who fear prices may go up as a result, in addition to the current inflation and increased egg prices. Steel and aluminum tariffs mean the price of construction materials will go up, as well as the price to buy newer homes.
"The U.S doesn't produce a lot of things en masse," Jordan said. "If other countries can find resources in other countries for cheaper [as a result of tariffs], then cutting ties with the U.S is not off the table and the price of goods will rise."
As Trump nears a month in office, he continues to sign executive orders as he tackles foreign and domestic policy. Many of his decisions have garnered both contempt and applause and the future of the United States stands in the shadow.
Other executive orders signed by Trump include:
· Establishing a United States?Sovereign?Wealth Fund?
· Withdrawing from the United Nations Human Rights Council and ending funding for United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East?
· Rescinding Biden paper straw regulations and?marking a?return to plastic straws?
· Establishing the Department of Government Efficiency?
· Declassifying records concerning the?assassinations?of John F. Kennedy and Martin Luther King Jr.?
· Banning?trans women from women's sports?
· Improving disaster response and providing water resources to California?
· Directing the Attorney General to not enforce the TikTok ban for?75 days?
· ?Directs the federal government to only recognize male and female biological sexes
Click this link to see a list and more information on Trump's executive orders.

Load-Date: February 20, 2025


End of Document
