




States News Service
January 23, 2025 Thursday


Copyright 2025 States News Service
Length: 400 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


The following information was released by the Council on Competitiveness:
In the early hours of his presidency, Donald Trump signed several Executive Orders (EOs) likely to affect higher education. Though it will take time to fully understand the implications of these ordersand many may face legal challengesthere are some immediate impacts across the research community from certain orders. Three are highlighted here:
1. The EO "Unleashing American Energy" included language stating, "...all agencies shall immediately pause the disbursement of funds appropriated through the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (Public Law 117-169) or the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (Public Law 117-58)."
These funds will be in limbo for at least 90 days as agency heads review grants, contracts, and loans. University leaders may want to contact their congressional delegations to make them aware of any potentially affected programs.
2. The EO "Ending Illegal Discrimination and Restoring Merit-Based Opportunity" includes a requirement that "...the head of each agency shall include in every contract or grant award: ...a term requiring such counterparty or recipient to certify that it does not operate any programs promoting DEI that violate any applicable Federal anti-discrimination laws.
The EO also includes a provision calling on, "...the heads of all agencies, with the assistance of the Attorney General," to develop, "...a plan of specific steps or measures to deter DEI programs or principles (whether specifically denominated "DEI" or otherwise) that constitute illegal discrimination or preferences. As a part of this plan, each agency shall identify up to nine potential civil compliance investigations of publicly traded corporations, large non-profit corporations or associations, foundations with assets of 500 million dollars or more, State and local bar and medical associations, and institutions of higher education with endowments over 1 billion dollars."
How these requirements will be implemented remains to be seen, but requirements pushed by the previous Administration to encourage DEI will not be continued.
3. NIH has suspended review committees, travel, external communications, and hiring.
While this may impact ongoing research and drug reviews, note that it is common for new administrations to implement delays and reviews as they establish their leadership and set new priorities.

Load-Date: January 26, 2025


End of Document
