




Forbes.com
February 26, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Forbes LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 741 words
Byline: Megan Poinski, Forbes Staff
Highlight: C-suites at top U.S. companies had fewer marketing leaders last year and more executive roles focused on diversity and inclusion, according to analysis by Spencer Stuart.
Body


<figure>
<figcaption>
GETTY IMAGES
</figcaption></figure>
The C-suite s revolving door is slowing down, with continued focus on institutional knowledge and more diversity-oriented leaders, a study from executive search company Spencer Stuart shows.
In its annualFortune 500 C-Suite Snapshot, the firm found that last year, the average executive had a tenure of 4.9 years, up slightly from 4.5 years in 2023. CEOs tend to stay around the longest: 7.4 years. Nearly six in 10 of all executives were internally appointed, with 76% of CEOs and 79% of COOs climbing the ladder at the same company. And half of all executives are either women or historically underrepresented groups, a slight increase from 2023.
However, while more entrenched paths to the C-suite are getting a bit wider, Ed Stadolnik, Spencer Stuart functional practices leader for North America said that nowadays, there are no hard-and-fast rules for getting into the executive level.
 Our study shows that there s no one path forward both into the C-suite or up through the C-suite,  Stadolnik said.
Stadolnik said that the longer tenure of executives, especially CEOs, shows that businesses are recovering from the frantic strategy shakeup caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. The more uncertain business climate at the beginning of this decade resulted in more quick leadership changes, with some leaders stepping down and several crossing through companies as ideas and business plans needed to be redrawn.
Companies are also becoming more purposeful in selecting both new leaders and putting succession plans in place, Stadolnik said. They re also more aware of ensuring new leaders fit into already-established company culture, trying to select people who will stay in the role for the long haul. Last year, just 7% of executives left a job within six months a number inflated by the 12% turnover rate of COOs, which the study says could signify the role s prominence as a stepping stone to CEO.
While the number of internal hires for some positions is increasing, it s going down for others. About 57% of CIOs were external hires, with almost half of them coming from a different industry. While it appears that companies are placing more value on longtime insider knowledge for some positions, Stadolnik said that isn t the case for those specializing in tech.
 Technology evolves so quickly that there is a value in having an external position on technology that s gained experience in another company,  Stadolnik said.  A chief technology officer, a chief digital officer who brings an external point of view can be of high value. The longer tenure you have within your own company as a technology leader, you sort of only see what s in your space. 
The study found that many CIOs were hired from different kinds of industries altogether, like a healthcare company bringing on a CIO from a consumer company. At the consumer company, that CIO may have concentrated on much more consumer-friendly systems and functions something the healthcare company could want to emulate. According to the study, nearly half of all externally hired CIOs came from technology, media or telecommunications companies.
The composition of the C-suite is shifting, with the number of CMOs going down 8% this year. That doesn t necessarily mean companies are placing less of an emphasis on marketing, Stadolnik said. Companies are all structured differently, and marketing leadership functions may have been moved under a chief growth officer, or a chief digital officer that concentrates on ways for companies to get their messages out through technology.
Diversity leadership positions have also seen a significant increase, with 9% more enterprise-level diversity and inclusion executives in 2024. Stadolnik said that the data underlying the study was collected last summer, so it doesn t reflect any recent changes inspired by the Trump Administration s stance on DEI. There may be some shifts in these numbers as the year goes on, Stadolnik said, but the data suggests companies view DEI as an essential part of their corporate values and vital to long-term success.
 We see that the business case for inclusion remains strong with research showing that diverse leadership teams drive performance, creativity, and innovation,  Stadolnik said.  So while some organizations may be reassessing their D, E and I initiatives, we anticipate that many of our clients and companies will continue to focus on the value. 

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
