




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 21, 2025 Tuesday 6:21 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 1411 words
Byline: Avery Lotz
Body


January 21st, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
 
The big picture: Trump's radical   
President Trump executive orders list 2025
Here's what Trump's day-one executive orders do:
Immigration executive orders
Many of Trump's first   
He promised mass deportations but hasn't detailed how he would implement, staff and fund such a  
Trump declares national emergency at Mexico border
Trump  
Trump designated "certain international cartels" and organizations, such as Tren de Aragua and MS-13, as foreign terrorist organizations and announced plans to invoke the Alien Enemies Act of 1798 to target them.
Trump suspended U.S. Refugee Admissions Program  
Nearly 1,660 Afghans cleared by by the U.S. to resettle in the country, including family of active-duty U.S. military personnel, had their flights canceled following Trump's orders, Reuters  
Trump also ordered Homeland Security to terminate "all categorical parole programs that are contrary to the policies of the United States established in my Executive Orders," including those for refugees fleeing Cuba, Haiti, Nicaragua and Venezuela.
Remain in Mexico policy
Trump reinstated the "Remain in Mexico" policy, ending a program that released asylum seekers into the U.S. while their cases were considered.
The U.S. Customs and Border Protection   
Trump  
Trump birthright citizenship executive order
One of his boldest moves was an attempt to end  
Birthright citizenship is protected by the   
Trump ordered agencies (starting 30 days after the order) not to recognize babies as citizens if their mothers were "unlawfully present" at the time of birth and their father was not a U.S. citizen or a lawful permanent resident.
That also applies to children born to mothers who were lawful, temporary residents and fathers who were not citizens or lawful permanent residents.
Energy and environment executive orders
Trump declared a "national energy emergency," ordering expedited, deregulated drilling as he's  
One  
In a separate memorandum, Trump  
"[T]the heads of all other relevant agencies, shall not issue new or renewed approvals, rights of way, permits, leases, or loans for onshore or offshore wind projects," pending a review of federal wind leasing, per the order.
Paris Climate treaty
State of play: He also   
Trump had pulled out of the pact during his first term, but Biden rejoined the deal in a day-one order of his own.
It takes a year to withdraw from the agreement, Axios' Andrew Freedman reports.
Trump also    
Trump   
Tump also revoked a 2021 Biden executive order that  
Executive orders targeting DEI and transgender Americans
Trump established Monday that "it is the policy of the United States to recognize two sexes, male and female" on official documents.
"These sexes are not changeable and are grounded in fundamental and incontrovertible reality," his executive order  
Transgender Americans were a central target of Trump's often hyperbolic and outright false  
Zoom out: He also  
Trump did not immediately ban trans military personnel from serving, as he did under his  
Trump, as part of his crusade against what the GOP decries as "woke" culture,  
It eliminates policies that established several diversity initiatives, Axios' Emily Peck reports, including  
Other executive orders affecting federal workers
Trump signed  
He required a full-time return to in-office work for federal employees and ordered a  
The hiring freeze does not apply to the military or "immigration enforcement, national security, or public safety."
He also reinstated his first-term  
The order could  
Employees are "not required to personally or politically support the current President" - but they must "faithfully implement administration policies to the best of their ability," the order said.
Jan. 6 pardons
Trump   

"These are the hostages, approximately 1,500 for a pardon, full pardon," Trump said from the Oval Office on his first night as president.
Pardoning rioters was a prominent campaign pledge, but Trump had previously  
Health executive orders: WHO, COVID and drug costs
Trump signed an   
Monday's order said the U.S. will withdraw "due to the organization's mishandling of the COVID-19 pandemic ... and other global health crises, its failure to adopt urgently needed reforms, and its inability to demonstrate independence from the inappropriate political influence of WHO member states."
Zoom out: Trump also rescinded a 2022  
TikTok extension, DOGE and more executive orders
Trump signed a number of other executive orders and actions. Those include:






Go deeper:





Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 21, 2025


End of Document
