




MailOnline
January 20, 2025 Monday 5:15 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 751 words
Byline: Kelly Laco, Executive Editor Of Politics
Body


President Donald Trump delivered a powerful first speech after his swearing into office in the Capitol Rotunda on Monday previewing his first sweeping actions.
'We are at a thrilling new era of national success,' said Trump as he took the podium just after noon.
'Our national decline is over,' he declared to cheers among the hundreds of lawmakers and top MAGA allies gathered. 
The five tech giants Jeff Bezos, Amazon founder, Elon Musk, the world's richest man, Mark Zuckerberg, Meta founder, AI wizard Sam Altman and TikTok CEO Shou Chew all had places of honor near the president.
Trump's children Donald Jr., 47, Ivanka, 43, Eric, 41, Tiffany, 31, - who is pregnant - and Barron, 18, gathered behind him for the historic moment. 
The crowd erupted in cheers as Trump said he was 'saved by God to Make America Great Again' after surviving two assassination attempts on his life in recent months. 
He then ran through several of his hundreds of planned executive actions to 'restore the American dream' including closing the southern border and restoring energy dominance.
Trump touted his new agency DOGE headed by Musk which he said will 'restore efficiency.' He also promised to stop government censorship and protect Americans' free speech online. 
'Never again will the immense power of the state be weaponized to prosecute candidates,' he pledged. 
He will also restore 'full back pay' to members of the U.S. military who were fired for refusing the 'unlawful' COVID vaccine mandate implemented by Joe Biden. 
Political speechwriters and experts revealed to DailyMail.com their takeaways on Trump's first speech in his second term as millions of Americans looked on.
                     Rusty Hills: Trump projected 'strength'                   
Rusty Hills, a former speechwriter for former Michigan Gov. John Engler, said the address sounded a lot like a 'victory lap' at one of his campaign rallies. 
He said he ran through all of the 'old familiar themes' including blaming Biden for the open border, the economy and energy and inflation.
The 'exclamation point to this political theme' came when Trump repeated his signature campaign promise to 'Make America Great Again.'
Hills said the remarks had a 'martial quality' to them. 
Trump called January 20th, 2025 'Liberation Day,' and used the words 'strength and 'victory' while declaring his first actions in office. 
He went on to say the address had a 'messianic quality' as Trump declared 'America's decline is over.' 
He pledged to 'liberate our nation.' He said that under his leadership, America will 'plant the stars and stripes on Planet Mars.' And he promised that under a second Trump administration, 'The Golden Age of America begins right now.'
                     Jessica Anderson: 'New chapter for America'                    
Anderson, the president of Sentinel Action Fund, told DailyMail.com that Trump successfully 'kicked off a new chapter for America.'
'His speech was one of hope and unity as he set the tone for the next four years of prosperity, security, and strength,' she stated.
Additionally, he made it clear to the American people that he's 'not going to waste any time getting to work' with his executive orders lined up.
'The energy and happiness is palpable on the streets of Washington as we celebrate a new administration who is ready to show up and fight for our families and our future generations,' she continued. 
'This speech was everything we wanted to hear and should give us all hope that brighter days are ahead.' 
Trump is signing approximately 200 executive orders on Monday in a massive crackdown on Day One of his second term.
The orders cover a wide range of issues from immigration policies, to gender identity issues and even deregulating the permitted flow of water from shower heads.
'Today, I will sign a series of historic executive orders,' Trump said during his inaugural address from the Capitol Rotunda on Monday. 'With these actions, we will begin the complete restoration of America and the revolution of common sense - it's all about common sense.'
And 10 of his orders crack down on illegal immigration and the southern border crisis.
Trump is also targeting more 'woke' social policies enacted by his predecessor, including getting rid of diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) practices and declaring that there are only two genders.
Trump's second term will undoubtedly be filled with future-altering actions.
An estimated 38 million Americans tuned into Trump's inaugural address in 2017 across the networks.

Load-Date: January 20, 2025


End of Document
