




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 2, 2025 Sunday 1:53 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 268 words
Byline: Avery Lotz
Body


February 2nd, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
Flights throughout the U.S. could experience "residual delays" Sunday morning due to a warning system outage, according to Transportation Secretary  
The big picture: It is unclear if the outage was tied to the broad changes and deletions across  
Duffy said in a Saturday night   
Duffy said there is no impact on the National Airspace System because "a backup system is in place."
"We are investigating the root cause and we will provide updates," he wrote.
By the numbers: There have been 599 delays within, into, or out of the country as of Sunday around 8:50am ET, per air traffic tracker  
There have been 64 cancellations within, into, or out of the U.S.
Zoom in: The outage comes days after the fatal   
Flashback: This is not the first time the Notice to Air Missions system, which communicates hazards like closed runways or airspace restrictions in real time, has gone down.
In 2023, the FAA  
Go deeper:  


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 2, 2025


End of Document
