



thetimes.co.uk
January 30, 2025 Thursday 10:00 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 1219 words
Byline: David Charter, Washington | Jacqui Goddard
Highlight: The president claimed the fatal collision was due to diversity hires under his predecessors. Others have called his own actions into question
Body


President Trump claimed diversity initiatives under previous Democratic presidents were a factor in the Washington air collision. 
“I put safety first. Obama, Biden and the Democrats put policy first,” he said at a press conference on Thursday, the day after the crash that is thought to have killed all 67 people on board the two aircraft. “They actually came out with a directive: ‘too white.’ And we want the people that are competent.”
The Obama, Biden and Trump approaches
President Obama’s drive to increase diversity in hiring included an executive order in 2011 “establishing a co-ordinated government-wide initiative to promote diversity and inclusion in the federal workforce”.
He signed a bill into law in February 2012 that directed the Federal Aviation Authority (FAA) to introduce a “diversity and inclusion strategic plan” to ensure equal opportunity, enhance diversity and promote inclusion. The objective was to reach out to groups classified as under-represented, such as women, ethnic minorities and the disabled.

All air traffic control recruits still had to pass the air traffic selection and training test (AT-SAT) for acceptance to the federal Air Traffic Controller Academy in Oklahoma City. However, because an overwhelming proportion of successful candidates were white men, a part of the AT-SAT was changed in 2014 to test aptitudes and decision-making in a “biographical assessment”. This placed an emphasis on skills rather than experience and was thought to give a fairer chance to applicants from less advantaged backgrounds. It was criticised by conservatives for covertly “profiling” candidates by race and disadvantaging white men.
At the end of the Obama presidency in 2016, Michael Huerta, the FAA administrator, said: “President Obama made diversity a hallmark of his administration and at the FAA, we’re working hard to do our part. This year, more than 13 per cent of our permanent new hires are African-American, compared with about 10 per cent in 2012. This is a better record than the civilian labour force.”

Trump, under whom the biographical assessment was removed as a screening tool in 2018, said that the Biden administration encouraged the FAA to recruit workers “who suffer severe intellectual disabilities, psychiatric problems and other mental and physical conditions under a diversity and inclusion hiring initiative”.
The FAA’s diversity and inclusion hiring plan, now removed from its website after 

, said: “Diversity is integral to achieving FAA’s mission of ensuring safe and efficient travel across our nation and beyond.”
The plan, which was last updated in March 2022, added: “Targeted disabilities are those disabilities that the federal government, as a matter of policy, has identified for special emphasis in recruitment and hiring. They include hearing, vision, missing extremities, partial paralysis, complete paralysis, epilepsy, severe intellectual disability, psychiatric disability and dwarfism.

“Because diversity is so critical, FAA actively supports and engages in a variety of associations, programs, coalitions and initiatives to support and accommodate employees from diverse communities and backgrounds. Our people are our strength, and we take great care in investing in and valuing them as such.” 
Elon Musk, the billionaire who now serves as head of Trump’s Department of Government Efficiency, posted at the time: “Do you want to fly in an airplane where they prioritised DEI hiring over your safety? That is actually happening.” 
The FAA defended its hiring policies, saying that staff in critical safety roles had to meet rigorous standards. 
“The FAA employs tens of thousands of people for a wide range of positions, from administrative roles to oversight and execution of critical safety functions,” it said. “Like many large employers, the agency proactively seeks qualified candidates from as many sources as possible, all of whom must meet rigorous qualifications that of course will vary by position.”
Democrats target Trump’s actions
Democrats, meanwhile, attempted to shift the blame on Trump, criticising the early actions he has taken in his new administration, such as a hiring freeze on federal sectors including air traffic control, the firing of the Transportation Safety Administration (TSA) chief, leadership changes at the FAA and the dismantling of a longstanding aviation security committee.
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a Democratic congresswoman for New York, wrote on X: “I represent LaGuardia airport as well as workers for JFK. Trump gutted the aviation safety committee last week. Air traffic controllers — already understaffed — got Trump’s ‘buyout’ this week with a one-week ultimatum to decide. It’s not 

 — it’s him. And Elon too.”
Industry experts warned against political point-scoring, pointing out that none of the president’s actions since his inauguration on January 20, nor diversity programmes, could be shown to have caused the fatal collision between two aircraft operating in an extremely busy airspace.
The National Air Traffic Controllers Association urged its 20,000 members to “stay focused and stay strong” and leave facts to the experts.
“It would be premature to speculate on the root cause of this accident,” it said. “We will wait for the National Transportation Safety Board to complete its work and use that information to help guide decisions to enhance and improve air safety … We serve quietly, but events like this remind us of the weight we bear.”
On Thursday Trump appointed Christopher Rocheleau as acting head of the FAA, filling a position vacated by Michael Whitaker, who stepped down before the president’s inauguration. Rocheleau, an expert in aviation safety, policy and operations, has served in several senior roles during his nine-year career at the FAA.
Committee set up after Lockerbie disaster disbanded
Concerns remained, however, over Trump’s decision last week to fire the head of the TSA and disband the aviation security advisory committee, a body established by Congress after the 1988 Lockerbie disaster in which 270 people were killed when a terrorist bomb exploded in the hold of Pan Am Flight 103 over Scotland.
The committee comprised aviation industry stakeholders including airline experts, airport staff, manufacturers, labour unions and plane crash victims’ families. It was tasked with providing feedback and recommendations to the head of the TSA, which is part of the Department of Homeland Security, pertaining to airline and airport security.
The Trump administration included it in a list of Homeland Security committees that it described as being a “misuse of resources”.
“Over the last 35 years, approximately 95 per cent of [the committee’s] recommendations to the FAA and TSA leadership have been accepted. These recommendations improve aviation security and protect the flying public,” Kara Weipz, president of Victims of Pan Am Flight 103, said upon the scrapping of the committee.
The Trump administration’s actions, she said, would “undermine aviation security in the United States and across the globe”, adding that the committee’s work had “always been conducted in a bipartisan fashion”.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper; Web Publication

Journal Code: WEBTTO

Subject: AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (92%); DIVERSITY & INCLUSION (91%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY & INCLUSION (91%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TRAFFIC FATALITIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (89%); INTELLECTUAL & DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); INTELLECTUAL DISABILITIES (87%); MENTAL ILLNESS (87%); GOVERNMENT & PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (79%); GOVERNMENT BODIES & OFFICES (79%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); FACT CHECKING (78%); MINORITY GROUPS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); RACE & ETHNICITY (78%); LEGISLATION (74%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); PARALYSIS (72%); LABOR FORCE (71%); CONSERVATISM (70%); EPILEPSY (60%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (60%)

Industry: AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (92%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (90%); TRAFFIC FATALITIES (90%); AIRCRAFT (78%)

Person: DONALD TRUMP (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOE BIDEN (79%)

Geographic: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON DC, USA (79%); UNITED STATES (93%)

Load-Date: February 1, 2025


End of Document
