




States News Service
February 26, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 States News Service
Length: 308 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


The following information was released by the White House:
ENSURING EFFICIENCY IN GOVERNMENT COSTS AND CONTRACTS: Today, President Donald J. Trump signed an Executive Order Implementing the President's Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) cost efficiency initiative.
The Executive Order will use modern technology to transform Federal spending on contracts and grants by subjecting it to rigorous standards.
Agencies must immediately review all contracts and grants for waste, fraud, and abuse.
Government payments and travel expenses must be justified and made publicly available where possible.
Agency heads will work with the DOGE team leads employed by their agencies to review and terminate all unnecessary contracts.
The Order will reform the way the Federal government manages its real property.
The General Services Administration (GSA) will submit a plan for disposing of unnecessary government-owned or leased real property.
BRINGING DISCIPLINE TO A WASTEFUL SYSTEM: The existing system fails to safeguard taxpayer dollars or promote merit among contractors and grant recipients.
The federal government expends large sums on contracts and grants.
In fiscal year 2023, the federal government committed about $759 billion on contracts. This flood of spending historically had minimal safeguards.
In the Biden Administration, GSA directed its efforts to promoting diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) rather than merit and efficiency.
BUILDING ON PAST SUCCESS: President Trump has made cutting federal expenditures and promoting governmental efficiency a priority in his second term.
In his first term, President Trump spurred economic growth through significant regulatory reform.
The Executive Order's program for reforming contracting and grantmaking is a natural extension of these efforts to improve government for the American people it serves.

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
