




The Daily Caller
February 5, 2025 Wednesday 03:23 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: POLITICS
Length: 452 words
Byline: Christine Sellers, Fact Check Reporter, 
Body



A viral post  claims President Donald Trump fired multiple federal employees, including 3,000 air traffic controllers, ahead of a recent fatal crash between a Black Hawk helicopter and a commercial flight.
 Trump fired 400 FAA senior officials, the TSA head, and 3,000 air traffic controllers just 8 days ago. Policy choices have consequences.
 Today, American Airlines Flight 5342 collided with a Blackhawk over the Potomac, killing 65 Americans.
 This is the Trump   
 - The News Deak (@TheNewsDeskLive) 
Verdict: False
A White House spokesperson denied the claim's validity in an email to Check Your Fact.
Fact Check:
More than 40 bodies have been recovered from the Potomac River following a fatal collision between a Black Hawk helicopter and an American Airlines flight, according to . The flight, which was traveling from Wichita, Kansas, was preparing to land when the fatal collision occurred, the outlet reported.
The X post, which has amassed three million views as of writing, claims Trump fired multiple federal employees, including 3,000 air traffic controllers, ahead of a recent fatal crash between a Black Hawk helicopter and a commercial flight.
“Trump fired 400 FAA senior officials, the TSA head, and 3,000 air traffic controllers just 8 days ago. Policy choices have consequences,” the post reads in part. The post includes a screenshot of a fact sheet published on the White House's website about ending diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) hiring practices in the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).
The claim is false. While the  does reiterate Trump's plans to end DEI hiring practices in the FAA, it does not repeat the claim about multiple federal employees, including 400 FAA senior officials purportedly being fired ahead of the fatal crash.
Likewise, neither the  nor the  appear to have publicly commented on the claim. The National Air Traffic Controllers Association   the claim, either. In addition, Trump has not mentioned the claim on his  or , his , or his verified   .
Check Your Fact also did not find  to support the claim. Actually, the opposite is true. On Jan. 30,  debunked the claim. 
Furthermore, a White House spokesperson denied the claim's validity in an email to Check Your Fact.
“We have not fired any air traffic controllers,” the spokesperson said.
Check Your Fact has also contacted the FAA, TSA, and NATCA for comment.

Graphic

 
Investigators continue recovery efforts in the waters of the Potomac River after American Airlines flight 5342 collided mid-air late January 29 with a US Army helicopter as the plane approached to land at Reagan National Airport, near Washington, DC, on January 31, 2025. Investigators on January 30 recovered the black boxes from the plane. The accident killed all 67 people, as rescuers pulled bodies from the freezing water. (Photo by ROBERTO SCHMIDT/AFP via Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
