




States News Service
February 7, 2025 Friday


Copyright 2025 States News Service
Length: 725 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON, D.C. 
Body


The following information was released by the U. S. Senate Committee on Appropriations:
Today, U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), Vice Chair of the Senate Appropriations Committee, released a new fact sheet detailing how, in his third week in office, President Trump is continuing to block hundreds of billions of dollars in enacted funding from making its way out to families and communities across America who are counting on investments that have been enacted into law.
In a statement, Senator Murray said:
"President Trump is still illegally blocking hundreds of billions of dollars in investments that are owed to communities across the country.
"The president's sweeping freeze is causing real pain for people in every part of the countryin red states and blue states and everywhere in betweenand it must end right now.
"The uncertainty alone over the fate of these investments is putting jobs on the chopping block, hurting American businesses left wondering whether contracts they've inked mean anything, and jeopardizing entire local economies. What Trump is doing could shutter critical infrastructure projects in virtually every community, kill good-paying jobs, choke off funding for farmers, stop innovation in its tracks, leave massive holes in local communities' budgets, and so much more.
"Once again: if Donald Trump or Elon Musk want to gut funding that's creating good-paying jobs all across America, they can take their case to Congress and win the votes they need to do it. Defying the constitution to unilaterally rip away your tax dollars is not how this works."
A table of estimated funding in jeopardy is below. Read the full fact sheet HERE.
While the extent of Trump's funding freeze remains uncertain as his administration refuses to clarify what is blocked, here is a non-exhaustive overview of what is frozen by Trump's actions and in jeopardy:
Trump Action
Relevant Agencies
Select Examples of Affected Programs
Funding in Jeopardy*
Executive Order
Freezing IIJA and IRA Funding
Department of Commerce
High-speed broadband deployment.
$40+ billion
(EO 14154)
Department of Energy
Efforts to build and upgrade America's energy infrastructure, lower costs for consumers.
$98 billion
Department of Housing and Urban Development
Grants and loans to improve resiliency and energy efficiency of affordable housing.
$830+ million
Department of the Interior
Tribal electrification, hazardous fuel reduction, National Parks maintenance and staffing, and more.
$20+ billion
Department of Transportation
Funding to upgrade roads, bridges, transit, and more.
$130+ billion
EPA
Funds for clean water infrastructure, tackling pollution, Superfund sites, and more.
$100+ billion
Forest Service
Wildfire risk reduction, ecosystem restoration, and more.
$10+ billion
NOAA
Funding for flood inundation mapping, coastal resilience projects, habitat restoration, ocean observations, fisheries management, and more.
$1.5 billion
USDA
Grants for producers and rural small businesses to finance renewable energy projects, for farmers to improve climate resiliency, for watershed protection and flood prevention, rural broadband, and more.
$25 billion
Executive Order Blocking All Foreign Assistance
(EO 14169)
Department of State and USAID
Life-saving aid, funding to monitor and prevent the spread of infectious diseases that can reach our shores, counterterrorism programs, programs to give U.S. businesses an edge over Chinese and other companies in foreign markets, funds owed to U.S. businesses for services rendered, and more.
$30 billion
Executive Order Halting Funding for Anything Deemed "DEI" (EO 14151)
All agencies
Any programs or expenditures the administration deems "woke."
"
The administration has provided little to no clarity over what programs it is blocking (or will block) funding for under this EO.
Elon Musk and DOGE Actions
All agencies
Open question. Reports confirm DOGE sought access to central payment system to halt disbursements.
"
Other actions
All agencies
"
"
TOTAL
At least $455 billion
*Funding in Jeopardy: this reflects our best understanding, as of afternoon on February 7, of what funding is being illegally withheld. The administration has failed to provide clear answersand the actual number could be higher. This lack of transparency and responsiveness to Congress, and thus the American people, is without precedent.
FOR MORE DETAILS, READ THE FULL FACT SHEET HERE.

Load-Date: February 10, 2025


End of Document
