




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 24, 2025 Monday 8:30 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 329 words
Byline: Angrej Singh
Body


February 24th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
Screens at the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) building in D.C. on Monday showed a fake video showing   
The big picture: While it's unclear who was responsible for the videos at HUD, Musk in recent days demanded federal employees send an   
Failure to provide the work summary would be considered a resignation.
The Trump administration is also looking to potentially halve the workforce at the country's housing agency, AP  
Driving the news:  
An unnamed HUD employee told  
Similar fake videos of Trump and Musk have  
Between the lines: Musk's DOGE has claimed in the last two weeks that they have recovered   
The numbers on the   
What they're saying: "Another waste of taxpayer dollars and resources. Appropriate action will be taken for all involved," recently installed HUD spokesperson Kasey Lovett said in a statement to Axios.
"Not all heroes wear capes..." Democrats on the U.S. House Committee on Financial Services account  


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 24, 2025


End of Document
