




MailOnline
January 26, 2025 Sunday 1:26 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 373 words
Byline: Noa Halff For Dailymail.Com
Body


READ MORE: Lin-Manuel Miranda makes surprise SNL appearance
                     Saturday Night Live has faced fierce backlash over a controversial comedy segment during its 'Weekend Update,' with fans slamming a joke about the Trump assassination attempt.
Comedians Colin Jost and Michael Che took aim at President-elect Donald Trump during the show's 50th season's 'Weekend Update' Saturday night.
The two comedians delivered a series of provocative jokes that quickly sparked social media fury with users asking: 'When am I supposed to laugh?'
The most shocking moment came during a segment about Trump's inauguration, where Jost made a dark joke about Lincoln and Trump.
'I wish those two could talk to each other: Lincoln could teach Trump a lot about the importance of preserving our union, and Trump could teach Lincoln how to turn your head at the exact right moment,' he said, referencing Lincoln's assassination.
They added that during his oath, Trump was seen not placing his hand on the Lincoln Bible.
'Well, he tried to,' Jost said, 'but the Bible screamed.'
Fans took to social media to express their disgust, with many claiming the show lost its comedic value.
'Does this show even hire talented writers anymore?' one viewer commented.
Another wrote: 'Once they were funny.'
'I see that SNL still isn't funny. Next to Tina and Amy, these are the worst two Weekend Update anchors,' a third user chimed in.
'Appears SNL is still hiring DEI writers NBC, this is not comedy'
Others defended the sketch, arguing that they could still find some humor in the joke, despite disagreeing politically with the show's writers.
'Trump is still better than the road the Dems were leading America down. But this is hilarious!! Why because rationality is being able to laugh at both sides and not be but hurt Karen about it.'
'These two are the only reason SNL is still on the air , great work boys,' another wrote.
The Weekend Update segment covered a range of controversial topics, including Trump's executive orders, January 6th pardons, and Elon Musk's controversial 'Nazi' salute.
'President Trump defended his pardon of the January 6 attackers, saying that these are just people who love their country; you know, like how O.J. [Simpson] loved Nicole.'

Load-Date: January 26, 2025


End of Document
