




The Gateway: University of Nebraska at Omaha
February 19, 2025 Wednesday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 764 words
Body


Following President Donald Trump's executive order banning diversity, equity and inclusion programs, the Education Department's Office for Civil Rights issued an ultimatum to American schools and universities Friday, Feb. 14. This gives institutions two weeks to expel diversity programming or risk losing federal funding.
The memo was given from Craig Trainor, the acting assistant secretary for Civil Rights in the U.S. Department of Education, declaring any discrimination based on race, color or national origin illegal. It advised that all federally funded educational facilities, including the University of Nebraska at Omaha, ensure their policies and actions comply with "existing civil rights law" within a 14-day period.
At the end of the letter, it stated that institutions that fail to comply with the antidiscrimination requirements and existing laws may "face potential loss of federal funding."
This creates many unknowns in the education world regarding the state of diversity programs that have assisted countless students throughout their educational journeys.
The department reasoned that "pervasive and repugnant race-based preferences and other forms of racial discrimination" have seeped into American educational institutions in recent years. It explicitly pointed to "white and Asian students" among those experiencing racial discrimination, "many of whom come from disadvantaged backgrounds and low-income families."
Trainor cited Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Equal Protection Clause of the U.S. Constitution to reinforce the department's actions.
"Federal law thus prohibits covered entities from using race in decisions pertaining to admissions, hiring, promotion, compensation, financial aid, scholarships, prizes, administrative support, discipline, housing, graduation ceremonies and all other aspects of student, academic and campus life," the letter stated.
In the letter, Trainor noted the Supreme Court's 2023 ruling in Students for Fair Admissions v. Harvard, which struck down efforts to improve educational opportunities for minority groups. According to the Inside Higher Ed Publication, the ruling's decision only applied to admissions. But the Trump administration is broadening it to all race-conscious spending and programming at colleges.
Brian Rosenberg, the former president of Macalester College and current visiting professor of education at the Harvard Graduate School, told Inside Higher Ed the declaration "goes well beyond the Supreme Court ruling on admissions and declares illegal a wide range of common practices."
The memo also accused institutions of "toxically" educating students with incorrect information regarding America's history of "'systemic and structural racism.'" It specifically mentioned that the "false" information was being spread "under the banner of 'diversity, equity and inclusion'" programs.
The letter asserted that DEI programs hinder students from fully participating in campus life due to their preference towards "certain racial groups."
"[They] teach students that certain racial groups bear unique moral burdens that others do not," the letter stated. "Such programs stigmatize students who belong to particular racial groups based on crude racial stereotypes."
Many educational institutions employ DEI programs which now hang in the balance due to their "unlawful" existence, according to the Department of Education. UNO has its own Diversity, Equity, Access and Inclusion office as well as student agencies that exist to cultivate and sustain an inclusive and supportive educational climate.
The Gateway contacted UNO's Chief Diversity Officer, A.T. Miller, who declined to comment at this time.
However, the topic of cutting UNO's DEAI budget and dissolving the office was broached in June of 2024, but the Nebraska System Board of Regents voted 6-2 in favor of keeping the office. Back in October, Miller expressed optimism that their office was on solid ground.
Although Miller mentioned some concern regarding DEI legislation in the fall, they explained that "when people come to me saying that they're worried, you know, I point out we've won."
With a shift in the political climate regarding DEI legislation, time will tell what happens to UNO's DEAI office which has already been on the chopping block in the past.
Although the letter's demand is not set in stone, many don't take the message and its ramifications lightly. Soon, UNO administration must decide how they will respond to the looming deadline regarding the state of diversity programming on campus.
Click here to see the letter.

Load-Date: February 19, 2025


End of Document
