




Newsweek.com
February 7, 2025 Friday 7:42 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 520 words
Byline: Rachel Dobkin
Highlight: The Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) said on Friday that a contract worth over $168,000 for the exhibit was canceled.
Body


The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services canceled a museum exhibit for Dr. , former director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), tech billionaire 's Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) said on Friday.
Newsweek reached out to Health and Human Services and the National Institutes of Health (NIH) via email for comment on Friday.
Why It Matters
Fauci was a prominent figure advising the  administration in its response to the coronavirus pandemic. He later served as President 's chief medical adviser from January 2021 to December 2022.
, particularly allies of Trump, claiming, in part, that the infectious disease expert . Fauci denied the claims, calling some accusations "simply preposterous." Some have even said he should be prosecuted, including Musk who wrote on social media in 2022, "My pronouns are Prosecute/Fauci."
DOGE, which Trump created via executive order to slash government spending it deems wasteful, has caused a huge stir in Washington after targeting agencies like the U.S. Department of Education and the U.S. Agency for International Development.  have been resisting Musk and his team, arguing that some of their actions have been illegal.
DOGE has claimed to  based on budget cuts, and many of the most discussed cuts were made to jobs and contracts centered around diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) initiatives in several federal agencies.
What To Know
On Wednesday, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, which is under Health and Human Services, said DOGE was 
In a post on X, formerly , Friday afternoon, DOGE said that Health and Human Services canceled 62 contracts worth a total of $182 million in the past two days, including a contract over $168,000 for an exhibit for Fauci at the NIH museum.
DOGE presumably meant the Stetten Museum, with exhibits displayed around the NIH campus. Fauci's old stomping grounds, the NIAID, is part of the NIH.
Musk and his team made clear that the $182 million worth of contracts cut were for administrative expenses and not health care programs.
The X post also shared a screenshot of the funds allocated to the Fauci exhibit, showing that the money was meant to be used from July 2024 to July 2025.
What People Are Saying
Kevin Thompson, finance expert and founder/CEO of 9i Capital Group, previously told Newsweek: "Some cuts may become permanent, but realistically, much of what Trump is implementing can be reversed by the next administration.
"Unless these changes are codified into law—which requires approval from both the House and Senate—they lack long-term staying power. That said, many  may support Trump's initiatives, as history has shown that opposing the party line can come with political consequences."
What Happens Next
Under Trump's executive order, DOGE is a temporary organization, set to be terminated on July 4, 2026.


Graphic

 
Fauci
Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images
Dr. Anthony Fauci, former Director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, testifies before the House Oversight and Accountability Committee Select Subcommittee on the Coronavirus Pandemic at the Rayburn House Office Building on June 03, 2024, in Washington, DC.

Load-Date: February 7, 2025


End of Document
