




The Daily Caller
February 4, 2025 Tuesday 10:26 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: US
Length: 509 words
Byline: Eireann Van Natta, Intelligence State Reporter, 
Body



FBI officials turned over information from thousands of employees who worked on cases concerning Jan. 6 to President Trump's Department of Justice (DOJ), according to a Tuesday report.
Out of over 13,000 agents and 38,000 FBI employees, the details of more than 5,000 personnel were sent to the DOJ,  told CNN. Information provided included employee identification numbers, work titles and any roles in investigations connected to Jan. 6, according to a source, though names were excluded.
The report does not note how many out of the 5,000 were FBI agents.
The Daily Caller reached out to the FBI, which referred the Caller to the DOJ. The DOJ has not responded at the time of publication. 
 Things are getting WILD right now... 5,000 names turned over to DOJ. Not a bloodbath, but there are definitely higher levels of anxiety at the FBI for folks who haven't spent the last 4 years working real cases... 
 - Kyle Seraphin (@KyleSeraphin) 
The DOJ sent a survey to agents and employees about their potential roles in Jan. 6 . It was due by 3 p.m. Monday.
Multiple anonymous agents and employees sued the DOJ on Tuesday over its questionnaire, arguing it was “retribution.”
“Plaintiffs assert that the specific purpose of this survey is to identify agents and other FBI personnel to be terminated as a form of politically motivated retribution,” the  states.
The lawsuit also claims the DOJ violated the First Amendment and privacy laws. The employees were told that the “aggregated information” collected from the surveys would be sent to senior management, according to documents. 
 Here are the questions that  employees have until 3pm et, tomorrow, to submit to . 
 - Garret O'Boyle (@GOBactual) 
Acting FBI Director Brian Driscoll refused a DOJ directive to dismiss agents involved in Jan. 6 cases,  told NBC News.
Acting Deputy Attorney General Emil Bove ordered Driscoll to dismiss eight senior officials, according to the acting director. Driscoll also said he was instructed to relay the names of all FBI employees involved in Jan. 6 investigations. The eight officials were ultimately dismissed, according to Driscoll.
Kash Patel is currently awaiting the Senate's decision on his nomination for FBI director. He testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee on Thursday, where he tackled widespread public distrust in the FBI and weaponization of the . 
Trump issued pardons for around 1,500 Jan. 6 defendants on day one of his . Patel was asked about the pardons at his , where he pointed out that Biden commuted the sentence of a man convicted of  two FBI agents.

Graphic

 
FBI Police Car. Wikimedia Commons/Public/ Alex Smith from Fort Collins, CO, United States, CC0

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
