




MailOnline
February 3, 2025 Monday 12:56 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 1097 words
Byline: Abbie Llewelyn For Mailonline
Body


A top FBI official has warned staff they are in the midst of a 'battle' after Donald Trump purged agents who investigated the January 6 Capitol riots.
James E Dennehy, assistant director in charge of the FBI's New York field office, reportedly sent an email round in which he promised he would 'dig in'.
He argued that agents are being targeted for doing their jobs 'in accordance with the law' in an email seen by The New York Times.
It comes after Donald Trump pardoned around 1,500 people charged with or convicted of crimes related to the January 6 Capitol riots, but stepped up immigration arrests as part of his mass deportation plan.
Dennehy, who runs one of the most important field offices in the bureau, was full of fighting talk as he addressed FBI employees.
Dennehy wrote: 'Today, we find ourselves in the middle of a battle of our own, as good people are being walked out of the FBI and others are being targeted because they did their jobs in accordance with the law and FBI policy.'
He added that the actions of the Trump administration has spread 'fear and angst within the FBI ranks'. 
On Friday, the Justice Department ordered the termination of a series of of high-ranking FBI officials attached to the January 6 investigation and also requested the names of bureau personnel assigned to related cases for an internal review.
A questionnaire has also been sent out to bureau employees requesting they describe what role they had in January 6 investigations and prosecutions, including collecting evidence and interviewing witnesses, regarded as standard FBI protocol.
Staff reportedly have until 3pm on Monday to complete the forms.
Dennehy, who served as an officer in the Marine Corps for seven years, before joining the FBI as a special agent in 2002 and working his way up to his current position, offered support to staff in his email.
He reminded them to stay calm and to avoid making any rushed decisions about their careers.
He added that he would provide assistance, regardless of circumstances, and that he has no plans of stepping down.
The veteran agent wrote that it was 'time for me to dig in'.
A representative for Dennehy in New York declined to comment on the email to The New York Times. 
The number of employees affected by this purge could reach 6,000, which makes up about a sixth of the FBI's 38,000 employees, according to the Times. 
Over the past few years, Trump has repeatedly criticized the FBI and claimed that they were used against him by former President Joe Biden and the Democratic Party.
He was particularly enraged by the FBI's unannounced raid at his Mar-a-Lago estate in 2022 in connection with his alleged mishandling of classified documents.
He has also defended those who stormed the Capitol building in 2021 amid false claims that the 2020 presidential election was rigged against him.
Trump pardoned all those involved in the riots, including people convicted of assaulting police officers, on his first day in office.
He even commuted the sentences of 14 far-right extremists, leaders of the Proud Boys and Oath Keepers, who were convicted or charged with seditious conspiracy. 
The firing of rank-and-file FBI agents and the heads of 20 field offices was announced on Friday as those who were fired were 'escorted out.' 
Warnings were handed out ahead of time that they should resign within days or be fired. 
Among those on the firing line was David Sundberg, who was appointed to head the DC field in 2022.
A source familiar said agents who worked on the Mar-a-Lago and January 6 investigations were escorted out of the Washington Field Office. 
The source added that officials in charge of the DC, Miami, Seattle, New Orleans and Las Vegas field offices were removed, The Hill reported.
Senator Mark Warner, the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, said the move may have impacted 'dozens' of agents.
'It is deeply alarming that the Trump administration appears to be purging dozens of the most experienced agents who are our nation's first line of defense,' he said, reported the outlet.
Christopher Wray stepped down as FBI director this month after Trump said he would fire him when he takes office.
                     Kash Patel, Trump's nominee to lead the FBI, faced a contentious confirmation hearing with senators, where he vowed not to look backward and punish perceived rivals.
He said on Thursday: 'I have no interest, no desire, and will not, if confirmed, go backwards.
'There will be no politicization at the FBI. There will be no retributive actions taken by any FBI.'
Senators also asked about what they called an 'enemies list,' which comes from Patel's 2023 book, 'Government Gangsters.' 
The book names more than 50 current or former American officials that Patel claims are 'members of the Executive Branch deep state.'
But Patel told senators: 'It's not an enemies list - that is a total mischaracterization.'
At his hearing, Patel said he doesn't know of any plans to move or fire personnel.
Democratic Senator Cory Booker asked: 'Are you aware of any plans or discussions to punish in any way, including termination, FBI agents or personnel associated with Trump investigations?'
'I am not aware of that, senator,' Patel replied.
Patel is a break from tradition as, in the past, nominees to lead the FBI have had extensive law enforcement experience. 
Patel is known for his loyalty to Donald Trump and for his accusations against the agency, which he has accused of weaponizing its powers to target Trump.
But he told senators he believes that 98 percent of the FBI was made up of 'courageous apolitical warriors for justice' who 'just need better leadership.'
He has said he will dramatically reshape the agency without offering details on what he exactly plans to do.
Trump and many Republicans believe the FBI has a bias against the president, citing the 2016 Trump-Russia probe, and the Hunter Biden investigation.
That has left hundreds of FBI agents who were assigned to investigate the January 6 insurrection and Trump's handling of classified documents worried they could be next.
The president also cleaned out other areas of the Justice Department last week through a series of resignations and reassignments as he continues his crusade to cut down the federal government.
Trump fired several career attorneys as he moves against what he calls the 'deep state' he alleges is working against him. 
The president also has fired several inspectors general at government agencies and his executive order terminating all federal diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) programs has sidelined 395 government bureaucrats.

Load-Date: February 3, 2025


End of Document
