




The Daily Caller
February 4, 2025 Tuesday 05:58 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: DAILY-CALLER-NEWS-FOUNDATION; us
Length: 506 words
Byline: Katelynn Richardson, Contributor, 
Body



A federal mental health agency's website no longer highlights government-funded resources promoting gender ideology.
Previously   linking to an  launched through a $3.5 million department  - the Center for Excellence in LGBTQ+ Behavioral Health Equity - and resources developed through the center now  404 errors on the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) website.
The Daily Caller News Foundation  in January on SAMHSA's funding for gender activism, which included $360 million in grants with the keyword “transgender.”
Agency funding included support for the Center for Excellence in LGBTQ+ Behavioral Health Equity, as well as a $6.8 million “LGBTQI+ Family Support” grant program that funded “therapy” programs designed to convince parents to affirm their child's gender confusion.
 Under the Biden admin, a little-known mental health agency quietly transformed into a hub for transgender activists.
 Trump's executive order requires agencies to ensure grant funds aren't used to promote gender ideology, making it a likely target.  
 - Katelynn Richardson (@katesrichardson) 
 Trump's day one executive order stated that “federal funds shall not be used to promote gender ideology,” including through grants. It also ordered agencies to rescind all guidance documents inconsistent with the order, which stated there are only two sexes.
Some agency affinity , including DOJ Pride, were removed from public agency websites or shut down following the executive order.
Last week, Trump also  an executive order that cut federal funding for child sex changes and banned federal agencies from using the “junk science” of the World Association of Transgender Health (WPATH).
Several hospitals and clinics  they would no longer offer hormone therapy or puberty blockers to children following the order.
“All changes to the HHS website and HHS division websites are in accordance with President Trump's January 20 Executive Orders, Defending Women from Gender Ideology Extremism and Restoring Biological Truth to the Federal Government and Ending Radical And Wasteful Government DEI Programs And Preferencing,” a SAMHSA official told the DCNF. “The Office of Personnel Management has provided initial guidance on both Executive Orders and HHS and divisions are acting accordingly to execute.”
Editor's note: This story has been updated to reflect comments from SAMHSA.
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Graphic

 
NEW YORK, NEW YORK - JUNE 26: The transgender flag is seen during the New York City Pride Parade on June 26, 2022 in New York City. The annual NYC Pride Parade returned fully in person this year after being scaled back in 2021 and cancelled in 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. (Photo by Noam Galai/Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
