




TheHill.com
January 23, 2025 Thursday


Copyright 2025 NEXSTAR MEDIA INC.  All Rights Reserved


Length: 317 words
Body


Memos being sent to federal employees across the government are pushing them to report any efforts to “disguise” diversity programs, threatening “adverse consequences” for those who do not comply.
A memo sent late Wednesday reviewed by The Hill accuses agencies of working to “obscure” various diversity, equity, inclusion and accessibility (DEIA) efforts.
“We are aware of efforts by some in government to disguise these programs by using coded or imprecise language. If you are aware of a change in any contract description or personnel position description since November 5, 2024 to obscure the connection between the contract and DEIA or similar ideologies, please report all facts and circumstances,” the memo states.
“There will be no adverse consequences for timely reporting this information. However, failure to report this information within 10 days will result in adverse consequences.”
It does not further spell out potential penalties.
The memo also includes an email at the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) — “DEIAtruth” — where they are directed to make such reports.
The Wednesday memo indicates the new Trump administration believes agencies are working to shelter employees who might otherwise lose their jobs.
The government-wide memo comes after OMB on Tuesday directed all agencies to put any DEIA-affiliated employees on administrative leave, begin the work to fire them from federal government and “take down all outward facing media” on those programs.
That followed an executive order President Trump signed his first day in office to “coordinate the termination of all discriminatory programs.”
The Wednesday memo also underscored the Trump administration’s take on any diversity programs.
“These programs divide Americans by race, waste taxpayer dollars, and result in shameful discrimination,” it states.


Load-Date: January 23, 2025


End of Document
