




Ka Lee O Hawaii: University of Hawaii-Manoa
February 6, 2025 Thursday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 1459 words
Byline: Avery Cameron, Features Editor
Body


Students at the rally speak their voices amidst a flurry of executive orders from President Trump.
Alec Johnson / Ka Leo O Hawai?i
"Emergency Rally Today" read flyers posted around campus on Jan 28, "Trump has illegally frozen all grants and loans to universities. This means; no research funds, no work-study, no pell grants, no loans for students to pay for their education. All funds for medicaid, food stamps, renters assistance and veterans housing have also been frozen."
Dozens of students rallied in Campus Center Tuesday afternoon to protest Trump's temporary pause on federal funding. Among them stood Associated Students of the University of Hawai'i senator Max Kamuela Bielawski. 
"We are under attack and need to defend ourselves... Remember MAGA isn't normal. This is not normal. They haven't won, we're winning and we will win," Kamuela Bielawski said to the crowd. 
Students march down Dole street after gathering in Campus Center for an impromptu rally. 
Alec Johnson / Ka Leo O Hawai?i
"Listening to this issue, it's huge man. Hearing about what's gonna shut down is crazy... I've always been a bit of a public speaker, but just thinking about all these attacks that have been made on academia intellectualism that I've seen, like in the past month [made me come to the rally]," Bielawski said. 
In a memorandum from the White House on Monday, Jan. 27 Matthew J. Vaeth, Director of Office of Management and Budget, announced the temporary federal funding freeze to start on Jan. 28 at 5pm E.T.
The memo said, "Federal agencies must temporarily pause all activities related to obligation or disbursement of all Federal financial assistance, and other relevant agency activities that may be implicated by the executive orders, including, but not limited to, financial assistance for foreign aid, nongovernmental organizations, DEI, woke gender ideology, and the green new deal."
This raised great concern as Federal financial assistance includes student loans, grants, research funds, Social Security, Medicare, food stamps and more.
The Trump Administration wants to pause federal funding in order to review all federal assistance programs and activities to ensure they are in line with their policy. 
Then, on Jan. 28 U.S. District Judge Loren L. AliKhan temporarily blocked the pause on federal funding that was set to start later that evening. Attorney generals from 22 states and D.C also filed a separate challenge to the freeze in federal court.
On Jan. 29, Trump's Office of Management and Budget rescinded the memo.
However, although the Trump Administration rescinded the memo, they claim to not have abandoned the idea of a federal funding freeze. 
"The executive orders issued by the President on funding reviews remain in full force and effect and will be rigorously implemented by all agencies and departments" White House press secretary, Karoline Leavitt said.
Leavitt posted on X the same day, "This is NOT a rescission of the federal funding freeze. It is simply a rescission of the OMB memo. Why? To end any confusion created by the court's injunction. The President's [Executive Orders] on federal funding remain in full force and effect, and will be rigorously implemented." 
As of Sunday Feb. 2 there have been no further updates on the administration's plan to carry out the freeze. 
Many students voiced concerns about FAFSA, Free Application for Federal Student Aid, being in jeopardy because of the proposed freeze. 
However, according to the Associated Press, "The U.S. Department of Education said even if the pause had taken effect, it would not have applied to direct assistance to Americans including federal student loans. And FAFSA apparently remained available during the confusion."
"I think for one, the Trump Administration has definitely made it clear that they love the uneducated because they want to keep us oppressed. They don't want us to have access to information, they don't want us to have access to critically think for ourselves and this is a very clear indicator of that, even if it's not affecting federal student aid right now, that doesn't mean that it won't in the future," student protester Alohilani Pahoa-Guzman said. 
Despite claims from fact sheet published on the White House website: "[The freeze] is expressly limited to programs, projects, and activities implicated by the President's Executive Orders, such as ending DEI, the green new deal, and funding nongovernmental organizations that undermine the national interest," online Medicaid spending portals were down in numerous states across the country on Tuesday and federal programs remain at risk even with only a short pause. 
Niki Kyriakakis, UH student and rally attendee, spoke to the crowd how this freeze would personally affect her. 
"In August of 2022 I spent about 40 days in the hospital... because of my Medicaid, I was able to have my hospital bill paid for completely... if it wasn't for that I would be in the same place I was [in 2022]," Kyriakakis said. 
Kyriakakis does heart research under UH assistant professor Dr. Yiqiang Zhang, and is concerned about her research being halted due to the freeze. 
Kyriakakis said, "it's been research that has been going on for about five years. and he's really close to making the breakthrough... and it's just being stopped because of the [National Institute of Health] and now he has to scramble and try to find the information for grants again, so it's just a lot, it's [affecting] all aspects of my life."
David Simone, a PhD candidate in UH Manoa?s philosophy department, rallying students to speak out amidst a flurry of executive orders from President Trump. 
Alec Johnson / Ka Leo O Hawai?i
UH student and rally attendee Evie Sweet said, "We put all these big labels and names in this country, [like] the American dream. I came out here to speak about how I want that for everybody... I don't want the American dream to be only for white cisgender, straight, Christian men. I want that to be for the immigrants, for low income families. I want that to be for people of color, women, it shouldn't be conditionally free. America right now is a conditionally free country."
In a press release from the State of Hawai'i, Hawai'i governor, Josh Green, praised AliKhan on blocking Trump's order to freeze federal funding. 
"The presidential order seeks to prevent the people of Hawai'i from receiving crucial services funded by the millions of dollars they pay to the federal government each year. This cannot stand," Green said, "My administration is currently assessing the impact of this pause on essential state programs and services, including education, health care, social services, and wildfire recovery." 
In the press release, The Hawai?i Department of Labor and Industrial Relations Director, Jade T. Butay said "The [DLIR] is deeply concerned about the temporary pause on federal financial assistance and its potential impacts on our ability to deliver essential services. A significant portion of our operations, including workforce development, unemployment insurance, job training and workplace safety through our Occupational Safety and Health division, is supported by federal funds. Any disruption to these critical programs could affect workers, employers and communities statewide."
News Editor Emma Davidson interviews Davide Simone, a PhD candidate at UH Manoa, at Campus Center.
Alec Johnson / Ka Leo O Hawai?i
UH student and protestor Laila Gallardo said"I hope this administration, as in our university and our new president Wendy Hensel, you need to get something together to protect our students because here at the University of Hawai'i at Manoa, we have one of the largest impoverished communities. We feed kanaka every single day here on campus through our food mall, and if we no longer have EBT or snap, we don't have things like financial aid, how are you gonna feed your students? How are we gonna fill our classrooms?"
"It's bigger than just, like feeling frustrated. I also am here today to spread hope and to let folks know that there is resources community resources available. There's plenty of community organizations here in Honolulu to support the community when in need. Don't be afraid to reach out to folks and our folks better be reaching out to us in this time of need as well." Gallardo said. 
On Wednesday afternoon UH students and staff received an email from UH president Hensel addressing the proposed freeze.
Hensel said, "we are unified in our commitment to ensuring that UH continues to deliver on its core mission of educating all students, fostering innovative research, and creating a welcoming and respectful environment on our campuses... We will continue to monitor events and share updates with our community as we have more information."

Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
