




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 29, 2025 Wednesday 12:06 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 543 words
Byline: Andrew KeattsSareen Habeshian
Body


January 28th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
San Diego officials scrambled Tuesday to grasp the impact of the Trump administration's  
Yes, but: A federal judge  
The judge's administrative stay expires Monday, but was granted in response to a  
California Attorney General Rob Bonta also  
State of play: Local officials are still determining which programs are imperiled by the order, after a  
The administration issued an  
Zoom in: In an internal email Tuesday, Lisa Jones, president and CEO of the San Diego Housing Commission, said the agency believes rental assistance, affordable housing and homelessness do not fall under the freeze.
"We have been advised that this pause on federal grant funds does not apply to programs that provide direct benefits to individuals and families," she wrote.
SANDAG - the regional transportation agency that gets 36% of its funding from federal sources - declined comment while it reviews the order and awaits guidance.
By the numbers: About one third of California's budget - or $153 billion -  
75% of that money flows to health and human services programs - such as Medi-Cal, CalWORKS and child welfare services - that could be excluded from the freeze.
Locally, that state funding flows through San Diego County's Health and Human Services Agency, which has a $3.4 billion budget that accounts for 40% of county spending.
But the state's budget also relies on federal funds for labor and workforce development ($8.5 billion), K-12 education ($7.9 billion), higher education ($7.4 billion) and transportation ($6.8 billion).
Between the lines: The city of San Diego received a total of $68 million from the federal government in its last budget, but one grant demonstrates the complicated question local officials are trying to answer.
Rep. Juan Vargas  
But that grant came from a "historically disadvantaged small business revitalization program." City officials are grappling with whether it will be considered a "DEI initiative."
What they're saying: Jessica Anderson, interim CEO at the San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce, said in a statement the freeze threatened regional stability and long-term growth.
"Freezing critical programs such as small business loans, healthcare, education, childcare, and infrastructure will severely affect our workforce and economy," she said.


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
