




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 3, 2025 Monday 2:18 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 312 words
Byline: Kale WilliamsAlex Fitzpatrick
Body


February 3rd, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
Data: National Science Foundation and National Institutes of Health; Map: Alex Fitzpatrick/Axios
Almost half a billion dollars could be at risk in Oregon if President Trump  
Why it matters: Trump's executive orders effectively freezing some public health and science work leave the future of local research into diseases like AIDS, cancer and dementia up in the air.
Between the lines: The   
Driving the news: National Science Foundation (NSF)   
Some review time is normal during presidential transitions, and it's possible that both agencies' work will eventually continue more or less as normal.
But it's also possible that some projects will be rejected that might have been funded during previous administrations, especially given Trump's criticisms of DEI (diversity, equity and inclusion) efforts, green energy and more.
By the numbers: In fiscal year 2024, the NSF and NIH allocated $114,000 per 1,000 residents to Oregon universities, research institutions, and other health and science organizations.
In total, the state received more than $484 million in federal health and science research funding.
Zoom in: The majority of those funds, some   
The University of Oregon and Oregon State University also received big chunks of funding, around $40 million and $21 million, respectively.


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 3, 2025


End of Document
