




The Daily Caller
February 10, 2025 Monday 08:59 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: DAILY-CALLER-NEWS-FOUNDATION; us
Length: 510 words
Byline: Katelynn Richardson, Contributor, 
Body



The federal judge who suggested Trump administration officials could face criminal contempt over the spending freeze on Monday is a Democrat donor.
John J. McConnell, Jr., chief judge of the U.S. district court in Rhode Island,  the Trump administration to “immediately restore frozen funding” after determining officials violated his prior restraining order and suggesting further opposition could result in criminal charges.
McConnell cited a 1975 case that states, “Persons who make private determinations of the law and refuse to obey an order generally risk criminal contempt even if the order is ultimately ruled incorrect.”
While he was in private practice as an attorney until 2009, McConnell donated hundreds of thousands to Democratic campaigns and political action committees, including 2008 presidential campaigns of Hillary Clinton, Joe Biden and Barack Obama,  to Federal Election Commission records. He also donated over $8,000 to Democratic Rhode Island Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse's 2006 senate campaign.
McConnell volunteered as director of the Rhode Island branch of Planned Parenthood for four years,  to Roll Call. 
 As someone who wants Trump to abide by all judicial orders, I have to say that Trump probably welcomes a confrontation with this fatcat donor of Sheldon Whitehouse's who has celebrated and endorsed critical race theory and who got a surprisingly mediocre rating from ABA. (Links... 
 - Ed Whelan (@EdWhelanEPPC) 
 “The plain language of the TRO entered in this case prohibits all categorical pauses or freezes in obligations or disbursements based on the OMB Directive or based on the President's 2025 Executive Orders,” McConnell wrote in his order Monday. “The Defendants received notice of the TRO, the Order is clear and unambiguous, and there are no impediments to the Defendants' compliance with the Order.”
Nearly two dozen Democratic state attorneys general  Jan. 28 over an Office of Management and Budget memo directing agencies to pause payments for activities that might be implicated by recent executive orders, including orders on gender ideology and DEI. While the memo was rescinded, Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt  Jan. 29 the funding freeze had not been ended.
McConnell issued an  Jan. 31 blocking the Trump administration from freezing federal funds, writing that “the federal grants to States and others that are impounded through the Executive's pause in disbursement will cause irreparable harm.”
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Graphic

 
WASHINGTON, DC - FEBRUARY 04: U.S. President Donald Trump attends a joint press conference with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in the East Room of the White House on February 04, 2025 in Washington, DC. Netanyahu is the first foreign leader to visit Trump since his return to the White House last month. (Photo by Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
