




Montana Kaimin: University of Montana
January 29, 2025 Wednesday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 629 words
Byline: Rachel Yeager
Body


Soma Shekar Dachavarum tests the reactions between different compounds in a campus lab on Thursday, Aug. 29th, 2024. Research done in labs like these could've been impacted by the federal funding freeze issued during President Donald Trump's first week in office.
Rachel Yeager // Montana Kaimin
A series of memos released from President Donald Trump's administration this week sparked widespread confusion over the future of federal funding - including funding used by the University of Montana. 
The memo, which came from the federal Office of Management and Budget, would halt all federal assistance, including funding given to nonprofits, local governments and publicly funded universities across the nation. 
According to the memo, the freeze is to comply with the myriad of executive orders Trump has released in his first week in office, including "targeting DEI, Woke Ideology and the Green New Deal." 
If implemented, the federal freeze could impact UM's funding for research, financial aid and infrastructure, among other federally funded projects. 
According to IBISWorld, publicly funded universities received a total of $247.4 billion in funding in 2024. Although the University's funding is primarily from the state, federal funding helps bolster programs like the Free Application for Student Federal Aid, which includes Pell Grants and research labs that use federal grants to fund large projects.
According to Scott Whittenburg, vice president of research at UM, the University is still waiting to see what the federal government decides to do and his office will know more about continued funding after the grants and loans are assessed. 
An updated memo from the Office of Management and Budget said the freeze would not include programs like Social Security, Medicaid or Pell Grants and student loans, but did not mention anything in regards to universities' research projects. 
Whittenburg said this freeze would only apply to future research grants and the University can currently finish already funded research projects. 
"We can certainly cover everyone for a couple of months," Whittenburg said. "But if [the freeze] is extended then we aren't sure what will happen." 
The freeze was supposed to go into place Tuesday, at 5 p.m. EST, but has been extended to Monday, Feb. 3. It could be further extended because a federal judge halted legal action by issuing a stay to consider arguments from plaintiffs who have sued the government over the decision. 
Several organizations, including the National Council of Nonprofits and the American Public Health Association, among others, have filed a lawsuit against the freeze. 
The judge's halt on the freeze would only apply to funds that were already going to be handed out, not new programs nor old programs where funding has ended. 
Whittenburg said his office is waiting to see if other lawsuits are filed, which could further delay the funding freeze, and to see what happens on Monday before proceeding. 
This afternoon, the White House officially rescinded the freeze order, instead directing agencies to answer a series of questions by Feb. 7 that include, "Does this program promote gender ideology?" and, "Does this program promote or support in any way abortion?" according to AP News. 
In an email sent out to students and faculty earlier today, the University said it has been "seeking clarification from the U.S. Department of Education and the Montana Office of the Commissioner of Higher Education to understand its impacts on student financial aid." 
The email from Drew Riley, the chief enrollment officer at UM, stated students should "rest assured that operations related to the awarding and disbursement of all forms of financial aid, including federal, state and institutional funds, will continue." 
 

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
