




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 29, 2025 Wednesday 12:15 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 341 words
Byline: Adam TamburinAlex Fitzpatrick
Body


January 29th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
Data: National Science Foundation and National Institutes of Health; Map: Alex Fitzpatrick/Axios
Several major sources of federal funding are in limbo after early orders from the Trump Administration.
What's happening: Chaos gripped local governments and higher education institutions around the country yesterday when the administration announced plans to temporarily  
Meanwhile, executive orders  
National Science Foundation   
Those two agencies support a wide variety of scientific and health research, education and more. The NIH, for example, played a major role in developing  
State of play: Some review time is normal during presidential transitions, and it's possible that both agencies' work will eventually continue more or less as normal.
But it's also possible that some projects will be rejected that might have been funded during previous administrations, especially given Trump's criticisms of DEI (diversity, equity and inclusion) efforts, green energy and more.
By the numbers: In fiscal year 2024, Tennessee received more than $818 million in NIH funding and more than $103 million in NSF funding.
Between the lines: Vanderbilt University School of Medicine bumps up Tennessee's total considerably. It is regularly among the ranking of medical schools that get the most NIH funding and it pulled in  
Go deeper:  



Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
