




Business Insider
February 6, 2025 Thursday 12:31 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Insider Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 1465 words
Byline: ddefrancesco@businessinsider.com (Dan DeFrancesco)
Highlight: Millions of government workers have to decide whether to accept the new administration's resignation offer, but some are unsure about what it means.
Body


This post originally appeared in the Business Insider Today newsletter.
You can sign up for Business Insider's daily newsletter here.
Happy almost Friday! Google's reversal of its promise not to use AI for weapons or surveillance led some employees to run to their meme generators. ""
In today's big story, it's the last day for federal workers to decide .
What's on deck
Markets: Citi shows no signs of .
Tech: Silicon Valley's new favorite buzzy term is "."
Business: Some burned-out doctors are ditching the operating room .
But first, are you in or are you out?
If this was forwarded to you, 
The big story
Decision day
It's a critical day for one of the most ambitious and unprecedented ways President Donald Trump is shaking up the federal workforce.
Today marks the deadline for millions of government workers to accept the new administration's deferred resignation offer.
BI's Ayelet Sheffey and Juliana Kaplan spoke to some workers mulling their options and grappling with questions .
Chief among their concerns are the impact the offer will have on retirement plans, how it will be affected by a potential government shutdown, and why they can't get more time to decide.
Trump's buyout offer isn't completely unheard of. In fact, it looks pretty similar to . The key difference is that the public sector is known for its job stability, which may be why the offer is causing so much drama among its workers.
The other elephant in the room is what'll happen if not enough workers resign. The government is aiming for 5-10% of its more than two million workers to take the deal.
As of Tuesday, more than 20,000 workers had taken buyouts, but the Office of Personnel Management told BI it  to the deadline.
The Department of Government Efficiency is staying busy in the meantime.
The US Agency for International Development is Trump and Musk's . The agency's staff was notified earlier this week that all personnel except for a few essential workers would be placed on administrative leave on Friday.
BI's Noah Sheidlower has a breakdown on how the foreign aid agency, which distributed nearly $32.5 billion last year, .
Speaking of money, the group that controls government payments -  - is also in Musk's crosshairs. President Trump gave Musk's DOGE access to the government's payment system, .
The White House has maintained DOGE is limited to "read-only access" and its work on the Treasury plays into DOGE's overall mission of reducing government waste. But that hasn't eased concerns over the potential impact on a system that manages trillions in payments, including Social Security and tax refunds.
It's the latest example of the incredible power the world's richest man appears to hold within the US government. House Speaker Mike Johnson isn't worried, though. He defended DOGE's role and said there is a "" over how Musk is trying to cut spending.
News brief
Top headlines
Google ends diversity hiring goals as it reviews DEI programs.
Elon Musk says DOGE will make 'rapid safety upgrades' to the air traffic control system following deadly plane crash.
Luigi Mangione's free-of-charge death penalty lawyer also repped WTC bomber Ramzi Yousef.
Ex-Meta director sues the tech giant, alleging a 'toxic pattern of silencing women'.
The CFO of the Office of Personnel Management, the chief HR agency for the federal government, resigns.
AI and the cloud in focus for Wall Street as analysts grow bullish ahead of earnings.
Andreessen Horowitz hires Daniel Penny, who was cleared last year in the killing of a subway rider.
Trump and Musk's moves to ax USAID are 'flatly illegal,' experts say. It doesn't mean it won't happen.
Jamie Dimon says he didn't run for president because he knew winning the White House would mean barely seeing his family for four years.3 things in markets
1. Palantir stock is on a hot streak, but Wall Street's not biting. Palantir stock surged 28% after it reported a strong Q4 earnings beat, putting it up almost 35% this year. Even so, . They're concerned about Palantir's high valuation and skeptical it can grow enough to maintain its current stock price.
2. Working for Citi doesn't mean having to go into the city. Wall Street titans are leading the charge with RTO mandates - . On a quarterly call with executives last month, CEO Jane Fraser emphasized hybrid work and mentioned it could give the bank a competitive edge when it comes to recruitment. Regardless, the company is still shelling out $1.2 billion for its new London office.
3. The advisor behind BlackRock's alternative assets expansion. Bob Steel, vice chair of boutique investment bank Perella Weinberg, has a laundry list of career achievements: two-time bank CEO, Goldman partner, and US Treasury undersecretary. More recently, Steel gave longtime friend Larry Fink some advice on BlackRock breaking into alternative investments., Steel explained his process with Fink and shared some wisdom for up-and-coming bankers.
3 things in tech
1. Broke: "disruptor." Woke: "high agency." Silicon Valley has a new buzzword to describe the successful, smart, and self-motivated. It's called "high agency," and it's .
2. It's not "RIP Temu and Shein" anymore. The two retailers disrupted the e-commerce industry by avoiding paying duty on shipments through a provision of customs law called Section 321, also known as de minimis. Many thought Trump's recent executive order closing that loophole would be a death knell for the companies. Temu and Shein will suffer a blow - but it might not . And if you recently placed an order, .
3. DeepSeek's low-cost AI revolution isn't here ... yet. When it burst onto the scene with its cheaper-to-build and cheaper-to-run models, DeepSeek was expected by some to revolutionize the entire AI startup system. . Cloud providers are having trouble offering customers access to DeepSeek at fast and reliable speeds, slowing down the big switch to low-cost AI that startups had hoped for.
3 things in business
1. Doctors facing burnout may ditch the stethoscope. Tech companies are looking to bolster their credibility, especially with health innovation, and doctors are pitching in. Chief medical officers make $275,000 a year on average in the US - and don't have the crazy hours doctors normally deal with. Some say these corporate roles let them have a bigger impact on an otherwise "broken" health system, even amid a .
2. Disney's game plan, in Iger's words. The company's sports streaming moves have been a roller coaster ride full of similar-sounding names - Venu and Fubo and Hulu, oh my! The abundance of options makes it difficult for consumers to understand Disney's sports strategy, a point an analyst raised on the company's earnings call. CEO Bob Iger clarified the goal is to make ESPN "as accessible as possible" and  in response.
3. "Moneyball" author Michael Lewis thinks the sports betting boom could become a mess. In 2018, gambling and media companies approached sports betting with caution. Today, gambling apps are met with little resistance, and college-aged men are getting in on the action. BI's Peter Kafka spoke with Lewis about how sports betting went mainstream - and .
In other news
How US immigrants working illegally help fund programs they can't access, like Social Security and Medicare.
Sam's Club CEO says serving all of America is 'the definition of being inclusive.'
Anthropic-backed startup Alma debuts an AI-powered nutrition app that tracks and analyzes eating habits.
Uber CEO says making self-driving taxis mainstream will 'take way, way longer.'
US tech giants are rolling back DEI. Its ripple effects could spill over to Europe.
California's largest home insurer wants to hike rates by 22% for homeowners to help pay for LA's wildfires.
100,000 eggs were stolen from a supplier in Pennsylvania amid rising prices.
What's happening today
Amazon reports earnings.
New York Fashion Week begins.
The Insider Today team: Dan DeFrancesco, deputy editor and anchor, in New York. Grace Lett, editor, in Chicago. Ella Hopkins, associate editor, in London. Hallam Bullock, senior editor, in London. Amanda Yen, associate editor, in New York. Elizabeth Casolo, fellow, in Chicago.
Read the original article on


Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
