




Harbinger: Illinois Central College
January 30, 2025 Thursday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 370 words
Byline: Sophia Larimore
Body


By Essie Newton and Sophia Larimore
Today, President Donald Trump's budget office rescinded the proposed memo that had left students feeling worried and caused President Sheila Quirk-Bailey to send an email out to all ICC students.
This week there was a push to have federal loans and grants paused to different organizations to question whether or not they would be supporting progressive views such as gender ideology, DEI, and abortion. These stances would not be supported by the federal government.
This left several students worried about whether or not it would affect FAFSA or Pell Grants such as Emma Hoffman.
"I didn't qualify for FAFSA, but a lot of my friends use it," Hoffman said in an interview, "In general while talking about that [the federal freeze] it's definitely concerning."
In response to students' concerns President Sheila Quirk-Bailey sent out an email to students.
"Please rest assured that your current financial aid-including Pell Grants, student loans, and other federal funding-remains secure." The ICC president said in the email, "We're here to support you every step of the way and remain committed to helping you achieve your goals."
Although some students were less concerned than others. Faith Reinhard and Ted Fritzenmeier stated that they had earned state grants and Reinhard enrolled in the honors program.
"The state grants are already more than what the federal government will give you." Fritzenmeier said.
There was then a judge who suspended the freezing of federal grants and loans, and then the next day it was rescinded.
The following day, the Diversity Retention Coordinator, Elana Arbuckle, stated that she was still concerned about DEI programs at ICC such as UNTIE or TRIO, but that she knows that the president of ICC is trying to keep DEI at the school.
Staff from the marketing department stated that they "Didn't know much"
"We're doing everything to protect our students"
Then when question Sheila Quirk-Bailey's assistant she stated that the president of the college has been very busy, unable to even speak much with her assistant. The president is off at a conference out of state currently and has a full schedule until March.
Tags: government and business, news, politics

Load-Date: January 30, 2025


End of Document
