




The Daily Caller
January 31, 2025 Friday 08:58 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: DAILY-CALLER-NEWS-FOUNDATION; politics
Length: 563 words
Byline: Thomas English, Contributor, 
Body



Federal employees at multiple agencies were ordered to remove pronouns from their email signatures by close of business Friday, according to ABC News.
Office of Personnel Management (OPM) Acting Director Charles Ezell sent a  to department heads Wednesday offering “initial guidance” for complying with President Donald Trump's , which mandated the federal recognition of only two biological sexes. Among other directives, the memo ordered employees to “review agency email systems such as Outlook and turn off features that prompt users for their pronouns” by 5 p.m. Friday.
“Pronouns and any other information not permitted in the policy must be removed from CDC/ATSDR employee signatures by 5.p.m. ET on Friday,” Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Chief Information Officer Jason Bonander wrote in an agency-wide email,  to ABC News. “Staff are being asked to alter signature blocks by 5.pm. ET today (Friday, January 31, 2025) to follow the revised policy.”
 JUST SENT: OPM guidance instructing federal agencies to review and eliminate programs, materials, and policies that promote gender ideology in accordance with President Trump's EO Defending Women From Gender Ideology Extremism. 
 - U.S. Office of Personnel Management (@USOPM) 
“In my decade-plus years at CDC I've never been told what I can and can't put in my email signature,” an anonymous employee told the outlet.
Employees at the Department of Transportation (DOT) reportedly received a similar order Thursday.
Ezell also ordered agencies to terminate any program, contract or grant that “promote[s] or inculcate[s] gender ideology” and placed employees involved in such programs on  “effective immediately.” The memo also ordered agencies to review all forms and documents and replace any mention of the word “gender” with “sex.”
The move comes after Trump issued a pair of day-one executive orders aimed at quashing “” diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) initiatives within the federal government.
 Trump signs executive order proclaiming there are 'two genders' 
 - Daily Mail Online (@MailOnline) 
The orders mandated the removal of alternative sex classifications from government-issued identification and other forms, as well as ceasing  hiring practices and training programs. It also ordered federal prisons to remove biological men from women's facilities. (
Another internal memo reportedly included instructions for removing pronouns from employee email signatures. It is unclear if agency employees outside of the CDC and DOT received similar orders to change email signatures specifically.
The Daily Caller News Foundation reached out to several executive departments and agencies for comment but did not hear back by the time of publication.
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Graphic

 
WASHINGTON, DC - JANUARY 20: U.S. President Donald Trump gestures after signing executive orders during an indoor inauguration parade at Capital One Arena on January 20, 2025 in Washington, DC. (Photo by Tasos Katopodis/Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 26, 2025


End of Document
