




Fox News THE WILL CAIN SHOW 4:00 PM EST
February 6, 2025 Thursday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; International
Length: 7019 words
Byline: Peter Doocy, Bill Melugin, Will Cain
Guests: Wade Stotts, John Hart, Brian Claypool, Mike Baker, Greg Abbott
Body


WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Live from the heartland, this is "The Will Cain Show."
Although he has been a regular guest, unscheduled guest, here on "The Will Cain Show," President Donald Trump might be signing executive orders, as he does regularly during the 4:00 hour. We're monitoring that throughout this hour to see if President Trump makes yet another appearance.
Until then, in a few minutes, Texas Governor Greg Abbott is going to join me live. He met yesterday with President Trump at the White House.
But, first, we want to show you something. FOX is getting a firsthand look at President Trump's border crackdown, hundreds of federal agents descending on Aurora, Colorado, to arrest more than 100 violent gang members believed to be in the area. But it appears they may have been tipped off, as many of the apartments were empty.
Bill Melugin was on the scene when this went down. He joins us now from Aurora.
Share us the story, Bill. This is incredible.
BILL MELUGIN, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Will, good afternoon to you.
This operation just did not go the way the Fed's were hoping. There were media leaks about it. People knew it was coming. They were going after 100 Tren de Aragua gang members here in this Aurora area, but they only ended up arresting one of them. They feel it was because of those leaks, and we were with them during that entire operation. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
TOM HOMAN, WHITE HOUSE BORDER CZAR: God bless you all. Let's take these bad guys off the street. Send them to Gitmo. Come home safe, everyone, here.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Hey guys, we can roll you up.
MELUGIN (voice-over): Border czar Tom Homan rallying the troops ahead of a massive federal operation in Aurora, Colorado, Wednesday morning.
Several hundred federal agents from ICE, HSI, DEA, FBI, ATF, and CBP all targeting alleged members of the Venezuelan gang Tren de Aragua.
(on camera): Tom, you guys have hundreds of people out here. What's the goal today?
HOMAN: The goal today is sending messages to the TDA that we're going to eradicate them from this country. There's no safe harbor. There's no sanctuary for them folks.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Police!
MELUGIN (voice-over): FOX News joined as one team of agents arrived at the Aurora apartment complex that went viral last summer when TDA gang members were seen on security video with guns.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Watch your backs.
(BANGING ON DOOR)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Open the door.
(SHOUTING)
MELUGIN: As the team went door to door, they found bloodstained walls, but no gang members. The entire complex was virtually empty.
At a second Tren de Aragua-linked complex, ICE was met by activists who taunted them.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You dumb (EXPLETIVE DELETED)! What the (EXPLETIVE DELETED) is wrong with you? Get out of my community.
MELUGIN: And others who used megaphones to coach those living inside.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator): Please, remain silent. Don't open the door.
MELUGIN: DEA agents used flashbangs inside while serving a warrant. That led to a handful of arrests, but no TDA gang members. A stop at another apartment complex netted no arrests.
(on camera): It seems like they were tipped off. They knew this was coming.
CALEB VITELLO, ACTING ICE DIRECTOR: So, yes, I do get the impression that there were some intel leaks here, and I think that probably they did know we were coming. But we're still coming. And just because something leaks now and then, it's not going to stop us.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Police. We have a warrant. Come out with your hands up.
MELUGIN (voice-over): Also on their radar, this previously deported Honduran illegal alien with pending local charges for strangulation, kidnapping and possession of fentanyl.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Get the (EXPLETIVE DELETED) of our neighborhood.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Get out! Get out!
MELUGIN: While activists yelled outside, agents recovered this stolen rifle from inside the man's home.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
MELUGIN: And, Will, officials told us they were hoping to make triple- digit arrests yesterday, but, at the end of the day, we're told they made only 30 arrests, again, only one of which was a confirmed Tren de Aragua gang member.
Tom Homan is furious about the leaks. He was on FOX News earlier today talking about it, saying it's unacceptable. They're going to investigate how it happened and get to the bottom of it. He says it is a huge operational security issue that these gang members potentially know they're coming and could be waiting for them, could end up ambushing their officers at some point, Will.
We will send it back to you.
CAIN: So a point of clarification then, Bill. At the beginning of your report, I heard you mentioned media leaks, but in the course of your report, I saw Caleb Vitello mention intel leaks. Tom Homan said something like that as well.
And you just used the phrase operational security. That suggests something within law enforcement or within local government could have been the source of the leaks. What do you know?
MELUGIN: For the media to have the information, the government has to give it to them, right? So what happened is, last week, there were two media outlets who wrote articles announcing that these raids were coming to the Denver area this week.
In order to get that information, somebody from the federal government had to leak it to them. Those articles sourced U.S. officials. So, yes, somebody at the federal government leaked that intelligence to multiple media outlets. They wrote articles announcing that these raids were going to happen here in the Aurora area.
And as a result, pretty much everybody knew that these raids were coming at some point.
CAIN: All right, Bill, I'm incredibly jealous of your setting. I feel like "The Will Cain Show" should be broadcasting in front of a pond full of ducks, an open collar for me, casual and in touch with America, as you always are, Bill Melugin.
(LAUGHTER)
CAIN: Thank you so much.
MELUGIN: Great to join you, Will.
CAIN: All right, you bet, Bill.
All right, our next guest has been extremely vocal on border security, and he just met with President Trump at the White House yesterday. He is the governor of Texas. And he's Greg Abbott.
And he joins me now.
Governor, great, great to see you.
GOV. GREG ABBOTT (R-TX): You too.
CAIN: You just heard that report from Bill Melugin. You met with the president yesterday, and border security has always been at the front of your priority list. What can you tell us about what's happening right now in Texas?
ABBOTT: So, a lot.
And these were things I talked to the president about yesterday, and that is, I have authorized our National Guard that have been on the border for about four years now. They have the full authority to assist ICE and have been deputized to assist ICE, doing everything ICE would do, such as apprehending, arresting, deporting, soup to nuts, of what ICE will do.
In addition to that, the Texas Department of Public Safety is embedded with ICE on operations across the entire state of Texas to root out and to arrest and assist in the detention and deportation of anybody here illegally.
In addition to that, what I offered to the president yesterday, we identified 4,000 jail sites that can house up to 4,000 people that they arrest and detain to make sure that the federal government is going to have access to all of the detention facilities that they need.
I also identified more than 100 miles of land that Texas has acquired access to that the Trump administration can build additional wall on. And we will give that land to the federal government for free, as well as we created two National Guard military bases on the border that house more than 2,000 military officers, that we will provide that to the Trump administration, whether it be for military purposes or ICE operations or other federal employees.
So Texas is all in to assist the Trump administration to ensure that we're going to fully eliminate illegal immigration into the state of Texas.
CAIN: I want to ask you about three reports directly connected to your, our state.
And that is, first of all, reports of Mexican drug cartels firing along law enforcement on the American side, also reports of weaponized drones used against border agents. And then, finally, just as a final detail, the Mexican government has suggested they're putting 10,000 federales up on the border to help with illegal immigration.
Have you seen evidence of that yet?
ABBOTT: So let me take all of those in turn.
First, know this. And that is, before the recent shooting, before the recent use of drones, now, that's happened with regard to Texas dealing with the cartels over the past few years. Cartels have shot on Texas National Guard, as well as Texas Department of Public Safety officers. And, candidly, we have fired back on occasion.
And we understand that we're in a hostile environment. Same thing goes with drones. They have been flying drones across our border and we have had battle -- drone battles already. What we can believe is that, knowing that the cartels' ability to make money off of traffic coming across the border has been hindered now, they get a lot more aggressive whenever that happens.
And so we are anticipating an expansion, maybe a dramatic expansion of the amount of cartel activity on the border that both the state of Texas, but especially the federal government, need to be prepared to deal with.
CAIN: Governor, what's a drone battle between cartels and, I assume, American drones? What is that? Is that weaponized drones? What is a drone battle?
ABBOTT: What we as a state have dealt with, they were not weaponized. They were flying drones over the border in and around the area that we were operating, and we would use drones to push them back. And so it was just a drone-to-drone battle.
But one thing we do need to be prepared for, and that is weaponized drones. And know this also. Listen, the cartels use drones to drop off drugs and other contraband across the river all the time.
CAIN: Right.
ABBOTT: And so we were constantly engaged in trying to locate them, find them and to eliminate them wherever we can.
CAIN: All right, two business stories I need to ask you about out of the state of Texas.
First of all, I believe you recently gave your support that you're open to the idea of legalizing gambling in Texas. There's a lot of talk about that and there's a lot of talk about it when it comes to sports. Do you anticipate gambling being legalized in Texas?
ABBOTT: So let me be clear about both my position, as well as the way Texas law works.
In Texas, gambling of any sort is unconstitutional, and the only way to open it up is through a constitutional amendment. And so what I announced that I supported, and that it was if the voters were to decide that they wanted to support sports gaming, that's something I would be fine with.
But, as always, this should be up to the people of the state of Texas to make that decision.
CAIN: All right, so that's a vote of the people of Texas to amend the Constitution to move forward for that to be a possibility.
Second business story, Meta is reportedly in talks to reincorporate in Texas. They have already moved one of their content policy teams to the Lone Star State. That's a lot of businesses, a lot of tech industry that is starting to move to Texas.
ABBOTT: Texas really is the home of tech. So I made a deal with Elon Musk back in 2020 to accelerate the process of building a mile-long Gigafactory.
Elon liked so much the way we do business in Texas, he moved all of his companies to the state of Texas, all of which are heavily tech-oriented. Same thing is happening with Meta right now. Listen, I talked to Mark Zuckerberg. And, listen, they're very interested in expanding their operations in the state of Texas.
In addition to that, last session, I signed into law business courts in the state of Texas that are now rivaling, actually an improvement upon the business courts in Delaware. And what Elon Musk and Zuckerberg and others have found out in this, Delaware courts have kind of gone woke and escaped their mission.
Texas, however, is going to be pure business courts and they know that they can come to Texas and have the type of decisions coming from courts that are very thoughtful, as opposed to ideological.
CAIN: Right, and perhaps be listed on the forthcoming Texas stock exchange.
One more question, though, on that before we go. I'm a lifelong Texan, Governor. I can tell you there are people that are concerned. You want to be open to business. You want to be open to people moving to the state. You also want to ensure that the people that are moving here for jobs don't bring the politics from the place they left behind that drove those jobs away.
So when you bring in companies like Meta or others from California, how big of a concern do you have about a population of people moving to Texas that don't share the politics or values of Texas?
ABBOTT: So I would call it vigilance. Listen, we remain constantly vigilant about that.
And what we have seen, a lot of people were concerned when Musk first came, and they didn't know who he really was. They thought that same thing was going to occur. But, with Musk, with people like Joe Lonsdale and so many others, there's been a massive influx of conservatives in the tech industry that are making Texas more conservative.
But, Will, let me give you this fact, that people talk about the people moving here. Less talked about are the people who move away. So Texas is number one for people moving from California. Interestingly, there's almost 100,000 people who leave Texas a year and go to California.
If you're moving from Texas to California, you know what you're getting yourself into in the California government. My point is this.There are a lot of blue voters in the state of Texas moving to California every year.
CAIN: OK.
ABBOTT: We call it a big exchange program that we have.
CAIN: OK, all right. That's an interesting statistic I hadn't quite heard about. I don't know if it holds true for the same of South Carolina, Tennessee, and Florida, other states where you're seeing this migration.
Governor, great to see you. Thanks so much for being with us.
ABBOTT: My pleasure.
CAIN: All right.
President Trump doubling down on his plan to take over Gaza. So we're going to talk to a former CIA officer, Mike Baker, by the way, who's on the ground right now in the Middle East.
But first to Wall Street, where it was a rough day for stocks. The Dow closed down, while the S&P 500 and Nasdaq both rose for the third straight day.
More from "The Will Cain Show" coming up.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: President Trump doubling down on his idea to take over Gaza, create the Riviera Gaza, the president saying the U.S. can develop one of the greatest and most spectacular developments of its kind without putting any U.S. troops in harm's way.
Former CIA covert operations officer Mike Baker is in the Middle East right now, and he joins us.
Hey, Mike. It's been a long time.
MIKE BAKER, FORMER CIA COVERT OPERATIONS OFFICER: Hi, man. How you doing, Will? Good to see you.
CAIN: I'm good. Good to see you as well.
Hey, so you're in the Middle East. I don't know if you're in an undisclosed location or if you can share, but what are you hearing over there about this plan for the U.S. to eventually take some ownership interest in Gaza?
BAKER: Yes, look, I -- there's two aspects here.
One is, from a creative thinking standpoint, hey, you know what, this problem has existed for generations and needs to be resolved. So I say, let's throw everything on the table. Let's throw out anything that we could think of.
But from an operational perspective, from a real world perspective, it's never going to fly. It's not going to work. But I get the idea that you're just tossing stuff at the wall to see whether you can come up with something, because, up to this point, nothing else has worked, right?
CAIN: Right.
BAKER: Diplomacy and all the efforts over the years, none of that has made any difference to the lives of the Palestinians.
CAIN: But if everything in the past hasn't worked, what are you here to tell me today about why this certainly also will not work?
BAKER: Well, you need the buy-in of the key players out here. And the key players out here, it's not the U.S. The key player out here are the Arab nations, the Arab states and, of course, the residents of Gaza.
And that's -- it's not going to happen.
CAIN: What is going to be their holdup?
BAKER: When you're talking about -- when you're talking about moving all the two million or so, 2.3 million Palestinian residents of Gaza to other locations, so that you have a clear runway to then redevelop this strip, the enclave, over a 10-to-15-year period, all you have to do is say that out loud with some knowledge of how the Arab states out here work, and you will realize it's just -- it's not going to fly.
CAIN: Right. OK.
But let me just play devil's advocate just one moment. I know this when it comes to natural disasters. I have seen this when it comes to fires, for example, Maui. The long lead-up it takes to rebuild means people have to live somewhere else temporarily, right? Well, lives move on. Lives get built in new places.
BAKER: Right.
CAIN: It's hard to come back. It's a sad reality. And so if a Hawaiian moves from Maui to Las Vegas, there's a decent chance the rest of their life is spent in Las Vegas.
Palestinians, I don't know if that would be Jordan. I don't know if that'd be Egypt. I have even seen stuff, Mike, about Europe. Could they end up in Europe? Is this -- does that change your equation at all? Like, just on- the-ground reality, you can't live in Gaza for 10 years, perhaps.
BAKER: Yes, maybe -- part of the problem may be I have spent too much time out here and dealing with kind of the real world. And I'm a cynic.
CAIN: Yes.
BAKER: But there's no way to compare the residents of Maui moving out from that tragic fire to other locations in the U.S....
CAIN: Right.
BAKER: ... and then talking about moving 2.3 million Palestinian refugees to Jordan.
Jordan's already got a large population of Palestinian refugees. Egypt has pushed back on taking Palestinian refugees for decades,right? It's -- from their perspective, look, they talk about, well, they have to have their own state. Part of the reality here is, they don't want them, right? And part of that is because they don't want the security problems that could entail.
So they have got their own intentions, their own motivations. I'm talking about the Arab states. But I guess what I'm saying is, I appreciate the concept of throwing anything on the table because nothing up to this point has worked.
CAIN: Right.
BAKER: I'm just saying that this particular idea isn't going to work within the realpolitik of the Middle East.
CAIN: Look, and I hear the distinguished -- I mean, I hear the difference between comparing people who lost their homes in California or Hawaii or wherever from fires to this. This has got centuries of emotional and familial attachment to a certain place, that you don't just pick up and go and decide that Spain is your new home or Jordan is your new home.
I get that.
BAKER: Right.
CAIN: But I do think there's a stark reality as well. You can't live there, at least for a while.
I want to ask you while I have you, though, Mike, about this. The federal government buyouts for employees have been delayed until Monday, but CIA Director John Ratcliffe...
BAKER: Right.
CAIN: ... asked that that be extended to the CIA as well,the entirety of the CIA be offered a buyout. Is that wise?
BAKER: Well, part of this is the theater of it all, right, of saying we're going to reduce the government work force, which, by the way, percentage wise, you're not making -- you're not saving a lot of money. That's not where the costs are in the U.S. government.
But I get it. So, from perspective -- part of this is theater, saying, look what we're doing. We're reducing the government workspace. So a number of people who would take this buyout, they're already on their way out anyway, right? This is just an accelerate for them. They're making the decision. They have already made the decision to leave. So they're going to leave.
From an operational perspective from a national security perspective, you don't want to bum-rush a lot of the people in the intel community out the door unnecessarily or too expeditiously, right? It is a very complex world out there.
And you're talking about people with very specific skills and operational capabilities. So I think they need to be very careful. Look, it's sort of the same situation with USAID. If the messaging from the White House was -- and, look, and I agree with them in terms of government efficiency. It's about time.
But the messaging from the White House, if they said, we're going to take a fine-tooth comb to every dollar that the U.S. government spends, and we're going to do it in a very judicious and efficient way, right, and then proceed it on that path, they would have the goodwill and the blessing of a vast majority of Americans.
But, sometimes, their messaging gets a little off, and they go in there and they toss a hand grenade into the room, and then you get a lot of this confusion and chaos, right, which we saw during the first term.
So I just -- sometimes, I just wish that they'd be a little more buttoned up on their messaging, still pursue the same ideas, but just do it in a way where they maintain the goodwill of all those people who would normally agree with them if it weren't for the chaos.
CAIN: Well, not to debate you here, Mike, today, but I appreciate a close examination. But, in the past, it always feels like removing a mole from a dermatologist. And, in this case, what I think we all need to understand is, you might need a meat cleaver to take off an entire arm of the federal government.
BAKER: Right. Right.
(CROSSTALK)
BAKER: But I guess my point being is -- yes, my point being, with the CIA, and, frankly, with the FBI too, you have to be careful, right?
A lot of these people are doing incredibly, very important work.
CAIN: Right.
BAKER: And what are you going to do? You're going to decimate the operations group within the CIA that oversees China operations, when China is our leading threat? So you have to be very careful about how you do it. I'm not saying you don't do it.
I'm just saying be measured and understand the complexity of it all. It's not just as simple as saying, yes, we have got a clean house.
CAIN: Well, hopefully that entire department isn't the one that takes the buyout, to your point, Mike.
BAKER: Yes. Yes.
CAIN: Great conversation, as always. Thanks for joining us from over there. Appreciate it, Mike.
BAKER: Good. Thank you, Will. Take care, man.
CAIN: All right.
All right, the plot thickens, Blake Lively facing another lawsuit. Where is all this legal drama headed? We're going to sort it out and why it matters next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: So it's unending legal drama over the film "It Ends With Us," which no one saw, but now everyone is heard about.
Texas crisis P.R. specialist Jed Wallace is suing Blake Lively for defamation. This is a $7 million lawsuit. Wallace says has nothing to do -- that he had nothing to do with hurting Lively's reputation. Lively has accused him of weaponizing a digital army against her.
So there's lawsuits, cross-lawsuits, defamation going this way, defamation going that way.
So joining me now to unpack this twist in the case is criminal defense attorney Brian Claypool.
Hey, Brian.
So let me see if I understand correctly. Blake Lively named this P.R. firm as -- in her lawsuit against Justin Baldoni as someone who smeared her, put out stuff everywhere to try to save Baldoni's reputation by sullying hers. And now she named them, so they sued her for defamation. Do I have it?
BRIAN CLAYPOOL, CRIMINAL DEFENSE ATTORNEY: Yes, you got it, Will, among a couple other lawsuits too.
By the way, congrats on your new show.
CAIN: Thank you.
CLAYPOOL: Look, this case involving two high-profile celebrities usually ends up in what I call a hybrid lawsuit. What do I mean, by that? It's a cross between a bloodbath, right?
We're already seeing that. Baldoni's already hired or put together a Web site to release information against Blake Lively. And it's also a combination of a strategic chess match. What do I mean, by that? I think, if I'm representing Blake Lively, I'm filing in Texas right away what's called an anti-SLAPP motion.
It's a -- Will, basically, that's a motion to throw out the case. What does SLAPP mean? That means a significant limitation against public participation. I faced a couple of those in California and lost. Really, what that motion would do is tell the court, look, this Street Relations company is simply filing a case to quell me, to silence me, to stop me from talking about sexual harassment.
And I think she'd have a reasonable shot at winning that case. And, in fact, Will, I think her lawyers ought to be filing one also in New York, in the federal case in New York against Baldoni.
CAIN: Well -- and I'm tight on time. I don't know. It seems like this P.R. firm would have a legitimate defamation claim against Lively if she is suggesting they did what she says they did, which is hurt her reputation.
Why would that be slapped down so quickly? Seems like it could be real damages to this P.R. firm.
CLAYPOOL: Well, how are there real damages to the P.R. firm if what she is alleging is correct?
We already have text messages and evidence from Baldoni's P.R. team saying that they are going to crush her, that they're capable of crushing anybody in the country. And, by the way, Baldoni, he hired -- his company hired Street Relations.
So what this SLAPP motion does, look, I'm not saying she will win on it, but, strategically, it's in her benefit to file it. Why? It forces Street Relations to come up with the evidence. It puts -- it shifts the burden to Street to come up with evidence to support the lawsuit. So she gets a free look at all the evidence in the case.
CAIN: I mean, it's a mess. There's lawsuits going every which way. It's hard to keep up with it.
The bottom line, it's all about defamation from one side to other. Blake Lively, Justin Baldoni, the P.R. firms, everybody, who's lying about whose reputation?
We will try to keep up, Brian. Thank you so much.
Brian Claypool here with us.
CLAYPOOL: You bet. Yes.
CAIN: All right, Democrats have a new favorite talking point. I'm going to tackle that in my "Big Three" next.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: A hostile shadow government.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The shadow government.
REP. HAKEEM JEFFRIES (D-NY): A shadow government of the billionaires, by the billionaires and for the billionaires.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: Commit or quit. More than 40,000 federal workers have resigned as the midnight deadline to accept Trump's administration's buyout offer has been pushed to Monday.
So Peter Doocy joins us now from the White House.
Peter, a few more days to think about if you want to take the buyout?
PETER DOOCY, FOX NEWS SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Yes, and White House officials are telling us that they are happy a federal judge kicked the deadline another four days.
They are just about more than halfway to their goal of 100,000 workers. We just heard about 60,000 have decided to take the buyout. But there are some Democratic concerns about this plan not being fully funded yet.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: We expect it to increase. It's going to save the American people tens of millions of dollars. And we encourage federal workers in this city to accept the very generous offer.
If they don't want to show up to the office, if they want to rip the American people off, then they're welcome to take this buyout.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
DOOCY: And head of the FCC is now explaining that Trump cuts to staff and programs are just to better align federal agencies with Trump priorities.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BRENDAN CARR, CHAIR, FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION: When you look at USAID in particular, it has been operating as sort of a money laundering operation for all sorts of radical causes, everything from promoting divisive DEI to actually helping to fund some of the censorship cartel operations that are taking place across the board.
So it's very interesting that this is the place where Democrats have decided to go to the ramparts.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
DOOCY: And something -- a follow-up on yesterday's executive order protecting women in sports, I just had a White House official send me an update to the NCAA's policy so that they can comply with this new regulation.
And the new rule is that you can only compete in NCAA women's athletics if you were assigned female at birth. But people who were assigned male at birth can still practice with the women's teams -- Will.
CAIN: Well, that's interesting. We're going to have to see what that means about locker room policies. No one cares if you practice, I guess, in a noncombative or noncontact sport. But where do you change? What team do you hang out with?
My suspicion is, Peter, this is not all sorted out just yet. But thank you so much.
You heard in that report when it comes to these government cuts, and you have heard it for some number of days now, the new verbal tick on the left. You're familiar with the verbal ticks that develop over time, pandemic of the unvaccinated, threat to democracy. The latest brings us to our "Big Three."
The left is pushing a new verbal tick, shadow government. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We will not allow the shadow government that Musk is leading to destroy government agencies that protect workers.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We have been hijacked by a hostile shadow government.
DEL. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON (D), WASHINGTON, D.C.: Trump administration, including the Trump shadow government, seems intent on dismantling much of the federal government.
JEFFRIES: Many of our Republican colleagues are determined to stand up a shadow government of the billionaires, by the billionaires, and for the billionaires.
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): If you want to know how an unelected shadow government operates, look no further than DOGE.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Those clips you just heard give credence to the idea that they were never concerned about a threat to democracy, but, rather, they were concerned about a threat to bureaucracy.
A shadow government is what they accuse Elon Musk and DOGE of setting up under Donald Trump. What I would suggest to you is, there's a shadow government that's been present in this country for well over a century. We have come to call it permanent Washington or the deep state.
And it's typified by things like USAID, who spend your money, just as an example, on things like $55 million to strengthen the Libyan public financial management process or $29 million for young female Egyptians in manufacturing, $6.5 million to aid activity in Bangladesh, and on and on and on, like $3.3 million for LGBTQIA in the Caribbean.
But here's the key about this shadow government. This shadow government always remains. It's always there. It's unaccountable. No matter who's the president, no matter who's elected to Congress, these career bureaucrats remain.
Yesterday, on the digital show at noon at FOXNews.com, I spoke to former congressman Dr. Ron Paul about DOGE.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: For the first time ever, are we actually seeing substantial cutback of the behemoth?
FMR. REP. RON PAUL (R-TX): Yes and no. There will be cuts. But I think the problem is bigger than they're willing to admit.
Now, Trump the other day said something that -- he says, there's going to be some rough spots. It's not all going to be easy. And that is an understatement, because I look at $36 trillion worth of debt, the spending, the deficit. I believe that debt and malinvestment that comes from the deeply flawed monetary policy has to be liquidated.
You're not going to get away with spending that money.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: You can watch the rest of that conversation on Spotify, Apple, FOX News YouTube, FOXNews.com.
But Dr. Paul's point is well-taken. This is a start. You see, the real shadow government is the one that always exists in Washington and isn't simply concerned with LGBTQI issues in the Caribbean. There's a bigger issue at play here. And that was also illustrated by USAID.
All of these programs in their totality were designed to control your mind. This was pointed out by Clint Russell on X very well. They were buying off media outlets like Politico, The New York Times and others. They were pushing advertiser boycotts against conservative media. They were funding education ideas in foreign countries that pushed their ideology.
They made you think you're insane and in the minority while funding projects that were actually radical. The whole thing was a huge psyop and continues to be. And despite our conversations earlier here on this program, it's going to take a meat cleaver to cut all of this out of federal government. This is the real shadow government.
All right, I want to bring in the CEO of the watchdog group Open the Books. It's an organization trying to expose government spending. He wrote a letter to Elon Musk asking him to work with him in his quest for transparency. He says it's time to build America's checkbook. John Hart joins me now to explain.
John, thanks for being with me.
Talk to me about some of what you expect to see if you ever get accomplished a full opening of the books.
JOHN HART, CEO, OPEN THE BOOKS: Yes, Will, thanks for having me.
Look, here's an idea that Elon Musk can use to silence critics and empower citizens. It's to allow taxpayers to see what he can see right now. And the reality is, all of the money that he has access to with his Treasury payment system, that is not the property of the government. It's not the property of Elon Musk or President Trump or Congress.
It is the property of American taxpayers and we the people. So every individual American has the same right to access what I would call America's checkbook as they do their own personal checkbook. And imagine what would happen, Will, if we gave taxpayers the opportunity to look at money as it was going out the door.
Let them sign up for their own fraud alert, personalize their own fraud alert. Let them sign up for a low balance alert.
CAIN: Right.
HART: And then when you see money going to things like vital infrastructure or vital humanitarian assistance or cancer research and then a drag show for Ecuador, let them choose what they want more or less of.
CAIN: And I...
HART: And when you give transparency to the public, they put the pressure and they force the change.
CAIN: I am reasonably confident the American people would not be excited to even know what DOGE is uncovering so fa, money going, how about just on the media side, Politico Pro, PBS, NPR, of course, other left-wing media groups.
Is this what you think taxpayers want?
HART: Well, I don't think so, but let's -- it's important that they see and they can access that data.
So, Will, when I worked for Senator Coburn, we teamed up with a senator named Barack Obama on a piece of legislation that put all federal spending online for the first time called USA Spending. Now, the problem with USA Spending is that we can't access it quick enough to see what's going out the door.
That's why we're asking Elon Musk to work with our organization, Open the Books, to speed up the process and, again, let taxpayers see their own checkbook. This is America's checkbook. It's not the government's checkbook.
CAIN: Right.
HART: And if they want to spend $44 million on Politico subscriptions, let's have that debate and let's open the books together and have a conversation about what we ought to have in this government in terms of priorities.
CAIN: All right, John Hart, great to see you today. Thank you so much.
HART: Thank you so much.
CAIN: All right, Sean Duffy, secretary of transportation, versus Hillary Clinton.
That's next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: New Secretary of State Marco Rubio is sitting out of this year's G20 summit in South Africa.
Rubio writing on X: "South Africa is doing very bad things in response to their land reform policy and using the G20 summit to promote DEI and climate change."
Now, host of "The Wade Show With Wade," Wade Stotts, is somebody that I really like his point of view and what he has to say on most issues, and I want to get him more involved in "The Will Cain Show."
He just did a deep dive on South Africa's new Expropriation Act.
I can say it, Wade.
And he joins me now.
First of all, and we're going to apply it to America. We're not going to stick with South Africa, because I think there is an application to America. But let's first of all clarify this Expropriation Act and what's happening in South Africa.
WADE STOTTS, HOST, "THE WADE SHOW WITH WADE": Yes, first, I don't really blame Marco Rubio for not wanting to go down there. The current leaders of South Africa, these are people who love communism. These are people who openly celebrate Zimbabwe's Robert Mugabe, who was a guy who killed tens of thousands of his own citizens.
So these are people, I wouldn't want to go to dinner over their house, much less have a conversation about how to run the world. But the Expropriation Act is something that the current government has been trying to get in since about 2018. And as they have been doing this, they have been saying this is a revolutionary policy.
It is -- what it essentially does is it allows them to take money from farm or take land from farmers without giving them anything in return, with zero compensation. So they have been saying, bragging about this, this is going to change South Africa forever. It's going to be amazing.
And then Trump comes back or Marco Rubio come back and say, this seems like a revolutionary policy that might change South Africa forever. And then they say, oh, no, no, actually it's insignificant.
CAIN: Right.
STOTTS: It's something we will never use again.
CAIN: And we should say, and we should say, Wade, the reason, the justification in South Africa is that the population is 7 percent white and 70 percent of the land is owned by whites. And, of course, they used to have apartheid. So they are calling it racial justice to expropriate this land, right?
You had a fascinating conversation where you talked about the underlying motivation, though, is revenge. Like, what's happening is taking out revenge on people who are related to the people of the past.
STOTTS: Yes, this is a conversation I had with Ernst van Zyl from AfriForum.
It really is about settling old racial scores. So the truth is that they're -- that these are people who are deeply -- have been doing stuff like this since they came to power in the '90s. We assumed that, ever since apartheid ended, that everything was just racial harmony all the way down, down in South Africa, but it's been a pretty brutal place to live, especially for these farmers.
And, yes, a lot of this land is owned by white South Africans, specifically Boers, who -- which is a word that literally means farmer. But, yes, it's farmland. And so this is land that they're trying to take back. And most of these places are -- it's not that they're going to just take over that land and keep farming. This is land that people have been on.
I believe, when I talked to my friend from South Africa, he was -- he said his family has been there since the 1600s. So this is not something that started back in the 1980s and is -- can now be totally redressed within one generation.
CAIN: And I think that underlying philosophical motivation of revenge is something you have to then apply back home to America when it came to many of these DEI policies. It's dressed up as opportunity and often is underlying a sense of revenge.
I want to move to this really quickly with you, Wade. Sean Duffy, our Department of Transportation secretary, is telling Hillary Clinton to sit out after she has come after him inviting DOGE into the DOT. Here's the quick back-and-forth.
Duffy says: "Big news, I talked to the DOGE team. They're going to help plug in and upgrade our aviation system," to which Hillary Clinton says": "They have no relevant experience. Most of them aren't old enough to rent a car and you're going to let them mess with airline safety?"
And then Duffy responds: "Madam Secretary, with all due respect, experienced Washington bureaucrats are the reason our infrastructure is crumbling. You need to sit this one out."
Who won, Wade?
(LAUGHTER)
STOTTS: I think it's pretty clear. But I -- what I love is that we live in a world now where Hillary Clinton, the most Hillary Clinton has, the most power she has is just tweeting a bunch of nonsense.
And so the people in real power have the authority to actually say, sit down.
CAIN: Right.
STOTTS: She's been -- she's in the position now that conservatives have been in for most of my life, for all of my life, really. All she can do is just sit back and go, wow, that's crazy. Why doesn't somebody stop her, stop him?
But, yes, now she's just living in this Norma Desmond, "Sunset Boulevard," like waiting for her closeup. And it's just -- it's never going to come, which is terrible news for her, but it's great news for the rest of humanity.
CAIN: Great news for America.
All right, we're going to be doing more with Wade.
Thanks so much, Wade.
STOTTS: Yes.
CAIN: All right, it's time quickly now for "Will of the People."
Carmen says: "I'm excited to see the new studio. I'm hoping you ditch the suit."
We will see about that.
"Go full on Texas," music, attire, everything. We will see about it.
Victoria says, a new drinking game. 'Drink each time Will Cain says 'The Will Cain Show.'" I wish you luck. You could be drunk. I'm working on it.
And, finally, Lew says: "NCAA women's basketball teams have been practicing against men all the time. It's not anything new."
I know Pat Summitt at Tennessee did that. I get it.
All right, real quick, we, "The Will Cain Show," will be live from New Orleans tomorrow ahead of the Super Bowl. And, before that, I will be on "FOX & Friends," along with Tom Brady. So we will see you tomorrow from New Orleans.
Now "The Five."

Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
