




Fox News THE WILL CAIN SHOW 4:00 PM EST
February 3, 2025 Monday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; International
Length: 7554 words
Byline: Peter Doocy, Will Cain
Guests: Margarito "Jay" Flores Jr. Janice Nkajja, Jeff Van Drew, John Baird
Body


PETE HEGSETH, U.S. DEFENSE SECRETARY: Because we -- our mission is clear, 100 percent operational control. That will take bodies in the interim and we're proud to do it.
(CROSSTALK)
HEGSETH: Hold on. Yes.
QUESTION: Mr. Secretary, speaking of ice, what do you -- what response do you have for individuals who say that some American citizens have also been detained, but eventually released?
HEGSETH: We're not detaining American citizens. We're ensuring that illegals, especially violent criminal illegals, are deported from our country as quickly as possible.
(CROSSTALK)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you very much.
QUESTION: We have exclusive reporting that there are migrants that were arrested in recent weeks that have been released back into the interior of the country because there's not enough space in ICE facilities. Were you aware of that and your reaction?
TOM HOMAN, WHITE HOUSE BORDER CZAR: I'm not aware of that, but I will address that. But we're looking at best -- as a matter of fact, we're looking at 30,000 detention beds in Guantanamo Bay.
We're talking to our contracts to expand bed space. I met with hundreds of sheriffs who are going to make their deals available for illegal aliens being detained. I'm not aware of that.
But now that you said that, I will find out what happened.
(CROSSTALK)
HEGSETH: Just one last thing. I just want to give a shout-out to the commanders in the field who have executed rapidly and with maximum professionalism, NORTHCOM, SOUTHCOM, across the spectrum. I'm incredibly proud of the warriors we have in the Defense Department and their commitment to this mission.
Thank you.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you very much, everyone.
WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: That is the secretary of defense, Pete Hegseth, with a seamless transition and toss this time, not on "FOX & Friends," but to "The Will Cain Show."
We go now from the border in El Paso, where we were just listening to Tom Homan and Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth, to the White House, where President Trump is welcoming the 2024 Stanley Cup champion Florida Panthers. Let's listen.
(APPLAUSE)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Great job. I knew him a long while, right, when he was in another league.
But this has been incredible, the job you have done. Thank you very much. Senators Rick Scott and Ashley Moody.
(LAUGHTER)
TRUMP: Congratulations to Ashley. And Representatives Byron Donalds.
Byron, thank you very much.
Gus Bilirakis. Thank you very much, Gus.
Michael Haridopolos. Michael. Good job, Michael.
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: Anna Paulina Luna, congratulations.
Jared Moskowitz. Jared, very good.
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: And Maria Salazar, thank you. Maria, thank you very much.
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: And we have a couple of others up here. I'm going to get myself in big trouble because I don't know where you are. I know you're here someplace, but we got to get on to ice hockey.
(LAUGHTER)
TRUMP: The Panthers' 2023 and 2024 season was one for the history books. It was really an exciting one. Everybody was watching it. You secured the Atlantic Division title for the third time and after coming up just short of the Stanley Cup the year prior, you gave the fans one of the most riveting comebacks in NHL history, in any sport history.
I don't know anything about a comeback, but they tell me it's very exciting.
(LAUGHTER)
(APPLAUSE)
(CROSSTALK)
(CHEERING)
TRUMP: Team Captain Aleksander "Sasha" Barkov was crowned the league's best offensive forward after winning his second Selke Trophy. And that was a great honor. It's a big deal to do that.
Where is he?
(APPLAUSE)
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: And when facing off against your cross-state rivals, the Tampa Bay Lightning, Matthew Tkachuk's firepower was unmatched, contributing two goals and two assists and he led the way to a glorious 9-2 victory, 9-2 victory, 9-2 victory in one game.
How many times have people done that? How the hell did they take a 9-2 victory in one game? Do it in seven games? How did that happen?
(LAUGHTER)
TRUMP: You were surprised too, huh?
Setting a franchise record with the Panthers' 11th consecutive win on the road. And then Anton Lundell also had a memorable season, racking up 35 points, wow, with 13 goals and 22 assists. He won 55 percent of his face- offs, setting an all-time career high while just 22 years old.
And congratulations to Anton. Where is he?
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: That's great. And don't worry. You will get beat up in life a little.
(LAUGHTER)
TRUMP: Your team's many successes were the result of incredible performances across the board. And I'm sure you agree that your coach deserves a lot of credit. He's a great coach. Nobody knows hockey like Paul. He's the leading -- second all-time leader in games coached and holds the record for the most wins in Florida Panthers history. And I assume he's going to be around for a long time, right?
He's not going anywhere. Coach, I want to be your agent, Coach.
(LAUGHTER)
TRUMP: Under Paul's leadership, the Panthers have become a finely tuned machine with a rock-solid defensive and offensive -- I mean, your offense is great. Your defense is great. The whole thing, it's very tough to beat.
And I will tell you, I looked at your current record. You're doing pretty well, right? You're nicely positioned. Yes, you know the expression he's nicely positioned. I love all these ties. This is so cute.
(LAUGHTER)
TRUMP: I walked in and I said, I think they like Trump.
(LAUGHTER)
TRUMP: I like them. And you aren't just great protectors of the net. You're also known as the biggest brawlers on ice. Wow. I was with a man named Wayne Gretzky the other day. Do you know Wayne Gretzky?
Do you ever hear of Wayne Gretzky, huh, the Great One? And he was telling me about a gentleman that protected him named Marty McSorley. Do you know that? You have any hear of him? I don't know if he was a good hockey player, but they say he was very tough.
(LAUGHTER)
TRUMP: Wayne was saying he was great, as far as he was concerned. Tough cookies.
All of the team's hard work led up to big showdowns last June, where you defeated the Edmonton Oilers in an unforgettable, and it was, seven-game series. The Panthers, as I said, started strong with a 3-0 lead. It was over. It was over. In fact, I didn't watch the last -- next two games because I said, this is not going to be too exciting.
And then I said, uh-oh. This is not good. Then I really said, uh-oh, right? It went to a game seven, but the Oilers made impressive recoveries and really amazing, actually, the way they played too. They evened the score and forced the decisive game seven. The series was a battle from start to finish.
It made it actually much more interesting. Goalie Sergei Bobrovsky -- and he was incredible. Well, I got to see him. Where is he?
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: You were really good. Hall of Fame. And even how old are you?
SERGEI BOBROVSKY, FLORIDA PANTHERS: Thirty-six.
TRUMP: Boy, I tell you were unbelievable. What an amazing...
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: There was a lot of pressure. I mean, that game seven, you guys had to be like, man. And you played great. That was a great, great job you did.
On behalf of everybody that watched, thank you, Bob.
It was nothing short of phenomenal during the finals. In the first 40 minutes of game one, Bob made an astounding 25 saves. He's -- wow -- he's the first goalie to get a shutout in game one of the Stanley Cup in 13 years. And his 23 saves in game seven were absolutely crucial to securing the very, very tight victory.
And Bob started his career as an undrafted free agent and is now a Stanley Cup champion and will go down as one of the great goalkeepers in all-time history. It's really, really a big honor for you, especially when you were undrafted. So he made a good deal, in other words.
(LAUGHTER)
TRUMP: You would like to find more like that, huh?
So it's -- what a great achievement, Bob. Congratulations. But the title couldn't have been won if you didn't have a man named Carter Verhaeghe.
(CHEERING)
TRUMP: I can only pronounce that name because I heard it so many times (OFF-MIKE)
(LAUGHTER)
TRUMP: (OFF-MIKE)
(LAUGHTER)
TRUMP: I heard that name so much, Verhaeghe.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Carter Verhaeghe.
TRUMP: Scoring champion and he's -- the scoring. And you -- really, the opening goal of that game was very important, wasn't it? That put you in a position where got the butterflies out a little bit. Way to go. Congratulations. That's a great job, everybody.
Carter skillfully directed a shot passed the Oilers goalie and gave the Panthers your first lead in the series since game three. And not to forget Sam Reinhart, who had a legendary shot in game seven. That certainly was a legendary shot, one that's not going to be forgotten.
After securing the puck from Carter, Sam carried it down the ice and flicked a wrist shot, very much like I would do it if I played...
(LAUGHTER)
TRUMP: ... right past the Oilers goalie, beating him and beat him on the glove side. Where are you?
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: How did you feel after that shot? Like, the greatest feeling or one of the greatest in life?
SAM REINHART, FLORIDA PANTHERS: (OFF-MIKE) 25 minutes to play.
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: (OFF-MIKE) a long time left. That's true. That's true. You had a little bit to go.
Sam cemented himself as -- in Panthers history for shooting the team's first ever Stanley Cup-winning goal. That was a winning goal. Both teams showed tremendous willpower and athletic talent, unbelievable talent. But at the end, the Panthers stood the ground and did what you have to do as a champion.
You can't be a champion unless you can go through something like that. And I can tell you it was hell for them, that seventh game. Going to the seventh game had to be hell, because you're really going to win and really be praised, because you came from such a horrible position to being life- threatening, right?
(LAUGHTER)
TRUMP: I mean, that would have been just unbelievable. We have seen them. We have seen it happen. It happens a lot, actually. But you didn't let it happen to you. It's an incredible achievement.
And I just want to tell you, you fought for every last point. And it was just something I watched, Mr. Commissioner. I was watching that sucker for maybe the wrong reasons, because of that guy. And I was hooked too, because you fell in love with that team, the guts and the courage they had.
You really started to really like them. They're great people. And now I see them. And in fact I like them so much, I said we will get rid of the fake news media very soon and we're going to go to the Oval Office and we're going to take some pictures in the Oval Office. Normally, we don't do that, but we're going to do it for this team and for you.
And we will take -- unless you don't want to go. You can go home a little bit early.
(LAUGHTER)
TRUMP: So, today, we honor the three and these just really great athletes. These are amazing athletes, an amazing team with their outstanding achievements, their wonderful owner, from underdogs to champions.
They proved that dedication and hard work can transform dreams into reality. So, congratulations once again to the Florida Panthers on just an unbelievable season and a really an unbelievable run, because you have been doing so well and now you continue to do well. We will be -- we will try and get to one of those games. It's a little tough as president, but I think we can work it out.
(LAUGHTER)
TRUMP: We have to -- we will need a lot of Secret Service.
(LAUGHTER)
TRUMP: (OFF-MIKE) be happy. Well, we're going to get to do it.
You have made your state and your fans very, very proud. And now I'd like to introduce my friend Vincent Viola, who's a real champion himself. He's a champion in everything he's ever done, loves the military. First thing he did, I see him, he said you got to do this with the Army. You got to move them here. You got to move them.
He's giving me all the instructions. You would love the military. I would have liked him. We should have had you in Afghanistan, instead of the characters we had. Would have turned out a little bit different, huh?
Come here. Congratulations. Congratulations. Great. Great.
(APPLAUSE)
VINCENT VIOLA, OWNER, FLORIDA PANTHERS: First, Mr. President, you look fantastic.
TRUMP: Yes.
VIOLA: So whatever it is you're working so hard at, it's agreeing with you and I like to see you that.
TRUMP: Thank you.
VIOLA: So we brought we brought a cohort, to use a term, we used the military of champions to visit a champion.
CAIN: That's President Trump congratulating the Stanley Cup champion Florida Panthers today at the White House.
Welcome to "The Will Cain Show" live from the heartland. We're going to continue to monitor that press conference, that congratulatory celebration with the Stanley Cup champion Florida Panthers. We're going to see if President Trump takes any questions from the audience and the press corps. If they do, we will make sure we go back in live to see what the president has to say.
But today marks exactly two weeks into the second term of President Trump. It's only fitting we're already talking about the art of the deal. With the clock ticking down in midnight for tariffs to take effect, President Trump announced he had a -- quote -- "friendly conversation" with the president of Mexico and the two struck a temporary deal.
Meanwhile, right now, you have more protests in Los Angeles over the Trump administration's immigration enforcement. These are live pictures from Southern California right now. You can see, there are many different flags represented in this crowd.
In every protest photo we have seen from Dallas to Los Angeles, oddly, you have seen the semblance of El Salvador and Mexican flags, no sign of the flag of the United States of America.
Meanwhile, when it comes to the northern border, moments ago, President Trump and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau wrapped up a phone call.
In fact, let's go to FOX News senior White House correspondent Peter Doocy, who's live outside the White House.
Hey, Peter.
PETER DOOCY, FOX NEWS SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: And, Will, what we are hearing from White House officials all the way up to the president himself is, they don't consider this to be a trade war. They are calling it a drug war.
They think the Mexican president gets that. They do not think the Canadian prime minister gets that.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
QUESTION: Is there anything he can give you at 3:00 p.m., when you talk again, to also put a pause, like you said with Mexico.
TRUMP: I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.
Have big deficits with Canada. Canada is very tough. Canada is very -- we're not treated well by Canada. And we have to be treated well.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
DOOCY: A Trump-Xi Jinping call is now expected within 24 hours to address the 10 percent tariffs Trump plans to levy on the communist regime, which includes eliminating the de minimis loophole that allows stuff under $800 to ship into the U.S. duty-free.
That is a loophole that Temu and others have made billions of dollars off of. The big goal with these China tariffs, though, is to keep fentanyl components in China.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: President Trump is sending a very strong message to the rest of the world, including our North American allies Canada and Mexico, that the United States is no longer going to be a dumping ground for illegal deadly drugs and illegal immigrants.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
DOOCY: The Democratic line with all of this is that costs will go up. And to make that point, they have got props.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): Let's just take Super Bowl Sunday, OK? It's going to affect beer, OK? Most of it, Corona here, comes from Mexico. It's going to affect your guac, because what is guacamole made of? Avocados, both from Mexico.
If you have pizza, it's going to affect the cost of cheese.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(LAUGHTER)
DOOCY: And so, with that clip, Democrats are betting that concerned American consumers would rather have a beer with nobody other than Chuck Schumer -- Will.
CAIN: And it's so fortunate for all of us that he brought visual aides so that we'd understand guacamole and beer.
Real quick with you, Peter, that de minimis tariff exemption loophole, that's fascinating and something I didn't know about, but a lot of people watching from home might know of Temu or Sheinbaum, these Chinese direct shipment sellers that kind of compete with Amazon.
If I understand it correctly, Peter, they ship a package for under $800, they skip all tariffs. And as part of this, that loophole would be closed.
DOOCY: Yes.
And that is the way that to date, until these tariffs go into effect at midnight, Temu and similar companies have been able to sell stuff for so cheap in the United States.
CAIN: Right. Right.
DOOCY: The goal is to make it so that they have to actually compete with American companies and charge more than like $1.25 for a couch.
CAIN: That's right. That's a big one. And that's a big, uncompetitive, unfair advantage for some of those companies based out of China.
All right, Peter, always great to see you, man. Thank you.
DOOCY: Thanks, will.
CAIN: All right, take a look at what's happened. It's been hard to keep up with it so fast. But I want you to take a look at what's happened.
As I mentioned, we're two weeks into the Trump presidency. And take a look at, well, what's been accomplished. You have a temporary deal with Mexico to set aside tariffs for one month. Panama has pledged to end its Panama Canal deal with China. We have begun deportations. Israeli hostages have been released. U.S. prisoners in Venezuela have been released.
DEI programs have ended. DOGE has begun pointing out taxpayer wastes; 51 intel agents who declared a Hunter Biden's laptop rushed into disinformation lost their security clearance. That's just some of what's happened in two weeks.
Now Mexico becomes the first country to blink as we wait to see what happens in Canada.
So let's bring in former Foreign Minister or -- Minister of Foreign Affairs of Canada John bear to join us now.
John, thanks for being with us.
It's a pretty big moment for Canada. We're waiting to see how this meeting has gone or will go between Justin Trudeau and President Trump. What do you think can be done on Canada's side of this negotiation to avoid these tariffs?
JOHN BAIRD, FORMER CANADIAN FOREIGN MINISTER: Well, first, let me congratulate you on the new show, Will.
CAIN: Thank you.
BAIRD: A lot of viewers in Canada watch you. So congratulations.
Obviously, these tariffs are unjustified. They're massive. They're unjustifiable. You know, 99 percent of products from the United States that come over to Canada come tariff-free. I do believe, though, obviously, we have got to look at the legitimate concerns on fentanyl, legitimate concerns on illegal border crossings.
I think Canada, the government's been very clear, is prepared to take every action that they can take to help a friend. It's just what a good neighbor would do. And I think that's important. I do think it's a really difficult time for Canada, though, because the prime minister has resigned. He was taken out by his own party.
We're going to have a new prime minister in several weeks and a new government in several months. I think a new prime minister and a new government will be a better partner for the United States and, frankly, for most of the free world.
CAIN: Let me explore, dig into some of the words that you used, unjustifiable, these tariffs, unjustified.
President Trump, when he talks about it, talks about several different angles. He talks about the fentanyl and illegal immigration coming across the northern border. We know how much comes across the southern border. He's just not exempting the northern border as part of this equation.
He also talks about trade imbalances when it comes to Canadian and American trade relationships. We have seen some news, by the way, John, that some Canadian companies have already considered moving their course of business, their primary location of business to the United States to avoid these kinds of tariffs.
You can see some potential upside for the United States. So when you look at it, do you not see justification? Or do you have any sense, do you know why President Trump is looking for these tariffs?
BAIRD: Well, the power that he has to impose these tariffs are all based on national security. So that's why he's obviously leading with fentanyl and immigration. No argument we have got to step up our game. I think the government of Canada has said they are prepared to do so.
But he also is talking about banking. He's also talking about the trade tariffs. The trade agreement that we have with the United States was actually signed by President Trump. And part of that deal is to -- calls for review of it next year. We can review it whenever he wants and look at the legitimate grievances that they have.
Already, 99 percent of trade comes across for free. The United States does have a $50 billion trade surplus when you take oil and natural gas out of the equation. And, obviously, that's a boon for the United States because all that is refined in the United States, which creates a lot of job and a lot of economic growth in the United States.
So it's a pretty decent relationship. We have got a fairly integrated economy. Some parts of an automobile will go across six or seven times before they're assembled. Three of the last four cars that I bought were assembled in Michigan. So there's a lot of wealth generation for both sides.
CAIN: Well, I suspect that you're right. The real key is to be watching what the new government of Canada, when they come in, what deal they can make, what effect that has.
I think that, if there's any lesson for us to take, it is analyze it through the prism of the art of the deal.
John Baird, it's great to see you.
BAIRD: Yes.
And look at your last piece. The majority of the Panthers are actually Canadian players.
(LAUGHTER)
CAIN: We know your contribution to ice hockey, and we appreciate it. Thank you so much, John.
All right, Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth is at the border to hammer home America's first policy, while New Jersey's Democratic governor taunts the feds over enforcement efforts. When will Democrats learn America wants safe borders?
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth is only a week into the job and is already down at the southern border hammering America first policy to secure the border.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
HEGSETH: ... believe and he believes that border security is national security.
Guys and gals of my generation have spent decades in foreign countries guarding other people's borders. It's about time we secure our own border. Tens of millions of people have poured across this border under Joe Biden's administration unchecked. We have no idea who they are. We have no idea where they're coming from. We have no idea what their intentions are.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: This as we're seeing more demonstrations this afternoon in California, where they're taking to the streets to protest these immigration policies.
And while the new Trump administration tries to clean up the border mess, New Jersey Democratic Governor Phil Murphy is challenging ICE to come to his home, suggesting he's housing someone who may not be legal.
So let's bring in New Jersey Republican Congressman Jeff Van Drew.
Congressman, great to see you here today.
I think I remember a time not in the too-distant past where if a politician was found to have employed an illegal immigrant, it was probably something that was going to kill a campaign and possibly their career. Here we have the governor of New Jersey saying, I have got an illegal immigrant in my house. Come and get them, ICE. I dare you.
REP. JEFF VAN DREW (R-NJ): You know, this should be filed under something like you just can't make it up.
I mean, it's just so unbelievably bad, so disappointing, so embarrassing. I love New Jersey. I have lived 99 percent of my life in the state of New Jersey. And just to see this and hear it, he is the chief executive, the CEO of the state, and to encourage illegal activity.
I sit on the Judiciary Committee, and you know what I see is, it's justice for thee, but not for me. So it's OK for him to break the law. Then maybe it's OK for people to go into stores and steal stuff because they just don't feel like paying for it or they think it's too expensive.
CAIN: Right.
VAN DREW: Maybe it's OK to attack a police officer because you just don't agree with law enforcement or you just don't happen to like this individual.
Come on. This is America. We have the rule of law. What the governor is doing is awful and it's disappointing.
CAIN: You know, again, there wasn't that -- there was a time not that long ago, 10 years ago, even under Barack Obama, where immigration law was enforced. Deportations were actually enforced.
And, here, whether or not it's the mayor of Chicago or here the governor of New Jersey, there's open defiance of the law, open defiance of law enforcement. It's a huge turn in the way that it has embraced, the party, criminality, at least on the note of illegal immigration.
I want to move to this, Congressman. The Pentagon has a new policy in place. They're removing NBC, Politico, NPR and The New York Times out of the dedicated media office spaces. They're going to make room for some new organizations to step in, like The New York Post, Breitbart, OAN and HuffPost.
Katie Couric has said and put out on X that this is propaganda. "Wow, this is how news becomes propaganda. It's begun. Pay attention."
Your thoughts, Congressman?
VAN DREW: We live under propaganda, right? We were. We were before. For the last four years and even under President Obama and others, it was just pushing out what they believe.
The legacy media -- and people finally got it and now they understand it -- do not represent the truth, do not present both sides. And we have it in our university systems too, where students don't hear about both sides of the coin, don't hear left and right, liberal and conservative.
This is a good thing. There should be all kinds of media there. Representing all points of view. And for the first time in many years, we're going to have media that's going to give a different viewpoint. Let Americans decide. Let people decide. We are tired of being spoon-fed and told things that aren't true, that aren't accurate.
It's getting old. And, fortunately, now, we're going to hear more of a balance. That's a good thing. That's an American thing.
CAIN: Yes, it's a stunning lack of self-awareness from the likes of Katie Couric to not understand how the American public views her, views those other institutions, views them as propaganda.
All right, finally, Congressman, sources are telling FOX News it's unclear how many people may be fired from the FBI as Trump looks to clean house. Attorneys representing some FBI employees say this could violate their clients' due process rights.
What do you think about this moment where many FBI agents may be part of the whole purge, from the DOJ, to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, within the federal government?
VAN DREW: Well, I'm chairman of the Oversight Subcommittee in Judiciary, and we're going to dig into this stuff. The FBI, the Department of Justice, the attorney general, DEA, most of the folks working in these agencies are good people that are working on the street.
But the people at the top, what they did, wanting to implant people in traditional Roman Catholic churches, this is what the FBI did, creating and working to create the Steele dossier, which was a complete lie, working with a guy by the name of Igor Danchenko, giving him hundreds of thousands of dollars, using his lies to go after President Trump, again, a horrible thing.
Going after parents and school boards, terrible. Misusing FISA. They misused FISA going after people they didn't agree with. They misused FISA going after boyfriends, girlfriends, husbands and wives millions of times. There are problems there at the top. It has to be cleaned out. The FBI is there to protect us from the bad guys.
And, unfortunately, Americans need protection from some of the people at the top at the FBI. It's good that it's going to stop. Again, it's a fairness thing, justice for everyone.
CAIN: Accountability for past politicization of all of these departments.
VAN DREW: Yes.
CAIN: All right, Congressman, great to see you. Thanks for being with us.
VAN DREW: Always good to be with you. Good luck with everything.
CAIN: All right, thank you.
Elon Musk is sending shockwaves across the globe, as he says President Trump supports shutting down USAID. As many criticize the move, our next guest, who lives in Uganda, says this is an opportunity. She's next.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JANICE NKAJJA, SOCIAL JUSTICE ACTIVIST: It's high time Uganda and the African continent got themselves together and actually started looking for systems that are sustainable and not always depend on foreign aid, because we are struggling with debt.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: Beautiful shot of Indiana and Johnny Cash. Welcome back to "The Will Cain Show."
So, the Trump administration shutting down USAID, their headquarters, today and folding it into the State Department. Elon Musk has called to dismantle the agency.
My next guest lives in Uganda, and she says this move could actually represent an opportunity for African nations that depend on this aid. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
NKAJJA: We have depended on U.S. aid. for over 60 years. And the moment the owners of the money say, let's take a 90-day pause and audit where my money is going, suddenly, the whole country goes into a frenzy.
And this should be a moment of reflection for Uganda and the African continent in general. We have been asking for a very long time to be liberated from colonialism, neo-colonialism, and now that the opportunity presents itself, for some reason, we are complaining, because let's get something straight.
Often, the money given to us in foreign aid is lost to corruption, misuse, depleted and overrated salaries to particular individuals or sometimes lose billions of money that are unaccounted for. So it only makes sense that the donor is asking for an edit. And if that means pausing the amount of money coming in, they should.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Janice Nkajja is a policy content creator with 14,500 followers on TikTok and she joins me now.
Janice, it's great to see you.
I just want to dive right into some of the points that we heard you making in that video. Let's start with the colonialism point. You point out that many African nations have been fighting for, arguing for extricating themselves from colonialism.
And here now we have Western countries, in this case, the United States, pulling their money away, and you're confused as to why people would be upset. I thought -- I think you're saying, you thought this is what you wanted.
NKAJJA: Yes, definitely,.
Definitely, for a very long time we are -- as African people, Ugandan people, always complaining about the issues that result to foreign aid and the different strings that come with it. And so this presents as a great opportunity for African nations to stop talking about strings attached to U.S. or foreign aid in general.
I understand where the issue comes from, because a lot of this money largely supports individuals who live with HIV and AIDS in most African nations, and this is facing a huge devastation that particular issue.
But, on the other hand, it presents a great opportunity for African nations to build more sustainable health care and financial systems on a global scale.
CAIN: Right. I think it's $6.5 billion goes to sub-Saharan Africa.
But the other point that you made I want to dive into was the one on corruption, because while you point out a lot of this aid does go to, for example, helping those with HIV, how much, actually?
So I want to share this with the audience, first of all, USAID, $43 billion in 2023. Here's how it's broken out, $16 billion under governance, another $10 billion under humanitarian, $3.5 billion under administrative.
I don't know what governance and administrative are, but people have pointed out how much overhead USAID has, Janice, on this side of the equation. Then there's the side of what happens when it gets to your side, the recipient, and how much of that is tied to corruption.
NKAJJA: Yes, yes, definitely, because we have so many issues within our own national structure system. That's why we keep needing aid, because there's a lot of misuse with the money that we have within the system. So we keep having to outsource from elsewhere.
And even in this particular way, there's always a way this money is mishandled. And that's a huge issue. And that's why I was calling for a time where we need sustainability within our own structures if we are going to even handle money that comes from outside.
And so with the presence of rampant corruption, misuse of funds, and sometimes the money just disappears, it begs the question, how can African nations shift or pivot in this kind of time or area? Because now that it's -- that USAID is getting disband, it means that we are not going to get this money any further.
And so it has -- there has to be a more sustainable system that is going to work other than that a lot of people are going to lose their lives. Already, thousands have lost jobs. And so it puts African nations in a very staggering position that does not see us going anywhere in the future.
CAIN: But it sounds like -- and just to wrap it up here, it sounds like you see this, though, as the opportunity. This is the opportunity to stand up on your own in Uganda.
NKAJJA: Definitely, because now we have analyzed where our stance is when it comes to we cannot depend on our livelihoods -- our livelihoods cannot depend on internal politics of the United States.
And so having understood that, at this particular moment in time, it gives African nations, particularly Uganda, an initiative to make decisions that are more sustainable, instead of depending on whether or not a particular state wants aid for a particular country.
CAIN: All right, what a fascinating discussion. What an interesting perspective.
Janice Nkajja, thanks so much for jumping on with us today.
NKAJJA: Thank you for having me.
CAIN: All right, FOX News Alert.
Prime Minister Trudeau of Canada is -- put it here -- there will be a pause, OK, of three days -- I'm sorry -- 30 days on the tariffs scheduled to go in on Canada, 25 percent tariffs scheduled to go in on Canada, a pause of 30 days. We will find out what concessions when we come back from this break.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: FOX News Alert. This is the breaking news I shared with you just before we went to commercial break.
Canada's Prime Minister Justin Trudeau saying moments ago on X President Trump's proposed tariffs would be paused for at least 30 days for his country.
Trudeau wrote in part: "Canada is making new commitments to appoint a fentanyl czar. We will list cartels as terrorists, ensure 24/7 eyes on border, launch a Canada-U.S. joint strike force to combat organized crime, fentanyl and money laundering. I have also signed a new intelligence directive on organized crime and fentanyl. And we will be backing it with $200 million."
We are waiting to see what the White House says about this.
All right, keep our eyes on that, perhaps a reprieve for Canada.
Meanwhile, down at the southern border, cartels are reportedly authorizing the use of weaponized drones against border and ICE agents, this after we saw reports of members being given the green light to open fire on U.S. law enforcement.
And just one week ago, we saw cartel members shoot at border agents near the Rio Grande. Thankfully, none of them were hurt.
So my next guest joined the Sinaloa cartel at a young age, along with his twin brother. And by their teen years, they were in leadership roles of the $3 billion enterprise. Margarito "Jay" Flores Jr. now works with us leaders in law enforcement to educate people on the cartel. He joins me now. He's wearing glasses and a mask for his safety.
Thanks for being with us, Margarito. I appreciate your time today.
MARGARITO "JAY" FLORES JR., FORMER SINALOA CARTEL KINGPIN: Well, thank you for having me, Mr. Cain. It's a pleasure to meet you. Thank you.
CAIN: May we do this really quickly at the outset? Let's establish this, your bona fides here, for the audience. I am particularly fascinated by Mexican drug cartels. I know names. I know the names of cartels. But I want to do this for the audience's benefit.
The Sinaloa cartel has been historically, at least for the last couple of decades, the biggest cartel in Mexico. It was led by El Chapo, Joaquin Guzman. And it was led as well by Ismael Zambada, El Mayo, right?
What did you do? How high was your -- where was your place in the leadership and the hierarchy? What did you do for Sinaloa?
FLORES: Yes, well, historically, the Sinaloa cartel happens to be probably the most profitable, the biggest in terms of drug distribution and the most violent.
It was led by Joaquin Guzman Loera, El Chapo, and El Mayo Zambada, who I worked directly with. My brothers in our organization were probably in charge of the -- one of the major distribution cells in the United States for almost 10 years.
CAIN: OK.
FLORES: So we were on the American side and we worked directly with them and many of their top lieutenants.
CAIN: You worked directly with El Mayo, you said, and you were on the American side. Do you mind me asking where you were in America, helping coordinate, I assume, shipments wholesale into the United States?
FLORES: Yes, we were in charge of our distribution and coordinating shipments across the United States and into Canada, Canada being a big market now, a top five market for the Mexican drug cartels.
So that was our side of the business. As well, we were in charge of basically exporting back into Mexico bulk U.S. currency, which, I think, is a driving force to these Mexican drug cartels.
CAIN: Right.
All right, Margarito, I could have an hour-long conversation with you about how that's done tactically, how you ship that bulk load of money and cash back to Mexico, what are the best ways you guys have used drugs coming in? But I want to start here.
You see this story about the drug cartels exchanging fire with American forces at the southern border. Now there's this story about weaponized drones. Here's a couple of questions on this first. Do you see any situation where the cartel wants direct violent conflict with U.S. forces? That would seem, Margarito, bad for business and not something they would want to do.
But is that something we're now beginning to see?
FLORES: Well, if the reports are correct, I wouldn't be able to go against those reports, but, historically, every drug cartel has an unwritten rule that's been for many years that you do not commit acts of violence against any law enforcement officers, especially not no federal law enforcement officers.
That border line is invisible, but it works for the most part. I don't see any benefit from drug cartels actually targeting law enforcement for no reason at all. I think that they know that once that happens that there's no turning back and it would be bad for business, as you mentioned.
CAIN: Right.
So, and, by the way, OK, we're going to move on to that -- off of that in just one moment. But what about the story of weaponized drones? Tell me what you understand about the level of technological weaponry the cartel is employing at this point.
FLORES: At this time, they continue to advance, especially with military. They're recruiting military, ex-military from different countries, including the United States.
And they use this, their know-how to actually improve and go to war with other cartels. So it's been common use against retaliation against each other. So just any technology that's out, they're going to use it to the advantage. They're going to use it to smuggle. They're going to use it to attack each other and commit more violence.
CAIN: OK. Now, we talked about they wouldn't want to fire upon American security forces, military or Border Patrol because you know what happens then, and it looks like it's happened now, Margarito.
I mean, President Trump has declared the Mexican drug cartels a foreign terrorist group, that giving essentially license to the American military should they deem necessary to go into Mexico to attack the cartels. Where does that put them now today? That seems to be a big change in the business model.
FLORES: Yes, I think that that -- that makes them a target.
Me just being at the upper tiers of the cartel, I know that they're fearful of the American government, but they're more fearful of the laws, as you could tell, that many high-ranking members of the Sinaloa have been arrested, especially due to my cooperation. And they often start to cooperate.
They don't like the punishment. They don't like the laws. But I think that this is a great tool. And I applaud President Trump for actually putting this executive order into effect, because I think that it is going to scare them.
Now, I don't know if it's going to stop the demand for drug trafficking, but I do think that it's an important tool. And I think that the president of Mexico should accept this with open arms. I mean, they're the ones that actually suffer each and every day. There's thousands of Mexican -- innocent Mexican people who are being affected by these drug cartels and their violence.
CAIN: So, last week here on "The Will Cain Show," we had Congressman Chip Roy. He sort of endorsed a plan by Senator Mike Lee, which suggested you could give letters of marque to private citizens here in the United States to begin themselves to fight the cartels.
That would, I assume, mean, like, disrupting smuggling routes, supply chains, that kind of thing on the American side, or perhaps it could bleed into Mexico. My question for you, Margarito, is this. Are all of these measures, including private citizens or designating the cartels as terrorist organizations, is there a point where the incentive, the beautiful draw of all the money you can make for yourself, right, on all the different things you want to traffic into America is disincentivized enough, the trouble too much, not worth the price?
FLORES: Well, Mr. Cain, I think that for the most part, that plan of sending privatized individuals to go after the cartels, I think that doesn't make any sense, as you can see that these drug cards are actually killing each other on a daily basis.
They need the law. They need the United States government to actually go out there and make the difference. Do I believe that this is going to help? I think it's going to have an impact. But I also think that the reason why I started getting into law enforcement and educating and sharing my knowledge is because I believe that we have to go after the bulk U.S. currency.
That's the bottom line. That's what every drug cart actually gets into business. That's why every cartel actually wants is the U.S. dollar. It's being transported back in bulk in the billions. And I think that if we were to focus on the bulk U.S. currency, focus on the weapons that are going across the border here, just not in the United States side, I think that would have a more significant impact overall.
It's a business.
CAIN: Right.
FLORES: I understand that it's called the war on drugs, but it has to be looked like as a business. The money is what fuels corruption and what fuels the violence.
CAIN: Well, that's interesting coming from a man who worked on the American side of the border. Stop the cash going back across. You don't have a business if you're not getting paid to ship in your illegal drugs.
Fascinating discussion. I'm serious, Margarito, I could -- Jay, you go by. I could talk to you for a long time about this. We appreciate the time you have given us today.
Jay Flores, thank you so much.
FLORES: Thank you. I appreciate the time, sir. Thank you.
CAIN: OK. You bet.
FOX News Alert, this just in. Maine Republican senator and Intelligence Committee member Susan Collins, she's releasing a statement saying she will support Tulsi Gabbard for the director of national intelligence. Senator Collins was one of the key senators Gabbard needed to win over.
So, again, this just came in minutes ago. Senator Collins released a statement saying she will support Tulsi Gabbard for DNI. That's great news.
All right, it's time quickly here in the minute we have left together for "Will of the People," you.
So one user is asking: "Is it true that you have a twin brother named Won't."
No. And who do people say is my doppelganger? I think Tim Matheson, the guy from "Animal House."
Another adding: "I love the show. My suggestion, ditch the rolling banner and wear a flannel shirt daily."
That's Swheeler.
Give it some time. See where this goes over time.
All right, finally, Pat saying: "You owned your mistakes and I didn't know where any of them -- I didn't even know any of them were errors. I love your show, mistakes and all."
Well, that's the point. You don't know if somebody makes some mistakes unless they own it. So we're going to continue to own our mistakes here every week on "The Will Cain Show."
Thanks for joining us as we get to the heart of the matter from the heart of America. We appreciate you. We will be back here right again same time, same place tomorrow.
Get ready for "The Five."

Load-Date: February 3, 2025


End of Document
