



The Times (London)
February 24, 2025 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition


Copyright 2025 Times Newspapers Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 41
Length: 608 words
Byline: Mike Granleese
Body


Like the rest of the world, British business is wondering how to operate in the world of Donald Trump. The US president is pursuing an agenda that leaves many executives considering how they might need to change the way they do business.
Should UK companies abandon commitments to diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI), as the White House has demanded, or visibly reject the Trump agenda? And what about climate change? Any firm operating in the UK should take account of how the British public thinks about these issues. Polling from Apella Advisors and Find Out Now helps our businesses to understand public opinion on how it should respond to the Trump revolution.
The picture is complicated. The Trump agenda is not popular among Britons: most oppose moves by business and politicians to adopt the president's ideas, but that view is not universal and significant parts of UK opinion are positive about Trumpism. Any business grappling with these issues should be mindful of this significant minority and its political representatives.
The DEI issue can be especially tricky. For Trump, firms trying to diversify their staffing are peddling woke politics and discriminating against white men. In the US, Trump's DEI agenda has legal force - but how should UK firms not subject to American law respond?
A majority of Britons, 53 per cent, think it would be bad if business followed Trump by ditching DEI. For some, that is because firms would miss out on talent. But the biggest reason for thinking less of companies that junk diversity programmes is that they would be abandoning principles they previously said they held dear. The public values authenticity.
Opposition to ending DEI is highest among people of working age and younger ones especially. Among 18 to 54-year-old respondents 57 per cent said it would be "bad" if firms backed away from diversity, but less than half of those aged above 55 think the same. Big recruiters should take note.
Still, there is some support for binning DEI: 29 per cent either agree with or understand the move to scale back on diversity. Older people and men are more inclined to hold these views. These are, of course, the people who are most likely to support Nigel Farage's Reform UK. Our polling shows that Reform backers are strikingly positive about the Trump agenda in a way that no other voters are.
Climate politics pose different challenges for business. Britons tend to prioritise the environment over economics: 43 per cent want more care for the environment even if it harms economic growth, but only 23 per cent think that economic growth should take priority over the environment.
That is a warning sign for ministers focusing on growth above all, especially when it comes to their own voters. Labour voters especially are not persuaded by economic growth arguments as a reason to support Donald Trump's agenda. Only 14 per cent think the UK government needs to do whatever is needed to grow the economy, even if that means supporting Trump's agenda.
A final result that all executives should heed carefully is what the public thinks is most important for business. For the public, DEI ranks low on the priority list for UK plc. The climate is more important, but still far less significant to the public than how a company treats its workers. The age of Trump raises many new challenges for business but some old truths remain: the best way to build a strong reputation is to be true to your principles and look after your people.
Dr Mike Granleese is head of data and insights at Apella Advisors
"  A majority of Britons believe that it would be bad if UK businesses followed Donald Trump's agenda
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Journal Code: TIM

Subject: DIVERSITY & INCLUSION (90%); ELECTIONS & POLITICS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); GENDER EQUALITY (78%); TRUMPISM (78%); BUSINESS DIVERSIFICATION (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); DISCRIMINATION (77%); HUMAN RESOURCES & PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT (77%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY & INCLUSION (77%); MEN (72%)

Person: DONALD TRUMP (89%)

Geographic: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); UNITED KINGDOM (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); National Edition

Load-Date: February 24, 2025


End of Document
