




Targeted News Service
February 6, 2025 Thursday 9:17 PM  EST


Copyright 2025 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved


Length: 449 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: MADISON, Wisconsin 
Body


[Category: Religion] -- The Freedom From Religion Foundation posted the following news release:
* * *
FFRF TV show hones in on Christian nationalism in Trump's first weeks
The latest episode of the Freedom From Religion Foundation's television show engages in a razor-sharp focus on the theocratic threats that the Trump administration poses to our constitutional freedoms.
The show, with co-hosts Dan Barker and Annie Laurie Gaylor, does a special report about Christian nationalism in the new Trump administration -- and issues a warning about how President Trump is bulldozing the wall of separation between state and church. Using a series of video clips of Trump's own statements, the show documents his promises to the Christian right, parses his Christian coronation-style Inaugural and takes a look at his troubling nominations and other actions expected to weaponize religious liberty.
"Folks, those of us who support the secular principles behind our democracy are in the most perilous battle of our lifetimes," the show concludes.
"Freethought Matters" airs the weekend in:
* Chicago, WPWR-CW (Ch. 50), Sundays at 9 a.m.
* Los Angeles, KCOP-MY (Ch. 13), Sundays at 8:30 a.m.
* Madison, Wis., WISC-TV (Ch. 3), Sundays at 11 p.m.
* New York City, WPIX-IND (Ch. 11), Sundays at 10 a.m.
* San Francisco, KTVU/KICU-IND (on broadcast Ch. 36 and Cable 6), Sundays at 10 a.m.
* Washington, D.C., WDCW-CW (Ch. 50 or Ch. 23 or Ch. 3), Sundays at 8 a.m.
If you don't live in any of the marquee towns where the show broadcasts on Sunday, you can already catch the interview on FFRF's YouTube channel. New shows go up every Thursday.
Upcoming shows include guest Gareth Gore, who is the author of an expose on Opus Dei, and a retrospective on the late Cecile Richards.&nbsp;You can catch interviews from earlier this season and from previous seasons here, including with Gloria Steinem, Ron Reagan, author John Irving, actor John "Q" de Lancie and award-winning columnist Katha Pollitt.
Please tune in to "Freethought Matters"... because freethought matters. And spread the word to freethinking friends, family or colleagues about a TV show, finally, that is dedicated to providing programming for freethinkers -- your antidote to religion on Sunday morning!&nbsp;
P.S. Please tune in or record according to the times given above regardless of what is listed in your TV guide (it may be listed simply as "paid programming" or even be misidentified). To set up an automatic weekly recording, try taping manually by time or channel.
Print
***
Original text here: 
Copyright Targeted News Services
MSTRUCK-9039721 MSTRUCK

Load-Date: February 7, 2025


End of Document
