




The Times (London)
January 22, 2025 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition


Copyright 2025 Times Newspapers Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Pg. 10,11
Length: 1245 words
Byline: David Charter
Body


Our liberties and our nation's glorious destiny will no longer be denied and we will immediately restore the integrity, competency and loyalty of America's government ''
One of Trump's initial pledges when he started out in politics in 2015 was to "drain the swamp", meaning to dismantle what he believed was a cosy "deep state" bureaucracy in Washington. He never did but it has developed into his second-term plans to remove staff he believes are resistant to his agenda. In an opening salvo on Monday night he signed orders to change contracts making it easier to fire bureaucrats and mandated five-day office attendance for a city with some of America's highest working-from-home levels.
First, I will declare a national emergency at our southern border. All illegal entry will immediately be halted. And we will begin the process of returning millions and millions of criminal aliens back to ''
the places from which they came
With this declaration Trump set out policies to secure the border with Mexico and begin mass deportations of migrants, at least 11 million of whom are in the US illegally. It marked a complete reversal of Biden's "open" border policies under which record numbers claimed asylum or crossed into America unchallenged. Curiously, Trump did not mention completing the border wall that was such a focus of his first term, which will cost billions of dollars. There are warnings of a shock to the economy because many migrants perform cheap labour. Hundreds of "sanctuary cities" plan to resist round-ups by refusing to help US Immigration and Customs Enforcement.
''
Next, I will direct all members of my cabinet to marshal the vast powers at their disposal to defeat what was record inflation and rapidly bring down costs and prices. The inflation crisis was caused by massive overspending and escalating energy prices. And that is why today I will also declare a national energy emergency. We will drill, baby, drill
Trump addresses the other main reason for his victory - inflation. His proposed solution is a surge in fossil fuel production to reduce domestic energy prices and increase lucrative exports. Oil and gas production increased under Biden despite some extra restrictions, partly due to fracking which reached new reserves but also because of extra permits. Trump has already signed orders withdrawing the US from the Paris climate accord, releasing land in Alaska for drilling and ending a freeze on liquid natural gas export permits. One potential problem with his export plan is that AI could increase domestic energy demand.
With my actions today, we will end the Green New Deal and we will revoke the electric vehicle mandate, saving our auto industry and keeping my sacred pledge to our ''
great American autoworkers. In other words, you'll be able to buy the car of your choice
Trump's oil boom is accompanied by cancelling Biden's green revolution. Carmaking was an election battleground with both Trump and Biden claiming to be the future. For now Trump's dream of reviving the internal combustion engine has won but this could leave America out of step with much of the world, hitting the possibility of exports.
Environmental groups will challenge Trump's orders in court.
''
I will immediately begin the overhaul of our trade system to protect American workers and families. Instead of taxing our citizens to enrich other countries, we will tariff and tax foreign countries to enrich our citizens. For this purpose, we are establishing the External Revenue Service to collect all tariffs, duties and revenues
This was Trump's only mention of tariffs, as the world waited nervously to hear if he would impose the blanket border tax of 10 to 20 per cent he had threatened. His speech gave no numbers, targets or timings, but later he said 25 per cent duty would be put on Canada and Mexico on February 1. He gave a show of momentum by creating the collection agency but has bought time to consider his next moves. Some of his advisers believe tariffs are mainly a threat to extract concessions; others say he truly wants to reorientate the US economy away from personal taxation towards border - and therefore consumption - taxes.
To restore confidence and effectiveness to our federal government, my administration will establish the brand new Department of Government Efficiency ''
The new cost-cutting agency will be led by Elon Musk with a headquarters staff of about 20 and agents in every government department. Musk at first said he wanted "at least" $2 trillion cut from the federal US budget of $6.75 trillion but scaled back to $1 trillion. Even this would seem impossible without cuts in the biggest spending areas that Trump vowed to protect: defence, social security and healthcare. Budget cuts have to be approved by Congress, which has a narrow Republican majority.
''
After years and years of illegal and unconstitutional federal efforts to restrict free expression, I will also sign an executive order to immediately stop all government censorship and bring back free speech to America
Stung by his suspension from social media platforms during his campaign to overturn the 2020 election, and fuelled by claims that the Biden administration pushed to suppress unfettered speech online, Trump has already signed an order designed to ensure free expression. This is already guaranteed by the First Amendment to the Constitution, however, and critics fear it will lead to a legal crackdown on media and sources deemed hostile by the Trump administration.
Trump made no mention of artificial intelligence and international partners are wondering how far its potential for fakery and bias will be policed in the United States.
''
I will also end the government policy of trying to socially engineer race and gender into every aspect of public and private life. We will forge a society that is colourblind and merit based
This refers to Trump's "anti-woke" agenda, riding on a conservative backlash to equity initiatives such as transgender women allowed to compete in female sport. Trump's determination to rid the government of diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) initiatives could reach the highest levels. His incoming defence secretary, Pete Hegseth, urged the removal of General Charles Q Brown, the black chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, for being involved in "DEI woke shit".
My proudest legacy will be that of a peacemaker and ''
unifier
Trump has been given some credit for the Gaza deal to release hostages and in his first term he normalised Israel's relationship with the Arab nations of UAE and Bahrain in the Abraham
Accords. He has openly talked of deserving the Nobel Peace Prize for his detente efforts with North Korea. Trump aimed to end the war in Ukraine on his first day but more recently gave himself six months. He wants to bring Saudi Arabia into the Abraham Accords.
We will be prosperous ''
America is already one of the most prosperous countries in the world with by far the highest GDP and a steadily rising GDP per capita.
The trouble is that many Americans are not feeling it, with around half telling a Bank of America survey they live "paycheck to paycheck", up from 40 per cent in 2022.
The national debt is enormous. Trump is banking on his energy policy making Americans feel wealthier again by reducing day-to-day costs such as petrol and groceries. Economists warn that tariffs could lead to an impoverishing age of protectionism.
What I'd do on my first day as president, Carol Midgley, Times 2

Graphic

 
President Donald Trump dances with a sword used to cut the cake at the Commander-in- Chief inaugural ball while Melania looks amused. Vivek, son of JD Vance, vice-president, rests during the ceremony, top. Migrants remainANDREW HARNIK/GETTY IMAGES; CARLOS BARRIA/REUTERS

Load-Date: January 22, 2025


End of Document
