




 
FT.com
February 3, 2025 Monday


Copyright 2025 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.


Length: 1282 words
Byline: Gordon Smith, Tee Zhuo and Benjamin Wilhelm
Body


Good morning, and welcome back to the first full working day of February 2025. We’ll bring you right up to date on how Donald Trump’s planned tariffs are shaking business confidence around the world. And here’s what else we are covering: 
EU, Nato and UK meet to discuss European-US relations
US companies cosy up to Musk 
Meta’s big bet on VR
And a Big Read on Jared Kushner 
The dollar has emerged as an early winner from Donald Trump’s trade war. 
The US currency surged against a basket of currencies this morning while the Canadian dollar fell to its lowest level against its US counterpart since 2003. The Mexican peso and euro also fell.
In stock markets, US futures trading points to opening falls on the S&P 500 and the Nasdaq. Shares in Asia and Europe have fallen sharply today while commodity prices, which are seen as a reflection of the health of the global economy, are also weaker. Crypto markets plunged as traders pared their exposure to risk. Oil prices, however, are rising. 
The sell-off in currency, equity and commodity markets was prompted by Trump’s decision on Saturday to impose 25 per cent tariffs on imports from Canada and Mexico and 10 per cent on goods from China. Imports on energy products from Canada face 10 per cent tariffs. All the tariffs are due to begin tomorrow. Trump also promised to introduce tariffs on EU imports but the timing is unclear.
Justin Trudeau, Canada’s prime minister, retaliated by saying he would implement tariffs on C$30bn of American imports on Tuesday morning, rising to C$125bn within 21 days. China said it would lodge a complaint with the World Trade Organization while Mexican President Claudia Sheinbaum is expected to give more details of her promise to impose tariffs on US goods later today. 
Global investment banks this morning warned that Trump’s tariffs would hit the US and global economy as countries responded to the US president by erecting trade barriers of their own which would lead to higher inflation and slower growth. 
Analysts at UBS and Morgan Stanley forecast that if the tariffs were sustained they could halve US real GDP growth this year — reducing it by more than 1 percentage point.
Eric Winograd, chief economist at AllianceBernstein, said the clearest implication of the tariffs would be a strong dollar. “A long dollar position is the cleanest, clearest expression of the trade war that is now being launched.” 
 for global reaction to Trump’s tariffs. And here are some recommendations to help you unpack the fallout from his trade war:
Explainer: These are the industries that will probably be .
‘Buy Canadian’: A wave of anger and  has swept across a country famous for its politeness.
The FT View: The US will be one of the  of Trump’s absurd trade war, writes our editorial board.
For more coverage of global trade  to Alan Beattie’s weekly Trade Secrets newsletter, which is a premium product.
EU meeting: Donald Trump will loom large over a meeting of European leaders in Brussels today. The summit will focus on EU-US co-operation and military spending and will be attended by Nato secretary-general Mark Rutte as well as British Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer. . 
Economic data: Brazil’s central bank releases results of a weekly economic survey with more than 100 financial institutions. Chile’s central bank publishes economic activity figures for December while S&P Global updates its purchasing managers’ index for Canada
Companies: Tyson Foods reports first-quarter results while lawyers for Alphabet’s Google and video game maker Epic Games will square-off in a San Francisco appeals court. State-run oil company Petrobras will release 2024 production figures after Brazil’s market closes.
UN: China’s UN ambassador Fu Cong is to hold a news conference marking China’s presidency of UN Security Council for February.
Five more top stories
1. Exclusive: Companies from Boeing to Amazon are cutting deals with Elon Musk’s businesses or touting links with the Tesla and SpaceX chief as he solidifies his power within Trump’s administration and begins to radically restructure the US government. .
2. US secretary of state Marco Rubio told Panama’s president yesterday to reduce China’s influence over the Panama Canal or face immediate consequences. According to the US state department, Rubio met José Raúl Mulino in Panama City and said Trump had determined that China had violated a treaty concerning its neutrality and .
More administration news: Elon Musk has unilaterally vowed to cancel hundreds of millions of dollars’ worth of government grants after  to the US Treasury’s payments system.
3. Exclusive: Meta’s total investment in virtual and augmented reality is set to top $100bn this year, as its chief executive Mark Zuckerberg has declared 2025 a “defining year” for its smart glasses. The company’s latest annual report also revealed it invested $19.9bn in its Reality Labs division last year, a new high after more than a decade of heavy losses. .
4.CVC has overhauled its US leadership and is hunting for a private credit firm to buy following a series of underperforming deals in the country. The Amsterdam-listed group replaced Chris Stadler, who had overseen its North American private equity business for 18 years. Read more on what one of Europe’s largest buyout groups is . 
5.Latin America’s biggest airline is targeting ambitious growth in the coming decades, hoping to profit from expectations that the region will be among the world’s fastest growing for air travel. Roberto Alvo, chief executive of Latam Airlines, told the Financial Times that Latin America and the Caribbean were “under-developed” in aviation. .
Today’s Big Read
Since leaving Washington, Jared Kushner has built up a global portfolio of company stakes, across eastern Europe, the Gulf and Latin America. Affinity Partners, his private equity firm, is backed by the Saudi state, UAE and Qatar who he worked closely with while advising his father-in-law Donald Trump during his first term. But his early investments have yet to yield large returns and he is now stepping back into the property world. . 
We’re also reading . . . 
Global development: The future of international economic institutions is up for grabs, writes Adam Tooze, and the  for Africa.
Gaza truce: As Benjamin Netanyahu prepares to meet Donald Trump tomorrow in Washington, will he decide to stick with a 
DEI: While some companies are retreating from initiatives set up to improve the representation of their workforces, executive teams and boardrooms, others . 
Chart of the day
Soaring demand for veterinary care amid a surge in pet ownership has sparked a rush of consolidation in the sector, led both by large companies and private equity firms. Meanwhile, the cost for consumers has surged. Critics of the “roll up” strategy say the price rises stem from reduced competition but the industry counters that bill inflation is more the result of advances in animal healthcare. Regardless of the cause, pet owners are often .
Take a break from the news . . . 
This fascinating FT Magazine profile of Tony Dominguez, a sober coach for the rich and famous, dives into the  and the idea that you can buy your way out of crippling addiction.

Load-Date: February 3, 2025


End of Document
