




 
FT.com
February 20, 2025 Thursday


Copyright 2025 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.


Length: 1041 words
Byline: Gordon Smith, Irwin Cruz and Benjamin Wilhelm
Body


Good morning and welcome back to FirstFT Americas. Today we’re covering: 
Trump tightens grip on regulators 
Hamas releases hostages’ bodies
Microsoft’s quantum computing breakthrough
and today’s Big Read is on US Treasuries
Donald Trump is to take greater control of independent federal agencies, including the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Federal Trade Commission and the Federal Communications Commission.
The US president signed an executive order that “reins in independent agencies”, ordering them to submit draft regulations for review, the White House said in a statement. The Federal Reserve’s monetary policy functions have been excluded from the executive order.
The White House said the Office of Management and Budget would “adjust” funding allocations to federal agencies “to ensure tax dollars are spent wisely”.
The order comes as Trump seeks to expand the power of the government’s executive branch, with attempts to shut down regulators whose formation is enshrined in federal statutes, while pummelling the civil service with budget cuts and lay-offs.
Critics argue the order is illegal and flouts Congress’s core function of granting regulators power via legislation. .
New York City congestion charge: The body that runs the New York City subway and bus system  after it terminated federal approval for the city’s road pricing scheme.
Here’s what else we’re keeping tabs on today:
Markets: Stock markets fell today as investors took profits from Asian technology shares and  highlighted uncertainty over the pace and timing of further interest rate cuts. . 
Companies: Retailers Walmart and Loblaw Companies report fourth-quarter results alongside toymaker Hasbro while Birkenstock publishes earnings for its first quarter. Boeing’s chief executive Kelly Ortberg is due to speak at a Miami banking conference.
Economic data: Mexico’s central bank releases minutes from its most recent monetary policy meeting.
Congress: Senate Republicans are expected to try to push ahead with a bill to advance Trump’s priorities on immigration, energy and defence in a marathon session that could extend into Friday morning. Kash Patel is expected to be approved to lead the FBI.
Five more top stories
1. Donald Trump called Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy a “dictator” and warned that he “better move fast or he is not going to have a country left”, deepening a rift between Washington and Kyiv. The US president lashed out at his Ukrainian counterpart hours after Zelenskyy .
FT Film: A Financial Times investigative documentary has found evidence that Russian executions of Ukrainian prisoners of war .
Mathias Döpfner interview: Politico’s owner has praised  of US vice-president JD Vance’s speech that was met with horror in Europe.
Postwar plans: France and Britain are drawing up a proposal to create a “reassurance force” to . 
2. Hamas said it had handed over the remains of four Israeli hostages, including an infant, in a grim exchange that signalled progress under a shaky ceasefire agreement. The Israel Defense Forces confirmed that four caskets of deceased hostages had been transferred to the International Committee of the Red Cross in Gaza. .
3. KPMG US has pulled years of reports on its diversity, equity and inclusion programmes from its website after becoming the latest professional services firm to scrap DEI goals in the wake of Trump’s election. The move came after Paul Knopp, KPMG US chief executive, told employees that the firm would “bring to a close” its “Accelerate 2025” programme. .
4. Microsoft said it had succeeded in harnessing a new state of matter to create the basic building blocks of a quantum computer. The US technology group said it believed the development would enable it to build a practical quantum computer by the end of the decade. .
5. A US congressional committee has sounded the alarm over China’s plan to build a huge embassy in London, saying the project raises “significant security concerns” for the UK financial services industry. Beijing’s plans to build its largest diplomatic complex in Europe have met resistance from politicians who warn of the .
Today’s big read
Tariffs, trade wars and plans for big tax cuts could stoke inflation, increase US debt and rattle investors. But the Treasuries market is resilient, cushioned by intrinsic advantages including the bonds’ vast liquidity, the status of the dollar as the world’s reserve currency and the lack of any obvious alternatives. Could the bond market 
We’re also reading . . . 
US dollar: Markets are underestimating the risk of  in the global financial regime under Trump, with the dollar at its centre, argues Katie Martin.
Global economy: In the global financial crisis the US acted as an underwriter of the world economy to maintain stability. , asks Robin Harding. 
London’s ‘rightwing Davos’: A three-day conference in the UK capital has attracted conservative politicians, theologians and business leaders from around the world with its blend of .
Hong Kong finances: A property slump and budget deficits are weighing on the government’s fiscal health, forcing it to look for .
Chart of the day
A stand-off between airlines and energy groups over the production of sustainable air fuel is stalling the transition to net zero flying. Airlines complain that sustainable aviation fuel is too expensive and not enough is being made. But unless energy companies receive more long-term orders they remain .
Take a break from the news . . . 
A leading TV role for one of our greatest living actors should feel like a significant occasion. Yet Zero Day, starring Robert De Niro,, says reviewer Dan Einav.

Load-Date: February 20, 2025


End of Document
