




 
FT.com
January 24, 2025 Friday


Copyright 2025 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.


Length: 1223 words
Byline: Gordon Smith, Tee Zhuo and Benjamin Wilhelm
Body


Good morning and welcome back to the FirstFT’s final edition of the working week. Here’s what’s coming up: 
Shale bosses raise doubts about US energy production 
OpenAI in talks to split 
Sackler family agrees $7.4bn opioid settlement
A mystery buyer emerges for central London property
Results of the FT’s annual stock picking contest
Shale bosses have cast doubt on Donald Trump’s promise to “drill, baby, drill”, after the new president declared a national energy emergency and promised a big increase in US oil production to beat down inflation.
“Wall Street will dictate here — and you know what? They don’t have a political agenda. They have a financial agenda . . . They have zero incentive to basically tell the management teams running these businesses to go and drill more wells,” said Wil VanLoh, chief executive of private equity group Quantum Energy Partners, one of the shale sector’s largest investors.
Trump yesterday increased pressure on oil cartel Opec and its leading member Saudi Arabia  during a speech at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. 
“I’m going to ask Saudi Arabia and Opec to bring down the cost of oil. You gotta bring it down. Which frankly I’m surprised they didn’t do before the election,” Trump said.
The new president linked lower oil prices to cheaper borrowing costs in the US and around the world as part of his second term economic agenda, which also includes the “largest tax cut in American history” and tariffs on goods imported into the US.
But lower energy prices will make US shale producers less profitable, executives warned. US oil production has soared over the past two decades and hit a record high last year. But analysts are expecting growth to slow this year and next. 
A recent Kansas City Federal Reserve survey found that the average US oil price needed for a substantial increase in drilling was $84 a barrel, versus about $74 a barrel today. . 
More on the oil market: Trump’s pressure on Opec to lower prices could lead to the world’s biggest oil producer Saudi Aramco , rather than US producers.
Lex on oil: Our flagship investment column has further analysis on why a shale boom is . (Premium)
Here’s what else we’re keeping tabs on today and over the weekend:
Economic data: S&P publishes its global flash purchasing managers' index, including readings for the US, and the University of Michigan releases its latest consumer sentiment survey.
Results: American Express and Verizon Communications report earnings.
Davos: The World Economic Forum’s annual meeting closes today with a panel featuring BlackRock chief Larry Fink and IMF director Kristalina Georgieva. Follow the FT’s .
Elections: Greece holds presidential elections tomorrow, while a poll in Belarus on Sunday is expected to  on the country.
Middle East: Hamas is expected to release more hostages from Gaza tomorrow in exchange for Palestinian prisoners and detainees who are held by Israel.
Claer Barrett, writer of the Sort Your Financial Life Out newsletter series, discusses how to invest for success in 2025 at 12.30pm GMT today. .
Five more top stories
1. OpenAI’s board is locked in complex negotiations to become a for-profit company. It is struggling, however, to determine the price of Microsoft’s stake in the ChatGPT maker while holding talks that would see the company split in two — a newly formed charitable arm and a public benefit corporation. .
Stargate: The high-profile AI project unveiled this week by Donald Trump will , people familiar with the matter told the Financial Times.
2. The dollar fell to a one-month low today after Donald Trump increased the pressure on Federal Reserve chair Jay Powell to lower interest rates, and suggested a softer stance on tariffs against China. Trump said he knew rates “much better” than the Fed, and he would like to see them come down “a lot”. He also said he would “rather not” hit China with tariffs. .
More on interest rates: The Bank of Japan has raised short-term interest rates to “around 0.5 per cent”, .
Singapore: The city-state’s central bank has eased monetary policy for the first time in four years, citing “ ”.
3. Tuscan bank Monte dei Paschi di Siena has launched a €13.3bn takeover offer for rival Mediobanca in a move that would shake up Italy’s banking sector. The MPS offer comes at a time when a series of mergers and acquisitions are already . 
UniCredit and Commerzbank: The FT has  on the Italian lender’s bid for the German bank, including a meeting between the banks’ chief executives in November.
4. The Sackler family and the opioid maker it founded, Purdue Pharma, have together agreed to pay $7.4bn to settle liabilities over their roles in the opioid crisis. The settlement, which still needs bankruptcy court approval, was agreed with more than a dozen US states and other individuals who had filed lawsuits against the company. Here are  of what was agreed.
5. A mansion located in London’s Regent’s Park and formerly owned by Saudi royals has sold for £139mn to a mystery buyer in one of the UK capital’s largest ever property sales. The Holme, which sits in a four-acre private garden, was previously bought on behalf of Prince Khaled bin Sultan al-Saud of Saudi Arabia and his family in 1991. .
How well did you keep up with the news this week? .
Today’s big read
More than $200bn has been poured into agricultural technology globally in the past decade, funding attempts to grow crops, rear animals and create food more efficiently and sustainably. Australia, a country on the frontline of climate change, has become an ag-tech hotbed, trialling .
We’re also reading . . . 
Technology: Elon Musk already refers to himself as the techno-king of Tesla. But it could be Donald Trump who emerges as the techno-king of America. Yet three things could , says John Thornhill.
Panama Canal: Panamanians who lived through the 1989 US invasion  over Chinese interests in the strategic waterway.
Trump ‘resistance’? Disorganised and dispirited, those opposed to his policies have grown .
Transatlantic Gen Z gap: While millennials across the west were united in their economic malaise, , writes John Burn-Murdoch.
Chart of the day
A record-breaking run has propelled US equities to their  relative to government bonds in a generation and pushed price-to-earnings valuations ahead of stocks in other regions. “There are quite a few red flags here that should make us a bit cautious,” said one analyst. 
Take a break from the news . . . 
The FT’s annual stock picking contest pits the expertise of FT writers, including specialists on the equities market, against readers, who often bring experience of the investment industry to their choices. This year’s winner placed his bets .

Load-Date: January 24, 2025


End of Document
