




 
FT.com
February 17, 2025 Monday


Copyright 2025 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.


Length: 1092 words
Byline: Gordon Smith, Camille De Guzman and Benjamin Wilhelm
Body


Good morning and welcome back to FirstFT Americas. I hope you had a relaxing weekend. Here’s what we’ve got for you this morning: 
Ukraine peace talks to begin in Saudi Arabia
China’s leader meets tech entrepreneurs
Hollywood navigates Trump anti-DEI crusade
And the global MBA rankings are released 
US Secretary of State Marco Rubio has landed in Saudi Arabia for talks with his Russian counterpart Sergei Lavrov on the future of Ukraine.
Rubio will be joined by Trump’s national security adviser Mike Waltz and White House Middle East envoy Steve Witkoff for the talks which are due to take place tomorrow. Russia’s sovereign wealth fund chief Kirill Dmitriev will attend the meeting, according to the Reuters news agency.
The talks will lay the groundwork for a face-to-face meeting between Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin in Saudi Arabia. The timing of the Trump-Putin meeting is not yet known, but the speed of the Ukraine talks has shocked leaders in Europe who will hold their own emergency summit in Paris later today. 
The flurry of high-level diplomacy follows a series of announcements from the White House that left leaders in Europe and Ukraine excluded from the peace process and shocked that the future security arrangements for the continent were being discussed without their input. “It’s insane how fast this is moving,” said a western official briefed on today’s talks. .
Ukraine: President Volodymyr Zelenskyy  of the rights to Ukraine’s rare earth minerals and is trying to negotiate a better deal.
European defence industry: Shares in Europe’s biggest defence equipment manufacturers  as investors bet governments will have to spend more on their militaries. 
Here’s what else we’re keeping tabs on today:
DOGE: A federal judge has scheduled a rare holiday hearing in a case that seeks to protect major government agencies from Elon Musk’s so-called Department of Government Efficiency.
Monetary policy: Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia president Patrick Harker and Federal Reserve board governor Michelle Bowman will give remarks at separate events.
Israel-Hamas conflict: Today marks the 500th day since Hamas launched an attack on Israel on October 7 2023, amid concerns over .
President’s Day: Markets in the US will be closed today for the public holiday. 
Five more top stories
1. Xi Jinping addressed some of China’s top tech entrepreneurs today in Beijing, including Alibaba’s Jack Ma and Huawei founder Ren Zhengfei, as the government looks to reinvigorate private business and drive stronger economic growth. State media said Xi gave an “important speech” at the event. Here’s more on Ma’s reappearance .
2. Japan’s GDP expanded at an annualised rate of 2.8 per cent in the October to December 2024 period, significantly exceeding consensus analyst estimates and marking the third straight quarter of expansion. The yen strengthened 0.3 per cent to ¥151.8 per US dollar following the data’s release. Most economists now expect the Bank of Japan to raise interest rates at least once this year. Here’s more on the health of .
More business news from Japan: Bain Capital has abandoned its $4bn pursuit of Japan’s Fuji Soft,  in one of the most bruising battles in global private equity.
3. Mainstream politicians turned their fire on the co-leader of Germany’s far-right Alternative for Germany party in a heated two-hour television debate ahead of Sunday’s general election. Alice Weidel, who met JD Vance on the sidelines of the Munich security conference at the weekend, praised Donald Trump as the “right man” to end the war in Ukraine and urged her country to remain a “neutral mediator”. Here’s more on  as Germany enters the final week of campaigning. 
More on Germany: The country  after the US scolded its staunchest European ally at the weekend. 
4. JPMorgan Chase has dealt a blow to regulators’ efforts to understand the depth of ties between banks, buyout firms and the fast-growing private credit sector by declining to disclose its lending in an area of increasing systemic concern. Bank of America, Citigroup, Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and Wells Fargo all supplied breakdowns of their transactions, but the US’s largest bank .
More on JPMorgan: The bank’s connections to Charlie Javice, founder of student finance company Frank,  this week as her fraud trial gets under way.
5. Gold has become the best performing “Trump trade” in recent weeks, outperforming other major asset classes since the US president’s inauguration, as fears of a trade war and a potential hit to global growth fuel demand for the haven metal. “When trade contracts, gold takes off,” said one analyst. 
Magnificent Seven: Wall Street’s top performing stocks in recent years  as concerns grow about their elevated valuations. 
More on gold: For 4,000 years humans have been  when it comes to bullion.
The Big Read 
After more than a decade of political purges and centralisation of power, China’s most powerful leader since Mao faces no direct challenge to his authority. As he enters the midpoint of his third five-year term in power, China’s unspoken question is becoming more urgent: 
We’re also reading . . . 
Hollywood and DEI: In film studios, music labels and talent agencies, executives are discussing  a creative, diverse workforce. 
Gen Z: Younger workers are turning against taking management roles — and see them as .
Global trade: World business and commerce are changing in ways that have , writes Rana Foroohar.
Graphic of the day
The world’s skies are becoming crowded, as rockets, drones, and “flying taxis” in the near future begin to use airspace, causing headaches for airlines. Aviation experts believe  will need to change.
Take a break from the news . . . 
Wharton and Columbia topped the 2025 FT Global MBA Ranking but there was a strong presence from European schools at the end of a year that saw applications for rise globally. Here’s  and Andrew Jack, global education editor, explaining . 

Load-Date: February 17, 2025


End of Document
