




 
FT.com
February 24, 2025 Monday


Copyright 2025 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.


Length: 1059 words
Byline: David Hindley, Tee Zhuo and Benjamin Wilhelm
Body


Good morning, welcome to the Monday edition of FirstFT Americas. Today we will be looking at: 
The pledge by the winner of Germany’s election, Friedrich Merz, to step back from the US 
Why FTI Consulting is bracing for a wave of staff defections 
Apple faces a revolt of conservative investors over its DEI policies
The state of Ukraine on the third anniversary of Russia’s invasion 
Germany’s centre-right Christian Democrats have won the country’s federal elections. The bloc’s leader Friedrich Merz vowed to “achieve independence” from the US within hours of the polls closing. 
Germany’s far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) came second, doubling its vote to its highest-ever share of about 21 per cent.
Merz will need at least one coalition partner to form a government, with outgoing Chancellor Olaf Scholz’s Social Democratic party (SPD) being the most likely, albeit with a slim parliamentary majority. 
Within hours of polls closing, Merz declared that Germany had to fundamentally remake its security arrangements and end a decades-long reliance on Washington, saying US President Donald Trump was “largely indifferent” to Europe’s fate.
The Trump administration has openly courted the AfD and criticised Germany’s mainstream politicians for refusing to co-operate with a party that has flirted with Nazi-era slogans, urged an end to sanctions on Russia and called for mass deportations of migrants.
Trump earlier on Sunday described the election result as proof that “the people of Germany got tired of the no common sense agenda, especially on energy and immigration, that has prevailed for so many years”.
Kaja Kallas, the EU’s chief diplomat, on Monday told reporters she hoped Merz was able to form a government “as fast as possible, as we really need to move on with decisions at the European level, which requires German participation”. .
Instant Insight: Expectations for Merz, Germany’s next chancellor, are already sky-high, writes Europe editor Ben Hall, but . 
Here’s what else we are keeping tabs on today:
Ukraine war: A virtual G7 meeting will be held to mark the third year of Russia’s full-scale invasion, while EU foreign ministers meet in Brussels to discuss the conflict. The UK will announce new measures to  from entering Britain, and launch new sanctions against Moscow.
Trump versus AP: lawyers for the Associated Press are due in court following Trump’s decision to ban AP journalists from the Oval Office and Air Force One for continuing to refer to Gulf of Mexico in its coverage.
Macron visits the White House: Trump hosts the , who is hoping to persuade him to continue US support for Ukraine. 
Five more top stories
1. Volodymyr Zelenskyy has offered to step down in exchange for lasting peace andNato membershipfor Ukraine. His startling offer, while improbable given the dim prospects for Kyiv’s accession to the military alliance, is a sign of extreme pressure on the Ukrainian leader as the US hurries to hatch a peace deal with Moscow. 
Opinion: Now is the time for Europe to really , writes Lars Løkke Rasmussen, Denmark’s foreign minister.
Related: The US has signalled it will  in Poland despite emerging tensions over Ukraine.
2. FTI Consulting is bracing for a wave of staff defections as one of its former rainmakers Jonathan Orszag launches a rival firm. FTI, which is one of America’s largest publicly traded advisory groups, said in its financial results last week that it expected a weaker-than-expected profit forecast due to poaching by Orszag. . 
3. Apple’s diversity policies and partnership with OpenAI will come under fire from conservative organisations at its annual meeting, with investors set to vote tomorrow on two shareholder proposals. While the two motions — opposed by Apple — are unlikely to pass, .
4. Democrats are demanding that Trump’s nominee for top economic adviser commit to the independence of the Federal Reserve. Stephen Miran is due to have his confirmation hearing on Thursday. He has previously called for the independence of the central bank to be narrowed. . 
5. Tens of thousands of displaced Palestinians will not be allowed to return to their homesin the occupied West Bank, Israel’s defence minister said, as the country’s military expands its operations. Separately, the Israel-Hamas ceasefire has been thrown into doubt after Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu delayed the release of more than 600 Palestinian prisoners. .
Hassan Nasrallah’s funeral: The veteran Hizbollah leader, who was killed in an Israeli air strike five months ago, was buried yesterday after a ceremony in Beirut attended by .
News in-depth
Three years after Russia’s full-scale invasion, Ukraine’s war effort has badly stalled. Trump is pressing for a deal with Russia — while sidelining Kyiv and disparaging Zelenskyy. Now, with the country’s future hanging in the balance, the Ukrainian leader is facing his biggest fear: .
We’re also reading . . . 
Syria: Today’s Big Read looks at how the country’s new rulers meet the challenge of forging a national security apparatus from . 
Doge vs business: The prospect of deregulation is appealing, but CEOs may come to regret their  with Trump and Elon Musk, writes Rana Foroohar.
UBS: The bank now finds itself confronted by the prospect of  in Switzerland than its global rivals, writes Patrick Jenkins. 
Is China investable? , writes Ruchir Sharma — at the right price and for those with eyes wide open.
Chart of the day
Warren Buffett has sought to reassure Berkshire Hathaway shareholders that he still wants to own businesses, despite the group’s cash pile  after it dumped stocks and failed to make any big acquisitions. 
Take a break from the news . . . 
Our latest Life of a Song column explores  by George Harrison. The 1969 piece lit up The Beatles’ Abbey Road album and spawned hundreds of covers, including versions by Richie Havens and Nina Simone. 

Load-Date: February 24, 2025


End of Document
