




States News Service
February 28, 2025 Friday


Copyright 2025 States News Service
Length: 774 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: ARLINGTON, VA 
Body


The following information was released by the Feminist Majority Foundation (FMF):
Marisa Conners | February 28, 2025
Since the presidential election on November 6, 2024, many have felt uncertainty and concern about the policy changes implemented by the new administration. Issues such as immigration, reproductive rights, and gender equality have faced new challenges, making it easy to feel overwhelmed. However, staying engaged and motivated is essential for advocating for a better future. On that note, here are five hopeful things that have happened over the past month!
1. The freeze on federal funding for DEI programs was blocked
As of Friday, Feb. 21, a federal judge blocked the enforcement of President Trump's executive order that aimed to end federal funding for diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) programs. The judge agreed with the plaintiffs that the Inauguration Day executive order likely violates the Constitution, particularly regarding the First Amendment's free speech rights. The temporary court order will remain in place until the case, brought by the city of Baltimore and various other groups, has concluded.
2. Proud Boys lose their trademark to the Metropolitan African Methodist Episcopal Church
On Feb. 3, 2025, a D.C. judge ruled to remove control of the far-right extremist group Proud Boys' trademark and ban them from selling merchandise with its name or symbols. To profit from either of these trademarked items, the Proud Boys International LLC must receive permission from the Metropolitan African Methodist Episcopal (AME) Church. This ruling came after the Proud Boys failed to pay the $2.8 million owed to the Metropolitan AME Church in restitution for the physical damage caused by former Proud Boys leader Enrique Tarrio and others in late 2020. Now, the church is entitled to the profits of any Proud Boys merchandise.
3. People like you are raising their voices
Before the inauguration, thousands of people gathered in D.C. and across the country for the People's March, a new version of the 2017 Women's March aimed at bringing together advocates on a wider range of issues. Additionally, thanks to the 50501 Movement, people have come out to protest nationwide twice in February, with a third demonstration planned for March. The movement is dedicated to many causes, such as "immigrant rights, government accountability and opposition to Project 2025," and it calls for 50 protests in 50 states on 1 day in partnership with the political action committee, Political Revolution.
The movement supports upholding the Constitution, restoring DEI and protecting civil liberties. Thousands of people protested nationwide on Feb. 5 in the movement's first demonstration and braved inclement weather on Feb. 17 for a twist on President's Day dubbed "No Kings Day" and "Not My President's Day." The upcoming March 4 demonstrations offer in-person and virtual options across all 50 states and virtual protest calls for D.C.
4. Increasing pressure on elected officials
Americans nationwide are using the power of constituent phone calls and town halls to push their members of Congress to stand up to Elon Musk's Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE), block President Trump's cabinet nominees and resume federal funding to key areas.
As of Feb. 7, Congressional phone lines were experiencing a heavy call load of 1,600 calls per minute. This is 40 times higher than the usual volume! Additionally, Senator Bernie Sanders (I-V.T.) has begun a nationwide anti-oligarchy tour to speak with Republican-led swing districts and focus on issues that are important to working-class people. He aims to mobilize the American people against authoritarianism, kleptocracy and cuts to social services while encouraging Republican House members to oppose their party's proposed tax cuts.
Similarly, the National Organization for Women (NOW)'s new campaign, Disrupt NOW, will host nonpartisan town halls across the nation to educate the public and hear about what issues matter most to people.
5. Registrations are beginning to roll in for NYFLC
Students are registering for the Feminist Majority Foundation's annual National Young Feminist Leadership Conference! The conference brings together hundreds of student activists to build collective power, grow knowledge about critical domestic and global feminist issues, and learn hands-on grassroots organizing tactics. Every day, the threats to our basic human rights intensify. Now more than ever, it is important for us to connect and strategize with other feminist activists and strengthen our community. The event will last three days, from Saturday, March 29 to Monday, March 31.

Load-Date: March 1, 2025


End of Document
