




Forbes.com
February 20, 2025 Thursday


Copyright 2025 Forbes LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 690 words
Byline: Conor Murray, Forbes Staff
Highlight: The lawsuit alleges Target defrauded investors by concealing the risks of its Pride merchandise line, which sparked conservative boycotts in 2023.
Body


Topline
The state of Florida filed a lawsuit against Target on Thursday, alleging the company defrauded investors by failing to disclose the financial risks of its LGBTQ Pride merchandise line, which sparked conservative boycotts two years ago, the latest instance of a Republican-led state taking legal action over a company s diversity, equity and inclusion efforts.
<figure>
<figcaption>
Target previously faced conservative boycotts over its 2023 Pride Month line. (Photo by Scott Olson/Getty Images)
Getty Images
</figcaption></figure>
Key Facts
The State Board of Administration of Florida, the agency that manages the state s public pension funds and is chaired by Republican Gov. Ron DeSantis, filed the suit in Florida federal court Thursday alongside the conservative America First Legal Foundation.
The suit accuses Target of misleading investors about the risks of its 2023 Pride merchandise line, which it framed as a contributing factor to the brand ssales fallingfor the first time in seven years.
Target executives acknowledged on anearnings callin August 2023 the  strong reaction  to its Pride line was a  signal for us to pause, adapt and learn,  though analysts told theWashington Postinflation was also to blame for the retailer s sales falling.
The suit blasted Target s Pride line as  exceptionally offensive  and  extreme,  citing items including a tuck-friendly swimsuit for transgender women which attracted controversy in 2023 as some critics falsely claimed the swimsuit was sold in children s sizes and apparel made by the British brand Abprallen, which has used Satanic imagery in designs, but not in its merchandise sold at Target.
The lawsuit makes similar claims toanother suitfiled earlier this month by Florida s City of Riviera Beach Police Pension Fund, which similarly accused Target in federal court of defrauding investors about its Pride merchandise.
The lawsuits come weeks after Target previously known for its support for Pride and efforts to sell merchandise from diverse suppliers walked backits DEI goals, which included efforts to hire and promote people of color and women.
What Other States Have Targeted Companies Over Dei?
The state ofMissouri sued Starbuckslast week, with the state s Republican Attorney General Andrew Bailey alleging the company s DEI policies which included a push to hire and promote people of color and women violated anti-discrimination laws. Starbucks, in response, reportedly denied Bailey s allegations and said its hiring practices were  designed to ensure the strongest candidate for every job every time.  A coalition of 19 Republican-led states also sent aletter to Costco, which has refused to back down from its DEI policies, on Jan. 27 demanding the company either roll back its programs or explain why it has not done so within 30 days. The letter cited both Trump sexecutive orderdirecting companies to back down from DEI, as well as the Students for Fair Admissions v. Harvard Supreme Court decision that ended affirmative action at universities. Costco s shareholdersrejected a proposal, nearly unanimously, in January that would have required the retailer to evaluate the risks of its DEI policies.
What Companies Are Rolling Back Dei?
Many companieshave scaled back their diversity programs in light of Trump s election victory and his executive orders attacking DEI in the federal government and at private companies. Before Trump s inauguration, Walmart, McDonald s, Meta and Amazon all said they would take various steps to roll back their DEI programs.Meta saidits policy changes which included ending DEI trainings and programs intended to hire more diverse employees were made in response to the changing  legal and policy landscape  surrounding DEI. Other companies have walked back their DEI commitments since Trump took office, includingGoldman Sachs, which dropped a requirement that companies it takes public must have at least two diverse members of their boards, andDeloitte, which told employees to remove pronouns from their email signatures.
Further Reading
Pepsi Rolling Back Diversity Initiatives Here Are All The Companies Cutting DEI Programs(Forbes)

Load-Date: February 21, 2025


End of Document
