




The Bi-College News: Haverford College/Bryn Mawr College
February 3, 2025 Monday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 617 words
Body


In light of President Donald Trump's recent executive orders producing uncertainty surrounding research funding, immigration status, and workplace diversity, equity, and inclusion , Haverford College released a campus-wide email reiterating their "unwavering commitment to developing and nurturing a diverse, inclusive community". Signed by Haverford College President Wendy Raymond, Provost and Professor of African and Africana Studies and Gender and Sexuality Studies Linda Strong-Leek, Vice President and Dean of the College John McKnight, and Vice President for Institutional Equity and Access Nikki Young, the email reassured students, faculty and staff that they "belong here and [that] we support you". 
Individual privacy, specifically regarding international students and their immigration status was a particular concern of the College in light of the executive orders, with the email stating that "the College will continue to take all necessary measures to vigilantly protect personal information from unlawful or unauthorized intrusion" and that "Law enforcement officials seeking to come on campus are expected to work through the Campus Safety office and present a subpoena or warrant".
In regards to international student concerns about the ability to travel to and from Haverford, the College urged students to contact, director of the international student support office Natasha Weiss, associate director of the Chesick Launch Program Leslie Castrejon, or director of study abroad Rebecca Avery with any concerns. There was also a Friday Learning Session for faculty and staff on Supporting Undocumented and International Students Amid Immigration Changes on Friday, Jan. 31. The College also reaffirmed their financial aid policy, stating that "Haverford meets 100% of demonstrated financial need for all current and admitted students, regardless of citizenship status. This commitment will not change.".
The College also acknowledged concerns surrounding gender identity following President Trump's executive order recognizing "only two sexes, male and female". The email stated that "there are no regulations prohibiting the College from continuing to recognize an individual's preferred pronouns or affirming their gender identity." and that the College "remain[s] committed to upholding each person's sense of self, identity, and expression". The email also affirmed that the all-gender restrooms in academic and administrative buildings will continue to be accessible for all members of the campus community.
Regarding DEI, the College stated that they were "committed to cultivating a culture of connection and engagement that promotes equitable, inclusive, and accessible experiences of those who live, learn, work, and teach". Despite President Trump's executive order encouraging private institutions to roll back DEI programs, the College assured the community that they would retain their program, stating that "This work toward equity and access is the shared and collective responsibility of staff, faculty, and students, and is supported and guided by all levels of College leadership.".
The email also included a list of resources available for use by the Haverford College community in response to the executive orders. These included the Office of International Student Support, the Undocu+ student resources webpage, the Center for Gender Resources and Sexuality Equity , Counseling & Psychological Services, the Employee Assistance Program for faculty and staff, Campus Safety, and the Liftfar Emergency Fund to help with unanticipated expenditures.
To close out the email, the College offered some words of support: "Whatever the future holds, we will face it together."

Load-Date: February 3, 2025


End of Document
