




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 28, 2025 Friday 12:20 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 345 words
Byline: Linh Ta
Body


February 28th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
BLK & Bold co-owner Pernell Cezar is "disappointed" in Target's decision last month to 
Driving the news: Companies like   
State of play: Based in Des Moines, BLK & Bold launched in 2018 and 
The coffee company grew quickly thanks to its national distribution in major retailers like Target, which Cezar says worked to diversify its store suppliers long before 2020 and the Black Lives Matter movement. BLK & Bold first got on the store's shelves in January 2020.
Zoom in: Now, he says the pullback from these DEI initiatives is hurting the pipeline for small, diverse business owners who already struggle with the capital needed to grow their companies.
Cezar, who worked for Target in retail merchandising, helped create a curriculum for the company's " 
The program helped early-stage Black business owners learn how to get their products on the shelves of major retailers. Cezar, who left Target after starting his company, doesn't know where it stands now.
What they're saying: Target did not respond to our request for comment, but its website notes that the program is " 
Yes, but: While some leaders in the 
What's next: Cezar says they want to respond to what consumers are demanding, whether that's exploring working with additional retailers or even opening their own local coffee shop.


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 28, 2025


End of Document
