




Collegiate: Grand Rapids Community College
February 21, 2025 Friday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: EDITORIAL OPINION FEATURED NEWS GRCC; Pg. 1
Length: 537 words
Byline: Vanessa Hewitt 0
Body


GRCC sign outside of the Calkins Science Center (Vanessa Hewitt/The Collegiate)
By The Collegiate Staff
One week remains before Grand Rapids Community College and schools nationwide are forced to make a pivotal decision: end diversity, equity and inclusion efforts on campus or lose federal funding. This sleight of hand is President Donald Trump's most recent attack in a long-fought war to end DEI. 
To end DEI efforts in schools would take away from what is arguably the most important part of the student experience: learning from others. 
Diversity efforts on campus allow students from all walks of life to further their educational experience, share their life experiences and help everyone be better equipped to enter the workforce after college. Equity ensures that all students have the same opportunities to succeed in school, whether that be making sure that all students in K-12 have a hot lunch, or allowing accommodations for those who struggle with a learning disability. Inclusion gives everyone a seat in the classroom. 
Why would we do away with that? 
GRCC is home to student-led organizations like the Black Africana Student Union, StandOut, International Language Club and more. All of these are meant to share cultures and provide a space where students can learn more about one another. 
These organizations do this by hosting events where students can not only learn about their culture but also come together and enjoy each other's company. An example is BASU's "Food 4 Da soul," which provided students with free food, and a short presentation on the history and meaning behind soul food. 
While it is not confirmed these organizations will cease to exist, the thought of erasing a positive opportunity available to all students lacks basic integrity. 
Some classes on the class catalog may also be at risk of being cut. Those centered around race or gender like 'Race and Ethnicity,' as well as 'African-American History and Culture' and 'Gender Studies'. 
Critics of DEI believe that these efforts only serve minority students and take opportunities away from those who don't check specific boxes, but that is simply not true. Equality does not come by taking away chances from others, but instead, equality is achieved by elevating those who have been historically disadvantaged. 
This is especially important in educational spaces. Education opens doors to prosperous careers and lifelong connections. Taking educational opportunities away from some results in a dangerous domino effect, potentially resulting in fewer doctors, lawyers and social workers with diverse backgrounds. DEI is not just for the betterment of minority groups in school, but instead helps us thrive as a society. 
Of all the problems plaguing education in America, such as safety in schools and widespread shortages of teachers, to focus efforts on eliminating DEI is gross misdirection. Ending DEI will not make any student safer, or any parent less fearful of sending their child to school. 
GRCC has stated that it remains committed to fostering an inclusive learning environment, and The Collegiate urges the college to uphold those values against a barrage of political pressure. 
DEI is not just for some, it is for everyone. 

Load-Date: February 21, 2025


End of Document
