




Forbes.com
January 30, 2025 Thursday


Copyright 2025 Forbes LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1728 words
Byline: Danielle Chemtob, Forbes Staff
Highlight: Thursday's Forbes Daily covers interest rates, DC plane crash, private prisons and ICE, Tesla profit declines, OpenAI accuses DeepSeek, Alex Jones and more.
Body


This is a published version of the Forbes Daily newsletter, you can sign-up to get Forbes Daily in your inbox here.
Good morning,
Potential homebuyers, investors and others have towait a little longer for additional relief, as the Federal Reservekept interest rates the same Wednesday.
The policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee held the target federal funds rate at 4.25% to 4.5%, breaking a streak of recent rate cuts. The committee noted that  inflation remains somewhat elevated  a shift from its prior statements that inflation was making  progress  toward the 2% target.
While the move was widely anticipated, the Fed has butted heads recently with President Donald Trump. After the decision,Trump blasted Federal Reserve chairmanJerome Powell on Truth Social and claimed it was too focused on DEI, among other issues, to stop inflation.
FIRST UP
<figure>
<figcaption>
Rescue boats search the waters of the Potomac River on Thursday morning.
Photo by ANDREW CABALLERO-REYNOLDS/AFP via Getty Image
</figcaption></figure>
A passengerplane collided with an Army helicopterwhile attempting to land at Ronald Reagan National Airport near Washington, D.C. and fell into the Potomac River late Wednesday, local authorities confirmed. The plane which the FAA said was a Bombardier CRJ700 jet operated by a regional carrier for American Airlines originated from Wichita, Kansas and was carrying 60 passengers and four crew, the airline said. Washington, D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser said the helicopter was carrying three people. CNN reported Thursday morning that multiple fatalities have been confirmed and that no survivors have yet been found.
As the Trump Administration ramps up what it claims will be the largest mass deportation effort in U.S. history,private prison companies like Geo Group and CoreCivicseem poised for a significant boost, as roughly 90% of ICE detainees are held at private institutions, DHS data shows. But areview of over 20 lawsuits filedagainst the two companies in the last year found repeated allegations of mismanagement, understaffing and dangerous conditions at their facilities.
BUSINESS + FINANCE
<figure>
<figcaption>
Michael Saylor
jamel toppin for forbes
</figcaption></figure>
Billionaire Michael Saylor s publicly traded MicroStrategy is now the largest holder of bitcoinoutside of the elusive Satoshi Nakamoto, the cryptocurrency s anonymous creator. MicroStrategy s eye-popping gains 700% in the last year have stirred up a swarm of critics and short sellers unable to fathom how a tiny software company holding only $48 billion in actual bitcoincould have a market capitalization of $84 billion. But a closer look reveals a masterwork that s a blueprint for manipulating traditional finance to harness the pixie dust fueling cryptomania.
Teslasaw its profits decline for the second consecutive year, according to its fourth-quarter earnings report, though the company said it expects its core vehicle business to  return to growth  in 2025. It san unprecedented time for the EV maker, whose CEO Elon Musk is shaping the Trump Administration while Tesla pursues the potential trillion-dollar opportunity of fully autonomous driving.
Nvidia sstock closed down 4% Wednesdayamid a turbulent week for the AI juggernaut following the release of a less capital-intensive artificial intelligence model from China s DeepSeek. President Donald Trump isconsidering placing more restrictions on Nvidia ssemiconductor chip sales to China to limit the country s AI advancement, Bloomberg reported.
TECH + INNOVATION
<figure>
<figcaption>
NurPhoto via Getty Images
</figcaption></figure>
OpenAIbelieves outputs from its AI modelsmay have been used by Chinese startup DeepSeek to train its new open-source model that shook U.S. financial markets on Monday, according to the Financial Times. The ChatGPT maker told the publication it had seen evidence that suggests DeepSeek may have tapped into its data through  distillation  a technique where outputs from a larger and more advanced AI model are used to train and improve a smaller model.
Facebook parent companyMeta will pay $25 million to settle a lawsuitfrom President Donald Trump, ending the dispute triggeredwhen the president was suspended from Meta platformsfollowing the January 6 Capitol attack. About $22 million of the settlement figure is slated to go toward Trump s presidential library, as Meta continues to ease tensions with the president.
Since Elon Musk reactivated the X accounts offar-right pundit and conspiracy theorist Alex Jones, and his misinformation-addled website Infowars,Jones has thrived on the social media platform. Jones  following on X has more than doubled, from about 1.8 million to over 3.9 million in that time, and he s also become a major booster of Musk.
MONEY + POLITICS 
<figure>
<figcaption>
Former Sen. Bob Menendez (D-NJ) departs Manhattan Federal Court after his sentencing on Wednesday in New York City.
Photo by Michael M. Santiago/Getty Images
</figcaption></figure>
Former Senator Bob Menendez (D-N.J.) wassentenced to 11 years in prison Wednesday,after being convicted of crimes including bribery and corruption. Menendez has continued to deny any wrongdoing, but federal prosecutors argued his  conduct may be the most serious for which a U.S. Senator has been convicted in the history of the Republic. 
President Donald Trump signed an executive order Wednesday thatcould revoke federal funding for K-12 schoolsthat teach  radical gender ideology and critical race theory,  whichcould slash funding for tens of thousands of school districts across the country. About 8% to 10% of funding for K-12 schools nationwide comes from the federal government, Chalkbeat reported, though it s unclear how the Trump Administration would enforce the order since federal law prohibits the federal government from dictating what schools can teach.
TRAVEL + LIFESTYLE
TSAnow accepts digital IDs from 14 states, after announcing it will allow Virginia-issued mobile driver s licenses at security checkpoints with digital ID readers. TSA-approved digital IDs are most often availablethrough a state-issued app or platforms like Apple or Google Wallet, but the agency still recommends carrying your physical driver s license or photo ID.
DAILY COVER STORY
How To Hire A Navy Seal To Run Your Small Business
<figure>
<figcaption>
Illustration by Philip Smith for Forbes
</figcaption></figure>
TOPLINEChristian Ruf, a former special forces helicopter pilot, is looking for a few good veterans of the military s elite special operations units to help run a roofing company, an HVAC business, a forklift division, a landscaping operation and a couple of manufacturing plants. No college degree required.
Transitioningfrom the military to civilian jobs isn t always easy, particularly for veterans looking to break into white-collar roles outside the defense industry. Veterans may have years of leadership experience and training, but no college degree. Combat veterans face even steeper challenges since their skills don t always transfer readily to the civilian sector. Moreover, despite generally positive views about veterans, employers may worry about the potential that they suffer from post-traumatic stress disorder (though it s illegal for an employer to discriminate against someone with PTSD).
A new U.S. Census Bureau analysis of the civilian careers of veterans discharged from 2000 to 2021 finds that across all military branches,combat veterans have lower civilian earnings and employment rates than those who had more specialized technical training.
Ruf left the Army in April 2021, and in mid-2022, he turned full time to running his own coaching business, Uncommon Elite, in Hilton Head, South Carolina.
Ruf doesn t claim to be a management guru or life coach. But he believes his experience managing 12 aircraft and 70 soldiers in the 160th Special Operations Aviation Regiment means he knows something abouthow to think through consequences and contingencies, build systems to manage them, and hold people operating in them accountable. He currently has 30 clients individuals, businesses and organizations with some paying as much as $3,000 to $4,000 a month for leadership training.
WHY IT MATTERS  Small business owners need leaders, but they struggle to find people who can take charge without hand-holding,  saysForbes reporter Brandon Kochkodin.  Military veterans, especially from special operations, have exactly those leadership skills years of high-stakes decision-making, team-building and problem-solving. 
 What they don t always have is the network or the sales experience to convince employers to hire them. Christian Ruf is solving both problems at once. He s pulling from his old special forces community to place veterans in leadership roles where they can thrive, while giving business owners the self-sufficient operators they ve been looking for. 
MORE Why Is Small Business Administration Lending Suddenly Surging?
FACTS + COMMENTS
PresidentDonald Trump has made buyout offers to roughly two-thirdsof the federal workforce inan effort to shrink the U.S. government and reduce federal spending. It could result in the greatest single job reduction in U.S. history:
2 million:The number of government employees who have received buyout offers, according to a DOGE advisor
60,000: The current all-time record for the largest corporate job cut, which occurred at IBM in 1993
Up to $100 billion: How much the buyouts could save the federal government, according to senior Trump officials
STRATEGY + SUCCESS
The most successfulentrepreneurs don t waste time caring about what others thinkof them. You canmake your own decisions based on what s right for your business, and create opportunities instead of waiting for them. Pick your team carefully, making sure each member shares your values, and don t obsess over competitors stand out by focusing on your vision. Eliminating some of these worries will help you home in on what matters.
VIDEO
https://www.forbes.com/video/46f123a7-49e7-484f-9afd-f2743425235d/
QUIZ
Fresh off DeepSeek s entry into the AI scene, an international tech giant released a rival LLM on Wednesday that is already rumored to outperform even DeepSeek.Which company is behind the release?
A. Temu
B. Alibaba
C. Tencent
D. Infosys
Check your answer.
Thanks for reading! This edition of Forbes Daily was edited by Sarah Whitmire, Chris Dobstaff and Caroline Howard.

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
