




Forbes.com
February 24, 2025 Monday


Copyright 2025 Forbes LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1630 words
Byline: Danielle Chemtob, Forbes Staff
Highlight: Today s Forbes Daily takes a look back at Chainsaw Al, UnitedHealth s massive stock drop, surprise wins at SAG awards, the latest on a deal with Ukraine and more.
Body


At a conservative political conference last week, Elon Musk wielded a chainsaw, a symbol of his efforts to slash the federal bureaucracy.
But at least in the corporate world,chainsaw-wielding executives have an abysmal recordof effectively cutting costs, Forbesexecutive editor Matt Schifrin writes. In 1996, for instance, investors recruited the infamous Albert Dunlap, known as Chainsaw Al, to turn around the beleaguered consumer products company Sunbeam.
As two stories we ve republished from the archives show,Forbeswas skeptical at the time about whether such an approach could work. A few years later, we were the first to uncover that Dunlap, who passed away in 2019, had been cooking the books to prop up sales.
FIRST UP
<figure>
<figcaption>
Protestors hold placards during a demonstration against the policies of President Donald Trump and Elon Musk's DOGE near Musk's SpaceX headquarters in Washington, DC, on February 19, 2025.
JIM WATSON/AFP via Getty Images
</figcaption></figure>
In an X post Saturday, billionaire Elon Musk said all federal employees wouldreceive an email asking them to explain the work they ve doneover the past week, andemployees who fail to respond will be forced to resign. Musk s post came hours after President Donald Trump had praised his work on Truth Social, but added he would  like to see him get more aggressive. 
MORE: High-ranking officials at multiple agencies havedirected employees to not respond to Musk s email, including the FBI, and the Departments of State, Defense, Justice and Health and Human Services, among others that deal with classified information. The American Federation of Government Employees, the largest union representing federal workers,decried the Musk directive as  plainly unlawful and said it does not believe there s any authority requiring workers to respond to it.
This is a published version of the Forbes Daily newsletter, you can sign-up to get Forbes Daily in your inbox here.
BUSINESS + FINANCE 
TheDow Jones Industrial Average sank 1.7%on Friday, its worst day this year, following a report that the federal government is probingUnitedHealth Group. Shares of theU.S.  largest health insurerplummeted as much as 12.7%, the latest in a turbulent stretch on Wall Street as its business practices come under scrutiny.
MORE: Luigi Mangione, the 26-year-old charged in thefatal shooting of UnitedHealthcare CEOBrian Thompson,appeared at a Manhattan courthouse Fridayfor a brief hearing. Mangione has pleaded not guilty to 11 state charges in New York, including one count of first-degree murder in furtherance of an act of terrorism, two counts of second-degree murder, seven weapons possession-related charges, as well as one charge for possession of forged identification.
TheSEC has agreed to drop its lawsuit against Coinbase, following what the crypto exchange said was a change in  political leadership  at the agency.The SEC sued Coinbase, the largest crypto firm in the U.S., in 2023, accusing it of failing to register as a securities exchange, one of several crypto firms targeted under the Biden Administration.
TECH + INNOVATION
TikTok returned this month to Apple s App Store and Google s Play Store,after the two tech giants received lettersfrom U.S. Attorney General Pam Bondi assuring the companies the Department of Justice would not enforce a ban passed by Congress. But it took two attempts,after Apple and Google were unable to comply with an earlier DOJ letter, Forbeshas learned, fearing enormous fines under the ban despite President Donald Trump delaying its enforcement.
MONEY + POLITICS
A federal judgeblocked parts of President Donald Trump s executive orders targeting DEIon Friday, arguing his orders directing government grant recipients to halt DEI programsare too vague to be enforced or infringe on free speech. U.S. District Judge Adam Abelson granted a preliminary injunction requested by the city of Baltimore and higher education groups who sued the Trump Administration, arguing his executive orders targeting DEI were made to  chill  free speech.
SPORTS + ENTERTAINMENT
<figure>
<figcaption>
Timothée Chalamet at the 31st Screen Actors Guild Awards held at Shrine Auditorium and Expo Hall on February 23, 2025 in Los Angeles.
Michael Buckner/Variety via Getty Images
</figcaption></figure>
Timothée Chalametwon the best actor prize at the Screen Actors Guild AwardsSunday, while the political thrillerConclavetook home the best ensemble cast prize, in a set ofsurprise wins that have upended predictions for next week s Academy Awards. Demi Moore took home the best actress award for her leading role inThe Substance, adding to her wins at the Critics Choice Awards and the Golden Globes and making her the firm favorite to win the top prize at the Oscars.
SCIENCE + HEALTHCARE 
A measlesoutbreak in Texas neared 100 casesFriday, and the state s Department of State Health Services warned morecases of the highly contagious virus are likely. The vast majority of sick patients are unvaccinated, or have an unknown vaccination status, the department said. The measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine, which has been available for over half a century, is safe and highly effective, according to the CDC.
WORLD 
President DonaldTrump demanded that Ukraine supply the U.S. with $500 billion in rare mineralsas part ofa repayment deal for the money it has sent Ukraine to finance its war efforts. According to a report from Congress, the U.S. has supplied Ukraine with just over $174 billion in military aid as of January far lower than the $350 billion Trump has falsely claimed.
DAILY COVER STORY
This Fintech s Visa Card Keeps Grandpa From Blowing His Nest Egg
<figure>
<figcaption>
True Link Financial cofounder and CEO Kai Stinchcombe was inspired by his grandmother's credit card charges after she got Alzheimer's.
TRUE LINK FINANCIAL
</figcaption></figure>
TOPLINETrue Link Financial, a 12-year-old San Francisco-based financial technology company,offers a debit card with spending controlsexpressly designed for people with dementia, other cognitive deficits or addiction issues.
After scrambling to survive early on, True Link has been in the black for the past two years, netting $2 million on $30 million in revenue in 2024, says CEO and cofounder Kai Stinchcombe. This month, the firm was named to theForbesFintech 50 listfor 2025.
Over the years,investors have poured $60 million into the startup. In its last fundraise in January 2022, during the height of the fintech boom True Link raised $12 million at a $144 million valuation. Since then, its revenue has doubled, Stinchcombe says. He and cofounder Claire McDonnell still own about 30% of the company,Forbesestimates.
The 100-employee operation reached this point with just two tightly related core products: It currentlyoversees more than 150,000 individual debit cardsfor users with cognitive disabilities and for those recovering from (or in the throes of) addiction. True Link charges a $12-a-month fee for an individual stand-alone True Link Visa Prepaid Card, with the card bringing in about two-thirds of its revenue.
The other third comes from True Link s growing business as an SEC-registered investment advisor, managing nearly $1.5 billion in individual and pooled  special needs  trusts. True Link charges 1% of assets to manage trusts, but what it s really selling here is knowledge of what can and can t be done with special needs trusts, plus a handy way to supervise and document how the money is spent through its debit cards.
WHY IT MATTERS  Financial losses are often the first sign of a dementia diagnosis,  saysForbesfellow Lindsey Choo.  As a 2023 study pointed out, the median wealth in households drops by more than half in the years leading up to a dementia diagnosis. After realizing that both of their grandmothers lost money to organizations preying on their memory loss, True Link founders Kai Stinchcombe and Claire McDonnell set out to build a solution for that problem. 
 It s an example of how two entrepreneurs identified an underserved customer base and built a profitable company in that process. 
MORE Special Needs Financial Planning: Smart Advice For Families Coping With Disabilities
FACTS + COMMENTS
Chinese e-commerce giantAlibaba touted its AI ambitions in what was a strong quarterly reportlast week, and saw its stock surge on both the New York and Hong Kong exchanges. Alibaba released its Qwen 2.5-Max model in January,which they say outperforms DeepSeekand some OpenAI models:
333%: Year-over-year increase in Alibaba s net income, thanks to income from operations and changes in the value of its equity investments
Almost $1 billion: Increase in the net worth of cofounder Jack Ma, who is no longer chair, but still partially derives his wealth from a stake in the company
$120 billion: Boost to Alibaba s market cap in the U.S. so far in 2025
STRATEGY + SUCCESS
If you get a tax refund,you overpaid in taxes last year,but there areseveral ways to maximizehow much you get back. First, review your withholding based on changes in income, and identify deductions and tax credits you can claim. It s also key to choose the right filing status for married couples, filing jointly often reduces tax liability, but filing separately can be beneficial for certain situations like when one spouse has high medical expenses.
VIDEO
https://www.forbes.com/video/8e668b99-facb-4ef1-9462-9e15cd3c89f3/
QUIZ
A private California university sued Netflix and Warner Bros. over the new comedy seriesRunning Pointfrom Mindy Kaling, claiming the show  misappropriated  its NCAA basketball team.Which schoolis it?
A. Stanford University
B. Pepperdine University
C. University of Southern California
D. Pomona College
Check your answer.
Thanks for reading! This edition of Forbes Daily was edited by Sarah Whitmire and Chris Dobstaff.

Load-Date: February 25, 2025


End of Document
