




Forbes.com
February 28, 2025 Friday


Copyright 2025 Forbes LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1314 words
Byline: Danielle Chemtob, Forbes Staff
Highlight: In today s Forbes Daily, the Ukraine minerals deal may not pay off soon, OpenAI's new chat model, Hollywood's top-paid actors, air traffic controllers wanted and more.
Body


Hollywood s biggest event, the Academy Awards, arrives this Sunday. But appearing in movies is just one way top-earning actorsearn their fortunes.
For the top tier of Hollywood talent, like Dwayne Johnson, who ranksNo. 1 on , simply acting in a film has become one element of a multi-year partnership between a studio and an actor to develop, produce, and most importantly, market a project to audiences. Johnson s deals forRed One, Moana 2 and his catalog of older titles earned him an estimated $88 million last year.
But it s more difficult for new stars to enter the top echelon of Hollywood pay. Our 2024 list didn t include any actors in their 20s or 30s, despite a standout year for stars like Timothée Chalamet and Cynthia Erivo.
FIRST UP
<figure>
<figcaption>
Middle East Images/AFP via Getty Images
</figcaption></figure>
Afederal judge ruled Thursday the Trump administration spush to fire newer government workers en masse is likely illegal the latest in a string of court rulings involving President Donald Trump and cost-cutting czar Elon Musk s sweeping changes across the federal government. A judge ruled earlier Thursday that the CIAcan fire employees in jobs related to DEI, after the employees sued to block their firing. All of the lawsuits are still playing out in court, but a number of temporary rulings have been issued that either block policies while litigation moves forward, or allow various orders to stay in place.
Transportation Secretary Sean P. Duffy unveiled anew plan Thursday to  supercharge the hiring of air traffic controllers, but thedecades-long shortage won t be solvedanytime soon. Duffy announced a shorter hiring process shaving four months off what can be a more than three-year certification and a 30% increase in air traffic controller salaries for those who attend the FAA Academy in Oklahoma City.
This is a published version of the Forbes Daily newsletter, you can sign-up to get Forbes Daily in your inbox here.
BUSINESS + FINANCE 
<figure>
<figcaption>
Pierre Crom/Getty Images
</figcaption></figure>
President Donald Trumphas hyped up the mineral deal struck this weekbetween the U.S. and Ukraine, but experts toldForbes it likely will not generate significant revenue, at least in the near future. Trump touted Ukraine s  great rare earth  metals, but Ukraine has no active rare earth mines, according to S&P Global, and it takes up to $2 billion in capital to get a rare earth mineral mine operational, according to one pricing analyst.
Trump said Thursday his proposed 25% tariffs on Mexican and Canadian importswill go into effect Tuesday, March 4, plus an additional 10% levy on Chinese goods, the latest element of confusion as timelines shift surrounding the president s signature trade policy. Meanwhile, he indicated his more wide-ranging reciprocal import taxes would go into effect April 2, a day after a related study being conducted by his administration is scheduled to conclude.
WEALTH + ENTREPRENEURSHIP
<figure>
<figcaption>
Ben Black, founder of Fortinbras Enterprises
© 2022 Bloomberg Finance LP
</figcaption></figure>
President Donald Trumppicked Ben Black to lead the little-knownU.S. International Development Finance Corporation, afterthe son of billionaire Leon Blackoutlined his ideas for repurposing USAID funds on Substack. Leon Black, whoForbesestimates is worth $15.9 billion as of Wednesday afternoon, is cofounder of private equity behemoth Apollo Global Management, and his son is now the founder of his own investment firm.
TECH + INNOVATION
AIbehemoth OpenAI debuted a limited rolloutof GPT-4.5, its latest chat model, calling it their  largest and most knowledgeable model yet.  OpenAI said the new model features a broader knowledge base, better emotional intelligence and improved contextual understanding, and supposedly has fewer hallucinations  referring to when AI models produce inaccurate or misleading results.
MONEY + POLITICS
TheJustice Department released documents Thursdayrelated to Jeffrey Epstein that Attorney General Pam Bondi said could include  a lot of names  associated with the disgraced financier, though the initial published files lacked bombshell information.It s still unclear what documents the government has yet to release, and whether any of them will include information that hasn t already been made public.
DAILY COVER STORY
<figure>
<figcaption>
Oat Chaiyasith For Forbes Asia
</figcaption></figure>
TOPLINEBack in September, Sinon Vongkusolkit, the 34-year-old scion of one of Thailand s wealthiest families, was on the trading floor of the New York Stock Exchange celebrating the milestone listing of BKV, the American natural gas-producing arm of his family s Bangkok-based company Banpu.
Growing its portfolio to thousands of gas wells under management in Texas and northern Pennsylvania in little under a decade, BKV is key to theSoutheast Asian coal giant s plans to transition to clean energy. 
Sinon, who took the helm last April, has his task cut out: delivering on an ambitious agenda to hit carbon-neutral targets and driving global expansion at the $5.2 billion (revenue) company. Sinon s goal is to reduce Banpu s greenhouse gas emissions from its coal-mining operations and thermal power plants by a fifth in the next five years, from nearly 9 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent in 2023. Ultimately, the aim is to hit net zero emissions by 2050.
It won t be easy, even for a second-gen heir with a $3 billion war chest at his disposal, who was primed from a young age to join the family business. Banpu is among the major coal miners in Southeast Asia, producing some 35 million metric tons of coal in 2023 a lucrative trade for the company, with a gross profit margin hovering around 34%, similar to Indonesia s coal mining heavyweights.
To complicate matters, volatility in coal prices has squeezed Banpu s earnings, dragging shares down 20% in the past year.
WHY IT MATTERS For Sinon, while coal remains  an unsung hero, it does not mean that we have to use it forever. We have to make the world greener. That takes time and it needs a smooth transition. 
MORE Drill, Baby, Drill 2.0: Why Trump s Return Will Bring Blockbuster Years For Natural Gas
FACTS + COMMENTS
The number of user accounts thatGoogle, Apple and Meta have handed over to the U.S. governmenthasincreased by more than six timesin the last decade, analysis by Swiss tech company Proton reveals. The privacy-focused firm said the number of requests has gone up consistently, regardless of which political party has been in the White House:
675%: The increase in the number of accounts shared by Meta between late 2014 and early 2024, compared to Google s jump of 530% and Apple s 632%
Nearly half a million: How many more requests the tech firms received from the U.S. government in the last 12 months for which data was available than 13 other countries combined
 These massive, private data reserves will remain open to abuse said Proton s chief operating officer Raphael Auphan, describing the risks in place if  Big Tech refuses to implement widespread end-to-end encryption 
STRATEGY + SUCCESS
Stepping into amanagerial role inevitably comes with challenges, like having difficult conversations with direct reports. Focus on finding solutions rather than placing blame, and in the case of conflict, remain neutral and objective. When facing situations where you don t have the answers, understand that being honest with employees about what you do and don t know will help build trust.
VIDEO
https://www.forbes.com/video/e861ee80-19cd-4302-9a35-2db0255da2e6/
QUIZ
An upcoming flight for Blue Origin, Jeff Bezos  space company, will feature the first all-woman crew to travel to space in decades.Which of the following pop stars will be on the flight?
A. Lady Gaga
B. Katy Perry
C. Taylor Swift
D. Beyoncé
Check your answer.
Thanks for reading! This edition of Forbes Daily was edited by Sarah Whitmire and Chris Dobstaff.

Load-Date: March 1, 2025


End of Document
