




Forbes.com
January 27, 2025 Monday


Copyright 2025 Forbes LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1555 words
Byline: Danielle Chemtob, Forbes Staff
Highlight: Monday s Forbes Daily covers Trump s deportation dispute with Colombia, General Motors  affordable EV play, the latest on DEI from Costco and Target and more.
Body


This is a published version of the Forbes Daily newsletter, you can sign-up to get Forbes Daily in your inbox here.
Good morning,
Tesla may reign supreme in the electric vehicle market, but American stalwartGeneral Motors is trying to catch up.
GM wasthe fastest-growing EV maker in the U.S. last year, and with its more affordable models, it is positioning itself to grab even more market share. GM is launching a revamped Bolt hatchback this year that may start at about $30,000.
Keeping the cost down on EVs is key, especially with the Trump Administration s plans to kill the $7,500 federal incentive. And to ensure such models are as profitable as possible, GM is trying to cut battery costs, tapping an EV veteran who helped do that for Tesla s first Roadster.
FIRST UP
<figure>
<figcaption>
President Donald Trump speaks at a rally at Circa Resort & Casino on January 25, 2025 in Las Vegas.
Ian Maule/Getty Images
</figcaption></figure>
President Donald Trump hadthreatened Colombia with  emergency 25% tariffs on all imports early Sunday after the South American nation rejected two U.S. flights carrying deported migrants, part of Trump s  mass deportation  plans. By late Sunday, the White House announced that the Colombian governmentagreed to all Trump s deportation terms, and that the drafted tariffs and sanctions against Colombia  will be held in reserve, and not signed. 
Trump ignited bipartisan criticism Friday after firing more than a dozen inspectors general, several over email, and at least one generaldisputed the removal as illegal. Congress created the inspector general role in 1978 to improve oversight within federal agencies, and while Trump does have power to remove them, the White House is required to provide a 30-day notice and  substantive rationale  for the decision.
BUSINESS + FINANCE
Costcoshareholders overwhelmingly voted to supportthe retailer s current DEI initiatives,as many corporations dial back such programs and the Trump Administration takes aim at DEI. The shareholders rejected a proxy proposal from a conservative think tank that called for the company to conduct an evaluation and publish a report on the risks of maintaining its current DEI policies.
Target, meanwhile,is scaling back some of its DEI policies, including goals it previously implemented to increasehiring and promotions of employees of color and women,and boost spending on diverse suppliers. It s the latest rollback of diversity efforts since the retailer reduced its Pride Month collection last year in the wake of conservative backlash.
TECH + INNOVATION
<figure>
<figcaption>
Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg at the inauguration of Donald Trump in the U.S. Capitol Rotunda on January 20, 2025 in Washington, D.C.
Saul Loeb-Pool/Getty Images
</figcaption></figure>
Meta willspend at least a record $60 billion in 2025as part of its artificial intelligence push, centibillionaire CEO Mark Zuckerberg announced Friday. The announcement capped awhirlwind week for generative AI after Trump announced a $500 billion joint venture designed to build out the data center infrastructure to power OpenAI s technology.
MONEY + POLITICS 
During a visit to Asheville, North Carolina, which was ravaged by Hurricane Helene last September, President Donald Trump saidhe planned to sign an executive ordertooverhaul the Federal Emergency Management Agency,which may include a recommendation to abolish the agency. Trump has repeatedly suggested disaster response efforts should instead be carried out by the states, though he did not specify what changes would be made to FEMA or federal funding.
AHouse Committee is investigating alleged  improper debanking of individuals and organizations based on political affiliations or participation in cryptocurrency and blockchain technology, according to a letter sent by the Committee to industry leaders. The investigation will determine if the trend of debanking thepractice in which a bank restricts or closes a customer's account originates from financial institutions' independent decisions or by government overreach in  silencing industries arbitrarily disfavored by regulators. 
WORLD
<figure>
<figcaption>
Volodymyr Zelenskyy, President of Ukraine, speaks during a press conference on January 25, 2025 in Kyiv, Ukraine.
Yan Dobronosov/Global Images Ukraine via Getty Images
</figcaption></figure>
The State Departmentissued guidance stopping foreign aid grantspending for 90 days, after President Donald Trump signed an executive order Monday seeking torealign foreign spending with American interests.The order from the State Department bans any new government spending on foreign aid projects, seemingly allowing existing programs to run only with the money they have on hand, AP reported. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy confirmed Saturday that military aid had not stopped, but did not clarify the status of humanitarian aid.
TRENDS + EXPLAINERS
AHouse resolution introduced last weekseeks to amend the Constitution in order to allow President Donald Trump to seek a third term,but it s all but certain to fail. Even if it were to make its way through Congress, constitutional amendments also have to be approved by at least three-quarters of all states. While the 22nd Amendment makes it very clear that presidents cannot be elected to a third term, it does not explicitly say they can t serve a third term, leaving room for some loopholes.
Dr. Anthony Fauci, former Director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease who served in the administrations of both Trump and Biden,had his security detail removed, making him thelatest former government employee to lose securityunder Trump. Fauci received a preemptive pardon from Biden on Monday, with the former president praising him for saving  countless lives by managing the government s response to pressing health crises. 
DAILY COVER STORY
Why Older Homes Burn So Fast And The Cost Of Building Ones That Don t
<figure>
<figcaption>
For more than a century, American homeowners could have built fire-resistant homes. Now the market might start offering them no other choice.
MATTHEW MILLMAN, JONATHAN MITCHELL
</figcaption></figure>
TOPLINEThe lone dwelling standing amidst the charred remnants of what was erased by fire it is an image that is rapidly becoming normalized. Los Angeles s Palisades and Eaton fires earlier this month, with their structure losses totaling 6,380 and 9,418, respectively, and a combined damage and economic loss estimated at $250 billion, have provided our most recent examples of such unlikely  survivors. 
That these buildings, the houses especially, managed to withstand the conflagrations that consumed everything around them have made them the subject of widespread consumer fascination and reporting: Why didthese houses survive, and why not their neighbors?
And as new fires continue to erupt around the city, the questions become unavoidable: Why haven t all houses been built like those and what would it cost to have one built?
The answer is not always significantly more: A study by the Insurance Institute for Business & Home Safety (IBHS) found installing additional wildfire safety measures, beyond the state's current codes, added only 2 to 13 percent to construction costs and that adding  optimum" wildfire building materials like metal roofs cost $18,180 to $27,080 more.
Indeed, the brutal reality is this: In today s extreme-climate era, in the event of wildfire, a house designed and built for any preceding era quite simply stands little chance of survival.
WHY IT MATTERS It s perhaps only now, given the increasing cadence of destructive wildfires, that marketplace acceptance of the aesthetics of a function-first, fire-resistant kind of house is even possible. For theroughly 44 million Americans who live in what the U.S. Fire Administration refers to as the Wildland Urban Interface (WUI), the  zone of transition between unoccupied land and human development,  that need is urgent.
MORE How To Help Those Affected By The California Wildfires And Maybe Get A Tax Break
FACTS + COMMENTS
CNN is makingjob cuts focused on the cable side of its business, while hiring for new positions in other kinds of digital media distribution. It s a reminder of the shifting landscape in media:
200:The number of positions CNN will eliminate, around 6% of its workforce
$70 million:The amount that the company has devoted to expanding its presence in various digital ventures so far, according to chief executive Mark Thompson
$1 billion: The amount CNN hopes to generate per year in digital revenue by the end of the decade
STRATEGY + SUCCESS
Frequentimpulse purchases can hamper your savingsand long-term financial goals. Tobuild better spending habits, start by identifying your triggers, whether they re emotional (like stress), or situational (like finding a great deal). Then, implement a cooling-off period, anywhere from 24 hours to 30 days, to consider why you want the item and whether it s consistent with your priorities.
VIDEO
https://www.forbes.com/video/b1d4d49d-674d-47f2-aa4a-d4da1f953a8c/
QUIZ
As passwords are increasingly stolen by malware, one major tech company is aiming to bolster security by replacing passwords for a billion users.Which company is it?
A. Apple
B. Microsoft
C. Adobe
D. Meta
Check your answer.
Thanks for reading! This edition of Forbes Daily was edited by Sarah Whitmire.

Load-Date: January 28, 2025


End of Document
