




Newsweek.com
January 29, 2025 Wednesday 3:42 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 797 words
Byline: Mandy Taheri
Highlight: Uhuru Kenyatta, Kenya's former president, told African leaders to consider Trump's freeze on foreign aid as a "wake-up call."
Body


Former Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta criticized African leaders' reactions to U.S. President 's decision to freeze international aid during a regional health summit Wednesday, urging them to see it as a "wake-up call" rather than being upset.
Newsweek has reached out to the State Department for comment via email on Wednesday.
Why It Matters 
The Trump administration, through an executive order, announced sweeping funding freezes on almost all U.S. foreign assistance programs in order to review them.
The U.S. is the largest provider of global humanitarian assistance, providing around 40 percent.
What To Know
"The United States foreign aid industry and bureaucracy are not aligned with American interests and in many cases antithetical to American values," Trump said in an executive order shortly after taking office.
In said order, he issued a 90-day pause on foreign aid in order to conduct a thorough review of "programmatic efficiencies and consistency with United States foreign policy." International aid groups receiving funding have been informed of the halt. Military aid to Egypt and Israel was exempt.
Kenyatta, who served as Kenya's president from 2013 to 2022, addressed regional leaders at the East Africa Region Global Health Security Summit in Mombasa, Kenya on Wednesday. The center is affiliated with the University of Nebraska Medical Center.
In his remarks, which touched on the escalating conflict in the Democratic Republic of Congo as well as the coronavirus, he called out leaders for "crying" about Trump's global medical aid freeze.
"I saw some people the other day crying that Trump has removed funding, he is not giving us any more money," he said, then asking, "Why are you crying? It is not your government; it is not your country. He has no reason to give you anything. You don't pay taxes in America. He's appealing to his people."
Kenyatta called Trump's move a "wake-up call" for African leaders to reflect and consider: "Okay, what are we going to do to help ourselves?" He added that African governments should better manage their funds and not rely on others, saying, "Nobody is going to continue holding out a hand there to give you. It is time for us to use our resources for the right things. We are the ones who are using them for the wrong things."
Dozens of senior officials with the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) were placed on administrative leave earlier this week.
On Tuesday, newly sworn-in U.S. Secretary of State  issued an emergency humanitarian waiver "of the pause for life-saving humanitarian assistance during the period of the review." The waiver defined "life-saving humanitarian assistance" as relating to "core life-saving medicine, medical services, food, shelter, and subsistence assistance, as well as supplies and reasonable administrative costs as necessary to deliver such assistance."
It specified that it does "not apply to activities that involve abortions, family planning, conferences," or "gender or DEI ideology programs, transgender surgeries."
Trump also paused various federal grants and loans in the U.S., which have been temporarily blocked by a federal judge on Tuesday. The temporary pause holds until Monday.
What People Are Saying
Abby Maxman, president of Oxfam America told The Associated Press on Wednesday: "The aid community is grappling with just how existential this aid suspension is."
Gyude Moore, a former Liberia Cabinet minister and fellow at the Center for Global Development, told the Associated Press on Wednesday, the cutoff is "cruel" and harms the U.S. too as it "makes no distinction between ally, partner and adversary." He added, "Feeding hungry children in Liberia or malnourished children in Kenya, providing life-saving anti-retroviral drugs in Uganda — none of these things undermine American interests."
Democratic Representative Dan Goldman said in an X, formerly Twitter,  on Monday: "Trump's freeze on all foreign aid is an abdication of our duty as a global leader. That money fights AIDS, malaria, and famine, including in Sudan now. This indiscriminate freeze will cause more people to die. Like his blanket pardons, it's small-minded, dangerous and harmful."
Republican Representative Brian Mast, chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said in a Tuesday press release: "Secretary Rubio is righting the ship. He has put American interests back at the forefront of U.S. foreign policy."
Karoline Leavitt, White House Press Secretary, wrote in an X post on Wednesday: "
 The President's EO's [Executive Order] on federal funding remain in full force and effect, and will be rigorously implemented."
What Happens Next
The summit in Mombasa ends on January 30.
Review of foreign aid programs will be conducted for 90 days.


Graphic

 
Uhuru Kenyatta
AP Photo/Ben Curtis
Kenya's former president Uhuru Kenyatta speaks at a joint press conference by African Union (AU) and Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) electoral observers in Abuja, Nigeria Monday, February 27, 2023.

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
