




Newsweek.com
January 25, 2025 Saturday 12:26 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 731 words
Byline: Rachel Dobkin
Highlight: Allison Huynh on Friday praised Trump's recent trips to disaster-stricken western North Carolina and southern California.
Body


Silicon Valley entrepreneur Allison Huynh, an ex-fundraiser for former President , praised President 's "competency" on  on Friday night, pointing to his recent trips to  and .
Newsweek reached out to the White House via email for comment on Saturday.
Why It Matters
Huynh helped raise millions of dollars for Obama's 2008 presidential campaign but has since turned away from the  and is now an independent who supports Trump.
A Gallup poll published last week found that slightly more Americans affiliate with the  than the Democratic Party for the third consecutive year. According to the survey, 46 percent of Americans identified as  or Republican-leaning independents, and 45 percent identified as  or Democratic-leaning independents.
There has also been a trend of big players in the tech hub of Silicon Valley moving away from the Democratic Party and embracing Trump.
What To Know
Appearing on The Ingraham Angle on Friday, Huynh told Fox News'  that Trump "has done more in four days than [former President Joe] Biden did in four years."
"This morning, he was in [Washington] D.C. Then he flew to North Carolina to visit the devastation from the hurricanes. Then he flew on Air Force One to LAX [Los Angeles International Airport], took Marine One to the Palisades to talk to the victims of this awful biblical fire. He talked to the firefighters and the first responders," she said. "I don't remember Biden doing this. He never even visited North Carolina."
Biden did visit California in his final days as president. He had a scheduled trip to commemorate two new national monuments, but given the destruction caused by the Palisades and Eaton fires this month, he instead went to a briefing on the fires with California Governor  on January 7.
The former president also visited the Carolinas in early October 2024 to survey the damage left by Hurricane Helene and attend a briefing on recovery efforts.
Huynh told Ingraham of Trump's visits to North Carolina and California, "This is what competency looks like. I know we're not used to it in California. We're not used to it in the United States, and I know that people are just shocked how much he's getting done."
She also mentioned the  Trump signed since Monday which included , ending diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) programs, and orders related to the economy and energy production.
Trump's executive order ending birthright citizenship of children born to people living in the U.S. illegally  who called it "a blatantly unconstitutional order."
What People Are Saying
President Donald Trump said on his trip to North Carolina on Friday, "FEMA [Federal Emergency Management Agency] has really let us down, let the country down. And I don't know if that's Biden's fault or whose fault it is. But we're going to take over, and we're going to do a good job."
FEMA has given $319 million in financial assistance to North Carolinians affected by Hurricane Helene.
In California, Trump said: "I'm signing an executive order to open up the pumps and valves in the north. We want to get that water pouring down here as quickly as possible and let hundreds of millions of gallons of water flow down into southern California."
Fox News host Jeanine Pirro, wrote on X, formerly , on Friday, "President Trump's visits to disaster zones in North Carolina and California show what a transparent and accountable leader he is."
What Happens Next
Trump hit the ground running this week with his flurry of executive orders and visits to disaster zones, but the true impact of his presidency has yet to be known. Roadblocks are bound to pop up as seen with his attempt to end birthright citizenship.
Trump said Friday that he would sign an executive order to "begin the process of fundamentally reforming and overhauling FEMA or maybe getting rid of FEMA." This would be on trend with Trump's  ().
Continuing his trip to the West Coast, the president  to show his appreciation to his supporters who helped win him the battleground state.


Graphic

 
Donald Trump
Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images
President Donald Trump speaks to reporters after signing a series of executive orders in the Oval Office of the White House on January 23, 2025, in Washington, DC.

Load-Date: January 25, 2025


End of Document
