




The Independent (United Kingdom)
January 24, 2025 Friday 7:02 AM EST


Copyright 2025 Independent Print Ltd  All Rights Reserved


Section: TELEVISION INDUSTRY NEWS
Length: 420 words
Byline: Graig Graziosi
Body


On Thursday morning's Fox and Friends episode, the hosts told  to use 's work ethic as an "example"  and to "work all day." 
The hosts accused federal employees of seeking "special treatment" after Trump issued an executive order  for the federal workforce. 
In addition to forcing everyone back to work in the office, Trump's executive orders  and programs across the federal government. 
Host Lawrence Jones used the opportunity to polish up Trump and take a swipe at Biden, according to . 
"Great thing [federal employees] have an example in the president of the United States who works all day. If you don't believe me, look at the Marine outside the Oval Office there all night because he is working throughout the night," Jones said. " was in work late, in bed by 4pm. Is he leading by example? The federal workforce should do the same [as Trump]."
Jones continued his commentary about federal workers who preferred to work remotely. 
"Look how special they think they are. When other Americans have jobs, they can't find parking space. They have to go to the public parking and pay to be in the parking garage," Jones said. "They say that they have elderly family members that they have to take care of. So does every other American. We have to go to work."
He offered the unsolicited advice that workers with ailing family members simply "save up" and hire help. 
"It's like they want special treatment for everything. And their salary is way better than some of the other private sector jobs," he said. 
Back in 2018, it was revealed via a White House schedule that was that Trump started his first meetings of the day at 11 am after three hours of "executive time." 
The "executive time" was time Trump spent watching TV and sending out tweets, according to the Axios report. 
The White House defended Trump at the time, issuing a statement insisting that he "puts in long hours and long days nearly ever day of the week all year long." 
Trump was also known for , despite insisting during his 2016 campaign that he wouldn't have time to play golf if elected.
In 2020, CBS White House correspondent Mark Knoller - known for tracking presidential activities -  spent all or part of 248 days of his presidency golfing. 
Former President , also an avid golfer, played 98 rounds of golf over two terms in the White House, according to Knoller's tracker. 

Load-Date: January 24, 2025


End of Document
