




Newsweek.com
February 4, 2025 Tuesday 3:42 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 652 words
Byline: Andrew Stanton
Highlight: Twenty-four Democrats broke ranks and joined Republicans to confirm former Representative Doug Collins as Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
Body


Two dozen  voted in favor of confirming Doug Collins, a former member of , to lead the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA).
Newsweek reached out to the White House for comment via email.
Why It Matters
Collins will lead the second largest department in the federal government, only behind the Department of Defense. He will be tasked with overseeing healthcare for millions of veterans who served in the armed forces and managing a budget of more than $350 billion, according to the Associated Press.
Collins' confirmation comes as agencies across the federal government are facing steep cuts, thanks in part to the Department of Government Efficiency, a task force led by the billionaire . It's unclear how—or if—those cuts will affect the VA.
What to Know
Collins' confirmation was among the more bipartisan votes on President 's cabinet nominees; the Georgia  earned the support of 24 Democratic senators.
During his confirmation hearing, Collins emphasized the need to cut red tape across the department and improve healthcare for veterans.
Here is a full list of Democratic senators who voted for Collins. Sens.  of Maine and  of Vermont are Independent senators but caucus with Democrats.
Michael Bennett (D-Colorado)Richard Blumenthal (D-Connectircut)Catherine Cortez Masto (D-Nevada)Dick Durbin (D-Illinois)John Fetterman (D-Pennsylvania)Ruben Gallego (D-Arizona)Kristen Gillibrand (D-New York)Maggie Hassan (D-New Hampshire)Martin Heinrich (D-New Mexico)John Hickenlooper (D-Colorado)Tim Kaine (D-Virginia)Mark Kelly (D-Arizona)Angus King (I-Maine)Amy Klobuchar (D-Minnesota)Ben Ray Lujan (D-New Mexico)Jon Ossoff (D-Georgia)Gary Peters (D-Michigan)Jacky Rosen (D-Nevada)Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont)Adam Schiff (D-California)Jeanne Shaheen (D-New Hampshire)Elissa Slotkin (D-Michigan)Raphael Warnock (D-Georgia)Peter Welch (D-Vermont)
Every Republican senator also voted for Collins.
The VA has already seen some changes since Trump took office, primarily related to its diversity, equity and inclusion programs. Last week, the department announced that nearly 60 employee focused on DEI initiatives would be placed on administrative leave to comply with an executive order issued by Trump.
Collins represented Georgia's 9th Congressional District in Congress from 2013 to 2021. He ran for  in 2020 but finished third in the primary behind Democrat , who ultimately won, and , who is now Trump's pick to run the Small Business Administration.
What People Are Saying
Journalist Yashar Ali wrote on X: "Despite all these Senate Democrats talking about how frustrated they are with the Trump administration, they continue to help confirm his nominees. The nomination of Doug Collins to serve as Secretary of Veteran Affairs was just confirmed in a 77-23 vote."
Senator Chris Coons, a Delaware Democrat who voted against Collins, wrote on X: "Doug Collins is qualified to be the VA secretary. I hope he'll lead the agency well, and I hope to work with him going forward. But I'm still a no on every Trump cabinet nominee until Trump walks back his disastrous executive orders."
Representative Juan Ciscomani, an Arizona Republican, wrote on X: "Congratulations to our new @DeptVetAffairs. Secretary Doug Collins! As Representative to nearly 80,000 veterans and as a member of @HouseVetAffairs, I look forward to working together to support our nation's heroes!"
What Happens Next
Confirmations for Trump Cabinet nominees are expected to continue over the coming days and weeks. The Senate Intelligence Committee voted to advance the nomination of former Representative , Trump's pick for director of national intelligence, to the full Senate, on Tuesday.
, the president's nominee for attorney general, will face a confirmation vote Tuesday and is expected to be confirmed by the Senate.


Graphic

 
Doug Collins
Samuel Corum/Getty Images
Doug Collins, U.S. President Donald Trump's nominee to be the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs, testifies during his Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee confirmation hearing in the Dirksen Senate Office Building on January 21, 2025 in Washington, DC.

Load-Date: February 4, 2025


End of Document
