




CNN Wire
February 19, 2025 Wednesday 10:52 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Cable News Network All Rights Reserved
Length: 607 words
Byline: By Daniel Wine, CNN
Dateline: (CNN) 
Body


             Editor's Note: CNN's 5 Things newsletter is your one-stop shop for the latest headlines and fascinating stories to start and end your busy day. 
Welcome to 5 Things PM! With Pope Francis hospitalized and battling pneumonia in both lungs, it's a good time to remind older adults to take respiratory problems seriously. CNN wellness expert Dr. Leana Wen explains  and other respiratory illnesses.
Here's what else you might have missed during your busy day:
5 things
1   Hidden hotspots: Large reserves of white hydrogen may exist within mountain ranges, according to a new study, raising hopes that this clean-burning gas can be extracted and supercharge efforts to tackle the climate crisis. 
2   DEI blowback: Dozens of Fortune 500 companies are backtracking on their diversity, equity and inclusion programs, but  Customers, the heirs to one of its founders and civil rights activists said they're feeling betrayed.
3   Blinded by the light: The James Webb Space Telescope  near the supermassive black hole at the center of the Milky Way galaxy. The rapid-fire display includes seconds-long short flashes and longer, blindingly bright flares.
4   Cheaper iPhone: Apple announced a scaled-back version called the iPhone 16e, signaling a renewed push into the budget smartphone market for the tech giant. It's the cheapest model that supports Apple Intelligence. 
5   Welcome to Texas: KFC, formerly known as Kentucky Fried Chicken,  The chicken chain's parent company, Yum Brands, said KFC's corporate headquarters is moving near Dallas, joining sister brand Pizza Hut's offices in the suburb of Plano.
Watch this
Ancient luxury: A lavish spa complex with several types of baths and a banquet hall has been unearthed in the ancient Roman city of Pompeii in Italy. It had been hidden beneath tons of volcanic rock and ash for 2,000 years. 
Top headlines
·  and calls Zelensky a 'dictator'·  but blames Biden·  by accessing your Social Security data
$2 million
 That's the approximate cost per dose of a breakthrough gene therapy for spinal muscular atrophy. Here's what that means 
Check this out
Modern twist: Indonesian artist Citra Sasmita's large-scale scrolls reimagine traditional paintings  Rebellion, transformation and rebirth are some of the themes reflected in her work.
Quotable
'So long': The singer  in protest of the company's owner, Elon Musk. She donated the proceeds to National Public Radio.
Quiz time
  Which famed Premier League soccer team is suffering through an unprecedented terrible season? A. ArsenalB. ChelseaC. LiverpoolD. Manchester United   Scroll down for the answer.
Good vibes
Helping hands: A massive sunfish washed up on a beach in Florida and got stuck in the sand. Watch as deputies with the Volusia County Sheriff's Office help 
Thanks for reading
 We'll see you tomorrow.   Quiz answer: D. Manchester United manager Ruben Amorim said this team could be  Check out all of .
5 Things PM is produced by CNN's Chris Good, Meghan Pryce and Kimberly Richardson.         
             By Daniel Wine, CNN         
TM & © 2025 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.

Load-Date: March 20, 2025


End of Document
