




MailOnline
January 20, 2025 Monday 4:41 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: MEDIA; Version:2
Length: 559 words
Byline: Bethan Sexton For Dailymail.Com
Body


CBS Mornings host Gayle King asked why there were not more 'people of color' invited to President-elect Donald Trump's swearing-in ceremony.
King made the observation while watching guests flow into the rotunda of the US Capitol during Monday morning's inauguration proceedings.
'I have to say. I'm looking at this crowd. I do not see many people of color. Does anybody else besides me observe that?' King said. 'I'm fascinated by why that is?' 
King's colleague highlighted how the inauguration was taking place on Martin Luther King Jr. Day. 
The federal holiday marks the birthday of the civil rights hero who fought for equal rights for black people and who was assassinated in Memphis in 1968 aged 39. 
Conservative journalist Megyn Kelly criticized King's assertion, writing: 'Gayle King on CBA is questioning why there aren't more "ppl of color" at the inauguration. Of course.'
Others were quick to agree with the former Fox host's comments.
'Always straight to identity politics, it's all they have,' one person wrote.
'It's sad to see moments of historical significance turned into divisive debates,' another added. 'Let's focus on what unites us moving forward and celebrate the peaceful transition of power.'
'Gayle King is unbelievable, and quite frankly, she is just evil,' one person wrote.
'Stirring the pot during such a significant event, simply because of her hatred for Donald Trump, is absolutely disgraceful.'
Several pointed out that people of color were invited and in attendance. 
Former President Barack Obama was undoubtedly the most famous black face at Monday's inauguration.
However his wife Michelle Obama was nowhere to be seen. The couple have been plagued by rumors their marriage is in trouble recently, however Michelle has been open about her dislike for Trump.
Former Vice President Kamala Harris was the second-most high profile figure. Harris was born to an Indian mother and Jamaican father. 
Several viewers pointed out that incoming Vice President JD Vance's wife Usha Vance is of Indian heritage and will become the Second Lady. 
But some agreed with King's position and pointed out that most guests were white, including the likes of tech billionaires Mark Zuckerberg, Jeff Bezos, Elon Musk and UFC CEO Dana White.
'Seeing Zuckerberg, Bezos, White, Musk, billionaire tech tycoons, that guy that owns all of Vegas - all tightly packed in for the inauguration - and NO POC [people of color] IN SIGHT - just sets a really icky tone for the next 4 years. ICKKKY.'
'I was thinking there weren't many POC at the inauguration and then the news reporters just mentioned it,' another added. 
Trump promised a 'new golden age of America' after being sworn in as the 47th president of the United States on Monday.
'The decline is over,' he told about 600 allies, dignitaries and family members inside the U.S. Capitol building.
He used his inaugural address to balance the idea of an optimistic new dawn with his long-standing accusations that he was the target of a weaponized justice system and promised to rebalance 'the scales of justice'.
Trump has also vowed to dismantled Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) programs within the federal government.
Advocates for DEI say it helps counterbalance historic racism experienced by black people and other non-white Americans.
Critics say it does so by discriminating against whites and Asians. 

Load-Date: January 20, 2025


End of Document
