




The Daily Caller
February 11, 2025 Tuesday 08:28 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS; daily-caller-news-foundation
Length: 484 words
Byline: Ireland Owens, Contributor, 
Body



Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is scrapping a pledge it made to refuse initial public offering(IPO) business from companies that had fully white, male boards, Bloomberg reported on Tuesday.
The major investment bank had implemented a policy in 2020 that required it to only take a company public in the U.S. or Western Europe if it had two diverse board members, one of which must be a woman, Bloomberg . Goldman Sachs deciding to abandon the diversity pledge comes amid  of conservative activists calling for several Wall Street giants to revoke policies related to diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI).
David Solomon became the CEO of Goldman Sachs in 2018, and prioritized DEI initiatives during his first year in the position, Bloomberg reported. Gregg Lemkau, who was the head of investment-banking at Goldman Sachs at the time, proposed a diversity threshold for IPOs at the end of 2019, and when Solomon asked him if the bank could do that, Lemkau said “we can do anything we want,” according to a book on the topic, the outlet reported. 
In December, an appeals court  a similar rule for Nasdaq Inc.'s U.S. exchange. Shortly after returning to the Oval Office on Jan. 20, President Donald Trump issued an  to end “radical and wasteful” DEI programs across the federal government.

(Photo by Michael M. Santiago/Getty Images)
The president stated in the executive order that the Biden-Harris administration had “forced illegal and immoral discrimination programs, going by the name 'diversity, equity and inclusion' into virtually all areas” of the federal government. Trump has long been a vocal  of DEI, and  to get rid of so-called “woke” ideology across the government.
Various corporations and retailers in the U.S. have begun  their  efforts in the past year amid growing  from  and investors, including ,  and . Still, some major companies, such as Costco, have  into DEI efforts despite .
“As a result of legal developments related to board diversity requirements, we ended our formal board diversity policy,” Tony Fratto, a spokesperson for Goldman Sachs, said in a statement shared with the Daily Caller News Foundation. “We continue to believe that successful boards benefit from diverse backgrounds and perspectives, and we will encourage them to take this approach.”
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Graphic

 
(Photo by Michael M. Santiago/Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
