




telegraph.co.uk
February 28, 2025 Friday 7:30 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: BUSINESS; Version:2
Length: 601 words
Byline: By Lucy Burton, Employment Editor, Hannah Boland, Retail Editor
Highlight: Chief David Solomon says scrapping diversity goals ‘reflects developments in the law in the US’
Body


Goldman Sachs has dropped a target to have black bankers make up 7pc of its London workforce following . 
The Wall Street bank has axed a slew of diversity targets including having black people make up 7pc of its workforce in the Americas and UK and having women holding 40pc of its vice-president roles.
Goldman employs more than 3,000 people in the UK, the majority of them in London. It has smaller offices in Birmingham and Milton Keynes.
David Solomon, Goldman’s chief executive, said the bank had “made certain adjustments to reflect developments in the law in the US”.
It comes after  , putting lucrative government contracts at risk for those which fail to comply.
A number of US banks have abandoned their diversity and inclusion policies in the wake of the president’s executive order.
Mr Trump has railed against DEI – diversity, equity and inclusion – calling such schemes “illegal and immoral discrimination programmes”.
The president has claimed DEI policies have degraded the US’s economy, military and government, vowing to reinstate hiring policies based solely on merit. He has also threatened to “name and shame” private companies that continue to promote diversity.
Goldman’s axed goals, which came to light in regulatory filings, emerged weeks after the bank ditched a ban on working with all-male, all-white boards.
Richard Gnodde, Goldman’s most senior banker outside of America, told the BBC at the time: “That policy was put in place to try and drive a change in behaviour and I think that’s happened.”
A Goldman Sachs spokesman said: “As a result of legal developments related to board diversity requirements, we ended our formal board diversity policy. We continue to believe that successful boards benefit from diverse backgrounds and perspectives, and we will encourage them to take this approach.”
It marks a major turnaround for the bank. Mr Solomon   when he became chief executive in 2018, threatening to cut bosses’ pay if managers did not have a good enough reason for why there were no women in their teams.
Mr Solomon said on Thursday: “We strongly believe that merit and diversity are not mutually exclusive. Our people are a powerful example of that and that’s why we will continue to focus on the importance of attracting and retaining diverse, exceptional talent.”
Sources said that there have been no changes to Goldman’s benefits, which includes a courier service that transport mothers’ breast milk home if they are working overseas.
Separately,   said it was watering down diversity targets linked to executive bonuses. The company said in its annual report the inclusion component of its scorecard for annual bonuses was being lowered.
Under the current system, 10pc of annual bonuses are based on “inclusion” measures, such as making drug trials more representative of who might get a disease and setting race, gender and ethnicity targets for senior roles.
Another 30pc of the bonus was linked to strategic and operational performance.
GSK will now combine the two elements and instead have 30pc of the bonus based on strategic, operational and responsible business measures. It means inclusion will no longer be measured on a standalone basis.
The drug company said it would “no longer set aspirational targets” for its bosses based on inclusion and diversity. It is also pulling targets linked to how much the company spends with suppliers owned by people from under-represented groups.

Load-Date: February 28, 2025


End of Document
