




The Daily Telegraph (London)
February 7, 2025 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 21
Length: 301 words
Byline: Daily Telegraph Reporter
Body


GOOGLE has axed diversity hiring targets as it became the latest American business to row back on diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) initiatives.
The tech giant has followed companies such as Amazon, Meta and McDonald's as corporate America continues to shift towards more conservative social and political stances in the wake of Donald Trump's return to the White House.
In his first weeks as president, Mr Trump has signed a flurry of executive orders relating to DEI, including dialling back transgender protections and ending government programmes.
In its annual report released this week, Alphabet, Google's parent company, omitted a sentence that had been included in previous reports, stating it was "committed to making diver- sity, equity and inclusion part of everything we do and to growing a workforce that is representative of the users we serve". Meanwhile, an email sent to staff said the company would no longer have the "aspirational goals"
it previously set to improve representation, The Wall Street Journal first reported.
A Google spokesman said: "We're committed to creating a workplace where all our employees can succeed and have equal opportunities, and over the last year we've been reviewing our programmes designed to help us get there.
"We've updated our [annual report] language to reflect this, and as a federal contractor, our teams are also evaluating changes required following recent court decisions and executive orders."
It remains unclear how the changes will affect the company's UK's workforce.
In a policy direction that contrasts with the US, the Labour Government is planning to strengthen DEI protections, including introducing mandatory ethnicity pay gap reporting and strengthening employment rights.
'We're committed to creating a workplace where all staff can succeed'

Load-Date: February 7, 2025


End of Document
