




The Times (London)
February 12, 2025 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition


Copyright 2025 Times Newspapers Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Pg. 14
Length: 396 words
Byline: Louisa Clarence-Smith
Body


Corporate America has been rolling back its policies on diversity, equity and inclusion since Donald Trump's second presidency. Now Google has removed black, LGBT and women's holidays from its digital calendars and Deloitte is asking employees to remove gender pronouns from their email signatures.
The world's biggest search engine previously marked the beginning of Black History Month in February and Pride Month in June, but the events do not appear for 2025.
Madison Cushman Veld, a spokesman for Google, told the Verge that the listed holidays were not "sustainable" for their model. "We got feedback that some other events and countries were missing - and maintaining hundreds of moments manually and consistently globally wasn't scalable or sustainable," the statement reads.
In an email sent on Monday, Deloitte told employees that it would "sunset" its diversity goals, an annual diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) report, and the company's DEI initiatives, the Financial Times reported.
In a separate email, employees working on government contracts were told to remove gender pronouns from emails sent externally "to align with emerging government client practices and requirements".
In Britain Deloitte has no plans to make changes. A spokesman said: "Deloitte UK stands by our stated intention of maintaining a workforce and culture that reflects the diversity of the UK. We are committed to fostering an inclusive culture that helps all our people thrive and reach their full potential."
Management consultancy firms have enthusiastically embraced DEI initiatives in recent years, both for their staff and as a business opportunity to advise corporations on their DEI agendas.
However, a growing number of US firms are rolling back on those initiatives after Trump criticised DEI and promised to terminate the policies in the federal government.
Trump has also issued an executive order, "Defending women from gender ideology extremism and restoring biological truth", which states that it is government policy "to recognise two sexes, male and female".
Last week, Accenture scrapped its global diversity and inclusion goals in response to the changing political landscape. In a memo to employees, the professional services company said it would start "sunsetting" the goals it set in 2017, along with development programmes for "people of specific demographic groups".

Load-Date: February 12, 2025


End of Document
