




thetimes.co.uk
February 5, 2025 Wednesday 11:35 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 453 words
Byline: Louisa Clarence-Smith, US Business Editor
Highlight: President Trump has prompted corporate America to rethink their DEI policies since his return to the White House
Body


Google is abandoning a goal to hire more employees from historically underrepresented groups, the latest example of a company rowing back on diversity, equity and inclusion policies.
Employees at the technology giant were told via email on Wednesday that it was ditching the hiring targets and reviewing other “DEI” policies. Details of the email were first reported by The Wall Street Journal.
In 2020 Google set a target of increasing the proportion of “leadership representation of underrepresented groups” by 30 per cent by 2025. The ambition was announced after the death of George Floyd and the subsequent Black Lives Matter protests that led to sweeping pledges from corporate America to increase the representation of ethnic minorities in their workforce.
However, 

 have recently announced they are watering down DEI initiatives after critics claimed the policies exclude some groups of employees and customers. Companies have questioned the legality of some hiring policies after a Supreme Court ruling in 2023 found that it was unconstitutional to consider race in university admissions.

President Trump has added pressure by issuing an executive order directing federal agencies 

 and encouraging private companies to do the same.
Meta Platforms, the owner of Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp, 

 last month, including those that influenced hiring and picking suppliers. Walmart, Amazon, Target, McDonald’s and Harley Davidson have all watered down their policies after facing scrutiny.
The annual report of Google’s parent company, Alphabet, that was filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission on Wednesday showed that it omitted a line saying it was “committed to making diversity, equity and inclusion part of everything we do and to growing a workforce that is representative of the users we serve”. That statement appeared in annual reports from 2021 to 2023.

A spokesman for Google said: “We’re committed to creating a workplace where all our employees can succeed and have equal opportunities, and over the last year we’ve been reviewing our programmes designed to help us get there. We’ve updated our 10-K [securities filing] language to reflect this, and as a federal contractor our teams are also evaluating changes required following recent court decisions and executive orders on this topic.”
Some companies, including the banks JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs, have said they plan to continue to promote diversity initiatives related to their employees and customers.

Load-Date: February 5, 2025


End of Document
