




The Times (London)
February 12, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Times Newspapers Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Pg. 14
Length: 402 words
Byline: Louisa Clarence-Smith
Body


Corporate America has been rolling back its policies on diversity, equity and inclusion since Donald Trump's second presidency began. Now Google has removed black, LGBT and women's holidays from its digital calendars and Deloitte is asking employees to remove gender pronouns from their email signatures.
The world's biggest search engine previously marked the beginning of Black History Month in February and Pride Month in June, but the events do not appear for 2025.
Madison Cushman Veld, a spokesman for Google, told the Verge that the listed holidays were not "sustainable" for their model. "We got feedback that some other events and countries were missing - and maintaining hundreds of moments manually and consistently globally wasn't scalable or sustainable," the statement reads.
In an email sent on Monday, Deloitte told employees that it would "sunset" its diversity goals, an annual diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) report and the company's DEI initiatives, the Financial Times reported.
In a separate email, employees working on government contracts were told to remove gender pronouns from emails sent externally "to align with emerging government client practices and requirements".
In Britain Deloitte has no plans to make changes. A spokesman said: "Deloitte UK stands by our stated intention of maintaining a workforce and culture that reflects the diversity of the UK. We are committed to fostering an inclusive culture that helps all our people thrive and reach their full potential."
Management consultancy firms have enthusiastically embraced DEI initiatives in recent years, both for their staff and as a business opportunity to advise corporations on their DEI agendas. However, a growing number of US firms are rolling back those initiatives after Trump criticised DEI and promised to terminate the policies in the government.
Walt Disney has revised a policy linking executive pay to the diversity and inclusion of senior employees. The entertainment giant told staff that it was changing its DEI programmes to focus on business outcomes. Executive pay will be linked to "talent strategy", which evaluates how well leaders advance Disney's values.
The company is also removing advisories that it plays before some old films, such as Dumbo and Peter Pan, which warn viewers that they "include negative depictions and/or mistreatment of peoples or cultures", a source told the Financial Times.

Load-Date: February 12, 2025


End of Document
