




Newsweek.com
February 11, 2025 Tuesday 7:41 AM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 607 words
Byline: Marni Rose McFall
Highlight: Black History Month and Holocaust Remembrance Day have also been removed, as Google calls its calendar process "unsustainable."
Body


Google has removed Pride Month, along with Black History Month and Holocaust Remembrance Day, from  Calendar. In an email from Google shared with Newsweek, the company called its previous calendar process "unsustainable."
Google Calendar will now show only public holidays and national observances.
Why It Matters
The move comes amid a broader cultural and political debate about the value of policies on diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI). President  signed an executive order to dismantle federal DEI programs upon his return to office on January 20 and ordered what he called the " Programs And Preferencing."
Since this order, multiple high profile companies, including , McDonalds, ,  and Google have . Critics have expressed fears about LGBTQ+ rights under the new administration, and in particular concerns about the  its landmark ruling that established .
What To Know
The update was confirmed by a Google spokesperson to The Verge, which first reported the change.
The spokesperson said that the Calendar team had manually been adding what they described as "a broader set of cultural moments in a wide number of countries around the world." The spokesperson said that maintaining this consistently on a global scale wasn't sustainable.
Google donated $1 million to Donald Trump's 2025 inauguration, and its CEO, Sundar Pichai, was .
Google has also recently , in accordance with one of Trump's first executive orders. Google announced on January 27 that it would be "quickly" updating its maps system in accordance with the order, as soon as the federal Geographic Names Information (GNIS) was updated.
What Events Have Been Removed from Google Calendar?
Pride MonthBlack History MonthIndigenous Peoples MonthHispanic History MonthJewish Heritage MonthHolocaust Remembrance Day
What People Are Saying
A Google spokesperson in an email shared with Newsweek: "For over a decade we've worked with timeanddate.com to show public holidays and national observances in Google Calendar. Some years ago, the Calendar team started manually adding a broader set of cultural moments in a wide number of countries around the world. We got feedback that some other events and countries were missing — and maintaining hundreds of moments manually and consistently globally wasn't scalable or sustainable. So in mid-2024 we returned to showing only public holidays and national observances from timeanddate.com globally, while allowing users to manually add other important moments."
A comment in a Google support forum about the changes: "Dear Google. Stop sucking up to Trump."
Another comment in the forum: "Embarrassing. Another example of the fast descent into fascism. There's no reason users should have to add these dates themselves. You could have maintained the same list as always.
"Wonder why it's just now that it has become unsustainable? Y'all had time to add Gulf of America to the map though...despite it only applying to the US."
Another comment in the forum: "It's a calendar, just add it back if you want. Google Calendar can be edited to suit your every desire."
What's Next
How companies will manage their DEI goals, and approach culture more generally, in the wake of Trump's executive order and amid  remains to be seen.
Do you have a story Newsweek should be covering? Do you have any questions about this story? Contact .


Graphic

 
Google Apps
S3studio/Getty Images
Image shows icons for the Google apps from Google Map, Google Drive, Google Translate, Google Photo, Google Play, Google Chrome, Google Authenticator, Google Calendar and Google Gmail are seen on a screen in Hong Kong, Hong Kong, on July 31, 2018.

Load-Date: February 11, 2025


End of Document
