




TheHill.com
February 24, 2025 Monday


Copyright 2025 NEXSTAR MEDIA INC.  All Rights Reserved


Section: US NEWS, US politics news & US STATE GOVERNMENT NEWS
Length: 376 words
Byline: Ailia Zehra
Body


Former Kentucky Attorney General Daniel Cameron (R), who  for the seat being vacated by Sen. Mitch McConnell (R), criticized his fellow Kentuckian for voting against confirming President Trump’s Cabinet picks, calling his decision “flat out wrong.”
McConnell had voted against confirming Pete Hegseth, Tulsi Gabbard and Robert F. Kennedy Jr. for secretary of Defense, director of national intelligence and secretary of Health and Human Services, respectively.
“You should expect a senator form Kentucky to vote for those nominees to advance the ‘America First’ agenda,” Cameron said in a .
“If I was in the Senate, I would have voted for those nominees because I recognize it reflects our values and it supports our agendum,” the Senate hopeful continued.
Expressing his support for Trump’s agenda, Cameron said he was the first elected official in Kentucky to endorse Trump for reelection. “I believe in him [Trump] and I believe in the ‘America Fist’ agenda,” he added. 
Cameron said he supports Trump’s stance on Ukraine, diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) and environmental, social and governance (ESG) practices. “You know my track record. As attorney general I was fighting for your constitutional rights.”
“Let’s quit sending money overseas. Let’s take care of our people here in Kentucky and across this great nation,” the Senate candidate said in the video message. 
McConnell, who is the longest-serving senator from the state and the longest-serving leader in Senate history, announced last week that he will not run for reelection next year. The announcement marked an end to his long tenure as one of the most influential Republicans in the country. McConnell said last year he would no longer serve as the GOP’s leader at the beginning of this Congress.
Cameron served as the legal counsel to McConnell for two years before becoming Kentucky’s first Black attorney general. Last week, he was spotted at a Black History Month reception hosted by Trump at the White House. 
During his time as attorney general, Cameron launched an unsuccessful gubernatorial bid in 2023, losing to Democratic incumbent Gov. Andy Beshear. 


Load-Date: February 24, 2025


End of Document
