




Indiana Daily Student: Indiana University
January 29, 2025 Wednesday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 623 words
Body


Gov. Mike Braun is pictured campaigning. Braun delivered his first state of state address Jan. 29, 2025.
Photo by Casey Smith | Indiana Capital Chronicle
/ The Indiana Daily Student
By
Adelyn Rabbitt
Jan 29, 2025 11:23 pm
· Updated Jan 29, 2025 11:24 pm
Indiana Gov. Mike Braun addressed the Indiana General Assembly for his first ever state of the state speech Jan. 29. He focused on topics including the economy, public safety, healthcare and education.  
Braun began his speech by saying he has been to every Indiana county each year for the past six years, visiting farms, schools, churches, homes and small businesses.  
"The state of the state is strong because Hoosiers are strong," he said.  
Economic plan 
Tax relief is high on Braun's agenda. He noted his budget aims to deliver "historic tax relief." He addressed hikes in property taxes, especially affecting seniors and young families, and recognized that wages are not keeping up with such increases.  
Braun outlined three priorities within his economic plan: cutting property taxes, capping annual tax increases and fostering economic reform through transparency. He said enforcing a tax cap is not "terribly difficult" and taxpayers' needs must be put above those of local governments and businesses.  
In order to make this cap feasible, he said, governments will "need to do more with a little less." He said he will continue to have discussions with local governments and school boards on protecting vital services.  
He added other priorities, including tax relief for seniors on a fixed retirement income, a tax-advantaged savings account for farmers and a tax credit for retiring farmers.  
Public safety 
Illegal immigration and police recruitment and retention are at the center of Braun's public safety platform. He said he will ensure police and other law enforcement agencies are well-paid and motivated.  
He said Indiana will not be a "safe haven for illegal immigration" and that Indiana will assist with President Trump's deportation efforts.  
"Indiana will do whatever we can to help secure our southern border and end this crisis that has brought deadly fentanyl and crime to our streets," Braun said.  
DEI versus MEI 
Braun said he knows diversity, equity and inclusion is a "sensitive subject." He discussed his decision to replace DEI with MEI, which stands for merit, excellence and innovation. Braun said though the concepts of DEI are hallmarks of America's beliefs, DEI mandates led to "division and inefficiency." He referenced MEI as a more inclusive approach to provide freedom and opportunities for Hoosiers. Braun's administration has been notably against DEI and cut state DEI programs.  
Healthcare 
A major healthcare priority of Braun's is pricing transparency and encouraging lower prices via market competition. Braun said his healthcare plan will address premium increases and rising drug prices. He mentioned in-progress audits to find waste within the healthcare spending.  
Education 
"We were in the middle of the pack, but now Indiana is ranked sixth in the nation in reading," Braun said, referencing the 2024 Nation's Report Card released Wednesday.  
Braun said every decision he makes on education will be focused on parents being in charge of their children's education, including his effort to make school choice universal. He also said he will work to take costs out of administration and  buildings that don't need to be so "deluxe" and put that money into teacher pay. He referenced SB 146, which would raise minimum public school teacher pay by $5,000 a year.  
Braun said there will be an Indiana Office of School Safety put into place to protect students. He highlighted the importance of providing hands-on training for high school students.  

Load-Date: January 30, 2025


End of Document
