




USA Today Online
February 2, 2025 8:00 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Section: ENTERTAINMENT: LATEST & US NEWS
Length: 2760 words
Byline: Charles Trepany and Kelly Lawler, USA TODAY
Body


 have come and gone – and music lovers have a lot of mixed feelings about music's biggest night.
 fans are probably feeling awesome right now. The singer took home three trophies, including one, finally, for album of the year. It was , however, as  lost every category she competed in. So did .
But that’s not all.  swept,  picked up two wins and  came out on top in arguably the most competitive best new artist race in recent years. Plus there was bold fashion, high-energy  and plenty of touching tributes to Los Angeles, which hosted the ceremony after being ravaged by wildfires in one of our country's worst natural disasters.
There was a lot packed into one awards show, but we’ve got you covered. Here are all the highlights from the 67th annual Grammys.

Beyoncé finally wins album of the year; Taylor Swift leaves empty-handed
At long last: .
After about (checks notes) a gazillion nominations and a long, long career, Beyoncé finally won album of the year, for the country-tinged “Cowboy Carter.” Her daughter Blue Ivy led her by the hand to the stage in a sweet moment.
During her acceptance speech, Beyoncé took a moment to acknowledge and praise Los Angeles firefighters, some of whom announced the contenders and her win. She said she feels “very full and very honored” and that “it’s been very many years” leading up to her win. No kidding.
More: 
Swift, on the other hand, ended the night  in a sharp contrast to last year, when she picked up her fourth album of the year award. Still, she didn’t seem to care; she and Jay-Z clinked their glasses in cheers after Beyoncé’s win. Beyhive members around the world are surely raising their glasses in celebration too.

Kendrick Lamar swept his categories – record and song of the year − and honestly, what I wish I could have seen more than his acceptance speeches was Drake’s reaction. Lamar dropped the track “Not Like Us” amid  that saw them both trade scathing barbs back-and-forth in songs, including serious allegations of abuse. "Not Like Us" is a diss track aimed at Drake, and Drake . Clearly the Recording Academy is team Lamar.
Despite the track’s harsh origin, Lamar gave acceptance speeches that were much more mild. His first paid tribute to his home city of Los Angeles and offered encouragement to those wanting to rebuild the city after the fires. That message might be one of the only things he and Drake could both agree on.
Grammy winners full list: 

Taylor Swift loses again asLady Gaga, Bruno Mars win best pop duo/group performance
Is Swift – dare we say – going to be the big loser of the night? After sweeping the Grammys last year, she lost two of her categories. Lady Gaga and Bruno Mars won best pop duo/group performance for their song “Die with a Smile,” beating Swift and Gracie Abrams, who were nominated for their song “Us.” Stay strong, Swifties – there’s still album of the year, record of the year and song of the year to go.
More: 
Gaga continued the trend of giving acceptance speeches with political undertones. “I just want to say tonight that trans people are not invisible,” she said. “The queer community deserves to be lifted up. Music is love. Thank you.”

After winning best Latin pop album for "Las Mujeres Ya No Lloran," Shakira gave a shout-out to fellow immigrants, dedicating her trophy to them. Her speech took on deeper resonance amid .
“I want to dedicate this award to all my immigrant brothers and sisters in this country,” she said. “You are loved, you are worth it and I will always fight with you.”
She added: “To all of those women who work really hard every day to provide for their families, you are the true she-wolves.”

Throughout the entire show, host Trevor Noah had been hyping up something big. Now, it’s finally here. What could it be? Will Beyoncé and Miley Cyrus duet their hit from “Cowboy Carter”? Will a legend like Dolly Parton return to sing Beyoncé’s version of “Jolene” with her? Is Swift finally going to announce “Reputation (Taylor’s Version)”? Sorry, Beyhive and Swifties – none of those things are happening.
Instead, the big announcement was… ! That’s right, he was boycotting the ceremony − remember? Because I didn’t.
More: 
Recording Academy CEO Harvey Mason Jr. took the stage to announce updates to the organization’s voting body, saying its members are now younger and more diverse. Because of that, The Weeknd has decided to end his Grammys boycott. And that’s not all! He’s performing too.
Listen, if the Recording Academy wants to publicly pat itself on the back, they have every right to do that – it’s their show after all. But can they at least not lead viewers on by making us think a music legend was actually taking the stage? The Weeknd's performance was fine, but it was certainly not worth all that hype.
It’s also worth noting that The Weeknd’s big Grammys return is coming just as he has . How big of him. You can practically feel the forgiveness, healing and reconciliation through the television screen.

Chappell Roan wins best new artist, advocates for healthcare
Pink Pony Club, rise!  is this year’s Grammys .
Victoria Monét, last year’s winner, announced the category, arguably the most competitive of this year’s ceremony. “That’s a tough category,” she remarked after reading out the stacked nominees list, which included Carpenter, Shaboozey, Doechii, Teddy Swims, Benson Boone and RAYE. You can say that again, Monét.
'Do you got us?' 
Roan, always one to speak up about things she believes in (for better or worse), took the opportunity to press record labels to provide a “livable wage” as well as adequate healthcare to their up-and-coming artists. It’s a struggle she said she knows personally: Roan, who’s been dropped by a label before, said she knows what it’s like to not have healthcare.
“Labels, we got you, but do you got us?” she asked.

Taylor Swift announces Beyoncé’s big country win
If any artist knows about bending and breaking genres, it’s Swift, who started off in country and eventually became an all-around pop music sensation.
At the Grammys, she announced the winner for best country album: Beyoncé's “Cowboy Carter”!
Beyoncé looked shocked at the announcement, with her eyes wide as she stood. “Wow, I really was not expecting this,” she said from the stage. “I think sometimes 'genre' is a code word to keep us in our place as artists, and I just want to encourage people to do what they’re passionate about and to stay consistent.”
It was a sweet moment to watch the two biggest stars in music onstage together and, dare we say,  for each other. Here’s to more grace and genre-breaking for everyone in 2025.

Sabrina Carpenter beats Taylor Swift for best pop vocal album
Is the era of Swift sweeping every Grammys category officially over? Has the coven of the Recording Academy declared a new supreme?
Carpenter took home the trophy for best pop vocal album, beating industry veterans Ariana Grande, newcomer Roan and, arguably the biggest artist in the world right now, Ms. Swift, whom Carpenter opened for on the record-breaking Eras tour.
Swift seemed overjoyed at Carpenter’s win, jumping up from her seat and cheering like a proud mom. And speaking of moms, even though Carpenter was visibly flustered, she still remembered to shout hers out in her acceptance speech: “I want to thank my mom for driving me to every voice lesson.
More: 

Doechii becomes third woman to win best rap album
We’re only one category in, and history has already been made at this year's Grammys.
Doechii became the third woman ever to win best rap album, taking home the trophy for her mixtape “Alligator Bites Never Heal.” She gave an emotional speech that also shouted out Lauryn Hill and Cardi B, the two women winners who came before her. Carbi B announced the category.
Doechii ended her speech with a direct message to Black women watching: “You can do it. Anything is possible. … Don’t allow anybody to project any stereotypes on you.” Gayle King clearly resonated, appearing to shout "preach" from her seat in the audience.

Grammys kick off with touching LA tribute after wildfire disaster
The Grammys had a somber start and for good reason – as host Noah noted, the awards show comes on the heels of major wildfires that ravaged Los Angles, one of the worst natural disasters in the country’s history. Dawes, a band that Noah says lost their childhood home and instruments in the fires,  with revised lyrics referencing the fires. The star-studded backing band included John Legend, Brad Paisley, Sheryl Crow, Brittany Howard and St. Vincent. Swift seemed to vibe with it, bobbing her head from her seat in the background. It was a more subdued intro than most Grammys watchers are probably used to, but it was necessary. The wildfires were an elephant in the room that needed addressing, lest the awards show come off tone deaf, which is the last thing fans want tonight. Before the first break, the show also gave some ad time to a local LA business, . They also encouraged people watching from home to .

Ah, the Grammys. Music’s biggest night. The epitome of class, grace, elegance and – oh my, what is ’s wife doing?
That was basically our reaction when West – er, excuse me, “Ye,” – walked onto the  with his wife . As if their mere presence wasn’t enough of a shock, in , Censori dropped her black coat in front of photographers to pose in… literally nothing. Yep, she was in some kind of tight, see-through ensemble that basically exposed, well, everything. I can only imagine the irate conversations happening among Recording Academy producers right now.

If the shocking moment bodes anything for the main show tonight, we better buckle up for whatever the rest of the evening might hold.
Grammys 2025 red carpet live updates: 
The Beatles are still winning Grammys in 2025
The Beatles can't stop and won't be stopped. The 2023 "new" song from one of the most popular bands of all time, "Now and Then," managed a win for best rock performance. The late John Lennon's son Sean happened to be in the crowd (he won for another category), and was beyond excited to accept for his dad's band. "Play The Beatles for your kids," he implored the audience. He doesn't have much to worry about: kids love the Beatles, "yeah yeah yeah." A few categories later the Beatles' contemporaries, The Rolling Stones, won best rock album for "Hackney Diamonds." A good day for classic rock.
Jimmy Carter wins posthumous Grammy for audiobook narration
President Jimmy Carter, who died December 29, won a Grammy award for his audiobook "Last Sundays In Plains: A Centennial Celebration." His grandson Jason accepted the award: "I believe it means so much at this moment in our country and in our history," he said, thanking the world for the outpouring of support his family has received since the former president died at age 100. It's Carter's fourth Grammy win.
Kendrick Lamar and 'Not Like Us' win three Grammys a week before Super Bowl halftime performance
Is Drake following along at home? Because what may be the next entry in the long-running feud between rappers Drake and Lamar occurred at the Grammys' early awards when Lamar's  won best rap performance, best rap song and best music video. The two artists have traded allegations and insults in diss tracks,  between two high-profile hip hop artists that culminated with Lamar's "Not Like Us" becoming a hit last May and a federal lawsuit about the song filed this month by Drake. The song Lamar calling Drake a "certified pedophile" and the accompanying artwork for the track contained an aerial view of Drake's mansion outside of Toronto, with red sex offender symbols placed on the home. More escalation could follow at Super Bowl LIX on Feb. 9 when Lamar performs, presumably including "Not Like Us" on his set list, in front of tens of millions watching the halftime performance.
Beyoncé and 'Cowboy Carter' nab a country Grammy
That’s Grammy-award winning country artist Beyoncé to you! The mega superstar won her first Grammy of the night for best country duo/group performance with Cyrus for their duet "II MOST WANTED." But Bey lost out on best country solo performance to Chris Stapleton and best country song to Kacey Musgraves. Musgraves was the rare A-lister to show up to the pre-show to accept her trophy in person. “There’s so much darkness in the world right now, and it feels so good to be able to fight that darkness through song," she said.
Charli XCX gets first ever Grammy by going 'BRAT'
'BRAT' summer may be over, but that doesn't mean Charli XCX is slowing down. The electronica artist and lime-green fashion influencer won her first Grammy for best pop dance recording for her song "Von Dutch," and then won her second Grammy soon after for best dance/electronic music album for her viral 2025 album 'BRAT.' The album also won later in the ceremony for best recording package. Very cool, very brat.
Sabrina Carpenter wins first Grammy of the night with 'Espresso' 
A sign of things to come? Carpenter won the first Grammy award of 2025 for best pop solo performance for her smash summer anthem "Espresso," but the "Short N' Sweet" performer wasn't there to grab her trophy. She also won best remixed recording alongside Mark Ronson and FNZ for “Espresso (Mark Ronson x FNZ Working Late Remix).” We'll see her later at the televised ceremony, and maybe with a few more wins? She is also nominated for the big four categories: song of the year, record of the year, album of the year and best new artist.
DEI may be out with Trump, but it's very much in at the Grammys
"This is going to get political, but I promise you I will bring you nothing but joy," said Grammy nominee Justin Tranter, a songwriter nominated for song of the year for his work on Roan's "Good Luck, Babe!" The musician, who has penned tunes for Britney Spears and Grande among many others, helped kick off the ceremony with opening remarks that directly referred to President Trump's policies and executive orders that have affected people of color and members of the LGTBTQ community. His mention of the Recording Academy's "diversity equity and inclusion team" (which provided ASL interpreters for the ceremony) got a big round of applause from the audience. His passionate speech came after Tammy Hurt, chair of the Recording Academy's board of trustees, similarly celebrated Grammy diversity, calling out her own queer identity to great applause.
Early Grammy Awards kick off with touching tribute to LA amid wildfire crisis
A bevy of talented Grammy nominees including Wayne Brady (here for his nominated musical theater album, "The Wiz"), sang a heartfelt arrangement of Simon & Garfunkel's "Bridge Over Troubled Water" while images of the devastated city of Los Angeles flashed on the screen behind them. The powerful performance also included Angélique Kidjo (nominated for global music performance), Scott Hoying (nominated for arrangement, instrumental or classic), Deborah Cox (nominated for musical theater album), Taj Mahal (nominated for American roots performance and blues album) and Yolanda Adams (nominated for gospel performance/song). Getting the also-talented audience involved, there was plenty to dance about even before a single award had been given out.
Contributing: Mark Giannotto,Anika Reed, KiMi Robinson, Jay Stahl
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: February 3, 2025


End of Document
