




Forbes.com
February 2, 2025 Sunday


Copyright 2025 Forbes LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 600 words
Byline: Siladitya Ray, Forbes Staff
Highlight: The top award of the night was awarded by Los Angeles County firefighters, who received a standing ovation.
Body


Topline
Beyonce s  Cowboy Carter  won the album of the year prize at the 2025 Grammy Awards on Sunday night while Kendrick Lamar s diss track  Not Like Us  won both song and record of the year along with three other prizes.
<figure>
<figcaption>
Beyoncé accepts the Album of the Year award for "COWBOY CARTER" onstage during the 67th Annual GRAMMY Awards at Crypto.com Arena in Los Angeles, California.
Getty Images for The Recording Academy
</figcaption></figure>
Key Facts
Beyonce, who is the awarded artist in Grammys history, had never won the album of the year prize before Sunday night.
In her acceptance speech, Beyonce said she felt  very full and very honored  and dedicated the prize to pioneering Black country music artist Linda Martell saying:  I wanna dedicate this to Miss Martell, and I hope we just keep pushing forward, opening doors. 
Beyonce s album also won best country album and  II Most Wanted,  which she performed with Miley Cyrus won best country duo/group performance.
Rapper Kendrick Lamar was the night s biggest winner, with his diss track  Not Like Us  taking home the prizes in five categories record of the year, song of the year, best rap performance, best rap song and best music video.
In his acceptance speech, the Los Angeles native Lamar said  We re going to dedicate this one to the city,  which has been devastated by the recent wildfires.
Get Forbes Breaking News Text Alerts: We re launching text message alerts so you'll always know the biggest stories shaping the day s headlines. Text  Alerts  to  or sign up .
<figure>
<figcaption>
Kendrick Lamar wins the award for Song of the Year at the Grammy Awards.
CBS via Getty Images
</figcaption></figure>
Who Were The Other Big Winners Of The Night?
Chappell Roan won the best new artist prize and in her acceptance speech she called out record label executives saying she told herself if she ever won a Grammy she would  demand that labels in the industry profiting millions of dollars off of artists would offer a livable wage and health care, especially developing artists.  Sabrina Carpenter scored two wins with her song  Espresso  winning the best solo pop performance prize and album  Short n  Sweet  winning best pop vocal album. Lady Gaga and Bruno Mars   Die With a Smile  won best pop duo/group performance. Charli XCX won the best dance/electronic album and the best recording package awards for  Brat  along with best dance pop recording for the song  Von Dutch. 
What Were Some Of The Big Political Statements Made At The Grammys?
Alicia Keys, who won the Dr. Dre Global Impact Award, pushed back against right wing attacks on diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) initiatives in her acceptance speech.  DEI is not a threat, it s a gift. And the more voices, the more powerful the sound. When destructive forces try to burn us down, we rise from the ashes like a phoenix,  Keys said. During her acceptance speech, Lady Gaga spoke up for transgender people who have been a key target of the Trump administration s policies saying:  Trans people are not invisible. Trans people deserve love. The queer community deserves to be lifted up. Music is love.  In her acceptance speech, Shakira, who won best Latin Pop Album prize, dedicated her award to  all of my immigrant brothers and sisters in this country. You are loved, you re worth it and I will always fight for you. 
Big Number
35. That is the total number of Grammys won by Beyonce in her career, the most by any artist in history.
Further Reading
Grammy Winners 2025: Kendrick Lamar Leads With 5 Wins for  Not Like Us,  Beyoncé and Charli XCX Follow With 3 Each(Variety)

Load-Date: February 4, 2025


End of Document
