




thetimes.co.uk
February 27, 2025 Thursday 7:20 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 680 words
Byline: Alex Ralph, Chief Business Correspondent | Louisa Clarence-Smith, US Business Editor
Highlight: Review finds CEO’s package is in the lower quartile of a group of global biopharma companies and ‘insufficient to reward her performance’
Body


The total pay of Dame Emma Walmsley could rise to up to £21.6 million a year under a new remuneration policy designed to bring GSK closer into line with US pharma companies.
A review by GSK has concluded that the current pay package of Walmsley, 55, is in the lower quartile of a newly benchmarked group of global biopharma companies and is “insufficient either to reward her performance, or to provide the appropriate capacity for succession”. 
The review also found that Walmsley’s pay was closer to that of a “number two” chief financial officer role, “making attracting external talent challenging”.
Since becoming chief executive in 2017, 
 the separation of GSK’s consumer healthcare business 
 as part of a major strategic shift to become a standalone biopharma company.
GSK this month raised its 2031 group revenue outlook to more than £40 billion — £7 billion more than set out four years ago before the separation of Haleon — and launched a £2 billion share buyback in a sign of confidence in the revival of its drugs pipeline. However, it has so far failed to lift the share price, which has fallen about 13 per cent over the past 12 months.

GSK is the latest London-listed company to seek to reward its top executives with US-style pay. AstraZeneca, Britain’s biggest pharma company, and Smith & Nephew, the medical equipment company, both faced shareholder revolts over changes last year but their policies were ultimately passed.
In its annual report issued on Thursday, before a shareholder meeting in May, GSK’s remuneration committee said it “recognises that if GSK operated solely within the UK, the 2025 policy proposal could be viewed differently”, but it said the changes “are essential to move towards competitive performance-related pay opportunity in the context of GSK’s global operations”.
The London-based company intends to benchmark executive pay against 13 global biopharma companies including AstraZeneca, Merck, Moderna and Pfizer.
Walmsley’s total package for 2024 was £10.6 million, down from a company record £12.7 million in 2023, due to lower performance pay. Her salary was almost £1.4 million.
Sir Pascal Soriot, who has transformed AstraZeneca’s pipeline, prospects and share price as chief executive, 
, down from £17.4 million, while Rob Davis, the boss of Merck, was paid $20.3 million in 2023, Stéphane Bancel at Moderna made $17.1 million and Albert Bourla at Pfizer received $21.6 million, US filings show.

GSK’s proposals, which follow close consultation with shareholders, include Walmsley’s long-term share incentive award increasing from a maximum of six times her base salary to eight times and could mean a maximum pay of £21.6 million, should the share price rise by at least 50 per cent.
The committee said the pay changes meant it was more focused on the delivery of its drugs pipeline and reflected the US as its largest market, representing more than 52 per cent of sales, compared with 2 per cent from the UK, and its largest employer globally.
A spokesman said: “The proposed changes to our executive remuneration policy further strengthen the link between management and shareholder interests, with higher rewards contingent on industry-leading R&D progress and shareholder returns.”
s annual report also showed that it would make changes to its diversity targets, including “no longer setting aspirational targets for our leadership and supplier programmes”. 
A spokesman said: “We remain committed to operating as a responsible business with an inclusive culture that welcomes different perspectives and experiences. We have paused, and in some cases, stopped, certain initiatives to ensure we remain compliant with the law in the countries in which we operate, including the United States.”
A number of big companies in the US have scaled back commitments following a backlash from President Trump to diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) targets.

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
