




The Lanthorn: Grand Valley State University
January 27, 2025 Monday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 622 words
Body


Like other students at Grand Valley State University, I have become increasingly anxious about the state of America following the inauguration of President Donald J. Trump on Monday, Jan. 20. The inauguration was notably attended by wealthy tech executives and several high-ranking politicians from both parties. The occasion was also filled with much of the hyper-nationalistic rhetoric we have come to expect from Trump, who declared that America would "pursue (its) manifest destiny into the stars." While the speech captured many people's attention, it was Trump's actions soon after that became the main cause of alarm. 
Within hours of entering office, Trump began a wave of executive orders and plans, including, but not limited to, the pardoning of all involved in the Jan. 6 Capitol riot, a requirement that all federal employees stop working remotely and even a rename of the Gulf Of Mexico to the "Gulf Of America." Most concerning, however, are Trump's attacks on immigration and diversity.
Regarding immigration, Trump has already put U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement into action in cities across America, detaining hundreds at a rapid pace. This painful process seems likely to continue for the coming months, with even more updates and escalations expected from the Oval Office. Trump is already looking to end birthright citizenship, although this has faced legal challenges. As for his attacks on diversity, Trump signed an executive order ending "illegal DEI and 'diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility' mandates, policies, programs, preferences and activities in the Federal Government."
It is with this context that I wish to address Grand Valley State University's administration. I address the University's administration as a student concerned for the safety, well-being and future of many of my peers who are at risk by Trump. As of yet, ICE has not targeted GVSU, however, this is far from guaranteed to last. Undocumented students at GVSU have put their trust in this institution for the sake of their education and the opportunity of a better life. I plead with University administration to take the side of students who have put their money, trust and their future into University hands. This will only become more essential in the event Trump is successful in ending birthright citizenship. Active steps must be taken to protect undocumented students from these cruel, inhumane crackdowns. 
There is a similar urgency for action regarding the attacks on diversity by Trump's administration. The attacks on DEI at the federal level will inevitably make their way to Allendale in due time. Now, more than ever, we must call on the University to strengthen its commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion on campus. Unfortunately, GVSU has had a shoddy record when it comes to DEI programs, which most notably culminated in a protest in March 2024. However, I see the coming DEI challenges as an opportunity for the University to reaffirm its commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion. Support for these programs will soon cease to be solely a "nice thing" to put on University brochures. 
I would like to end this article with an excerpt from GVSU's University Policies, section 1.3, which states, "Inclusive and Equitable Community: fosters and sustains a sense of belonging, promotes diversity and respect, and addresses systemic issues that impact outcomes for those who have been historically excluded from higher education. Inclusion and equity are experienced through our physical campuses and in digital environments, as well as our interpersonal, institutional, and community engagements." For the sake of so many students at risk, I ask the University to not forget these words. 

Load-Date: January 27, 2025


End of Document
