




The Collegian: University of Richmond
February 6, 2025 Thursday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 374 words
Byline: Nick Mossman Ava Jenks
Body


University of Richmond students pressed President Kevin Hallock on university measures to protect diversity, equity and inclusion and federal student grants and loans at the President's Forum on Tuesday evening.
Richmond and Westhampton College Student Government presidents and seniors Alfie Price and Amal Ali joined President Hallock on stage to facilitate the forum.
The Mortar Board, a national honor society of about 25 students and the event's host, preselected three questions covering themes of leadership, university decision-making and equitable development.
The themes were inspired by questions submitted in the registration form and given to President Hallock ahead of the forum, senior and president of the Mortar Board Katherine Thomey said. Students engaged in a live Q&A with President Hallock, Price and Ali after the preselected questions were answered.
"I wanted to know, in the face of current rollbacks on such programs in both the federal government, as well as in private companies, if the university will be taking any steps to further expand DEI programs in the upcoming years," senior Christian Herald asked.
The question comes after President Donald Trump's executive order on Jan. 22 to halt government DEI programs and threaten to suspend funding to universities with DEI policies.
"I do want you to understand our deep commitment to belonging in the community," President Hallock responded. "Our mission is unchanged. Our commitments are unchanged. Our values haven't changed."
President Hallock also noted the addition of a DEI Board Committee to the university's Board of Trustees.
Senior Ryan Doherty questioned the university's response to Trump's attack on federal student grants and loans.
"Is there anything that the university can do for students that are relying on federal loans and Pell Grants to come here?" Doherty asked.
Trump has called to close the Department of Education, which would redistribute student loans to another department.
"Multiple people in this room are working on that very issue," President Hallock responded. "It's my responsibility, and some other leaders of the university, to be paying very close attention to exactly what's happening so that we can make sure our students are supported."

Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
