




Fox News THE STORY WITH MARTHA MACCALLUM 3:00 PM EST
February 20, 2025 Thursday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS
Length: 6698 words
Byline: Martha MacCallum, Greg Palkot, Dagen McDowell, Will Cain, ; Marie Harf; Mary Katharine Ham; Griff Jenkins
Guests: Kelly Loeffler, John Cornyn; Tom Homan
Body


[15:00:00]
MARTHA MACCALLUM, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: That is the busy world that we live in. Thank you, John and Sandra. Good afternoon, everybody. I'm Martha MacCallum, and this is The Story.
After delivering a speech that sent a lot of shock waves and woke up folks in Europe, Vice President J.D. Vance back here at home carrying that same energy for the mission to the Conservative Political Action Conference today, Axios calling this the mega MAGA first month of the Trump presidency that is, quote, in their words, transforming America.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
J.D. VANCE, U.S. VICE PRESIDENT: It's hard to believe we've only been in office for a month, because I think we've done more in a month than Biden did in about four years, and thank God for that. But, you know, the president keeps us on a pretty breakneck pace.
The whole goal of President Trump's agenda, like safety and prosperity, right, it's pretty common sense stuff. We've done more on energy under President Trump's leadership than I think any administration in history. And that's not an exaggeration. And, of course, we're going to do more.
We're going to make it affordable to live in this country again. That's our mandate. That's our goal.
Our message to the drug traffickers is get the hell out of our country. Your free ride is over because President Trump is back in the Oval Office.
Follow the lead of Donald J. Trump and that's free speech, borders and sovereignty. That is the future for our shared civilization.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
So, Border Czar Tom Homan, a crucial part of carrying out that immigration piece of that, he joins me in just a few minutes, but first to Outkick Columnist, Mary Katharine Ham and former State Department Spokesperson under President Obama Marie Harf, both are Fox News contributors. Great to have both of you with us.
You know, it's interesting. Marie, let me start with you when he was asked, you know, what's your message to drug traffickers? He said, get the hell out of our country. I don't remember hearing a message like that from the last border czar, Kamala Harris, or from Mayorkas, for that matter. What's your take on that?
MARIE HARF, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Well, immigration was obviously one of the Trump Vance campaign's key messages. And we saw from polling one of the main reasons that many people voted for them. They're deporting about the number of people that Barack Obama's administration deported. Obviously, they're looking at other things like sending people to Gitmo, Rebuilding parts of the wall, et cetera. So I think that the focus on immigration is a good one.
The problem, Martha, is that in the first 30 days, they've moved so fast to break things that they're also firing veterans and ending children's cancer research so kids with cancer won't be able to get cured. So, they're doing a bunch of things they promised. They're also blowing up a lot of stuff that impacts people across the country, including in red states, including in places they really care about. So, they're doing both at the same time. It's really a mixed bag sitting here 30 days in.
MACCALLUM: Well, Mary Katharine, I mean, it's not as if the former president's policies didn't hurt people along the way. And nobody wants to see anyone get hurt as a result of presidential policy. But what's your response to what Marie says?
MARY KATHARINE HAM, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Yes. I think it doesn't go great making the pitch to the American public that the only victims of any policy are federal workers, right? Like there is a giant bureaucracy. There are 2.0 something million workers, and a lot of people recognize as voters like, hey, there's probably some of that that is not using our money well. And, frankly, Elon Musk's megaphone and explaining that to people is going to be helpful for people understanding that. And I think they're learning things that they never knew before, including the extraordinary protections that civil service workers have that normal workers do not have, right? So, I think that's an interesting argument to be having.
I think you'll get a lot of credit for moving fast on enforcement of immigration. The numbers of people coming over at the border is already so much lower that they're actually gaining credit for that right now. And I think one of the reasons that media coverage has moved over to DOGE is because people will be happy about the results on enforcements. They've moved on to another thing.
But, look, I think there, there can be consequences to moving fast and breaking things if you break the wrong thing. It is the opposite of philosophy of the federal government. The federal government is never careful, but it's careful in this like profligate ridiculous way where they just add things and say, we're doing a great job.
This is the explain yourself era for the bureaucracy, and they're going to have to do some of that. And I think the contrast of having basically a president in absentia for a couple of years versus this very fast pace, people are willing to give them a chance because they had this experience where a guy didn't seem to be leading and now they have someone who does.
[15:05:01]
MACCALLUM: Yes, I think they've heard for so long that, you know, these changes would be made and that things were going to be more efficient. And I do think that the move fast and break things once in a while leading in several cases, as we've all seen to the rehiring of people who are essential. But I think that the philosophy is, you know, scrape it down and then add what needs to be added based on where the need is in the government.
With regard to Zelenskyy and Putin, Marie, obviously, you were the spokesperson at the State Department, this is what J.D. Vance had to say about how -- you know, about the approach to this from the White House and from President Trump. Watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
VANCE: He, of course, is a very good negotiator, a very good businessman. He recognizes that a lot of these issues are tough. It's going to take a smart statesman to figure this stuff out, but we've got that in the White House and I really believe that we're in the cusp of peace in Europe for the first time in three years.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: We've heard from Michael Waltz that there's a frustration at the moment between Zelenskyy and Trump. I think that's pretty evident, but that the goal, as J.D. Vance points out there, the vice president, is to have peace in Europe for the first time in several years, Marie.
HARF: That's all of our goal. We all want this war to win. But I cannot emphasize enough how what President Trump is saying about Zelenskyy and Ukraine, more broadly, blaming Ukraine for starting this war, which they did not do, is so contrary to decades of American foreign policy that stands up to dictators that helped win World War Two and fight fascism and then in the Cold War defeated the Soviet Union and defeated communism. That was the cornerstone of American leadership.
And for President Trump to come in and side with Vladimir Putin over and over and over again, and for J.D. Vance to go to Europe and meet with a neo-Nazi party in Germany and then criticize our European allies, look, could we do things better with Ukraine? Sure. But this is not the American leadership that Democrats and Republicans like Marco Rubio for decades have talked about. This is a sea change and we'll see how that plays out for our allies in Europe.
MACCALLUM: I think we have seen time and time again that President Trump does things that shock and that are often part of a negotiating tactic. We will have to watch and see where this goes. But we know what the endgame is, and he has said that very clearly that he wants the killing to stop. He wants there to be peace in this region. So, this is an evolving story. We'll keep a close eye on it. Thank you both for being here, Marie Harf, Mary Katharine Ham, great to have you both here.
So, still ahead, Border Czar Tom Homan, President Trump's new small business administrator, Kelly Loeffler, just confirmed, and Texas Senator John Cornyn on the confirmation just moments ago of FBI director, Kash Patel.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. JOHN CORNYN (R-TX): Your biggest task is going to be along with Pam Bondy at the office of the attorney general is to restore the rule of law to the Department of Justice and the FBI. Are you willing to do that?
KASH PATEL, FBI DIRECTOR NOMINEE: Absolutely, Senator.
CORNYN: Without regard to partisan affiliation or politics?
PATEL: Absolutely.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
[15:10:00]
MACCALLUM: Breaking today, the Senate voting 51 to 49 to confirm Kash Patel as the ninth director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Patel telling Fox News Digital just moments ago, quote, the American people deserve an FBI that is transparent, accountable and committed to justice. The politicalization of our justice system has eroded public trust, but that ends today.
He also went on to say that he's warning those who seek to harm Americans that the Bureau will, quote, hunt you down in every corner of this planet, a similar message today to all of that in his heated confirmation hearing last month. Watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PATEL: The only thing that will matter if I'm confirmed as a director of the FBI is a deweaponized, depoliticized system of law enforcement completely devoted to rigorous obedience to the Constitution and a singular standard of justice, make sure we don't have 100,000 rapes in this country next year, make sure we don't have 100,000 drug overdoses from Chinese fentanyl and Mexican heroin and make sure we don't have 17,000 homicides. Those numbers need to be cut in half immediately.
Mr. Schiff?
SEN. ADAM SCHIFF (D-CA): Yes or no, would they be fit to be director?
PATEL: I am fit to be the director of the FBI.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: Long-term career as a prosecutor in Florida and working in counterterrorism, first in the Obama administration, Kash Patel will now be the next director of the FBI.
Let's bring in Texas Republican Senator John Cornyn, he serves on the Finance, Judiciary and Intelligence Committees. Senator, always good to have you.
CORNYN: Thank you.
MACCALLUM: You were instrumental in this nomination process and this hearing process for Kash Patel. Tell us what Americans should understand about how things will be different under him when he becomes director.
CORNYN: Well, Martha, two of the most important institutions in America are the Department of Justice and the FBI. And as you know, they've lost their way under previous administrations. But dating back to even when President Trump was in office, James Comey basically weaponized the FBI to the detriment of Hillary Clinton. So, that was a bipartisan way that they essentially abused their power. But then James Comey got upset because President Trump let him go and he went on the war path basically to make sure that a special counsel would be appointed.
[15:15:03]
The management, upper management of the FBI started the crossfire hurricane investigation based on a bogus Steel dossier, which essentially, as it turned out, ended up being the opposition research from the Hillary Clinton campaign in 2016.
So, I am really happy to hear Kash Patel say he's going to restore the FBI to his traditional role as a law enforcement agency without regard to party or politics. And that's exactly what I believe he will do.
MACCALLUM: That investigation was real low point for the FBI as we watched it unfold in and fall apart under the weight of its own untruths in the end. And people -- only 40 percent of Americans feel good, feel that the FBI is in good or excellent shape. That's a very pathetic number for the agency. And we all hope that the agency will have much higher numbers than that.
Very strong record in terms of confirmations so far, he is number 19. We can put this up on the board and get a look for the folks at home at how many are cruising through this process.
And, you know, I think that there was the feeling, Senator Cornyn, that a lot of these were going to be very rocky. And I think that it's probably to the dismay of these Democrat senators who are standing out on the street corner bemoaning the fact that Kash Patel was getting through. Here's what they have to say and here's the picture of them out there.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. DICK DURBIN (D-IL): My Senate Republican colleagues are willing, willfully ignoring myriad red flags about Mr. Patel.
SCHIFF: This political hack does not deserve to be in this building.
SEN. SHELDON WHITEHOUSE (D-RI): Kash Patel, mark my words. Republicans will cause evil in this building behind us and Republicans who vote for him will rue that day.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: So there's the picture. It was pretty lonely out there for those senators in the cold on the corner by the FBI. Your reaction to that effort on their part, Senator?
CORNYN: Well, my Democratic colleagues want to act like November the 5th never happened, but actually the election was a repudiation of the Biden administration, including its Department of Justice and FBI and President Trump and his nominees, Pam Bondi as attorney general, Kash Patel as the FBI director, have promised to restore these institutions, these critical institutions to their former glory and role. And as we discussed, obviously that does not involve politics. Those are left to the other branches of government, the Congress, and the executive branch.
And so, I'm sure my Democratic colleagues are upset but they are basically wanting to deny the mandate that President Trump got and the repudiation of the Biden record and the Biden Justice Department and FBI on November 5th.
MACCALLUM: Pardon me, all these individuals now have an opportunity to prove themselves to the American people and we hope to see these numbers of confidence in these agencies go up. And we hope to see transnational gangs and crime on the decline in this country and a focus from the FBI on making us all safer.
Senator Cornyn, always great to have you here. Thank you very much, sir.
CORNYN: Thank you, Martha.
MACCALLUM: So, breaking just moments ago, Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth sending Republicans on Capitol Hill a list of top generals and other military officers that he is thinking about firing, that according to a senior U.S. official. We are told this may not be the final list, but so far no notifications have gone out to the military services that may be involved. But we did hear from the secretary of defense that, like every other agency in the administration, they would go through and they would figure out who was serving the mission of this administration and who was not. So, we'll get you more on that as we get more information coming in.
In the meantime, Border Czar Tom Homan, another busy man on the Trump administration's move to stop taxpayer money from funding hundreds of millions, billions of dollars, to provide services for illegal immigrants, which is actually against U.S. law, when we come back.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
VANCE: So many of our issues come back to the border because if you take 30, 40 million illegal aliens, you take Medicare fraud, Social Security fraud. Why are we taking the people's Social Security payments and giving it to illegal aliens?
Get illegal aliens out of our country. Make sure American tax dollars go to American people. That is how you solve the fiscal crisis in the United States of America.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
[15:20:00]
MACCALLUM: So, taxpayer funded benefits to illegal migrants, the target of President Trump's latest executive order. It requires agencies to weed out federally funded programs giving money to migrants and aims to stop states from spending federal money to support sanctuary policies.
Border Czar Tom Homan is here, but first to national correspondent Griff Jenkins reporting live from Washington. Hi, Griff.
GRIFF JENKINS, FOX NEWS NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hi, Martha. You know, for years, border officials have been warning that free stuff like federal financial benefits are a major pull factor or magnet driving illegal immigration, that's now going away. All departments and agencies are now directed to identify and end any program that provides the financial benefits to illegal migrants. And it comes, Martha, as the Congressional Budget Office estimates current benefits for illegal migrants over the next ten years would include more than $175 billion. You see here for Obamacare, Medicaid, tax credits, and food stamps. And, in fact, the Manhattan Institute also estimates that the cost of every new illegal immigrant is about $130,000.
The order also mandates improvements in welfare eligibility verification. This is an important part because recall back in 1996, President Clinton signed a law to end welfare abuse, barring illegal migrants from receiving a wide range of benefits. But under the Biden administration, some became eligible after they got paroled into the U.S. in those programs like CHNB and the CBP1 app.
[15:25:00]
Martha?
MACCALLUM: Okay. Griff, thank you very much.
With that, we bring in President Trump's border czar, Tom Homan. Good to have you with us, Tom.
You know, I want to play a couple soundbites. This is Bill Clinton and President Obama talking about curbing these kinds of policies and entitlements for people who are here illegally. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BILL CLINTON, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT: By cracking down on illegal hiring, by barring welfare benefits to illegal aliens, in the budget I will present to you, we will try to do more to speed the deportation of illegal aliens who are arrested for crimes.
BARACK OBAMA, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT: All of us take offense to anyone who reaps the rewards of living in America without taking on the responsibilities of living in America.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: So, that was the language of those former presidents, Tom. We did not hear a lot of that from President Biden. And now President Trump is rolling back and reinstituting really this congressional law that prohibits spending federal dollars on these different programs for people who are here illegally. Is that another deterrence aspect? I mean, how do you think that impacts the numbers that you have to deal with?
TOM HOMAN, TRUMP BORDER CZAR: Well, absolutely right. I mean, Griff was right. I mean, I for one have been complaining about this for decades. But I've been doing this since 41 years. I started 1984 in a Border Patrol. And, yes, and Clinton, Obama said the right things. They talked to talk, but they didn't walk the walk because the agencies didn't really get into the misuse of these social services, social funding and President Biden fell off the face of the earth with it with multibillions of dollars. $130,000 of social services per illegal alien, that's Americans make a year in their salary.
So, it is a major driver. I mean, I do this a long time. I don't know how many times you had a load house full of illegal aliens waiting for payment to get released, to the people who smuggle them in the country. And how many, you know, welfare cards and food stamps and social services envelopes you see all around these homes? It's been going on for decades. And I thank God for DOGE, because, look, these billions of dollars we're going to save that illegal aliens shouldn't be getting, they can help rebuild North Carolina. They can help rebuild California where they're devastated by these fires, in Kentucky. There's a lot of things we can do for American citizens, the homeless vets, with these billions of dollars that are illegally being given to people who aren't supposed to be here.
MACCALLUM: I know how strongly you feel about human trafficking and sex trafficking and slave labor. I'm wondering how many of this -- how much of this money went into the pockets of cartels to run this business of immense human trafficking in this country.
HOMAN: Well, we're going to find out. Look, we got a Homeland Security Task Force here at the White House that I'm involved with and we're digging down to that. You're going to see a lot of investigations on how all this happened. I think the next place we need to look is the United Nations. How much money did the United Nations, certain offices within the United Nations, how much they spend on this massive illegal immigration crisis we've had the last four years.
There's a lot of places we need to look, where that money came from, where that money was spent. So, I can guarantee you there's going to be a lot of investigations on the funding of the NGOs and all these groups that supported this massive illegal immigration crisis on the border and how that money was spent with the NGOs. How much that money was given to illegal aliens, helped them enter this country, get money given to them south of the border in Mexico and Central America. There's a lot to uncover. And I thank God Doge is on top of it.
MACCALLUM: Tom Homan, thank you very much, the border czar. Always good to see you, Tom. Thanks for stopping by.
So, why President Trump and Elon Musk say the work of DOGE is essential to maintaining the future of America and Western civilization next America is the central pillar holding up Western civilization, next.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ELON MUSK, CEO, TESLA AND SPACEX: America is the central pillar holding up western civilization. That pillar must be strong. If that pillar falls, the whole roof comes crashing down.
DONALD TRUMP, U.S. PRESIDENT: Including --
MUSK: There's no place to hide, no place to run.
TRUMP: Nothing. There's nothing left.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
[15:30:00]
MARTHA MACCALLUM, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Israel's president saying the hearts of an entire nation lie in tatters. Hamas releasing the bodies of four hostages said to include 32-year-old Shiri Bibas and her two little boys, four-year-old Ariel and nine-month-old Kfir, the youngest of the hostages. The family has become a symbol of the cruelty and senselessness of the October 7th attacks. Senior foreign affairs correspondent Greg Palkot reporting live now from Tel Aviv. Hi, Greg.
GREG PALKOT, FOX NEWS SENIOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Martha. Yes, sad stuff. In fact, people are saying and telling me it's one of the saddest days of this entire conflict. And that, as you know, is saying a lot.
It has a lot to do with the Bibas family, a loving mother, two incredibly cute red-headed toddlers captured from their kibbutz and taken away to Gaza. Husband and father, Yarden Bibas, was also captured but released alive earlier this month. Hamas claimed, without evidence, Shiri and her little kids were killed in an Israeli airstrike as the nation hoped for the best, a plight the Bibas family seemed to embody the suffering of all the hostages. Another reason for sadness, the remains of 83-year-old Oded Lifshitz also transferred, a husband, father, grandfather, great grandfather and a peace activist helping Palestinians in Gaza.
The sad day started with Hamas in their usual public way, transferring coffins containing the bodies to the Red Cross, then brought to an IDF location where a religious service was held. Remains were then transported via convoy with moved and emotional people lining the route to Israel's forensic center in Tel Aviv for final examination. Lifshitz has now been formally identified. The Israeli prime minister office saying he was murdered by a militant group in Gaza.
Netanyahu declaring revenge taken against all murderers. Israeli President Herzog asking in a social media post forgiveness on behalf of Israel to the hostages and the families.
Martha, the Bibas family is yet to be formally-identified. Their cause of deaths still not officially known, but there is much more sadness here than hope all across this country.
MACCALLUM: Yes.
PALKOT: One final note, just to show how things are happening in all sorts of corners, we've gotten just in the past hour or so, reports of three small explosions on buses. Now, these were empty buses. They were sitting in a parking lot. There were no injuries, no casualties, but apparently they were aimed for some busy buses tomorrow. Got lucky tonight. Back to you, Martha.
MACCALLUM: Our hearts break for that family, and for that grandfather and great grandfather. And the treatment of them that we saw in the handover was just absolutely abhorrent. Greg Palkot, thank you very much. They are in better hands now. Thank you, Greg.
So, Elon Musk sending a message to those resisting the efforts to cut waste in our government.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ELON MUSK, HEAD, DOGE: I think we're seeing antibody reaction from those who are receiving the wasteful and fraudulent money.
SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS HOST: They're being exposed.
MUSK: Yes.
HANNITY: Yes. Nobody wants to be exposed.
MUSK: I'll tell you a lesson I learned at PayPal. You know who complained the loudest, the quickest and the loudest and with the most amount of righteous indignation? The fraudsters.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: He said the other day, you know you're over the target when people start freaking out. Essentially how President Trump's newly sworn in small business administrator, head of the SBA, Kelly Loeffler, plans to help Musk and DOGE in her efforts coming up next.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KELLY LOEFFLER, SBA ADMINISTRATOR: We'll cut red tape and modernize this agency while restoring the accountability and transparency that taxpayers deserve. I will crack down on fraud with a zero tolerance policy while shifting SBA's focus from Washington, DC back to Main Street across America.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
MACCALLUM: So Elon Musk saying that the work that he and President Trump are going to do to cut government spending is "crucial to the nation's survival." Telling Sean Hannity that it has to be done or America will go bankrupt. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MUSK: If we don't solve the deficit, there won't be money for medical care. There won't be money for Social Security.
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF UNITED STATES: Right.
MUSK: We either solve the deficit or all we'll be doing is paying debt. Do you think you're going to be OK if the ship of America sinks?? Of course not. Like what I'm doing here, what the President is doing is, it's just long term thinking. The ship of America must be strong. Ship of America cannot sink. If it sinks, we all sink with it.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: Dagen McDowell is here, FOX Business anchor and host of "the Bottom Line." This is classic Elon Musk, thinking deep into the future, thinking about going to Mars, thinking about rocket ships and electric vehicles. And now he's saying this is a problem that weighs on civilization, on the whole, and we must fix it. What do you think?
DAGEN MCDOWELL, FOX BUSINESS ANCHOR: It is a dangerous place today for the United States that needs to be fixed today. And he is not using hyperbole. Quite frankly, Elon Musk was not being frightening enough when it talks -- when he talks about trying to get our financial house in order. And let me put it -- and quite frankly, Scott Bessent, the Treasury secretary, is really walking a razor's edge in terms of trying to right size the nation's borrowing.
Last year, the United States spent more on just interest expenses, just what we pay interest, than what we spent on defense and what we spent on Medicare. It was the second biggest expense for the entire federal government next to Social Security. And what Janet Yellen and Joe Biden and company did was to keep longer term interest rates low before the election. You know, mortgage rates, keep them low. She shifted the borrowing of the United States to the very short end.
And in the next three years, the United States has to refinance more than half of its marketable public debt. So what happens if people scoff? I've heard this and it infuriates me, scoff at the $55 billion that DOGE (inaudible) DOGE has found. It does matter because it shows a seriousness and commitment to cutting and stopping the runaway spending.
And it's $55 billion now and it's going to be a $1.5 trillion just in fraud in a matter of months. But what Janet Yellen and company did is that, we essentially as a nation have an adjustable rate mortgage that has to be refinanced in three years. And if we -- and Secretary Bessent knows this, if the United States goes out and having to refinance that debt and we aren't doing what Elon Musk and President Trump are doing, then those interest rates, when we try to roll that debt over or sell new debt, those interest rates start spiking, and the interest expense gets bigger, and the deficit gets bigger, and we blow out the debt and it is a death spiral for the United States.
But we're going in the right direction because President Trump won in November.
MACCALLUM: You know, it is -- I mean, I just think about what you're saying. If for any American family, the debt, the interest on their -- on the money they borrowed was the biggest or second biggest part of their entire budget, right? I mean, just think about that.
If you were paying -- if one of the largest items of your budget was the interest on the money that you borrow, just keeping your head above the water and paying the interest, that is the situation that we are in as a nation.
MCDOWELL: Imagine that every dollar we're this close to, every dollar you bring home in take home pay would go to just the interest on your credit card.
MACCALLUM: Just keeping your head above the water.
MCDOWELL: Right.
MACCALLUM: And so we're pretty close to falling below the water. And I think the alarm bell that Musk is ringing is so important. And I do give him credit for being the person who really made it a central issue in the election, because Republicans and Democrats have had a long history of adding to this debt. But he, you know, he made it very central, I think, into coming on board that this would be a huge priority, so.
MCDOWELL: I want to point out the market might be selling off one day it stocks. But look at the long term, the 10 Year Treasury. The 10 Year Treasury has been holding steady since President Trump took office. It's at about 4.5 percent today. That's what, you know --
MACCALLUM: That things will better if the policies are carried.
MCDOWELL: Right. And it's steps in the right direction.
MACCALLUM: Dagen, thank you --
MCDOWELL: Great to see you.
MACCALLUM: -- very, very much. Great to see you too. So President Trump's new Small Business Administration chief promising to do her part to save taxpayers money. Former Georgia Republican Senator Kelly Loeffler confirmed yesterday. Here she is at her hearing last month. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Kelly Loeffler: We will have a zero tolerance policy toward fraud, but also toward waste and abuse. And we will root that out within the agency and those that seek to exploit the programs.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: SBA Administrator Kelly Loeffler joins me now. Great to have you with us, congratulations on your new post.
You know, when you listen to this discussion about the debt, and you're a businesswoman and someone who has watched the finances of this country very closely. I just want to actually play this quickly from CPAC, from Mike Johnson who just spoke about the importance of DOGE. Let's watch.
OK. So you're -- tell me what you've learned about your -- about the SBA, Kelly. How big is it? How much waste is in there? What have you learned so far about this agency?
LOEFFLER: Well, Martha, great to be with you. And I want to start by thanking President Trump for entrusting me with the awesome responsibility of serving America's 34 million small businesses. It's a new day at the SBA, and I am energized to make Main Street great again. Look, we have the most consequential president in our history, and he's also one of the most consequential businessmen in American history.
So President Trump understands the importance of small business, but he understands accountability in these agencies. And I am so grateful that we are moving quickly to implement the DOGE agenda, to hold accountable these runaway bureaucracies within the agencies. And we're certainly going to do that at the SBA, because we have the opportunity to unleash American prosperity under the America First agenda.
And we can see that's already happening with President Trump's first month. But none of that's going to be possible if we're mired in unaccountable bureaucracy, and all you have to do is look as far as the Joe Biden administration, where he's cost small businesses and families $1.6 trillion in regulation.
So, to the conversation you and Dagen were just having on unprecedented risks in spending and debt, but also this, the regulatory state that is strangling small businesses and small business formation. So I am so excited to work alongside DOGE. I've talked to Elon about it, I've talked to President Trump about it, and we're ready to go.
MACCALLUM: So, what do you see as the number one priority for you? Is it figuring out what these regulations are that are strangling small businesses and making sure you get rid of them?
LOEFFLER: Martha, I'm glad you asked. I'm about to roll out more than a dozen day one priorities that we are already hard at work on in the agency. First of all, we've got to root out fraud. There is a zero tolerance policy on fraud. We are putting people on notice. If you've defrauded the government, we're coming after you.
But it's not just that. We have to make sure that our programs are working for small businesses or companies like Tesla and Intel that have benefited from the SBA's activities, we won't be able to flourish and thrive, including on our Main Streets like our small restaurants. So, first of all, root out waste, fraud and abuse, but do that while we're making sure our programs work for all people. And that's why we've said that we are eliminating DEI programs, we're eliminating any money that might have come out of the SBA for illegal aliens, and we're making sure that there is no Green New Deal policies left in this agency, but it's going to take work, and we're working very hard to root all that out right now.
MACCALLUM: All right. Well, we look forward to hearing more about what you're doing. Our small businesses are the heartbeat of our nation's economy and there is increased confidence in the small business community in recent months in the reads on that. So I think that's a really good sign. And we look forward to hearing what fraud you find. Please come and tell us about that and what you're weeding out and what you're keeping.
Kelly Loeffler, head of the SBA, thank you so much. Good to see you.
LOEFFLER: Thank you.
MACCALLUM: So the highly anticipated USA-Canada hockey rematch tonight. This is the finals has the attention of President Trump and the whole country next.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PETER DOOCY, FOX NEWS SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Does President Trump have a bet with Trudeau about this USA-Canada hockey game tonight? And when there is a big hockey game on, is the President watching for the goals or for the fights?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
MACCALLUM: And finally, before we go.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KURT RUSSELL AS HERB BROOKS, "MIRACLE" Tonight, we stay with them and we shut them down because we can.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: I mean, doesn't get any better than that. So that should get you in the hockey spirit ahead of what is expected to be a raucous game tonight when Team USA takes on Team Canada in the finals of the Four Nations Face- Off. This is the championship tonight.
When they met last Saturday, the gloves came off within the first nine seconds of the game. They started fighting on the ice. And, you know, you see the ref stand back, this is what happens in hockey. Let them fight until they fall down on the ground. You'll see. And then they're going to go in and break this up. But they stayed up on their skates for a pretty long time.
So Team USA won that game. Our national anthem was booed. They will play in Boston tonight with some political undertones at play as well. USA Hockey posting this image of the team getting a phone call today from President Trump who says that he wanted to, "spur them on towards victory against Canada," which with lower taxes and stronger security will someday maybe soon become our 51st state.
Peter Doocy asking about this at the White House just a little while ago.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DOOCY: Does President Trump have a bet with Trudeau about this USA-Canada hockey game tonight? And when there is a big hockey game on, is the President watching for the goals or for the fights?
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: Probably both. He looks forward to watching the game tonight, and we look forward to the United States beating our soon to be 51st state, Canada.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: Continuing to rub it in. Will Cain, host of the "Will Cain Show," which is coming up. Will, so glad that you could join us a few minutes early today. You know, what are your thoughts as you get ready to watch this game which has really captured the attention of the nation, especially given this Canada-US rivalry that has heated up in the last month?
WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS HOST: It's incredible, Martha. It's actually the best of sports with underlying storylines and national passions. You know, you mentioned there was a fight within the first nine seconds, there was three fights in the first nine seconds -- in the first nine seconds, three.
MACCALLUM: That's hard to do. It's hard to fit that many fights in nine seconds.
CAIN: That's true. Luckily, they stopped the clock with every fight. Americans do not take kindly to you booing their national anthem. Of course, underlying all this is the potential for tariffs, the annexation of Canada, the 51st state.
And I don't begrudge our Canadian neighbors, my friendly neighbors, their own national pride. I think it's great. And I think that you should be proud. And I can understand how you wouldn't want to be annexed into the United States of America.
But we here are on the southern side of that border. And I would like to match your pride. I would like to match your rivalry. And, you know, here it is. It's going to play out on the ice.
And this is the finals. That was the round robin. What does this look like? This is going to be incredible. Five point four million people watched on Saturday night, how many are going to tune in for this geopolitical grudge match on the ice?
MACCALLUM: Well, I know I am and my whole family, I'm a former mom of hockey players, they don't play anymore. But I want to play a little bit of this because there's nothing better than a good hockey game. The sound of it, the scraping of the skates on the ice and hitting the boards and all that stuff. So here's a little bit of what happened when they booed.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
(INAUDIBLE)
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: It's a lot of booing. Apparently there was some booing for the Canadian anthem when they played here in the States as well, Will. But as you say, this is a, it's a sports story that has all the pieces that make people really want to get engaged.
CAIN: And those are the best ones. What's the most famous hockey game in American history?
MACCALLUM: Absolutely.
CAIN: At least it's the 1980 "Miracle On Ice." By the way, Michael Rizzoni, the captain of that team, is supposed to be on the "Will Cain Show" today with Joe Pavelski and Mike Modano. That is if President Trump leaves us a few moments to talk about this game tonight.
MACCALLUM: Yes, exactly.
CAIN: But it's in Boston. This game's in Boston. Martha, I hope we don't boo the Canadian national anthem. I hope we just cheer for America in our national anthem.
MACCALLUM: Indeed. Will, we will be watching. We hope they can squeeze into your show because they're fantastic guests and their story is the best hockey story of all time, the US against the Soviet -- then Soviet Union in 1980. Will Cain, stay tuned because he is coming up in just a moment. So don't go. Thank you. Thanks for joining us a few minutes early today.
And thank you for joining us for this story, great to have you with us on this Thursday. We will see you back here tomorrow. But don't go anywhere because there's a great show coming up with the aforementioned Will Cain just moments away. Have a great evening, everybody. Go USA.

Load-Date: February 21, 2025


End of Document
