




The Daily Caller
February 5, 2025 Wednesday 09:16 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION
Length: 884 words
Byline: Ron Hart, Contributor, 
Body



If Elon Musk can overcome the swamp in D.C. and cut what we all know to be a lot of waste and spending, he will save this country from inevitable bankruptcy. Elon is a superhero for free speech, capitalism, and the American way. 
We are the only country in the world with illegals in expensive hotels on $1,300 Apple iPhones checking their EBT food stamp balances. It is not sustainable. Safety nets have become safety hammocks. 
So far, Trump's agenda is motoring along. Reducing the influx of cheap labor that undercuts workers' pay and the firing of agents/reducing the size of the DOJ did what many thought would never be possible. They made a very white, GOP billionaire president a hero in the African American community.
There are things that Trump must watch for in the area of inflation. While reducing illegal immigration, RFK Jr's  and tariffs (to a lesser degree) are good ideas, he has to be careful they do not spark inflation. Labor costs could go up (illegals are a cheap source of labor), MAHA's solutions could make food costs go up (shop at Walmart and Whole Foods and see the difference), and the price of imported goods will go up with tariffs. The triple whammy of inflation would be bad for our economy and risks Democrats taking back the House, and maybe Senate, in 2026.
Two of the three agenda items have to be done;  could be mitigated. 
And when he goes into deportation mode, clearly the “worst go first” policy of sending criminal illegals back to their native countries is a crowd favorite. But we really need to think about this next level of deportees. A hardworking man (let's call him Juan), who has been here 10 years with a speeding ticket and expired tags rap sheet, need not be deported. I have a buddy with a landscaping business. His main guy  after twelve years here for fear of Trump's hard line. Trump, as he does with his country clubs, should have a system whereby employers, friends, and family can write a letter in support of Juan. The government sees that he is a law-abiding citizen and puts him on some sort of “wait list” to get in. It can be conditioned on good behavior, paying taxes, etc. 
A program where others who know the illegals and can vouch for them would be good. I would call it the “It Takes Juan to Know Juan Program.” But this probably will never happen, even under Trump. 
People always say that if we don't want to pick our own crops, we have to have illegals. Well, if the failed  human resources officials in the Democrat government start looking for work soon, they would be good for this because they have years of picking fruits, vegetables, and nuts.
The Episcopal Church lectured Trump about deportation. Most said, “Shut that Bishop.”  It was followed by a protest called “A Day Without Immigrants,” where migrants from other countries refused to do their jobs. Trump slept alone that night. 

LOS ANGELES, CA - AUGUST 15: Day laborers wait near a Home Depot home improvement store in hope of finding work for the day on August 15, 2008 in Los Angeles, California. The Los Angeles City Council has unanimously approved an ordinance requiring some big-box stores to develop plans to manage dayworkers who gather nearby for employment. Under the new law, companies such as Home Depot and Lowe's may be forced to build day-labor centers with drinking water, shelter, restrooms, and trash cans at stores of 100,000 square feet or more if significant numbers of day laborers are in the area. Employers of the workers typically drive up to a group of workers, quickly negotiate a deal, and within moments selected workers get into the vehicle and are taken to the job site. Much of the work is done for construction and landscaping employers who buy some of their supplies at such stores. Some work comes from do-it-yourself homeowners. (Photo by David McNew/Getty Images)
Don't get me wrong. Trump's ideas are good and popular. He must just take care that they do not ignite inflation. When I read that Trump had found Jesus, I wasn't sure if they were talking about his newfound faith or his new deportation efforts. 
Then the guy I really like, RFK Jr. with his much-needed MAHA agenda, survived a brutal Senate confirmation hearing. Dems loved him just 6 months ago when he was a Democrat. Now, they are out to kill him. They trotted out RFK Jr.'s sisters and cousins and made them go after him for leaving the Democrat plantation. This is another first in this administration, a Kennedy getting assassinated by other Kennedys. 
His mandate to make America healthier is a good one. It could be terribly inflationary and it must be done carefully with free market solutions and not too many government mandates.
People feel good about the economy now. Walmart just announced its plans to hire 100,000 U.S. military veterans. To the way of thinking of many of the neo-con hawks in the Democrat party, this can mean only one thing: Walmart is preparing to invade Target and there is money to be made for them in this, so Democrats have another war to grift from.
Ron Hart is a libertarian op-ed humorist, an award-winning author, and a frequent guest on TV and radio. He can be contacted at  or  on Twitter.

Graphic

 
US Immigration and Customs Enforcement's (ICE) special agent preparing to arrest alleged immigration violators at Fresh Mark, Salem, June 19, 2018. Image courtesy ICE ICE / U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. (Photo by Smith Collection/Gado/Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
