




The Daily Caller
February 12, 2025 Wednesday 08:23 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION
Length: 826 words
Byline: Ron Hart, Contributor, 
Body



This is not your father's Republican Party. It has become more libertarian and practical in its approach. It is the hip bad boys, not the mindless, conformist lemmings the Democrats have become. There is nothing edgy or smart about the Democrats being in favor of endless wars, Big Pharma, Big Agriculture, unionized education, a weaponized DOJ and FBI, and various Deep State apparatuses that spy on citizens.
The new Republican Party does not include many Republican Cheney- and Mitch McConnell-types who swam in the Swamp for years for their own financial gain. Willfully negligent or involved in the fraud, “life-long public servants” like Chuck Schumer ($81 million net worth) and Mitch McConnell (with tens of millions), both on a $200,000 annual salary, defy logic.
Smart Democrats like , Tulsi Gabbard, and RFK Jr. (and maybe ) have defected to the new, solutions-driven Republican Party. The deck has been shuffled - for the better.
Before they went over to the GOP, the left loved them. African-born Musk was so loved, Dems were thinking of running him for president and were already working on forging a birth certificate.

The skyline of Washington, DC, including the Lincoln Memorial, Washington Monument, US Capitol and National Mall, is seen from the air at sunset in this photograph taken on June 15, 2014. AFP PHOTO / Saul LOEB (Photo credit should read SAUL LOEB/AFP via Getty Images)
Discovering billions in waste and fraud should make Americans happy, but not corrupt politicians. This is not about shirts and skins party loyalty to the Republicans anymore. It is about accountability versus corruption. 
We are $37 trillion in debt. Like any organization, changes must be made. The Kansas City Chiefs get beaten badly by the ; changes will follow.  The Chiefs are looking to replace Taylor Swift with Lady Gaga in the owner's box. 
These guilty are crying the loudest at Elon Musk and his intrepid group of geeks looking at the expenditures of our federal government. Why would they care if there is transparency regarding where we spend our money? An audit always starts with the checkbook.  For Musk, it is simple.  This is not rocket science. 
Musk's brilliant computer experts are on a mission. They know the systems and how to identify fraud. Many of them earned their master's degrees in computer science at age 19. They are much smarter than I am. But to be fair, when I was only 16, I did earn a fake ID. 
And do not believe the lie that Musk is in the Treasury Department rooting out your information and making massive government cuts. He is identifying areas of questionable spending and exposing them, and it is up to Trump or the Agency to end them. Musk is closer to being elected than the unaccountable morasses of unelected federal bureaucrats wasting our money. 
If you are against DOGE rooting out government fraud, you are either benefitting from fraud, or you blindly bought into it. Sorry you loved the lie.
Somehow, Dems are mad at the ones who found waste, fraud, and corruption and not at the ones who perpetrated it.
Guilty permanent Washington is screaming the loudest. The panic is like your spouse locked in the bathroom with your cell phone unlocked. 
The modus operandi of Dems is to vilify and try to ruin their opponents with name-calling. Failing that with Trump, they are after Musk now, calling him a “Nazi” for a simple wave he gave at the end of a speech.  Working in NYC for Goldman Sachs, I've seen such antisemitism before. I was shocked to see so many Nazis saluting in the streets, and every time they did it, a cab would stop and they would get in. 
Senator Elizabeth “Pocahontas” Warren laments that Musk should lose his government contracts for SpaceX. Musk did what NASA couldn't. Warren would rather that contract be awarded under DEI to the 11th-grade LGBTQ science class at PS 1389 in Queens.
The frantic spending at the end of the Biden Administration should embarrass the Dems. USAID spent $1.5 million on DEI training in Serbia (to promote diversity in an all-white country). My 1978 SAE pledge class at Memphis State was more diverse than Serbia. We were so white that when we walked on campus, little alligators would jump on our shirts. 
If you follow the money on DEI and almost all of this wasteful, “feel-good,” virtue-signaling expenditures of tax dollars, you will find a political crony (Biden-esque) bagman at the end of the trail pocketing the money.
Trump is getting our financial and cultural houses in order. He signed an Executive Order reversing Biden's order that biological men could compete in women's sports. That made the transgender athletic community so mad that they are taking their balls and going home. 
Ron Hart is a libertarian op-ed humorist, an award-winning author, and a frequent guest on TV and radio. He can be contacted at  or  on Twitter.

Graphic

 
ARLINGTON, VIRGINIA - JUNE 07: Hazy skies caused by Canadian wildfires blanket the monuments and skyline of Washington, DC on June 7, 2023 as seen from Arlington, Virginia. The Washington DC area is under a Code Orange air quality alert indicating unhealthy air for some members of the general public. (Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
