




The Daily Caller
January 30, 2025 Thursday 03:56 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION
Length: 894 words
Byline: Ron Hart, Contributor, 
Body



Trump has the woke mob so turned around with the reality he is imposing on our government that they don't know what to do - or whom to call “racist” next.  Just imagine when calling others “racist” doesn't work anymore. The Dems are out of ideas.
Pretty soon the remnants of the DEI mob will demand that the Statue of Liberty be taken down because she stands right there in New York Harbor, so near our most heavily populated Jewish communities, giving the Nazi salute for all the world to see.
Trump went to California and North Carolina. He visited the man-made disasters in LA, (the government), and the natural disaster in the Carolinas, (the floods). I loved it when he asked people in North Carolina if their insurance companies were being cooperative and, if they were not, he asked for the names of the insurance companies. 
One thing I have learned about insurance companies: They are super nice in their TV commercials and they pay people like  a lot. They save money to pay Mahomes and every other commercial on TV by not playing claims. 
Then there is Race Hustler Al Sharpton. Racial strife in America is essential to his business model. As it fades (69% of blacks in a recent Newsweek/Atlas Intel poll approve of Trump's job performance since taking office), those in the racial divide business are having a hard time. 

A protestor stands in front of a banner during a demonstration on June 5, 2020 outside the US embassy in Vienna, Austria, to show solidarity with the Black Lives Matter movement in the wake of the killing of George Floyd, an unarmed black man who died after a police officer knelt on his neck in Minneapolis. - Hundreds of mourners joined an emotional memorial service in Minneapolis for George Floyd, the black man killed by police last week.The police killing of George Floyd led to diverse protests calling for an end to violence towards African Americans, whom studies have found face an elevated risk of dying at the hands of law enforcement. (Photo by JOE KLAMAR / AFP) (Photo by JOE KLAMAR/AFP via Getty Images)
Most companies are ending the divisive DEI programs they were harangued into implementing at great cost. Costco very publicly said it would continue DEI. So Al Sharpton led a group of protesters to shop at Costco to show support. But I have news for you: Like the border and voting soon, you need an ID to get into Costco. 
Some other news for : If a black person shops at Costco, from what I have seen there, he is likely already a Republican. 
If he can find easy marks, Sharpton will shake them down. You cannot sort laundry without being called a segregationist by Sharpton. He would probably boycott Disney and its theme parks for being participants in Snow White Supremacy. 
And if not, Gloria Allred is ready to sue them for sexual assault because the prince kissed a sleeping Snow White without her written consent. Of course, in the modern version of the fairy tale, Snow White (played by Cicely Tyson), dies because the prince did not kiss her. And, of course, global warming.
DEI was a money loser for Hollywood. It went too far. I know this because a year ago I was cast in the lead role of the re-make of Mandingo. 
At its very core,  is racist. It hires and promotes based on race, gender, and other factors. Not that it was ever right, but back when there were two genders, this was easier. 
Currently, sixty percent of the federal workforce identified as white compared to 76% of the private sector. Nearly 19% of the federal workforce identified as black compared to their 13% representation in the United States. Why then the sudden demand for DEI?
It is simple: Hire the best people on merit and how they do their job. Let's become an Ameritocracy again. May the best woman, man, trans-man or -woman win. DEI advocates say it “fosters an inclusive work environment.” Why not have your workforce be inclusive with people who want to work?
DEI is like fixing a flat tire on your car by letting the air out of the other three. 
Government wants men in women's locker rooms and unisex bathrooms. This from the government that got us into wars of choice to separate South Korea from North Korea, South Vietnam from North Vietnam and Sunnis from Shiites in Iraq and Afghanistan. The last good war was World War II, where today's DEI would not have allowed us to hire ex-Nazi scientists to build rockets and the atom bomb. 
We were in a great place five years ago.  The economy was moving and race relations were the best they have ever been. Then Biden's handlers started calling everything “racist” and forcing DEI departments on everyone. Then, with no evidence, President Biden repeatedly declared that “white supremacy posed the greatest threat to the U.S.” 
I live in the South, and I know a lot of white people. No really, a lot. I do not know a white supremacist, nor do I know anyone who does. When Biden said that, even black people said, “What??” ISIS, inflation, government debt, crime, China, viruses, Ukraine, Gaza, a nuclear Iran and unhealthy Americans, and Biden says the biggest threat is “white Supremacy?”  
The idiocy of that statement defined Biden. No one did more to dispel the myth of white supremacy than Joe Biden.
Editor's note: This article has been updated to provide further context and correct a typo. 

Graphic

 
TOPSHOT - US civil rights activist Reverend Al Sharpton speaks on the fourth and last day of the Democratic National Convention (DNC) at the United Center in Chicago, Illinois, on August 22, 2024. Vice President Kamala Harris will formally accept the party's nomination for president today at the DNC which ran from August 19-22 in Chicago. (Photo by SAUL LOEB / AFP) (Photo by SAUL LOEB/AFP via Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
