




Ka Lee O Hawaii: University of Hawaii-Manoa
February 26, 2025 Wednesday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 905 words
Body


Pride Parade Hawai?i 2024
Alec Johnson / Ka Leo O Hawai?i
Following the removal of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion programs by President Donald Trump on Jan. 21, the Hawai?i LGBT Legacy Foundation hosted a Rainbow Town Hall Event on Feb. 20 at 6 p.m. in the Memorial Auditorium at City Hall. 
The event was free to attend with an RSVP sent to HLLF. The panel focused particularly on exploring the history and culture of Mahu identity, its nuances, and its intersection with Western concepts of LGBTQIA+.
In addition, it covered the changing social and political landscape of DEI policies and its impacts on the queer community in the United States, with an emphasis on Hawai?i's unique cultural context. 
Max Rodriguez, a board member of the HLLF and Rainbow Town Hall Chair, elaborated on what exactly makes up this context. 
"With gender and sexuality fluidity having been so present in the history of our islands, the LGBTQ+ identity is deeply woven into the culture of this place. In Hawai?i and other Pasifika communities, LGBTQIA+ / MVPFAFF+ (mahu, vaka sa lewa lewa, palopa, fa?afafine, akava?ine, fakaleiti and fakafifine) individuals were respected. Gender and sexuality were not things to be discriminated (upon) for. These identities and the roles they came with were embraced," Rodriguez said. 
It was the organization?s first discussion panel of the year, and will be hosted by Emily Hills, Senior Attorney at American Civil Liberties Union, Trey Halliday Fenton, Licensed Clinical Social Worker and Author, Maddalynn Sesepasara, Transgender Services Manager at Hawai?i Health and Harm Reduction Center, and moderated by Kamaka Pili, TV personality and host of Aloha Authentic. According to the Hawai?i LGBT Legacy Foundation website, the Rainbow Town Hall is a long-running series of "intersectional dialogues" delving into topics relevant to queer people, their communities, and surrounding allies. 
Since their founding in 2008, the HLLF has collaborated with numerous queer organizations including the University of Hawai?i at Manoa 's own LGBTQ+ Center. 
Camaron Miyamoto, Director of the UHM LGBTQ+ Center, revealed he is also an early board member of the HLLF and has been working alongside them for many years. In regard to his role in the organization, he and other founders worked to re-establish the Honolulu Pride Parade Festival and found the LGBTQ+ Center in Honolulu. 
Miyamoto further explained the role of the LGBTQ+ Center at UH as to what services they offer to students and the community. 
"We work to support student academic success and personal growth regardless of gender or sexuality. We do so through student coffee hours, educational programs, the Rainbow 'Ohana Program service and honors society, and Rainbow Graduation," Miyamoto said.
The Center hosts their student Coffee Hour twice a week on Tuesdays and Thursdays at 4 p.m., and they encourage students of all identities to attend and use it as a supportive environment where they can be themselves. 
When asked about how the changing landscape surrounding DEI removal affects UH students and the LGBTQ+ center's work, Miyamoto said, "I am saddened by executive orders meant to remove DEI from federal work. At this point we continue to offer the full range of programs and services for our LGBTQ+, mahu and ally students at UH Manoa."  
While Miyamoto is dedicated to continuing support for students and the community alike, he revealed that there has been a dramatic increase in students seeking resources and services, and that there could be further struggles as DEI removal procedures continue. 
"I think we will continue to have pressure from outside of the university to change what we do or how we see ourselves as LGBTQ+ mahu communities. The important thing is to remember that no matter what, we don't need someone else's approval to thrive as intelligent, talented and absolutely fabulous people," Miyamoto said. 
The DEI removal and overall attack on transgender rights and communities following the Trump Administration's start in office on Jan. 20 affects not only mainland communities, but mahu as well. 
Rodriguez provided a brief definition of mahu as "someone who embodies both masculine and feminine spirit, (and) has long been part of Hawai?i's society. Prior to Western contact, mahu were respected and valued as healers, caretakers and kumu (teachers)." 
Miyamoto also stressed the importance of educating residents of Hawai?i on these individuals and their history. 
"Transgender people are under attack in the U.S. and there are those who don't understand that trans and mahu are not necessarily the same thing. It is the responsibility of everyone to educate on the place of respect of mahu in Hawaiian culture and to ensure protections in Hawai'i persist," Miyamoto said. 
The event sought to expand on these very topics, as well as clarify what makes mahu unique from other queer identities. The organizers expressed their hope that people would walk away with a better understanding of the intersectionality between queerness and culture, and an inspiration to help maintain and expand DEI initiatives both locally and beyond.  
Rodriguez concluded by offering words of encouragement to anyone who may be struggling during this uncertain time. 
"We don't know what the future will bring, but we ho?omau (carry on, persevere). Now more than ever it is so important that we lean on each other, advocate, and resist,"Rodriguez said. 

Load-Date: February 26, 2025


End of Document
