




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 12, 2025 Wednesday 10:00 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 605 words
Byline: Zachary Basu
Body


February 12th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
STUTTGART, GERMANY - The Pentagon plans to welcome   
Why it matters: At more than $890 billion, the Pentagon's budget is a behemoth - accounting for roughly half of the U.S. government's discretionary spending this fiscal year.
It's also a black box: The  
Contrary to DOGE's downsizing goals, President Trump actually wants to increase defense spending - but believes Musk and his team can help salvage and redirect "billions of dollars" of inefficiencies in the military.
What they're saying: "There is waste, redundancies, and headcounts at headquarters that need to be addressed. There's just no doubt," Hegseth told Axios outside U.S. Africa Command here on Tuesday.
A fierce proponent of "getting back to basics," Hegseth pointed to spending on dealing with climate change -  
"The Defense Department is not in the business of ... solving the global thermostat. We're in the business of deterring and winning wars," the former Fox News host and Army combat veteran told Axios.
Between the lines: Neither Trump nor Hegseth have acknowledged public concerns about letting Musk - whose companies have billions of dollars in Pentagon contracts- into the heart of the military-industrial complex.
But Hegseth did downplay the notion that Musk would exercise unilateral authority at the Pentagon, as critics allege the billionaire has done at other agencies targeted by DOGE.
"We'll do it in coordination. We're not going to do things that are to the detriment of American operational or tactical capabilities," Hegseth said.
"The Defense Department is not USAID," he added, referring to the foreign aid agency crippled by DOGE. "USAID's got a lot of problems ... pursuing globalist agendas that don't have a connection to America First."
Zoom in: Hegseth, who served as an infantry officer in the Army National Guard, began his first full day in Europe by joining an early-morning  
He later encountered a   
At an AFRICOM town hall, Hegseth was   
Hegseth, 44, was upbeat and defiant as he ended his day celebrating the  
"We're honoring a private first class. And I'm proud that we have a Marine corporal as the vice president of the United States," Hegseth told reporters with a smile, referring to JD Vance.
"Junior enlisted have never seen better days."
What to watch: On Wednesday, Hegseth will become the first senior Trump official to  


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 12, 2025


End of Document
