




The New York Times 
January 27, 2025 Monday 11:14 EST


Copyright 2025 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: US; politics
Length: 301 words
Byline: Eric SchmittEric Schmitt is a national security correspondent for The Times, focusing on U.S. military affairs and counterterrorism issues overseas, topics he has reported on for more than three decades.
Highlight: “Those who do not comply will no longer work here,” Pete Hegseth said in a handwritten notice saying diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives were not welcome at the Pentagon.
Body


“Those who do not comply will no longer work here,” Pete Hegseth said in a handwritten notice saying diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives were not welcome at the Pentagon.
Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth says he believes the U.S. military has been weakened by , and has vowed to restore “the warrior ethos” to the armed forces. In one of his first directives to Pentagon employees, Mr. Hegseth sent a short, handwritten note on his official letterhead making this priority clear.
In large black letters, he wrote: “DoD ≠ DEI*.”
The asterisk, he added below, denoted “no exceptions, name-changes or delays. Those who do not comply will no longer work here.” It was signed “SecDef 29.”
On Sunday, Mr. Hegseth shared the note on social media. It was distributed to Pentagon employees over the weekend, according to a person familiar with the matter who spoke on condition of anonymity because they weren’t authorized to be quoted by name.
Mr. Hegseth was sworn in as the 29th defense secretary on Saturday after the Senate confirmed him the night before on a 51-to-50 vote, the smallest margin for a defense secretary’s confirmation since the position was created in 1947, according to Senate records. Vice President JD Vance had to cast a tiebreaking vote after three Republicans joined all Democrats in voting no.
President Trump has promised a war on diversity programs that are intended to reverse decades of systemic inequities. The Trump administration last week  with “adverse consequences” if they fail to report on colleagues who defied orders to purge D.E.I. efforts from their agencies.
PHOTO: Pete Hegseth was sworn in as the 29th defense secretary on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY Eric Lee/The New York Times FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Load-Date: January 27, 2025


End of Document
