




USA Today Online
February 20, 2025 1:26 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Section: AEROSPACE AND DEFENSE INDUSTRY NEWS & MILITARY NEWS
Length: 408 words
Byline: Cybele Mayes-Osterman, USA TODAY
Body


Defense Secretary  ordered the Pentagon to cut 8% of  – around $50 billion – from "low-impact and low-priority" Biden-era programs to redirect the funds towards President Donald Trump’s ."
The military will put together a list of programs that could be axed to fund Trump's plans, including "so-called 'climate change' and other woke programs, as well as excessive bureaucracy," according to a statement from acting Deputy Secretary of Defense Robert Salesses on Wednesday night.
It was unclear from the statement what new programs would receive the money, but it said Trump's priorities included "securing our borders, building the, and ending radical and wasteful government DEI programs and preferencing."

More: 
Redirecting the funds would "refocus the Department on its core mission of deterring and winning wars," according to the statement. 
As head of the military, Hegseth has sworn he will  at the Pentagon, which he has said draw energy from its battle readiness and "warrior ethos." Earlier this month, he  from enlisting  like Black History Month at the Defense Department.
Hegseth says DOGE cuts wouldn't touch military 'capabilities'
The Pentagon has an $850 billion annual budget, the largest of any federal department. Although  and his federal agency-cutting team were "welcome" at the Pentagon – military services handed over lists of their probationary employees for expected layoffs –  any cuts to defense spending would not be "to the detriment of American operational or tactical capabilities."
 an additional 1,500 active duty soldiers and Marines to the southern border to add to the 2,500 already stationed there and to El Paso and San Diego to carry out deportations.
In an executive order last month,  for an "Iron Dome for America" – the development of a more robust missile defense system. It is unclear how much it would add on top of the roughly $10 billion marked out for the agency tasked with missile defense every year.
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: February 20, 2025


End of Document
