




Fox News FOX HANNITY 9:00 PM EST
January 24, 2025 Friday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 10128 words
Byline: Sean Hannity, Chad Pergram, Bret Baier, Brian Brenberg, Joe Concha, Mary Katharine Ham
Guests: Markwayne Mullin, Scott Brown, Clay Travis, Tudor Dixon, Kaylee McGhee White, Mel Gibson
Body


SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS HOST: And welcome to "Hannity".
And we start tonight with a FOX News alert. At this hour, Donald Trump is wrapping up a major trip to the west coast where he confronted L.A. Mayor Karen Bass as southern California is still reeling from the devastating wildfires. He also had a moment with Gavin Newsom. We'll tell you about that.
The one and only Mel Gibson will join us to talk more about the president's trip. The wildfires out in California.
But first this hour, we turn our attention to our nation's capital where Donald Trump's defense secretary nominee, our friend and colleague Pete Hegseth is facing a very tight confirmation vote in the U.S. Senate which is now underway.
Joining us now is our very own Chad Pergram is with us.
Chad, it's been -- I know because I've been talking to a lot of people all day, a lot of drama behind the scenes. I have it on pretty good authority. It looks like that Pete will lose Lisa Murkowski, Susan Collins, Mitch McConnell, but J.D. Vance will cast a deciding vote.
CHAD PERGRAM, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, I just talked to a Republican senator who indicated to me that they thought that J.D. Vance was going to have to break this tie. He just arrived at the capital a little bit ago.
Again, we don't know definitively about Mitch McConnell. We've known for a couple of days about Susan Collins and Lisa Murkowski as being no votes here. And I always say, it is about the math. So if you lose three, you get to 50/50. There are 53 Republicans in the Senate and I hollered to Chuck Schumer, the Senate minority leader, earlier whether or not they would be able to defeat this on the floor and he said we'll watch the floor and we will see.
But if it's 50/50, then J.D. Vance, the new vice president in his capacity as president of the Senate, can cast a vote and break a tie. He can only vote if there's a tie and this would be the first time during his short vice presidency that J.D. Vance would be doing this.
I talked to another Republican source just before we went on the air and they said this is going to come down to the wire. So the two people to look at would be Mitch McConnell, we don't know how he's going to vote, and maybe Thom Tillis, the Republican senator from North Carolina. He had indicated yesterday he still had some questions. He's not been to the Capitol yet this evening. But that's the one other senator that could and I'll underscore that could be in play.
So they just started this vote precisely at 8:57 tonight. You might ask why 8:57. Under the Senate rules, once they broke that filibuster, you get 30 hours of debate if they use all the time so that 30-hour meridian, it started at 2:57 yesterday afternoon. And so, unless they yielded back the time, this vote was going to be tonight.
Now, they kind of keep the time on the field, on a Senate vote. They usually allot 15 minutes, most votes take 38 minutes to an hour, maybe 45 minutes if they're moving simply because a late night vote, a lot of people aren't at the Capitol. They've been at dinner. They've been back home. We might get a sense early on how the vote is going and be able to divine whether or not he has the votes to actually be confirmed.
That's something that we're going to be -- be waiting on here but this vote is hot right now.
The other thing to look for is once they finish that roll call vote is whether or not they have a closure vote, a procedural vote to break the filibuster on the nomination of Kristi Noem to be the homeland security secretary. That is next automatically in the queue and if they were to go on to that, that'll happen tonight. Then they would get another 30 hours so she probably wouldn't be confirmed, unless they gave back the time until early Sunday morning.
I did have a couple of conversations with senators and other sources here who thought maybe they could get through that and move to that that vote later on tonight. But that vote is on right now. Again, we'll see how long this takes. It's very rare to have a nominee come to the Capitol as Pete Hegseth did earlier tonight with his family, to watch this confirmation vote.
In fact, I can't remember in all the years I've covered Congress to see that happen. We asked him hollered down the hall at him whether or not he was talking to any senators who might be, you know, kind of waffling on this. He did not respond.
At one point, he did give a thumbs-up. So that's -- that's in play there. We don't know. Again, everybody seems to be saying yes. We think that we're going to have -- have the votes.
The other thing that I would look for here is also let's say it is a tie. Well, let's say that he doesn't have the votes and John Thune, the Republican leader if it's obvious this is going down, what he would do is switch his vote sometimes you see that happen in the Senate because if the vote goes down, it's not that Senator Thune opposes the nominee, Pete Hegseth, but what he has to do. He has to be on the prevailing side of the vote, so then he could order a revote, if they think they need to talk to somebody, so on and so forth, maybe they could get their vote in the next couple of days.
The other thing that I would note here is that if Vance does break this tie, that's only happened once before. It was February 7th of 2017 when Betsy DeVos, the education secretary, there was a tie vote. Again you had Murkowski and Collins who were noes on that vote as well, and they voted, and so they needed to bring Vice President Pence to Capitol Hill to confirm her.
And let me just check my phone here for a second. I'm getting a lot of messages here. I'm told that Susan Collins, the Republican from Maine, has already voted no, and Mitch McConnell when he was coming into the Capitol, he asked how he was vote -- how he would vote and he just kind of raised his eyebrows. We have not had votes yet from McConnell on the floor, Murkowski or Thom Tillis, who I mentioned was in play as well.
So Collins is the only no vote on the Republican side of the aisle on the board right now, but this is very organic. Senate votes, they vote orally. It's not an electronic system like they have in the House of Representatives. You might be seeing the senators come down to the well and they either give thumbs up or thumbs down. Sometimes they just stick their head in the door and holler from the back of the chamber.
And you see the gentle lady in the pink and the white hair to the left with the big long scroll right there. She is orally calling the names and going down and checking off how people are voting as they go down the list.
I've just been told that Lisa Murkowski voted no. So that's two no votes from the GOP side of the aisle right now in real time against Pete Hegseth. You just saw Senator Alsobrooks come up and vote there, Democrat from Maryland, a freshman. She's for -- excuse me -- she's against Pete Hegseth, you know, so again, most Democrats all Democrats were expecting them to vote no tonight. But that's kind of where we stand but this vote is on the edge as we stand right now.
HANNITY: All right. Chad, stay right there. We're going to come back to you in just a moment. We appreciate you being with us.
Joining us now is the host of "Special Report", our own Bret Baier is with us.
Bret, I'm -- I've been following this all day. We knew about Lisa Murkowski. We knew about Susan Collins. The -- that that is not a surprise.
The other two votes to watch would be Mitch McConnell and Thom Tillis in North Carolina, but my understanding is he has now moved into the yes column. We will find out shortly.
Mitch McConnell only apparently telling one or two people. I had called into his office today to see if I can get any indication at all which way he was leaning. If I had to bet, I'd say no. I'd say Thom Tillis, if I had to bet, I'd say yes. But we'll find out very shortly here.
BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS HOST, "SPECIAL REPORT": We will.
And you know, Sean, good evening. It's -- it was in interesting to see President Trump as he was leaving the White House today on the south lawn heading to Marine One. He himself raised questions about Mitch McConnell's vote. He was asked about Pete Hegseth's chances. He said that the two, Murkowski and Collins, were expected, he said it was disappointing to him but he said, what about Mitch? What about Mitch?
And he asked the reporters they are covering what -- what is Mitch doing? And I think that there is a sense that that the former Senate majority leader may vote no tonight on Pete Hegseth which would bring that to three no votes and the biggest question then is Thom Tillis from North Carolina.
Tillis -- Senator Tillis put out a very glowing statement about President Trump's trip to North Carolina and the affected areas in Nashville today, saying how much it meant to him personally and to those people surviving Hurricane Helene and the devastation still after all of these weeks. That's not an indication of how he's going to vote on Pete Hegseth, but it is something that came out today.
And as Chad mentioned, it's really rare for the nominee himself to be up on Capitol Hill to bring his family to Capitol Hill and he was h standing or holding in what's called the Strom Thurman room in the Capitol area waiting. We don't know if he talked to some senators during that time, but he did, as Chad mentioned, give reporters a thumbs up.
So we are now waiting for these key votes, McConnell, Tillis, and then Vice President Vance would break a tie if it's three Republican no votes -- Sean.
HANNITY: Yeah. Bret, if I may, I just got confirmation from another U.S. senator that did talk to Thom Tillis, in fact, he is expected to be a yes. So it really won't matter what Mitch McConnell ends up doing in this vote. I kind of expected that he would lean towards no. If that's the case, then J.D. Vance will be the tiebreaking vote and Pete Hegseth will be the secretary of defense.
Obviously, we're watching the numbers on the side of our screen 37-30. If that is the case, that is a big win for Donald Trump and I would argue a big win for the military. We both know Pete really well. He lives, eat, breathes, sleeps everything military.
And we're at a time where I believe the country has a gap of vulnerability. We're behind on hypersonic. We need to develop the next generation of weaponry for warfare. We've got a lot of work to do, eliminate DEI in the military, recruitment is down. They got a lot of work there.
BAIER: They do. And you know, I covered the Pentagon for four and a half, five years. That building , you know, there's a lot of great people inside, but there's a lot of institution bureaucracy that I think President Trump talked about on the campaign trail of shaking things up, which is why obviously he chose Pete. Arguably, both sides of the aisle said that he was impressive in his confirmation hearing.
Obviously, Republicans more so than Democrats but even some Democrats I talked to said they were impressed with how he handled himself. They went down different roads on questions obviously. He's denied all of those accusations and I texted with him this week and he had -- you know, kind of an optimism about the moment he thought he was -- he was there. So we'll see these votes in a matter of minutes.
If it is a tie, and Vice President Vance breaks the tie, this is moving forward. And the question is how -- how long will Democrats position this confirmation to stretch out the 30 hours every different nominee. It could stretch really until March if they wanted to, but there would be an effort to speed this up by Senator Thune, who said we'll work through the weekends if we have to.
HANNITY: Bret, I think we both have been following Washington for a long time and I think we can both attest to the fact that working long hours and weekends is not a top priority for people in the U.S. Senate especially, and you know, John Thune was very clear in my interview with him this week that he going to work weekends and he's going to work nights and he's going to stay until all these people are confirmed. At some point, I think Democrats might get a little bit too tired and there may not be enough coffee, cappuccino, espresso available for them.
BAIER: Yeah. I think that that's definitely Senator Thune's plan if it continues to drag on like that. And then the long shot is this recess appointment thing it would take a lot of different maneuvers logistically for the House and Senate to actually adjourn or the president to adjourn the two, to do recess appointments.
He has said he's open to it, but he's leaving it in Senator Thune's hands every time he's asked about it. And I think that what you're seeing here is an effort for some Democrats, they say they'll vote for some of these nominees but to make a stand and to push back when they feel it's necessary.
HANNITY: Brett, if I can -- I just got word that Thom Tillis voted yes. That all but pretty much assures that J.D. Vance at a minimum will be the tiebreaking vote and he will be the secretary of defense. That is a big win for Donald Trump and obviously a big win for Pete Hegseth, in what was a big battle on Capitol Hill. So it looks like he will be the next defense secretary.
BAIER: Barring some real strange vote that we can't even see coming, this is going to be three Republican noes and Senator Vance -- I mean, Vice President Vance will -- will break the tie. You know, if I can, Senator Tillis just put out a statement, Sean, in which he said from the beginning, I've been clear about my position if his nominees were reported favorably - - favorably out of relevant committees, I would support their confirmation on the Senate floor.
He went on to say Pete has a unique perspective as a veteran of wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and is unquestionably passionate about modernizing our military supporting the brave patriots like himself who serve our nation. So not only a yes, but putting out a pretty strong statement in support of Pete Hegseth.
HANNITY: He did, and it somewhat changed earlier today, according to sources I had on Capitol Hill and whatever questions, issues existed, my understanding is -- is that there was a direct conversation between Senator Tillis and with Pete Hegseth, and that they came to a meeting of the minds and that just happened fairly recently. So, obviously, now, we are showing 42 noes and 40 yeses, but we expect we'll be at a 50-50 vote at the end of the day. That would mean the Vice President J.D. Vance will make the deciding vote.
Bret, sorry to make you wait -- work late on Friday night, but we do appreciate you doing it. Thank you, my friend.
BAIER: Happy to do it. You bet.
HANNITY: All right. Joining us now, Oklahoma Senator Markwayne Mullin is with us.
Senator, it looks like our next defense secretary will be my friend and colleague Pete Hegseth.
What's your reaction to the vote today?
SEN. MARKWAYNE MULLIN (R-OK): Sean, I'm telling you, Pete Hegseth, the bar high for candidates on how you go and win votes. He was working all the way up to literally the last hour. I was with him just a second ago, he was still on the phone.
You're right, him and Tillis did have a good meeting today and I'm telling you, Pete and Jenny, they're a power couple. The way they -- the way they attacked the media, the way that the media came after them and they just faced it front on they took the shots over the head and they never -- they never blinked, they never stepped back. They just continued moving forward.
Pete earned this vote today because of the -- his ability to go into the fire and win the fight. I have been so impressed by him. Through this process, I get to call him a friend like you.
HANNITY: Yeah. This just was X'ed out. It was put on X by Senator Thom Tillis. From the beginning, I have been clear about my position. If President Trump's nominees were reported favorably out of the relevant committees, I would support their confirmation on the Senate floor, absent new material information on their qualifications. Once Pete Hegseth's nomination was sent to the floor by my colleagues on the Senate Armed Services Committee, I conducted my own due diligence, including asking tough questions of Pete.
I appreciated his candor and openness in answering them. He has a unique perspective as a veteran of wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and is unquestionably passionate about modernizing our military and supporting the brave patriots like myself who serve our nation. I will support his confirmation, look forward to working with him to rebuild our military and advance Donald Trump's peace through strength agenda.
That, you know what? I -- I've got to give a lot of credit to any senator, you know, taking advising consent as a serious matter is something that I think that that every elected official should do, and some people, you know, get angry if senators asked extra questions or want more information. To me, they're doing their job.
MULLIN: Sean, what Thom is, is very thorough. And I'm telling you, his word is gold. If he tells you where he's at, he's going to -- he's going to be there. At the same time, he's going to do his job and he's not going to pull back punches.
What he appreciated about Pete was exactly what President Trump appreciates about him, too. He's not afraid of the fight and he's not afraid of taking on tough issues.
Pete sat there and would take the questions and he didn't dodge them. He didn't hide from them. He addressed every single one of them, and that's why he was able to win the votes over. Now, we knew we were walking in to a situation where we may lose three people and we started there. We started there thinking that we're going to have to have 50/50 on this vote and then Senator J.D. Vance is going to be able to cast the deciding vote on this one.
That's exactly where we started and it was exactly where we ended up, but we did it because Pete and Jenny walk the halls here daily and was willing to take those meetings non-stop. And there's so much credit due to them, even though the Senate did do our Article 2 Section 2 advise and consent process, it was because -- it was because Pete was able to keep the noes off the board and keep the yeses where they were at.
HANNITY: I guess the one person that maybe I have questions about would be Mitch McConnell, only because Mitch, you know, his successor John Thune, he knows how hard that job is. He also knows that Pete is very pro-military. I don't think it would have been hard for Mitch to move to the yes column, but that did not seem to factor into his thinking at all and he kept it very tight to the vest all day, and I think that's a little disappointing.
I think John Thune was very loyal to him and you would think he would want to help out the new majority leader get off on the right foot. It's -- it's going to happen anyway but he could have helped them.
MULLIN: You know, I never had a conversation with Mitch through this process. I did talk to Susan. I did talk to Lisa. I obviously had a lot of conversations with -- with Tillis and a lot of my other colleagues, and they were all very productive conversations. But I can't really speak on Mitch's thinking because you're right, he does hold everything very close.
But I truly, Sean, never had a conversation with him through the whole process. I kind of left that to Leader Thune, and you can see there's a -- there's a total different leadership style in the Senate between Mitch McConnell and Leader Thune.
HANNITY: Yeah. I agree. There was a tough moment in the confirmation process where you really took on your Democratic colleagues asking, oh, are you all perfect? Oh, none of you had a drink and then all of these images started to emerge of U.S. senators having alcohol in the halls of Congress, which I thought was pretty funny.
MULLIN: Well if the Democrats are going to hold themselves up at a moral standard or hold these nominees at a moral standard, then the body better be holding ourselves up to that same moral standard and we've all seen it, and I'm not saying I'm the one to set the moral standard. That's -- that's not me that may be James Lankford, but I'm not that guy.
At the same time, if -- but if we're going to -- if we're going to do that, then we better be holding ourselves up to a higher standard as well and the body is not going to do that. So it was very hypocritical for people like Tim Kaine to go out there and be demanding that if he has a drink, he's going to resign, and they be talking about uh his past life before -- before he ran for -- for SecDef.
I believe very -- very high that if we're going to set a standard, then we should live that standard.
HANNITY: Yeah. All right. We really appreciate your time, Senator. Thank you.
As you can see, it's almost official, 48-47, 48 yes, 47 no.
Here with more, FOX Business host Brian Brenberg and former Senator Scott Brown and Outkick founder Clay Travis.
Senator Brown, great to have you. You know how tight these votes can be. Walk us through the process behind the scenes.
SCOTT BROWN (R), FORMER U.S. SENATOR FROM MASSACHUSETTS: Well, there's a lot of hand, you know, hand -- people, you know, saying do this, do that, but John's -- John's in control. I saw the interview that you did with him. He's definitely in control.
I was a little surprised with Mitch, obviously with Susan and Lisa, you know, I expected that. But as you know, it's 50 percent plus one. It doesn't matter how you get there, Pete's a change maker. President Trump deserves Pete and anyone else that he wants around him.
And I'll tell you what? The delegation here in New Hampshire and all the Democrats who are being obstructionists, I mean, it's going to get old very, very quickly, very, very quickly because they should be doing this immediately as they did for Joe Biden and as they've done with other presidents, where we've basically said, okay, listen, you got the time, you got the votes, let's just get it done, and I hope John keeps them there for every single day until this is done.
HANNITY: Yeah, let me go to Brian Brenberg.
Brian, you've known people for a long time. You've been a very close friend of his, and it's hard to watch people that you know, love, care about, and know their true character about and watch them go through a very painful process. When this first got announced, I called Pete and I told him exactly how this would turn out. I wish I was wrong.
I said you're probably starting out with no on Susan, no on Lisa, no on Mitch. I said if you lose one more, that means you're not going to get it. And by the way, it is now official, Pete Hegseth will be the next secretary of defense. J.D. Vance will cast the deciding vote.
Let's listen in on the Senate floor, Brian, before we get to you.
BRIAN BRENBERG, FBN HOST: All right.
HANNITY: Let's see.
Oh, apparently, there's nothing to listen to. So let's go back to Brian.
Go ahead, Brian.
BRENBERG: Now, look, Sean, this is -- this is amazing. Pete has been a friend of mine for almost four decades, okay? I knew the kid. I knew second -- second grade trading baseball cards. I've been in colleague at FOX with him and this has been a tough process to go through obviously.
But Senator Mullin got it exactly right and it's actually been the greatest part of the process. Pete outworked everybody. He outworked his detractors. He outworked the people who were on the sidelines. He outworked anybody who wanted to come at him about his character or for his ability to lead and he said. I'll talk to you, let me make my case, let me show you what I'm about.
And to me, Sean, that is the most encouraging thing I have seen through any part of this confirmation process. He sat there in front of all of those senators in the Armed Services Committee and he listened to what they said and he responded to them and he showed the American people what he's about, Sean. And I knew he would do that and I knew when he did that, the American people would have more confidence in him.
And so, I love actually though I don't wish it on anybody in their personal life, I love that Pete went through the process exactly like Pete Hegseth goes through any process where he has to work and prove himself. I'm happy for the Pentagon. I'm happy for those who serve in our military.
I'm happy for America that he will now have the chance to do what he said he will do to make our military prepared, ready to be lethal and focused on its mission and not anything else that the political class has tried to make it for the past four years and probably beyond that, Sean.
HANNITY: Yeah. Amazing.
The vote is in, it's official 50/50, J.D. Vance, the vice president, he will be the tiebreaking vote.
Clay Travis, it -- when I watch people like Pete or you can take it back to Bork or Clarence Thomas or Justice Kavanaugh, and they just want to rake these guys over the coals. It makes me think this is why good people don't want to serve their government. Who wants to go through that process?
CLAY TRAVIS, OUTKICK FOUNDER: Yeah, first, you're exactly right, Sean, and congrats to Pete and his family who got raked over the absolute coals to get it here. Second, this is why your Senate vote is so important. Hey, how about Pennsylvania? Dave McCormick wins in Pennsylvania by what, 15,000 votes or so. That's the difference between Pete Hegseth getting across the finish line or not, three huge win for Donald Trump and everybody else in line here because if you knock one guy or gal out, the next man or woman up is the next target.
Right now, you keep the momentum rolling. And let me just take a moment, I am ecstatic for Pete and his family, for the country, for Trump, for everybody who voted for him.
Let me say this, Alaska voted for Donald Trump by 13 points, Sean, and Lisa Murkowski can't back Donald Trump and his pick for defense secretary? Shame on her. Everybody listening who voted for Trump in Alaska should be trying to kick her out of office.
Same thing -- I know Mitch McConnell's probably going to step down. He -- Trump did -- won Kentucky by 31 points.
I understand why someone like Lisa Collins, her state went from for Kamala by seven points, might not be able to support every element of the Trump agenda. But if you're in Alaska right now, and you're in Kentucky right now, your senators are defying the will of you. You should be outraged.
Thankfully, it didn't come down to their votes because the other 50 senators showed up and J.D. Vance showed up. But to me, Mitch McConnell and Murkowski, they should be ashamed and everybody who voted for Trump in their states of Alaska and Kentucky should be furious over them turning their back on the Trump agenda.
HANNITY: All right. Clay, Scott, Brian, thank you all. We appreciate it.
Let's go back to our own Chad Pergram, who's with us on Capitol Hill. Well, we got to the magic number 50. I thought Mitch would be a no. I thought that Tillis would be a yes and it turned out that way and now, J.D. Vance will cast the deciding vote.
PERGRAM: Well, it looks like we're going to have a 51-50 vote, we call this here on Capitol Hill, a Van Halen vote because that's that album they had some years ago, 51-50. Again, Vice President Vance has just been in office a couple of days and this will be his first tiebreaking vote.
It doesn't happen very much, depending on the arrangement of the Senate and the arrangement of the issues before them and whether or not a vice president has to break a tie. So he's getting to do this very early on. We saw this during the Trump administration the first time where Vice President Pence had to come to Capitol Hill to break a number of ties on both issues and even some lower level figures.
But I mentioned earlier Betsy DeVos the former education secretary what you're looking at right now on the floor, Mike Rounds, Republican senator from South Dakota, he is kind of leaning back in that chair all the way over to the right there, that's the dais. And that's Mike Rounds. At some point, J.D. Vance will come in and preside over the Senate, in his capacity as president of the Senate.
In the old days, we used to see the vice president to, you know, pretty much preside all the time that doesn't happen much anymore except for big occasions or certainly when they think they need to have a tiebreaking vote. But he will announce the yays, 50, announce the nays, 50, and then he will say in my capacity as vice president of the Senate, I vote, and it'll be 51-50.
And as I indicated, you know, you had Pete Hegseth come to the Capitol tonight with his wife. He is here on Capitol Hill. W hollered to see if he was going to meet with anybody, maybe try to convince somebody at the last moment. We're told, you know, that Thom Tillis, you know, talked to Pete Hegseth for about hours today and you know kind of settled his concerns. In fact, there was a letter that was sent where he went, you know, chapter and verse through this affidavit that, you know, dealt with some of the allegations of sexual misconduct which Hegseth has denied at every turn and went through point by point saying well this is what happened and helping Senator Tillis better understand this.
But at some point here, you're going to have a new secretary of defense. He will be the 29th secretary of defense and this is not all for the Senate tonight. Remember, this is only the third nominee that they will have confirmed. The next one in the queue is Kristi Noem, the South Dakota governor, to be the homeland security secretary and what is queued up immediately by rule after this is a vote to overcome the filibuster on that nomination. We're told they would do that tonight.
She is not as controversial as Pete Hegseth and I talked to a couple of senators here tonight who thought they might just have an hour or two of debate and maybe even vote on her as early as tonight. But if Democrats make them run all the parliamentary traps, they could stretch this out to Sunday morning or so, and then next in the queue is Scott Bessent to be the treasury secretary and at some point after that Sean Duffy.
And so, you see how long it takes to confirm some of these nominees if the Democrats stretch this out. I really want to get into a point here about the politics behind that. The Republicans frankly I think kind of liked the fact that they had this 30 hours of time from yesterday afternoon after they broke the filibuster so they could make sure that they had the votes, plus, it indicated to the president and also to the Republican base that they were here working late on a Friday night, willing to stay over the weekend and willing to work as hard as they could to confirm some of these nominees.
But politically also for the Democrats, this works to their favor too because they are able to erect opposition here and say look we're here late on a Friday night. We don't like Pete Hegseth. Some of us don't like Kristi Noem. Scott Bessent, Sean Duffy, that might be another story. But we're going to show up, we're going to show up on a Friday night and we're going to say, look, we just think that Pete Hegseth is unqualified and we're going to vote against him and that's what they did tonight, Sean.
HANNITY: You know, it will be interesting after my interview with John Thune, he was adamant about the fact that he's going to make the work nights and weekends. And when it becomes inevitable, like I believe in the case of Kristi Noem, and it's not going to be a close vote, how many of these Democratic senators want to get up early and go to work on Sunday? My guess is not too many, Chad. You've been -- you've been covering the Capitol for a long time. I think it'd agreed that is not something they would look forward to.
PERGRAM: Well, you're right but, you know, some senators, they'll say look we'll go home for a day. We'll come back. You know, you have some people who are close by in Maryland and Virginia. It's not too much, you know, skin off their back to come back and vote.
It just depends. It -- it's -- it depends if they're really dug in. Pete Hegseth was the most controversial. You know, the next in the line that's going to be the most controversial is Robert F. Kennedy Jr. for health and human services secretary. He has not won but two hearings coming up in the middle of next week. He goes before the Senate finance committee and then before the Senate health committee.
And then somebody who doesn't have, you know, has a hearing schedule, but it's -- you know, is nowhere near the floor is Tulsi Gabbard to become the director of national intelligence. So this is how long it takes to you know to go through these nominees. It does take weeks. It does take months.
I always point out that the final cabinet secretary that was confirmed for President Biden was Marty Walsh for labor and that was March 22nd. But if you look at the time period, they're running behind now compared to they were where with Biden or Trump or even if you go back to President Obama in 2009.
HANNITY: We're waiting J.D. Vance to cast the tiebreaking vote for Pete Hegseth.
Chad, how soon do we expect that to happen? My understanding is J.D. is in the Capitol. He is standing by.
PERGRAM: Yeah. Exactly. Now, he has an office just off the floor. The vice president keeps an office here. You know, the vice president in the Constitution is a little bit fish and fowl. They are part of the executive branch. They are part of the legislative branch.
And so, you know, he cannot debate. He cannot do anything but vote in the affirmative. And I should point out that sometimes when you have tie votes, I remember my first experience with this back in the 1990s is we thought that Al Gore, then Vice President Gore had broken a tie he was presiding and we couldn't understand what had happened.
Well, he didn't vote because the vote failed and went in the direction that the Clinton administration wanted. So just because you're there, you don't have to vote if you think the -- if say you wanted the nominee to fail or you wanted the bill to fail or whatever, you know, you're there to break the tie only if you want it to go. You could only vote in the affirmative essentially, Sean.
So I would think that this I'm looking at the clock here they started this right at that's the time that they anticipated and I would think sometime in the next uh you know five or 10 minute, it just always amazes me how long it takes to do these votes. And I'll tell you the reason why it's taking time right now these conversations that you're seeing on the floor, these are senators talking exactly about what you said do they want to stay here tonight and do gnome tonight do they want to come back on Sunday or do they want to vote to break that filibuster on Kristi Noem tonight and then maybe come back and do it on Monday, a normal time.
HANNITY: Yeah, we'll see.
All right. Chad, we appreciate your time tonight. Thank you as always. So informative.
We go back to the host of "Special Report", Brett Baier, a big win by any measure for Donald Trump in this vote. We have other people that vote -- whose votes will be coming up, Pam Bondi, Kash Patel, people like RFK Jr., Tulsi Gabbard and others.
Do you see any problems with any of those votes?
BAIER: You know, I don't think so, Sean. I think Tulsi Gabbard, there are some questions and we'll see how that hearing goes. I want to just go back to Pete and how big a night this is and how significant this job is.
As I said, I covered the Pentagon. I rarely, rarely correct our colleague Chad Pergram, but he will be the 28th defense secretary because one man, Don Rumsfeld, did the job twice.
So the first defense secretary was James Forestall in 1947, big names have held this job. Before that, it was the secretary of war. But in 1947, it became the secretary of defense.
Think about this job, Sean, almost 3 million people work for the Defense Department. There are about 30,000 inside the Pentagon building -- a building which I covered for years, that's about 19-1/2 miles of corridor and every which way, there is all kinds of different levels of bureaucracy.
Now, sometimes, it works really well, especially in a war when everybody has to get on the same page quickly. But there's a lot of excess. There's a lot of fat to be cut. There's a lot of things to change and Pete has talked about that, and did in his confirmation hearing it's a massive, massive job though and he's, you know, he's positioned uh to get the people around him to make the changes that President Trump really wants to make.
HANNITY: You know, I talked about this earlier, the gap of vulnerability that President Trump is inheriting kind of like when Reagan inherited the same from Jimmy Carter, then, of course, the next generation of weaponry I believe, future wars likely will not be fought on battlefields but they will be fought, you know, in air-conditioned offices, the president has a very ambitious plan called an Iron Dome for the entire country, then recruitment has been an issue. DEI has been a problem and waste fraud and abuse has been a problem.
So there's a lot of big issues. The one thing I would add , Bret, and I would like your commentary on is Pete is already building a really good team around him. I know that that his top lieutenant is going to be a guy by the name of Steve Feinberg.
I happen to know Steve Fienberg. He runs Cerberus. It's a multi-billion dollar corporation. He's giving up that corporation because he wants to serve his country and he's one of the brightest, smartest business minds in the country and I think he'll be a great asset to Pete when he takes this position.
BAIER: Yeah. I agree with you. And he's also going to have people who know the inside of the Pentagon in different areas, but they're also going to be other business people that they're bringing in.
The Trump transition has been something to watch, Sean, and you know it very well on the inside to talk to these folks. They know what they want. They know what they don't want and we'll see this different approach to get a lot of business people who have a lot of experience in companies to go inside the government, not necessarily some who's been in government before, not necessarily somebody who has, you know, gone up the ranks in politics at all.
In fact, a lot of the folks are -- are not that and they're taking a different perspective to try to do this job differently.
So this is a big, big night. And if you think about the jobs that matter when it comes to national security, defense secretary, CIA director, John Ratcliffe, Secretary of State Marco Rubio, he is creating this national security cabinet that in crisis are the people that are going to be advising President Trump in the closest in the national security zone.
HANNITY: Yeah. I think you'll find this kind of funny. J.D. Vance just put up a post on X: I thought I was done voting in the Senate -- obviously joking.
Anyway, Bret, thanks for staying up late with us. We appreciate it.
We welcome now, Tudor Dixon, Joe Concha, Mary Katharine Ham. Thank you all for being with us, and Steamboat Institute Blankley fellow Kaylee McGhee White.
Tudor Dixon, let's start with you. Let's get your reaction to tonight's vote, a big win for the president. More importantly, a big win for Pete Hegseth. Your reaction?
TUDOR DIXON, PODCAST HOST: Absolutely. I mean, this is the beginning of the golden age that he's been talking about and I think that we can't deny the impact of watching this vote happen in the shadow of Donald Trump visiting two disaster areas today.
This administration has made it clear that the next four years are going to be work, work, work for the American people and we are going to be bringing this country back. There's nothing better to bring this country back than a strong military. This is such an amazing day to see. We thought this was going to be a tough vote. We see that he's coming through this with flying colors, all of his hard work paid off.
And, Sean, I heard what you said about when you called him at the beginning and said this is going to be different than you think it is. And yet, he continued to take the fire under grace. He was able to answer all of the questions, and I will never forget when Senator Rick Scott said to him, why do you want to do this?
And you could see a real person there. That was the most important part you could see a real person who paused and said because I love my country and I will always put the war fighter first, and that is what he is doing.
And I think for the war fighter who is watching him today, they know that this is someone who has their back, unlike what they've seen for the last four years.
HANNITY: I would predict along with the next generation of weaponry which has to be a top priority, Mary Katharine Ham, I bet under Pete Hegseth, he is so well-liked among the military, I would see -- I would expect and anticipate recruitment to go up dramatically, DEI will be officially dead in the U.S. military, woke in the military, will go away.
The military will now focus on its mission and that is defending our country and having the biggest, toughest, meanest most deadly defense force on the face of the earth to, you know fight back evil in our time? I would expect all of that under him.
MARY KATHARINE HAM, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Well, the thing about Pete Hegseth is that he has not only been in the military for a long time and, of course, is decorated and has had several combat tours, but he has thought very deeply about the issues with the military, including what has culminated in a really bad recruiting issue for the United States military that will continue to get worse if we don't write the ship, no pun intended.
In this case, he knows about fighting and he brought a fight to the Senate. He showed up, he did the job, he answered the questions, he took fire, and he answered back, and he was prepared to do that. And I think his performance is what got him this job on that -- on that big stage when he - - when he demonstrated that he has thought about this for a long time.
I've known him, you know, since we were in our 20s, actually he and Vance are making me think I really got to make something by myself by now, they're surpassing me, my peers. But he's been thinking about veterans issues since then. He was working for Vets for Freedom, and I watched him rise up and do all these other things.
And so, I think the war fighters who were behind him that day when he was questioned in the Senate chambers, they are an indication of the people who stand behind him. He is a bit of an outsider not that he's outside the military, but he has a different way of thinking than the brass who would otherwise take this job, and I think that's a pattern in Trump's administration and one that will -- will lead to good thinking interesting thinking and new solutions to problems.
HANNITY: All right. Donald Trump is speaking. Let's listen in.
(INAUDIBLE)
HANNITY: Apparently, we don't have the audio of that, if we can get that up as quickly as possible, that would be great. I don't know if he's responding to the vote.
We are anticipating J.D. Vance will make the final tiebreaking vote any moment now on the Senate floor when that happens, we'll bring that to you live.
Kaylee McGhee White, let's get your reaction to the events tonight. I know Democrats fought hard.
They wanted -- they did not want Pete to get this position. A couple of Republicans, not really many surprises. Lisa Murkowski, Susan Collins, Mitch McConnell, and -- but it did come out the way that Donald Trump wanted and that conservatives wanted for sure people, like me.
KAYLEE MCGHEE WHITE, STEAMBOAT INSTITUTE BLANKLEY FELLOW: Absolutely, and it was always the correct result because there was never a good reason to oppose Hegseth's nomination. Anonymous allegations are not a good reason to oppose it and neither is the argument that he lacks the elite or bureaucratic experience necessary to run the agency.
And look, as someone whose brother serves in the military, I can tell you, Sean, the very last thing that our men and women in the armed services want is more bureaucracy in the Defense Department. We've seen how well it goes when we hand war over to four-star morons who are more worried about hanging up their portraits on the Pentagon wall than the actual lives that in the balance.
In fact, there are 13 United States families who lost their loved ones in the Afghanistan withdrawal who can speak directly to that. And I thank God tonight that my brother and the many other men and women that he serve along sides with, they don't have another reason to worry that they are going to be next because Pete Hegseth cares about them, Donald Trump cares about them and they are going to do everything in their power to protect our men and women in the military.
HANNITY: Let's get your take, Joe Concha.
JOE CONCHA, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Well, Sean, the media coverage of Pete Hegseth has been and there's no other word for it, disgusting. It was like the coverage of Bret Kavanaugh during his confirmation on steroids, almost every salacious allegation based on anonymous sources. Does that sound familiar? Because that has been the playbook for the past eight years. They make up a lie, there's no evidence for it, the media spreads it, politicians echo it and the narrative is established.
But this time, the public by and large didn't buy it. More importantly, enough Republicans didn't buy it. And the only people went on the record by the way to defend Pete against all those allegations in terms of his behavior in the workplace and out were his FOX News colleagues both on and off camera who all said without ambiguity that everything reported from the likes of NBC and CNN, "The New York Times" and others in our dying legacy media was all BS, and it's a very good thing Pete will be the defense secretary, not just because for the military, clearing house, obviously concentrating on our fighting men and women becoming lethal winning forces once again.
He will truly be the soldier secretary but if Pete fell short here, Sean, it -- it would have rewarded that kind of gutter journalism we witnessed over the past several weeks.
Finally, this was a huge victory for President Trump who was showing that he is someone who is in command of the House and the Senate. What he wants is what he gets and it's why it feel so much different from 2017 and the start of that first term because it is that much different in terms of leadership in both of those chambers. Right now, everybody's is in lockstep with the Trump agenda.
HANNITY: Yeah. All right. We're going to -- we're still awaiting Vice President Vance to cast the tiebreaking vote, and we're -- you know, waiting for him. Apparently, his motorcade just pulled up. We thought he was actually in his office off the Senate chambers.
At this hour, the former President Joe Biden would usually be fast asleep. As you can tell, Donald Trump is wide awake and it was another extremely busy day for the 47th president of our country and it's not over. Only hours ago, President Trump landed in California to tour the devastation from the wildfires in Los Angeles. This was his second trip of the day.
Early this morning, the president was in North Carolina meeting with locals who are still struggling to recover from Hurricane Helene, after four months of inaction and disorganization from the Biden White House. But we begin back in southern California where Donald Trump was warmly greeted by Governor Gavin Newsom.
As it turns out, the unity that Joe Biden promised years ago -- well, look at that, right there on the screen, it looks like it finally arrived in California. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GOV. GAVIN NEWSOM (D), CALIFORNIA: Most importantly, thank you for being here. It means a great deal to all of us, not just the folks in Palisades, the folks in Altadena, that were devastated. We're going to need your support. We're going to need your help.
You were there for us during COVID. I don't forget that, and I have all the expectations that we'll be able to work together to get this speedy recovery.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: And, by the way, Gavin has said that many times about President Trump and COVID. And as promised, Trump will work with anyone to help his fellow Americans in times of crisis. With people in need, there is no Democrat or Republican at the same time. Government incompetence at the state level, local level in California, anywhere, the federal level with FEMA, it's got to be addressed.
Entire neighborhoods go up in flames. Thousands of people lost everything in part because the firefighters budget was cut, fire hydrants had no water, reservoirs were empty, and because of crazy California environmental extremist -- well, they valued the endangered shrub that we've been showing you and delta smelt over the science of forest management. And, of course, access to water which should be sent from northern California to southern California.
And now, L.A. residents are being blocked from rebuilding, although Gavin Newsom has said he will take away those restrictions, local officials slowly attempt to assess the safety situation of possible hazardous materials left behind by the fire.
At moments ago, Donald Trump called out L.A. Mayor Karen Bass to her face. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I think you have to -- you have emergency powers just like I do, and I'm exercising my emergency powers. You have to exercise them also.
MAYOR KAREN BASS (D), LOS ANGELES: I did exercise them. I signed an emergency declaration.
TRUMP: Because, look, you have a very powerful emergency power and you can do everything within 24 hours.
BASS: Yes. And if individuals want to clear out their property, they can.
TRUMP: Everyone's standing in front of their house, they want to go to work and they're not allowed to do it.
BASS: And the most important thing --
TRUMP: A week is a long time.
BASS: -- is for people to be safe.
TRUMP: They're safe. They're safe.
You know what they're not safe? They're not safe now. They're going to be much safer -- a week -- a week is actually a long time the way I look at it. I watched hundreds --
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Let's go to J.D. Vance, he is now taken to the dais. He's in on the Senate floor to cast the deciding vote for Pete Hegseth.
J.D. VANCE, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: If not on this vote, the yays are 50 and the nays are 50. The Senate being equally divided, the vice president votes in the affirmative and the nomination is confirmed.
(APPLAUSE)
HANNITY: Now official, Pete Hegseth is the new defense secretary with J.D. Vance, the vice president, casting the deciding vote.
Anyway, we have a lot more on that. The state of California though they are still dealing with terrible, terrible, you know, everything that's wrong -- possibly wrong with California and some of the management.
Anyway, here tonight, legendary actor, director, our friend, Mel Gibson is back, who is out with a gripping new thriller. I've liked every movie Mel's ever made to be very honest with you. At the top of my list, "The Passion of the Christ". Anyway, it's called "Flight Risk".
Sir, how are you? Great to see you.
MEL GIBSON, ACTOR/DIRECTOR: I'm good, Sean. How you doing?
HANNITY: I'm good. First of all, I'm really sorry for you, for all the people in California, all that you've had to live through. Also congratulations on your appointment by President Trump.
GIBSON: Yeah. Well, you come with nothing, you go with nothing, everything in between is just a bumpy adventure, right, Sean? I'm living in gratitude.
Trump said he did -- I found out I was some kind of ambassador at the same time as you did probably on a tweet. So I was surprised but, hey, I'm -- I'm ready, willing and able to be of service in any way I can.
HANNITY: You know, you, Sly and Jon Voight, three of my -- I don't love a lot of people in Hollywood, I'm going to be blunt but you're three of my favorite people out there and three of the best people in the industry. So I thought it was funny when I read, you -- you did not get a phone call about it. You just heard about it.
I read it. I think it was the "Hollywood Reporter".
GIBSON: Yeah, well, I think -- I think Trump shoots from the hip, you know, and but, hey, I'm here to be a service, you know
HANNITY: Yeah, good for you. And I know Sly feels the same way and Jon Voight feels the same way as well, and I think the three of you actually can really help the film industry has been hurt in so many different ways in part because of rules and regulations and high taxes like so many other liberal Democratic states. How bad has it been?
You -- you've been living through these wildfires, you read about hydrants that don't have water, you read about cutting firefighters budgets, you read about reservoirs that are empty. I mean it's got to be frustrating.
GIBSON: Well, it is and this confluence of events coming together, there are those who say, hey, they must have done it on purpose. I won't go that far. But if they didn't do it on purpose, I think they certainly facilitated it and I -- you know, my heart goes out to all the other residents.
You meet people all the time who lost their homes and you know you talk and commiserate and buck each and everyone's putting on a brave face. They're a good bunch out here. I'm glad Trump's here at the moment. You know, it's like daddy arrived and he's taking his belt off, you know?
So I think he'll get some results here quickly and, you know, as far as being an ambassador goes, I think you know looking at tax incentives, I know Newsom gave some tax incentives but maybe not enough because it's still not working and there are other things that offset that.
I mean, I had to shoot a film for one day in L.A. and it was cheaper for me to take the whole crew and fly them to Europe and shoot for three days, lodge them, fly them, everything, than it was to shoot one day just down the road. So there's something wrong there.
And I think uh there are solutions I know Arnold tried to level a playing field years ago, he couldn't do it because there were -- you know, there were obstacles. He tried though.
HANNITY: Yeah. You know -- I look at this and -- I mean, it kind of was a big deal at least in my world. I'm nowhere at the level that you are in terms of celebrity.
But when I left New York, I was kind of shocked that there was so much news about it and I did make a bold statement. I said I'm sick of the crime. I'm sick of horrible schools. I'm sick of high taxes. I'm sick of burdensome regulation. I'm sick of, you know, woke everything and I'm sick of the violence.
And I made a decision. I cut the cord. I cut it hard and I left and I have no intention of ever going back. But you stay in California. Why?
GIBSON: I do. Well, a lot of people have left and I don't blame them. I mean, and they leave for the same reason that you've just mentioned. You know, it didn't suit them anymore, even, you know, people who were liberal, it didn't suit them anymore.
But if everybody leaves, what's going to happen?
HANNITY: I can tell you what's happening. You know -- you know what -- you know what Andrew Cuomo famously said in New York? He goes, tax the rich, tax the rich, tax the rich. God, we did. God forbid the rich leave, and you know what's happening? Where I am in south Florida, they keep talking about Wall Street south, all of these big equity -- private equity firms and banks, they're all moving at least half of their offices down here, and it's helping the state of Florida, I think the free state of Florida and it's increasing the amount of money they have for infrastructure, the amount of money they have to help people.
You don't have the problems that you're plagued with in big cities like L.A., San Francisco, New York and Chicago. I mean, it kind of makes sense. As now an ambassador for Hollywood, you know, what is your message for the mayor?
GIBSON: It's -- you know, keep us -- keep the kids on the farm, you know, and be competitive with the rest of the world. I mean, we're just going like what you said with Wall Street and everything else, we're going somewhere else because it's more cost effective.
There's just a lot of prohibitive regulations and things in the way that I think could be lifted. But I -- you know, I'll talk with the -- with the guys about that later and get more specific, and I have to educate myself on that more too. But I think it can be fixed.
HANNITY: Tell me -- yeah go ahead.
GIBSON: Why not?
HANNITY: Tell me about flight risk and my understanding is you have in the works maybe a sequel to the "Passion of the Christ," which I'm very interested in if that happens.
GIBSON: Yeah. Well, "Flight Risk" is -- hey, it's -- it's fast and it's fun. It's entertainment and people have been going to see it and texting me and saying they're digging it. So, hey, I'm happy because uh it's like anything, it's a like if you're a chef and you share a meal with people you want to know they dug it. So that's good.
And as far as "The Resurrection" goes, yeah, that's in the works. It's ambitious and -- but I'm pretty excited about that and I hope to get -- I hope to get the wheel grinding on that sometime this year.
HANNITY: Well, that would be great. I'll quote you from "Braveheart", we've got to try. We've got to try. What we've been doing these three years, obviously, I watch -- I watch your films a lot.
GIBSON: A lot of films.
HANNITY: Yeah, I do.
All right. Mel Gibson, we really appreciate your time. Thank you for being with us.
Check out "Flight Risk" in theaters now around the country.
GIBSON: Thanks, Sean.
HANNITY: All right, buddy.
We go back to our own Chad Pergram, as we just saw Pete Hegseth, we watched the vice president cast the tiebreaking vote. Pete Hegseth will be the new secretary of defense.
My understanding is they are now debating and a cloture vote is about to begin as it relates to Kristi Noem, Department of Homeland Security secretary. What's the status on the House floor -- on the Senate floor now as we speak?
PERGRAM: Yeah. They just started that vote to break the filibuster on the Noem nomination. She will be able to overcome that filibuster and probably have bipartisan support if they were to go to that vote tonight. We just don't know if they don't agree to go to that tonight, then they could vote to confirm her on Sunday morning. There's been a lot of rattling up here on Capitol Hill about sticking around all weekend.
I should note that we have a statement here from Mitch McConnell, he was one of the three Republicans who voted no and he says, quote, mere desire to be a change agent is not enough, speaking of Pete Hegseth, and he failed to demonstrate that he will pass this test of global leadership.
Now something I should point out about Mitch McConnell, remember that he and President Trump did not get along. He was not impressed with Pete Hegseth. At certain points, you had President Trump wanting McConnell removed as the leader, he's no longer the leader, he stepped down on his own accord here.
But he has a new title in this Congress, he is the chairman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, that controls more than half of all of what we call discretionary spending that Congress allocates each year, more than 50 percent of that and sometimes far north of that goes to the Pentagon. So that's going to be a very interesting relationship between Mitch McConnell chairing that subcommittee controlling the purse strings and dealing with Pete Hegseth across the river at the Pentagon, Sean.
HANNITY: Yeah. I wouldn't expect that many problems. Hopefully, they would agree on eliminating waste and fraud and abuse. Hopefully, they would agree to build the next generation of weaponry. Hopefully --
PERGRAM: What about Ukraine? That's going to be an issue -- McConnell push that issue, yes.
HANNITY: Well, they might have a problem there but there is one commander- in-chief and only one, and that would be Donald J. Trump, that's not Mitch McConnell.
PERGRAM: That's right. But again, that's where -- you get into some of this spending here in terms of, you know, I talk about the overall size of the Pentagon budget, just how massive that is. That's where they're going to have to you know look at maybe doing some cutting if they were going to make a difference.
HANNITY: All right. We appreciate it, Chad. Thanks for staying with us tonight.
Congratulations to Pete Hegseth, our new secretary of defense.
All right. Unfortunately, that's all the time we have left tonight. Please set your DVR so you never ever miss an episode of "Hannity". For news anytime, every time, all the time, foxnews.com, hannity.com.
In the meantime, Greg Gutfeld is next to put a smile on your face. Kevin Corke will recap all of tonight's breaking news at 11:00. Have a great weekend.

Load-Date: January 25, 2025


End of Document
