




Fox News THE STORY WITH MARTHA MACCALLUM 3:00 PM EST
February 5, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6770 words
Byline: Martha MacCallum, Peter Doocy, Trey Yingst
Guests: Adam Boehler, Eli Lake, Patrick Murphy, Mary Katharine Ham
Body


[15:00:00]
MARTHA MACCALLUM, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: All right. Super Bowl that's coming in the near future. Thank you very much, John and Jacqui. I'm Martha MacCallum, and this is THE STORY on Wednesday afternoon. It feels like a very busy week already, right?
So, we are watching on that screen, as you can see on the left, waiting for Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth, who will meet with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu at the Pentagon, after President Trump said that the U.S. should, quote, take over Gaza and did not completely rule out the possibility of American forces helping on the ground there in a rebuilding process.
Watch this exchange just a few moments ago in the White House press briefing. Here we go.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REPORTER: Should the American people be prepared to see U.S. military on the ground fighting a ground war against Hamas?
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: Again, the president has not committed to U.S. troops in the region.
REPORTER: But it is an option?
LEAVITT: I have said that the president has not committed to that yet.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: Okay. So, we are waiting to hear directly from President Trump this hour. We expect it to be similar to what we've seen in recent days, the signing of executive orders in the Oval Office and then most likely some question and answer with members of the press in there, and yesterday's meeting with Netanyahu, the prime minister of Israel, raising a lot of questions about what this might look like. And he's also getting a lot of credit for shaking up some old ideas and proposing some new ones with regard to finding new solutions in the Middle East. So, we're going to take you there to the White House as soon as that gets underway.
So, some Democrats have been outraged by this idea. And from the usual corners, we are hearing some new talk of the I word, impeachment. Watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. AL GREEN (D-TX): The movement to impeach the president has begun. I rise to announce that I will bring articles of impeachment against the president for dastardly deeds proposed and dastardly deeds done.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: So, that is Democrat Al Green. He has been talking about impeachment since the very beginning of the first Trump term.
So, let's go to the White House now where we find Peter Doocy. It's been very active there, as you've had press conferences with the president pretty much every day, Peter, a lot of revisiting what was heard yesterday and a look ahead to today. What are you hearing?
PETER DOOCY, FOX NEWS SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, we are hearing that this is a serious Proposal from President Trump that they are described to take over Gaza that they're describing as an out of the box thought. But there are big questions that remain unanswered, including how is the U.S. going to own Gaza. Who do we buy it from? In the briefing room, we heard Karoline Leavitt talking about how, right now, Gaza is controlled by Iran-backed Hamas terrorists.
And so they're obviously trying to create a public -- get the public behind this idea that the Israelis and the rest of the Middle East would rather have the United States there with a big presence instead of Hamas terrorists who could be attacking anybody at any time. But the logistics of who do we cut a check to are a little bit more complicated than the already complicated idea of, say, trying to buy Greenland. Martha?
MACCALLUM: Yes. We have heard suggestions that, or directly, really, that Saudi Arabia doesn't want the Palestinians to be removed from the Gaza Strip. And we hear from Palestinians who say they don't want to leave. However, the point is not -- is well taken, I should say, when you look at these images, Peter, of how destroyed the entire area and how unlivable it is. Obviously, it needs some sort of, you know, small scale marshal plan to make it inhabitable and safe for people in that area.
DOOCY: And President Trump's suggestion that the United States could just take over Gaza comes after his team spent the whole day describing to us how it is basically impossible for anybody to safely return. When they talk about needing 10 or 15 years to go in there, that's not 10 or 15 years to go replace some broken glass and repave the streets. That is 10 to 15 years to go get unexploded munitions, to hook up basic utilities, like water and power, what they're describing would probably take longer than 15 years. The 15 years might just be to clear the entire, what they describe as a demolition site here.
[15:05:03]
So, there are two things that are true, a very delicate ceasefire is still just hanging by a thread. President Trump says that he doesn't really know if it's going to hold up or not. And these people have nowhere to go. Going back to Gaza does not seem like a safe idea, even though that has been the home for a lot of these refugees for their entire lives and for their family's entire lives, entire family trees are rooted there, but they have to come up with somewhere else for these guys to go.
And there have been various arguments from Middle Eastern partners about why they don't want some of these Palestinian refugees who might not have been vetted properly coming into their countries. There have been huge problems with that over since October 7th. But we are being directed to the king of Jordan's visit next week when President Trump is saying that he has heard positive reviews from partners in the Middle East. They're telling us, well, king of Jordan's coming let's ask him next week, and we will.
MACCALLUM: Yes. Obviously, Egypt and Jordan, both recipients, large recipients of U.S. aid and it is a strong ally relationship with Jordan and really with Egypt over the many decades as well. So, we'll see if maybe there's some sort of partnership that can be developed that would provide more stability in the region through this, you know, sort of throw the chessboard up in the air suggestion.
Peter, you have covered the Biden administration, obviously, for the last four years, and now the first weeks of the Trump administration. So, we are finding it interesting to sort of compare similar moments and meetings.
So, here is a look at Biden with President Naftali, and then when we hit the other play button, you'll see a clip from President Trump with Benjamin Netanyahu just yesterday. Watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOE BIDEN, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT: For the Palestinian people, a credible, credible pathway to a state of their own, and for the region, a future of normalization.
DONALD TRUMP, U.S. PRESIDENT: The only reason that the Palestinians want to go back to Gaza is they have no alternative.
The U.S. will take over the Gaza Strip.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: So, you know, obviously, very different takes.
DOOCY: And with Joe Biden, anytime there was a big international occurrence, they would make a point to say, okay, well, he's going to get on a virtual call with the rest of the G7 or the rest of the NATO leaders, and they're going to figure out what the best next step is. It was very, very bureaucratic, whereas Donald Trump is literally doing things backwards. He is thinking of the most unheard of idea and starting with that as a lead point in negotiations.
MACCALLUM: Yes. Well, sometimes a big idea is a shakeup moment. Peter, thank you so much, Peter Doocy at the White House.
As you can see on your screen, the defense secretary, Pete Hegseth, is in Arlington, Virginia, as he waits to receive the prime minister of Israel, Benjamin Netanyahu, who is the first foreign leader to visit this brand new administration. So, he will be speaking with Defense Secretary Hegsath on new terms as he is in that role and this extremely important alliance between the United States and Israel will be the subject of their discussion, especially in light of the new proposal from President Trump that Gaza needs a serious oversight program that could potentially be led by the United States. He did not rule out the possibility that U.S. troops could have a role there, and obviously that will be part of the discussion with Secretary Hegseth and president of Israel, Benjamin Netanyahu, who have known each other for some time.
Let me bring in Adam Boehler, who is the nominee to be special presidential envoy for hostage affairs. He's also the former negotiator for the Abraham Accords when Israel made peace with four Arab states. Adam, welcome. I know we had a little trouble with your shot, so I'm happy that you're on the phone. Obviously, these are very strong images for both of us to take in. Your thoughts on what we're watching here.
ADAM BOEHLER, SPECIAL ENVOY FOR HOSTAGE NOMINEE: Of course, Martha. Thanks for having me on. And I was there last night. In fact, I was sitting right behind Pete. And he had cool red socks on and I commented on.
MACCALLUM: Just known for that.
BOEHLER: Yes, he's got good style. I think for the audience there, people didn't even realize what the president said initially. And the reason people didn't realize it is because it was so bold. And that's what the United States elected this president to do is come up with ideas, because I'll tell you for damn sure the current isn't working.
MACCALLUM: So, you were involved in the orchestration of the Abraham Accords. There was a moment when it looked very close that Saudi Arabia would be the fifth nation and obviously the largest, most important player economically in the Middle East to join that as well.
[15:10:01]
And then we had October 7th, which ripped all of that apart. And now the effort to put this deal potentially back together and reorganize the power structure of the Middle East. Is that promising? And what do you think of this idea of the United States overseeing Gaza, at least for a period of time?
BOEHLER: First and foremost, I think it's definitely promising because the key is the same president in office that made it possibly to four. And he's got a great team around him in Secretary Rubio and Steve Witkoff. This is like the A Team. So, one, it's very possible. And I know for a fact, during Abraham Accords, MBS told us if the Biden administration doesn't mess it up, we'll be in the Abraham Accords within six months. And, unfortunately, you see what happened one way or the other and really, they were made a pariah, which was the wrong move, and then they retracted, but it took years.
So, one, I think it's very possible. I think this idea is a different idea. And the reality is someone has to take responsibility. The president just threw out the U.S. doing that because the United States is the strongest in the world, we're the strongest army. And he said, this is about Muslim Jews and Christians. That's not about one or the other. It's not a pro-Jewish thing. And so I think in this way, he's a unique individual in the world that could pull this off.
MACCALLUM: So, there's so many layers to this, obviously, Adam. But the immediate response from Jordan and Egypt, which would be the places that the president suggested perhaps 2 million Palestinians could move to while their country is being rebuilt was rejected out of hand. Where does that go?
BOEHLER: Well, I think the president said himself that his initial overtures to Mexico, Canada were also rejected in a negotiation, in a discussion. We don't expect that someone just says something and everyone just says yes right away. The president knows that. He's well-equipped for that. And so he made a starting volley of what he wants.
And the one thing I know from working with him, he is always open to great ideas. And if there's a better idea, then let's put it past the president of the United States and he'll consider it like he does everything, including Egypt and Jordan, but we don't -- we just don't even know.
MACCALLUM: Fascinating. It is fascinating to watch his negotiation tactics and sort of throwing out that big idea, as I said, that throws the chessboard up in the air, makes people think a little bit differently. We will see where this goes.
Adam Boehler, thank you very much. Hope to see you soon. Thanks for joining us.
So, billionaire and close adviser to the president, Elon Musk, rattling Democrats and government employees, only 6 percent of whom even were coming to their D.C. offices to go to work. And now Congress is lashing out at the DOGE staffers who are analyzing these agencies.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. CHRIS MURPHY (D-CT): Creepy 22-year-olds working for Elon Musk. We pledge allegiance to the United States of America.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
[15:15:00]
MACCALLUM: We're getting fascinating look behind the scenes at doge and the young whiz kids advising Elon Musk as he begins slashing spending through executive branch edicts. Eli Lake writing in the free press, quote, many of them are barely old enough to order a drink, and yet these engineers staffing Elon Musk's Department of Government Efficiency, or DOGE, appear to be running the current hunger games for the federal bureaucracy.
Eli Lake joins us now, Free Press Columnist and host of the Breaking History Podcast with Mary Katharine Ham joining us, Outkick Columnist and Fox News Contributor, and Patrick Murphy, former Pennsylvania Democratic congressman, former Acting Army Secretary, and an Iraq War veteran. Great group, thank you so much all for being here.
Eli, yes they are young. And as you point out in your piece though, the country has a history of turning to young people, including I looked up Alexander Hamilton today, he was 30 or 31 years old when he wrote the Federalist Papers. So, what argument are you making in your piece here?
ELI LAKE, COLUMNIST, THE FREE PRESS: Well, the argument that I'm making is that just the fact Musk has hired a bunch of young kids doesn't tell us whether what they're doing is right or wrong, or wise or imprudent, but it tells us it's something that's kind of a common pattern in some ways in American history. If you look at the people who were part of the Apollo mission, most of them were engineers in their 20s. If you look at the kind of speechwriters who were around President Reagan in his first term, they were in their 20s.
And there's an advantage in some ways to being young because you don't know you can't do the things that a president often demands that you do. Whereas when you have a little bit more experience in government, you learn all the reasons why things won't work. And in that respect, there can be an advantage to it.
There's obviously also potential pitfalls and so forth. You don't have other people explaining why certain programs exist. But I just thought it was entirely unfair to sort of pick on these kids.
MACCALLUM: Yes.
LAKE: You know, many of them probably aren't going to be in government for most of their careers and they're probably going to go into tech or finance. And, you know, so I decided to kind of --
MACCALLUM: Yes. I mean, we remember when the DOGE call went out, they said, look, we need people who are willing to work basically 24/7 on this project. We need you to be, you know, very focused and hardworking.
You know, I'm struck, Patrick, by the fact that, I'm guessing that there were plenty of young people along the way who probably added to these agencies, created new bottom lines, new ways for, you know, to spend taxpayer dollars. Is it wrong to criticize these individuals based on their age? I know one, Chris Murphy, Representative Murphy said that they were creepy.
[15:20:02]
I don't know how he knows that.
FMR. REP. PATRICK MURPHY (D-PA): Well, listen, I read Eli's great piece and he talked they have an impressive background. And I do think it's unfair to criticize them just because they're young. We need that young, vigorous new generation of leaders in government, whether it's Democrat, Republican or independent.
I think the concern, Martha, that a lot of Democrats have, I mean, is really the fact that like there's a DOGE caucus of Democrats, Republicans in the Congress and said, hey, we want to be part of the solution, we want to root out waste, fraud and abuse. And people like Congressman Jared Moskowitz said, hey, listen, they don't want to deal with those caucus because they don't want to deal with Congress. And that, you know, having a collegial branch of government is not like this clean idea, it's the fundamental principle of our Constitution.
MACCALLUM: Yes. Let's take a look at number three here. This is some of the reaction of Democrats and we'll get Mary Katharine's thoughts on the other side. Let's watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What Elon Musk is doing is illegal. It is a coup.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Elon Musk makes unsafe cars and now he wants to create an unsafe world.
SEN. CORY BOOKER (D-NJ): We will not shut up. We will stand up. We will speak up.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: That same spirit that Elon Musk has coming from South Africa.
We're not going to have apartheid in America anymore.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: Okay. If you cut some spending, apparently, there is -- there's a very wild reaction. I just want to mention we just got crossing the wires a moment ago. Google is eliminating their DEI, their diversity programming. They're just the latest huge American companies decide to scrap those programs. You know, changing times and not a lot of positive impact on the bottom line.
Mary Katharine, what's your take on all this?
MARY KATHARINE HAM, COLUMNIST, OUTKICK: There's an old saying that a hit dog hollers, and the dog is hollering right now. We're told that waste, fraud, and abuse is such a small percentage of the federal government's budget, and it should be easy to deal with given that. And yet we're also told that that small slice of the federal government is the end of democracy if you start auditing it.
Now, I would like Elon Musk to both bring transparency and be transparent about what he's doing, but the fact is that Congress has often given power to the executive. The executive has the power to appoint Elon Musk. He is not elected. That's correct. He is appointed. And the folks under him, working for him, who are talented engineers going through all this crazy code and data, he can also give them clearances. So, as long as they are telling us what they're up to and then telling us what the government has been up to with these funds, I am happy to hear what they're doing. And I'm happy that we have talented people doing it, who, as Eli notes, might look at the conventional wisdom and say, oh, you can't touch that, you can't touch that, you can't touch that, and go, but maybe we can look at it.
MACCALLUM: Yes. You know, I mean, I don't think people should be afraid to have the books opened up and they seem to be some of them very panicked at the notion that the books will be opened up and looked at where American taxpayer dollars are spent. There is executive branch power and there is congressional power of the purse, obviously.
And I don't doubt that there will be challenges to some of these actions. But so far, you know, it appears to be low hanging fruit in many cases. And I would just point out that one of these 23-year-olds is an artificial intelligence specialist who was able to somehow decode the Dead Sea Scrolls through A.I.
So, anyway, I didn't do that this morning. I don't know about you guys.
P. MURPHY: And, Martha, I will say when I was in Congress, I was 33 I was first elected and I worked with Republicans. I was a blue dog Democrat. We did not intentionally just lose your shot, Patrick Murphy. Thank you. Sorry about that. And thank you, Eli Lake and Mary Katharine Ham. We're about to see a live event. So, we got to cut it short. Thank you both for all three very much.
So, we're expecting remarks from President Trump in the East Room in moments after his comments about U.S. ownership of the Gaza Strip to rebuild it sent shockwaves through the Middle East.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Trump will fail, and the countries that support Trump will fail.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
[15:25:00]
MACCALLUM: All right. As you can see, they are getting set up in the East Room at the White House, and we will take you there shortly as the president gets ready to sign some executive orders. This is expected to be related to women and sports and transgender women not competing in college and professional sports.
I believe we're going to get some more details on it momentarily, but you can see the gathering that is underway.
We also think that right now, the governor of Texas, Greg Abbott, is in the Oval Office, we believe, speaking with President Trump right now. So we'll get all of this to you as it unfolds.
In the meantime, Iran is responding to the maximum pressure campaign and calls for immediate talks to strike a nuclear peace agreement with Iran. Iran's president insisting that they can weather any new sanctions that are thrown their way, while a senior Iranian official tells Reuters that Tehran is ready to, quote, give diplomacy with Trump another chance, but we want the U.S. to, quote, rein in Israel, their words.
Chief Foreign Correspondent Trey Yingst joins us now live from Tel Aviv. Hi, Trey.
TREY YINGST, FOX NEWS CHIEF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENT: Yes. Hey, Martha. Good afternoon. A lot of developments overnight from President Trump about Iran and Gaza. The news about the Gaza Strip echoing across the region following President Trump's statement that the United States will take over Gaza. The commander-in-chief leaving open the possibility --
We're going to toss it back to you, Martha. Secretary Hegseth is talking now.
MACCALLUM: All right. Trey, thank you very much. What's going on? Let's go to Pete Hegseth at the Department of Defense speaking.
PETE HEGSETH, SECRETARY OF DEFENSE: I understand the proximity, whether it's the Golan Heights or Hezbollah or the Gaza Strip threat that Israeli citizens have been under. And it always struck me the sense of purpose that permeate permeates the state of Israel, living under an existential threat. And I've always had a great deal of respect for the response that country has had. And now destroying Hamas's capabilities in Gaza, Hezbollah's capabilities in the north, damaging the Houthi infrastructure in Yemen, and things that are of great importance to America, those are all great importance to us.
But in September of 2024, killing the man responsible for the 1983 bombing of the Marine Corps compound in Beirut killing 241 Americans. You have a long memory, we have long memory, and may our relationship continue to endure. We're going to continue to grow our defense industrial base. We've supplied munitions that were previously not supplied, that are useful in eradicating radical enemies, and we are committed to continuing to do so.
So I hope you've noticed here at the Defense Department under President Trump, we are laser focused on reviving the warrior ethos, on rebuilding America's military and reestablishing deterrence. Which is something you, Prime Minister, have in your neighborhood in impressive, aggressive and important ways. So it's an honor to welcome you to the Pentagon on behalf of the Department of Defense. Thank you for spending the afternoon with us, sir.
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER: Well, thank you, Mr. Secretary Pete. You've been a great and stalwart friend of Israel. And we see President Trump and the team that he's put together as extraordinary friends, extraordinary patriots of America, and therefore also champions of the American Israel alliance.
I truly believe Israel obviously has no greater friend than the United States, and I think the United States has no better friend than Israel. It's an ally that perhaps is different from many of your allies because we have no compunction about fighting our enemies by ourselves.
We're willing to shoulder the burden of our defense by confronting the forces of radicalism and terror, and the forces that are anti-American at the core. They call you the Great Satan, and they call us the Small Satan, we just stand in their way. But you are their great enemy.
By confronting these various enemies, we're not only defeating those who wish to attack us, but those who wish to attack you as well. And therefore, our victory is your victory. And we are well ahead and well-advanced in the pursuit of our war goals that will give security and peace.
And that's the only way you get it in our region, and perhaps in many other regions, the only way you get peace, and an enduring peace, is by being very, very strong. And with our alliance, with your support, including the decision you just mentioned, of supplying Israel the much needed tools for our defense, we a lot stronger than we've ever been.
I thank you for this warm reception. It's good to see you again. And I look forward to our discussions away from the cameras.
HEGSETH: Good to see you, sir. Welcome to the Pentagon. We look forward to the discussions.
(CROSSTALK)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Your view about American (inaudible) and worldview.
HEGSETH: I would just say to the question of Gaza, the definition of insanity is attempting to do the same thing over and over, and over again. And as the President and prime minister pointed out last night, the President is willing to think outside the box, look for new and unique dynamic ways to solve problems that have felt like they're intractable.
So we look forward to more conversations about that, creative solutions to that. And as the man tasked with leading the Defense Department here, we're prepared to look at all options as we've said before.
(CROSSTALK)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Mr. Secretary, are you working on a plan to send troops to Gaza? Are you working on options for the President right now that would involve US troops in Gaza?
HEGSETH: The President is involved in very complex and high level negotiations of great consequence to both the United States and the State of Israel. And we look forward to working with our allies, our counterparts, both diplomatically and militarily, to look at all options.
But we certainly would not get ahead of the President or provide any details about what we may or may not doing. Dude, that's just bad military move. That's all we have.
(CROSSTALK)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you.
(END LIVE COVERAGE)
MACCALLUM: Now everybody's leaving. But a couple of questions did get in there for the secretary of Defense, Pete Hegseth. You saw seated next to him, the commander of the Joint Chiefs, CQ Brown. Also we saw Ron Dermer, who was a top aide to Benjamin Netanyahu -- and the president of Israel.
Warm dialogue back and forth, obviously, but Netanyahu saying he looked forward to speaking with the defense secretary when the cameras are gone. And clearly there's a lot to talk about in terms of what any sort of US control over Gaza might look like, what are the next steps for peace in the region post the tremendous war, and we're in a ceasefire period right now that is tenuous and fragile as all of this plays out, and could that fall apart as a result of some of this.
There's all kinds of possibilities, but as Hegseth just said, they are looking to think outside the box here and get creative, given the fact that what has been undertaken so far over many decades has simply not worked in terms of finding a more peaceful and stable Middle East.
So, Secretary of State Marco Rubio is in Guatemala right now. He has been all over the region as he establishes relationships with the leaders there. He will witness the arrival of criminal migrants who were booted out of the United States. We heard a list of some of their offenses and we're going to bring you that live next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
MACCALLUM: President Trump entering the East Room shaking hands with Governor Youngkin of Virginia, the tall person you can see right in that shot there. And also Mike Johnson in the front row there. Let's hear what the President has to say about this latest executive order that has been signed with regard to athletics. Watch.
(BEGIN LIVE COVERAGE)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF UNITED STATES: You've been waiting a long time for this. So have I, actually, it's so ridiculous but here we are. And this doesn't have to be long, it's just all about common sense. Doesn't have to be long.
In a few moments, I'll sign a historic executive order to ban men from competing in women's sports, it's about time. Under the Trump administration, we will defend the proud tradition of female athletes and we will not allow men to beat up, injure and cheat our women and our girls. From now on, women's sports will be only for women.
But before going further, I want to share some very exciting news from our military. After years of shrinking force numbers at levels that nobody has ever seen before, four years of this we went through. And missed recruiting targets every single month, it was just announced that in December, the US army had its single best recruitment in more than 15 years.
Every single day, nearly 350 new soldiers enlisted to defend our nation, and they're very happy to have done so. We've done lots of interviews, and we asked why this was taking place now. And they just said, there's a spirit about our country that they haven't seen in many, many years. And I happen to agree with that.
But it really is clear proof that the spirit is sweeping our armed forces, and we have a great leader in Pete. As you know, we all know Pete so well. He's going to be fantastic, and so many of our great heroes and people are starting to understand what hero is all about. So that is something that is very important.
We've gotten the woke lunacy out of our military, and now we're very importantly getting it out of women's sports. That's taking place very strongly.
So in recent years, the radical left has waged an all out campaign to erase the very concept of biological sex and replace it with a militant transgender ideology. You heard a little bit about this, haven't you? Just a little bit. Does anybody agree with them?
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKERS (in unison): No.
TRUMP: Would be not a good thing to say yes right here. Female athletes have been forced onto the frontlines and men claiming to be girls have stolen more than 3,500 victories, that's a lot, and invaded more than 11,000 competitions designed for women. Last year, a male cyclist posing as a woman competed in the 800 mile Arizona Trail Race, a very big deal in cycling, and obliterated the woman's course record by nearly five and a half hours.
Sounds like a lot, doesn't it? Huh? Five and a half hours. But you have to hear the weightlifting record. That -- you think that's bad, the weightlifting's worse. In 2023, a man in women's power lifting broke two world records and outlifted his closest female opponent in one event by 440 pounds. And they continue to defend themselves.
Mr. Congressman, you know that, right? They continue to defend themselves. We hope they continue onward because I don't think we can lose a race. This is one of the big reasons that we all won, and it's one of the big reasons that we had a record, a landslide like they haven't seen before very often anyway.
And who could forget last year's Paris Olympics where a male boxer stole the woman's gold medal after brutalizing his female opponent so viciously that she had to forfeit just after 46 seconds, and she was a championship fighter. And actually they had two women or two people that transitioned, and both of them won gold medals. And they won them very convincingly.
But all of that ends today because with this executive order, the war on women's sports is over.
(APPLAUSE)
Thank you, everybody. Should have been done long ago, actually. Thank you. Thank you very much.
With my action this afternoon, we are putting every school receiving taxpayer dollars on notice that if you let men take over women's sports teams or invade your locker rooms, you will be investigated for violations of Title IV and risk your federal funding. There will be no federal funding.
(APPLAUSE)
So this will effectively end the attack on female athletes at public K-12 school and virtually all US colleges and universities. I don't think we've missed anything, but if we do, we'll make it up very quickly with an order, and I don't think we will at all.
I want to, before we go on, I want to thank so many people that have worked so hard in the political establishment. And they're before me largely, and I'm going to -- I think I'm going to miss a few. It always happens when you do this, but it's just one of those things. But we have many senators here, many governors here, many state attorneys generals here.
They're all over the place, actually. I see some of them went after me, but they failed. And they're really friends, and they're friends of women's sports, that I can tell you. So Senator Marsha Blackburn, where's Marsha? Hi.
Senator Katie Britt. Thank you, Katie. Mike Lee, where's Mike? Mike. I love his new haircut. I love that haircut, Mike. He just said the hell with it, right? I think you look great.
Senator Cynthia Lummis. Cynthia, where are you? Cynthia? Hi, Cynthia. Doing a good job. And Roger Marshall. Thank you, Roger. Great.
Markwayne Mullin, Oklahoma. I love Oklahoma. I don't know what it is, Oklahoma, I won 77 out of 77 counties. It's never been done. Second was Ronald Reagan, 56, right? Yes.
And Tommy Tuberville, a great coach. You know, his quarterback was named Mahomes. He was a great college coach. And I said, how good was he? He said, you don't want to know how good. He made me into a great coach. He's pretty, pretty good quarterback, right? Yeah, he was very good. He's a good guy, too.
Also governors, we have Governor Glenn Youngkin, Virginia. Thank you, Glenn. Good job. Bill Lee of Tennessee. Bill, thank you. Jeff Landry, Louisiana. Thank you, Jeff. Kim Reynolds of Iowa, thank you.
We're trying to move, you know, education back to the states. You do know that we're making a big move and we're counting on Linda McMahon -- Linda McMahon. And sitting next to you is the new star is born, Karoline. Congratulations. You've done great. New star. Star is born.
Patrick Morrisey. Patrick, congratulations. Great race. A great friend of mine, and he's really helped us at the border, done a great job, of Texas, Greg Abbott. Thank you, Greg. Jim Pillen, where are you? Jim? Very good. Very good.
Are you feeling good? He had a bad fall. You're doing all right, huh? Good. You look great. Brad Little. Brad, thank you, Brad, good job. Good job. Do you like education going back to your state? You'll make it top, right?
You know, just so people understand, in the education world, we're ranked very poorly. We're 38, 39 and 40 out of 40 countries. We're at the bottom of the pack, almost always or very close to it. That just came out, we're 40 out of 40.
And if we move it back to the states, I will guarantee you that if you take Idaho, you take Iowa, you take almost any of the states that I'm looking at right now, they'll be as good as Norway. You have Norway, you have Sweden, you have Denmark. I must say, you have China that's very high in the pack, which is no longer, we can say, it has to be a small area.
China is very big, but they do a very good job. But we'll have at least 35 of our states that will be as good or better than any of those countries, and we have to get it done. Attorney General Steve Marshall. Steve, thank you very much, Steve, wherever you may be.
General Tim Griffin, thank you. Thank you. A person who was so wonderful, Brenna Bird, where are you? Brenna? Brenna Bird, thank you. She supported me before people wanted to support me, right, Brenna? Wow. Thank you very much. I appreciated it.
Andrew Bailey, great job. Where is Andrew? Great. Stand up, Andrew. One of the great attorney generals, thank you very much. One of the greats, really. And Jason Miyares, thanks, Jason.
And now we get back to our members of Congress and we'll go quickly. But it's a great group of people. Steve Scalise is right in front here. What a brave guy Steve is. Steve went through a lot and he proved one thing to me, only one thing, that his wife loved him.
His wife loves him because I went to the hospital that night and he was not given even a shot, right, Mike? And I was with him and I was with his wife, and she was devastated. She was really devastated. And I've been to, you know, similar situations, not quite as bad, but the wives were not so devastated.
And I can tell -- I can tell you that great wife of yours loves you. So anyway, and what you've done is incredible. The way you've come back, it's -- you're better -- you look better now than you did before it happened, but nobody wants to go through that, yes. It's amazing.
Tom Emmer doing a fantastic job. Thank you, Tom, great job. Lisa McClain. Lisa? Hi, Lisa. Hi. Good job. Virginia Fox. Hi, Virginia. Tim Walberg, Michigan. Tim, great.
Jason Smith, great man on taxes, great men on -- how are the taxes doing? OK? We're going to get good things passed, I hope, right? Juan Ciscomani, Arizona. Where are you, Juan? Hello, Juan. Stand up, Juan. You look so good. You always look good.
Kevin Kiley, Kevin, wherever you may be, what happened? How come he had no applause? Lauren Boebert, Lauren Boebert, very much a leader in this. Thank you, Lauren. Kat Cammack, Florida. Thank you, Kat.
Byron Donalds, he's doing good. Byron's doing good. Where is he? You're doing good, Byron. Laurel Lee. Thank you, Laurel, thank you. Great job. Anna Paulina Luna, thank you. Thank you, Anna. Greg Steube hit a home run wearing a Trump cap. The only one to hit a home run out of the park during your crazy baseball game, right?
I think I will come. I think I'll come. If you're playing, I'll come. Somebody that's very shy, this is a very shy person and -- But she's trying to break out of it, Marjorie Taylor Greene. Victoria Spartz. Thank you, Victoria. Great job.
Ashley Hinson. Ashley, thank you. Mariannette Miller Meeks. Good job, you did, good job. Great job, Mary Miller, thank you. Julia Letlow. Hi, Julia. Claudia Tenney from New York. Claudia? Hi, Claudia. Hi. Great job.
Nicole Malliotakis. Hi, Nicole. Doing good. I saw a great poll with you, Nicole. Michelle Fischbach, thank you. Great, great job. Ann Wagner, Missouri, thanks. Sheri Biggs, South Carolina. Thanks, Sheri. Great job.
Nancy Mace. Where's Nancy? Here's something. Oh, are you a believer in what we're doing, Nancy? Nancy takes it on right from the start, right? Would you like to say something? Would you like to say we're doing the right thing?
Good. Good. Thank you very much. Thank you. Stephanie Bice, Oklahoma -- Oklahoma. Thanks, Stephanie. Diana Harshbarger. Thanks, Diana. Good job.
Tim Burchett. Tim, I watched you on television the other day, you were unbelievable. You ripped that guy apart. Man, that poor guy. He started getting a little fresh with Tim, and Tim just ripped him apart. That was beautiful. I actually left a message.
That's good. Great job, Tim. Monica De La Cruz, Monica. Ronny Jackson. Ronny, Dr. Ronny. He was -- he's a doctor, a great doctor, a great admiral and a great congressman, right? Pretty good.
He could -- he has his choice. What do you like doing best, Ronny? Who is the healthiest patient you ever had? You know why I liked him, the fake News asked so doctor who -- he had Obama, Bush and Trump in the White House. He was the White House doctor.
And they asked him, who's the healthiest of the three? He said, it's not close. It's Donald Trump. And from that moment, I love this guy. Right. Thank you, Ronny.
Wesley Hunt from Texas. Hi, Wesley. Beth Van Duyne, Beth from Texas. Thanks, Beth. Burgess Owens, a great athlete, NFL star -- an NFL star. Jen Kiggans from Virginia, thank you. Thank you, honey. Thank you very much, Jen, I appreciate it.
Harriet Hageman, what a lawyer. Oh, one of the best -- one of the most talented lawyers you'll ever see. What she did to her opponent was horrible. Let's see, who was her opponent? Let's see. Oh, does anybody remember her?
We tend to forget. We forgot that one, huh? And, you know, your speaker. I'm going to introduce him later, anyway, your speaker has been fantastic. Stand up, Mike. He's great. What a -- what a good man, a really good man.
Also, some friends of ours, Sage Steele has been very strong on the issue. Sage, thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Great job.
Tiffany Justice, Tina Descovich, founders of Moms for Liberty. And they honored me, and it was a great honor. And thank you very much, both of you. Thank you.
Heather Higgins, Andrea Bottner, Victoria Coley from Independent Women's Forum. It's a fantastic group of people that fought very hard on this issue. I think everybody in this room really fought very hard on this issue.

Load-Date: February 5, 2025


End of Document
