




TheHill.com
January 29, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 NEXSTAR MEDIA INC.  All Rights Reserved


Section: MEXICO NEWS
Length: 1161 words
Byline: Elvia Limon
Body


President Trump has signed a flurry of executive orders since he was sworn in to office again on Jan. 20, keeping his campaign promises to enact his conservative agenda.
Several of his executive orders have been related to immigration, including a move to house deported migrants at Guantánamo Bay and an attempt to end birthright citizenship. Other actionsto reshape government include ending diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) programs; withdrawing from the Paris Agreement; and renaming the Gulf of Mexico to the “Gulf of America.”
Here is a list of some of his most significant executive orders to date.
Termination of DEI offices
Trump’s Office of Personnel Management (OPM) is ordering department and agency leaders to  offices and personnel.
A  instructed agencies to place all DEI employees on paid leave. Agencies and departments were told to report all steps taken to comply with the directive and to submit the plan by Jan. 31. 
Ending birthright citizenship
Trump said he would end birthright citizenship for children born to people living without legal status in the U.S. — a provision that runs afoul of a constitutional guarantee.
The order  14th Amendment “has never been interpreted to extend citizenship universally to everyone born within the United States.” A federal judge has temporarily blocked the order, a major hit to one of the president’s .
Pardons for nearly all Jan. 6 rioters
Trump pardoned , making good on a long-standing campaign promise just hours into his second presidency. He also commuted the sentences of Proud Boys and Oath Keepers members charged with plotting to forcibly halt the peaceful transfer of power in 2020 to time served. Former Proud Boys national Chair Enrique Tarrio received a pardon. 
Reinstating military members dismissed over COVID-19 vaccine refusal
Service members dismissed from the military for failing to get vaccinated against COVID-19 . The move makes good on one of Trump’s campaign promises and is something he previewed during his inaugural address.
Banning transgender people from military service
Trump signed an executive order effectively  from serving openly in the military, renewing a policy he first began implementing in 2017 during his first term. 
Banning gender-affirming care for minors 
Trump signed a sweeping executive order meant to  to gender-affirming care for transgender children and teenagers younger than 19, inching closer to fulfilling a key campaign promise to ban treatments that he and his administration have cast as experimental and dangerous, in conflict with findings by major medical associations and transgender health experts. 
Recognizing only 2 sexes
Trump signed a sweeping executive order during his first hours in office , male and female, and directing federal agencies to cease promotion of the concept of gender transition. 
Delaying TikTok ban for 75 days
President Trump signed an executive order  before a law that will ban the popular video-sharing platform takes effect. The app had shut down in the United States days before, leaving American users unable to access the platform for more than 12 hours.
Pause of federal loans and grants
The Trump administration directed federal agencies to  while the government conducts a review to ensure spending aligns with the president’s agenda. The Trump administration’s Office of Management and Budget  two days later rescinding the controversial move.
Militarizing the border
Trump declared the southern border a national emergency in , allowing him to  for the effort. 
Housing migrants in Guantánamo Bay facility
President Trump signed a memo to prepare a  to be used to house deported migrants.
The memo will direct the Department of Defense and Department of Homeland Security to prepare a 30,000-person migrant facility at Guantánamo Bay, a facility in Cuba that has been used to house military prisoners, including several involved in the 9/11 attacks.
Refugee program suspended
Trump , leaving it under review for three months.
The order calls for the departments of Homeland Security and State to issue a report within 90 days detailing whether it’s in the nation’s interests to resume the admission of refugees.
Shutting down the CBP One app
Trump administration officials  to make appointments at the U.S.-Mexico border.
By shutting down the CBP One app, Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officials canceled all outstanding appointments made by migrants without visas who sought to enter the United States through legal ports of entry.
Designating certain cartels as foreign terror organizations 
Trump designated certain drug cartels as , a move specifically aimed at  and Tren de Aragua. This allows authorities to more easily arrest and deport convicted members, as well as prosecute those who aid the cartels.
Defunding schools teaching CRT, ‘radical gender ideology’
Trump signed an executive order  from going to K-12 public schools that teach critical race theory (CRT) or gender issues. 
The order, which could quickly face legal challenges, “prohibits federal funding of the indoctrination of children which includes radical gender ideology and critical race theory in the classroom.” 
US Iron Dome
The president’s executive order creates a next-generation missile defense shield, which the White House referred to as the  after Israel’s missile defense system.
Release of JFK assassination files
Trump signed an executive order directing the  related to the assassinations of former President John F. Kennedy, former Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy and Martin Luther King Jr.
Withdrawing from the WHO
Trump issued an executive order  (WHO). This is the second time he has tried to pull the country out of the public health organization, having previously done so months before the end of his first term.
Renaming Gulf of Mexico, “Gulf of America”
Trump renamed the  as part of a surge of Day 1 executive orders. The major body of water was renamed as the “Gulf of America,” and the Alaskan mountain’s name reverted to Mount McKinley. 
Withdrawal from Paris Climate Agreement
Trump announced the  shortly after his inauguration, echoing a similar decision in his first term that was later reversed by former President Biden.


Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
