




Forbes.com
February 19, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Forbes LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 2932 words
Byline: Conor Murray, Forbes Staff
Highlight: False claims about government spending have gone viral on social media, frequently boosted by DOGE leader Elon Musk.
Body


Topline
As billionaire Elon Musk s Department of Government Efficiency scours federal agencies for cost savings, Musk and his team have repeatedly made baseless or false claims about government spending or exaggerated the level of fraud and waste uncovered at some agencies.
<figure>
<figcaption>
Elon Musk delivers remarks as he joins President Donald Trump in the Oval Office on Feb. 11.
Getty Images
</figcaption></figure>
Key Facts
Many false and misleading claims about government spending practices by various agencies including USAID and the Federal Emergency Management Agency have spread quickly on X, propped up by billionaires including Musk andBill Ackman.
Musk has evenacknowledged some of the things that I say will be incorrect  while speaking at the White House with President Donald Trump on Tuesday, stating  nobody s going to bat 1.000  in response to a reporter who questioned his claim, made without evidence, that USAID spent $50 million on condoms in Gaza.
Did Doge Save $8 Billion By Cutting One Ice Contract?
No. DOGE published a list of cost savings on its website earlier this week, and one of the largest was a purported $8 billion canceled technical support contract for Immigration and Customs Enforcement s Office of Diversity and Civil Rights dating back to 2022,accordingto the New York Times. However, while the contract was initiallyvaluedat $8 billion, the price tag was laterupdatedto a much more modest $8 million on Jan. 22, 2025. Just$2.5 millionwas spent on the contract, suggesting DOGE saved only $5.5 million. DOGE s sitenow liststhe contract s savings at just $8 million.
Did Doge Close Jimmy Carter s Office In Atlanta?
Not exactly. DOGE lists $128,233 in savings on  allowance to former presidents  after the agency said it closed a nearly 7,700-square-foot office in Atlanta. Data from the General Services Administration shows a property of the same size leased from President Jimmy Carter s charity, the Carter Center, at $128,233. The GSAprovidesfunds for each former president annually, though Carter s allowance would have ended anyways on Dec. 30, 2024, the day after he died.
Is There Widespread Social Security Fraud?
Musk has claimed the Social Security Administration is riddled with mass fraud, including scores of payments made to dead people and White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt said  tens of millions  are receiving fraudulent payments. However, while Social Security fraud certainly exists, there sno evidenceit takes place at anywhere near the scale Musk and Leavitt have claimed. The Inspector s General office that oversees the agencyfounderroneous payments accounted for less than 1% of total payments between 2015 and 2023. The office has found improper payments to dead people, though on afar smaller scale, and while tens of millions of people over the age of 100 who might be deceased remain in the SSA database, it s not clear how many actually receive payments. The SSA has previouslysaidpayments are automatically canceled for anyone over age 115.
Is Gold Missing From Fort Knox?
There sno indicationthis is the case. Musk questioned on social media whether the federal government s gold reserves valued at about $435 billion at Fort Knox are  still there  or  gone,  suggesting there should be a  live video walkthrough  of the facility. Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky.,backedMusk s claims and called for an audit of the fort. Paul s father, former Rep. Ron Paul,saidhe thinks  the gold is there,  though he questioned who owned the reserves because  there s a lot of borrowing and gimmickry that goes on.  In 2017, former Kentucky Gov. Matt BevinsaidFort Knox s gold depository is  freakishly well secured  and  the gold is safe. 
Did The Government Pay Reuters For  social Deception? 
No. Muskrepostedaclaimon X made by Mario Nawfal, who has 2 million followers and hosts the  Roundtable Show  on X Spaces, who alleged the Department of Defense made a $9 million payment to Reuters for a  large scale social deception  project, citing theUSASpending.govwebsite. Though the Department of Defense did make a $9 million payment, it was actually issued to Thomson Reuters Special Services the data and research arm of Reuters, not the newsroom and the project was not to deceive society, as Musk s post may imply. Theproject, according to the Defense Department s Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, was to fund research for  automated defense against social engineering attacks.  Trump also attacked  Radical Left Reuters  onTruth Socialand demanded the organization return the money though the payment was issued during his first term.
Did Fema Spend $59 Million On Housing Migrants In Nyc Luxury Hotels?
No. Although FEMA did allocate $59 million to New York last week as part of a payment package approved last year, Musk mademultiple misleading claimsabout the payment in a post on X on Monday. Contrary to Musk s post, the money sent to New York was not  disaster relief  and came from a pool of money separate from FEMA s disaster efforts. The money wasapproved by Congresslast year as part of theShelter and Services Program, which FEMA administers alongside the U.S. Customs and Border Protection. New York was allocated about $237 million as a partial reimbursement for the about $7 billion it has spent on housing migrants, TheNew York Timesreported, and a $59 million payment was made last week as part of this allocation. Of that payment, about $19 million was spent on hotel fees, but contrary to Musk s post, New York officials said these payments were not made on luxury hotels. Also unlike Musk s post, New Yorkofficials saidthey have not received any request to return the money.
Are Anti-Doge Protests Funded By Ngos?
Musk amplified an unproven speculative claim, made without evidence by the world s most popular podcaster, Joe Rogan, in apost on Xon Tuesday, claiming  so many fake protests  against Musk and DOGE are  paid for by the same corrupt NGOs that @DOGE is defunding.  Musk s post, viewed more than 11 million times, contained a clip from Rogan s podcast released earlier this week in which he said he  guarantees  anti-Musk protests are  organized by the same people that are going to lose a shitload of money based on all these discoveries at DOGE.  Rogan continued to make false or misleading claims, including that USAID funded a lab that  invented  COVID-19, and provided no evidence for USAID or any other government agency or NGO funding anti-Musk protests. Rogan baselessly claimed NGOs are  using their access to these mailing lists  and are  mobilizing other NGOs  to organize protests, without naming any specific organizations or protests.Protestsagainst the Trump administration, Musk and DOGE have been held in multiple states in recent weeks, including in California, Minnesota, Michigan and Texas. Some of these protesters have organized online with the hashtag #buildtheresistance, theLos Angeles Timesreported, but there s no evidence to suggest these protests were funded by NGOs or agencies that DOGE plans to defund.
Are Bureaucrats Making  tens Of Millions  On Taxpayer Money?
Musk claimed while taking questions from reporters at the White House on Tuesday that federal employees, including those at USAID,  managed to accrue tens of millions of dollars  while working for the federal government, accusing them of profiting off of taxpayer money. He did not name names, but said  quite a few people,  whom he called  fraudsters,  were receiving  kickbacks.  Musk offered no evidence of who is getting rich or by how much, and he did not elaborate on specific instances of any criminal activity, including fraud.
Is Usaid A Form Of  money Laundering? 
There s no evidence to suggest USAID has engaged in money laundering. On Saturday afternoon,Musk reposteda claim on X that suggested USAID was a  form of money laundering tax payers money into far-left organizations,  adding:  Absolutely,  though neither poster offered sources or factual information. Although Republicans have criticized the organization for alleged wasteful spending, there s no evidence that USAID was engaging in criminal behavior to support left-wing organizations.
Did Samantha Power Earn $23 Million As Usaid Chief?
No. Muskrespondedto a post on X claiming former USAID chief Samantha Power earned $23 million between 2020 and 2024. Power received a salary of $183,100 while working as administrator of USAID, according to federal records, and there s no evidence suggesting she benefitted from her position to the tune of millions of dollars. In 2020, Powerdisclosedroyalties and sales from her books none of which exceeded $1,000 in addition to positions in several exchange-traded funds and mutual funds, including some holdings with Vanguard valued up to $1 million. In 2024, Powerdiscloseda retirement fund valued at up to $1 million and other assets held in ETFs and mutual funds. Over four years, some of Power s assets rose in value, but many of them were mutual funds that track broad stock market indexes and there isn t any evidence that growth had anything to do with her job at USAID.
Did Chelsea Clinton Get A Big Paycheck From Usaid?
No. Several viralposts on Xclaimed Chelsea Clinton raked in a large $84 million sum from USAID but the reference to Clinton actually refers to her family s Clinton Foundation, and the only Clinton-related organization that has received USAID money is the Clinton Health Access Initiative, to which USAID gave $7.5 million in 2019, according toUSASpending.gov.The grant given to the Clinton Health Access Initiative was used to fund health services in Zambia between 2019 and 2021, and Chelsea Clinton receives no compensation as a board member, including during the years the grant money was used, according toIRS documents.
Did Usaid Pay Celebrities To Visit Ukraine including Ben Stiller And Angelina Jolie?
There is no evidence USAID paid celebrities to visit Ukraine. Several viral social media posts accused USAID of paying Ben Stiller, Angelina Jolie, Sean Penn and Orlando Bloom to travel to Ukraine and take pictures with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy (Forbes has reached out to Stiller, Jolie, Penn and Bloom for comment). Stillercalled the claims totally false  and  untrue  in a post on X, clarifying he self-funded his trip to Ukraine and has not received money from USAID, and Penn s litigation attorney Mathew Rosengart told Forbes the claims are  completely false,  noting Penn self-funded his visit and threatening to take legal action if the  defamatory statements continue.  Muskamplifiedthese false claims on X, reposting a video that was fabricated to look like it had been reported by E! News (E! News denied in astatement to AFPthat it created the video).
Did Usaid Fund Research That Caused Covid-19?
No. Musk reposted anunproven claimthat USAID funded research by scientific nonprofit EcoHealth Alliance that led to the creation of COVID-19. Although USAID and other government agencies have given it funds, and some of EcoHealth Alliance s methods arecontroversial, the group haspreviously saidthe viruses it studied were not similar enough to COVID-19 to have been related to the start of the pandemic.
Did Politico Get Paid By The Government?
Yes but for subscriptions, not USAID grants.Musk, Trumpand other right-wing figures have spread false claims that USAID gave the news outlet Politico millions of dollars, which Trump baselessly claimed was to write  good stories about the Democrats,  suggesting this could be the  biggest scandal  in history. But Politico never received any donations from USAID, according to funding records on USASpending.gov and astatementfrom the company. USAIDspent$44,000 between 2023 and 2024 on subscriptions to Politico Pro, which thenews outletdescribes as  a professional subscription service used by companies, organizations, and, yes, some government agencies,  and is targeted to specialized users in the private sector who want to track legislation, policy and news (subscriptions reportedly startat about $10,000). Politico said it has never received any government subsidies or grants, and clarified USAID s purchase was a  transaction,  not  funding.  Conspiracies about Politico being funded by USAIDspreadafter a  technical error  caused paychecks for Politico staff to be delayed earlier this week, leading some X users to jump to thefalse conclusionthat USAID, which was gutted before the payroll issue, must have been funding the outlet.
Did Usaid Fund Other Media Organizations like The Bbc?
Other news outlets faced similar hoaxes as Politico, as X users made misleading and in some cases, outright false claims about payments by USAID to media companies. Like Politico, some of these transactions were payments for subscriptions by government agencies not grants or subsidies. The New York Timessaidit had not received any grants, and clarified the federal funds it received were  payments for subscriptions that government offices and agencies have purchased to better understand the world.  Reuters and the Associated Press also said they have not received government grants, and agencies had purchased subscriptions instead. USAID and other government agencies have funded some global media organizations, but not many of the big-name outlets targeted on X. The BBC said in astatementits charity arm supporting local media worldwide, BBC Media Action, received about 8% of its income from the U.S. government between 2023 and 2024, but the charity is wholly separate from BBC News, which did not receive any funding.Federalrecords show USAID made a $1.9 million donation to the BBC s media charity not BBC News to support its efforts in India. The rumors USAID funded BBC News were boostedby Muskand billionaire Marc Andreessen in a now-deleted tweet. USAID s funding efforts have supported other journalism outfits in countries with limited democracy or free press, including media inUkraine and Russiaas well as the Organized Crime and Corruption ReportingProject, which supports corruptionreportingworldwide.
Did Usaid Fund Condoms In Gaza or Afghanistan?
Various rumors that DOGE identified millions in U.S. spending on condoms in Gaza and the Middle East have spread with no evidence. Trump s press secretaryKaroline Leavittclaimed last week USAID spent $50 million on condoms in Gaza. Leavitt may have been referring to USAID grants issued to the International Medical Corps, a group that provides aid to victims of war, totaling more than $100 million, in which  family planning programming,  including contraceptives, were included, which is typical for aid packages to developing countries, theAssociated Pressreported. Rep.Buddy Carter, R-Ga., claimed in a CNN interview Thursday that USAID spent $15 million on condoms for the Taliban, echoing a claim made earlier this week by Rep.Brian Mast, R-Fla.The Atlanticreported USAID had in the past funded condoms for Afghan citizens, not for the Taliban (which controls the Afghan government), butCNN reportedthe agency did not fund any condoms for the entire Middle East during the three previous fiscal years. In posts on X,Musk saidthe United States should  NOT be sending US taxpayer money to buy condoms for foreigners,  andbaselessly claimedmoney for contraceptives  ended up in the pockets [of] Hamas. 
Did Usaid Fund A  transgender Opera  And A  dei Musical? 
No. Leavitt, and several viral posts on X, claimed USAID spent thousands on a  transgender opera in Colombia  and although the government did give a grant to a Colombian university to increase transgender representation in opera, itwasn t USAID. The State Departmentgave$25,000 to the Universidad De Los Andes in Bogotá for that purpose in 2021. Similarly, the State Department not USAID gave $70,000 in 2022 tofund a musicalin Ireland that promoted  diversity, equity, inclusion and accessibility. 
Did Usaid Spend $6 Million On  tourism In Egypt? 
No. USAID announced a $6 million payment to Egypt to  increase educational opportunities and strengthen the livelihoods of the people of North Sinai  not to fund tourism, as theWhite Houseclaimed. The White House s fact sheet links to aUSAID announcementthat does not mention tourism at all and was issued in 2019 during Trump s first administration.
Were Any Of The Controversial Claims Of Usaid Spending True?
Yes. USAID did provide funding for several programs that have been slammed by Republicans.USAID gave$1.5 million in 2022 to  advance diversity, equity and inclusion in Serbia s workplaces and business communities  and to increase employment opportunities for LGBTQ Serbians. The payment was slammed by Leavitt and several Republican members of Congress, including Sen.Ted Cruz, R-Texas. TheWhite Housealso criticized a $2 million payment by USAID for  sex changes  in Guatemala which is not true. But USAID did make a $2 millionpaymentto  strengthen trans-led organizations  and  gender-affirming health care  in Guatemala, thoughgender-affirming careencompasses more than surgeries and it s unclear what medical care the grant was used for.
Correction (Feb. 19, 2025): We removed a section on whether taxpayer funds were used to create "transgender mice" and monkeys after finding National Institutes of Health-backed studies noted first by the anti-animal testing  that did include surgery on mice and an additional grant for research on hormone therapy in monkeys, which were meant to replicate the effects of  gender-affirming care  methods used by transgender patients.
Further Reading
Why Is Elon Musk Attacking USAID? How Partisan Politics Made Foreign Aid Agency Suddenly So Controversial(Forbes)

Load-Date: March 14, 2025


End of Document
