




Targeted News Service
February 5, 2025 Wednesday 9:20 AM  EST


Copyright 2025 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved


Length: 331 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


Heritage Action for America issued the following news release:
* * *
Heritage Action: Congress Must Dismantle DEI
WASHINGTON--Heritage Action, a conservative organization with 2.5 million grassroots activists nationwide, urges members of Congress to support the Dismantle DEI Act, a bill that safeguards equal protection under the law for all Americans, regardless of race or sex, and comprehensively defunds the federal government's wasteful DEI bureaucracy.
The legislation, introduced by Rep. Michael Cloud (R-TX) in the House and Sen. Eric Schmitt (R-MO) in the Senate, eliminates the Biden administration's wasteful "diversity, equity, and inclusion" policies and spending across all federal agencies.
Heritage Action Executive Vice President Ryan Walker released the following statement:
"The American people have had enough of the political spin and DEI indoctrination that has made our country weaker and more divided than ever. Voters are relying on Congress to keep their promises and codify President Trump's efforts to stop the Left's radical agenda from permeating further across the country.
"The Dismantle DEI Act safeguards equal protection under the law for all Americans regardless of race or sex, unlike our current system. Heritage Action commends Rep. Cloud and Sen. Schmitt for spearheading the effort to encourage Congress to dismantle the illegal DEI regime entrenched in the federal government."
BACKGROUND:
* The Daily Wire: EXCLUSIVE: Republican Bill Would Codify Trump Agenda To End DEI
* Heritage Action: Heritage Action Issues Key Vote Supporting Bill to Ban Taxpayer-Funded DEI Initiatives
* The Heritage Foundation: DEI Doesn't Work, Evidence Shows
* The Heritage Foundation: Woke DEI Undermining U.S. Diplomacy
* The Daily Signal: How Conservatives Plan to Root Out DEI From Federal Government
* * *
Original text here: 
[Category: Political]
Copyright Targeted News Services
MSTRUCK-9035084 MSTRUCK

Load-Date: February 5, 2025


End of Document
