




Targeted News Service
February 15, 2025 Saturday 9:40 AM  EST


Copyright 2025 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved


Length: 997 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


Democracy Forward, an organization that says it advances democracy and social progress through litigation, policy and public education and regulatory engagement, issued the following news release:
* * *
Higher Education Officials, Restaurant Workers, City of Baltimore Ask Court to Pause Trump Administration Anti-DEIA Executive Orders
Temporary Restraining Order, Preliminary Injunction Sought in Suit Brought by National Association of Diversity Officers in Higher Education, American Association of University Professors, Restaurant Opportunities Centers United, and the City of Baltimore
Court to Hear the Matter on February 19.
BALTIMORE, MD -- A diverse coalition representing the nation's leading academics and higher education officials, restaurant workers, and the City of Baltimore is seeking a temporary restraining order and preliminary injunction, asking a federal court in Maryland to temporarily pause President Trump's anti-DEIA executive orders, titled "Ending Radical Government DEI Programs and Preferencing," and "Ending Illegal Discrimination and Restoring Merit-Based Opportunity," while a lawsuit challenging the orders is considered.
The plaintiffs' filing, on behalf of the National Association of Diversity Officers in Higher Education ("NADOHE") , the American Association of University Professors, Restaurant Opportunities Centers United ("ROC"), and the Mayor and City Council of Baltimore, Maryland, describes many of the irreparable harms. The President's Executive Orders and their implementation have wreaked havoc: the government has begun to freeze, or even terminate, grants and contracts; the livelihoods of Plaintiffs' members, and countless others, are in imminent danger; and individuals and institutions are forced to censor themselves for fear of losing federal funding or being targeted by imminent federal investigations.
"The president's executive orders are unconstitutional and seek to bring extreme harm and devastation to anybody or anything that does not share his exact values," said Baltimore Mayor Brandon Scott. "That kind of thinking within itself is un-American, as we are supposed to be in a melting pot where all beliefs and values are respected. Furthermore, the proposed cut of customs funding will disrupt American lives everywhere; people's ability to provide for their families, children's ability to learn, and public safety for all Americans will be at risk."
"President Trump's lawless attempts to dismantle diversity, equity, and inclusion in higher education are not just unconstitutional--they are an affront to the values that define our nation," said Paulette Granberry Russell, J.D.. President and CEO of NADOHE. "NADOHE will not back down in the face of these divisive and dangerous attacks. Through our legal team at Democracy Forward, we are taking decisive action to block these unlawful executive orders and protect institutions, educators and students who are committed to creating inclusive learning environments. Our fight for diversity, equity and inclusion is a fight for justice, and we will not waver."
"Our mission obligates us to oppose this President's executive orders that are blatant attempts to bully and intimidate organizations -- particularly federal and state grantees -- into abandoning DEIA programs that ensure equitable and non-discriminatory workplaces," said Teofilo L. Reyes, Interim President, ROC United. "The President seeks to create barriers and perpetuate fear rather than promote diverse talent and a stronger workforce, and respect employment laws. But Trump cannot override decades of legal precedent. The Restaurant Opportunities Centers United and our worker members -- the majority of whom are women, people of color, and immigrants -- will continue to stand together against this unconstitutional political manipulation and harassment. We remain committed to ending occupational segregation and opening doors of economic opportunities and social engagement to restaurant workers nationwide across all racial, gender, and religious lines."
"The Trump Administration's Anti-DEIA Executive Orders violate core protections for the American people, from intrusion on speech, ideas, and expression, to fair process," said Skye Perryman, President and CEO of Democracy Forward, which is representing plaintiffs in the matter. "The court should pause these harmful executive orders while it takes a careful look at how the orders blatantly violate our Constitution."
"The President's executive orders punish millions of Americans simply because the President does not believe in diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility. He only wishes to fund programs that benefit his interests and his narrow view of the world," said John C. Yang, President and Executive Director of Asian Americans Advancing Justice - AAJC, which is representing plaintiffs in the matter. "These executive orders penalize not only academic institutions, workplaces and the various organizations that advocate on their behalf; they will hurt everyone. Terminating funds for federal grantees will have immediate effects by halting critical research and withholding economic support for programs that make our country stronger and more competitive. That is why we are asking the court to take action now to protect educators, workers and our communities, and stop the executive orders from being enforced as the case proceeds."
Plaintiffs are represented by Democracy Forward and Asian Americans Advancing Justice - Asian American Justice Center ("Advancing Justice - AAJC"). The matter is scheduled to be heard on February 19 at 2pm ET. Read the full complaint here and the motion for a temporary restraining order and preliminary injunction here.
* * *
Original text here: 
[Category: Political]
Copyright Targeted News Services
MSTRUCK-9056406 MSTRUCK

Load-Date: February 15, 2025


End of Document
