




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 15, 2025 Saturday 11:45 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 294 words
Byline: Analis Bailey
Body


February 15th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
TikTok University, a place where users share educational content is becoming a hub for Black educators, with the help of HillmanTok University.
Why it matters: As the Trump administration   
HillmanTok is a way for students of all ages and backgrounds to learn along with an HBCU-like community.
Catch up quick:    
By the numbers: The hashtag " 
"TikTokUniversity" has 744K global posts with over 23K occurring after  
Fun fact: Hillmantok University was coined by  
The name was inspired by the fictional HBCU Hillman College in "The Cosby Show" and "A Different World."
HillmanTok University now has an official    
Here are some notable creators and courses on TikTok:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 15, 2025


End of Document
