




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 31, 2025 Friday 11:02 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 602 words
Byline: April Rubin
Body


January 31st, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
Data:  
Several federal websites tracking climate science and  
Why it matters: The sites included topics like     
The administration immediately began changing White House websites after his inauguration.
The U.S. Census Bureau website was also down as of Friday afternoon.
Between the lines: Trump  
"It doesn't sound like a bad idea to me," he said. "DEI would have ruined our country, and now it's dead. I think DEI is dead, so if they want to scrub the websites, that's OK with me."
The Trump administration did not immediately respond to Axios' request for comment.
By the numbers: As of Friday morning, 305,578 datasets were available on data.gov, which houses the government's open data.
On Jan. 20, that website had 307,854 datasets available, per the Internet Archive.
State of play: The following Centers for Disease Control and Prevention sites or datasets were scrubbed as of Friday afternoon, though it's not immediately clear what day they were removed:
The Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance System
AtlasPlus, which housed HIV/AIDS, Hepatitis and STD information
A contraception page for health care providers
A page on ending gender-based violence
Evidence supporting recommendations for HPV vaccination harmonization across genders, ages 22 through 26 years
Heart disease death rates by gender, by county, Florida
Information about transgender and gender diverse people (archived Friday morning)
Pages related to the HIV prevention drug PrEP
Social vulnerability index, related to demographic and socioeconomic factors adversely affecting communities
Health Disparities Among LGBTQ Youth
Creating Safe Schools for LGBTQ+ Youth
Safer Food Choices for Pregnant People
Between the lines: Health and Human Services and National Institutes of Health pages were down, too, including:
An NIH page for the sexual and gender minority research office
An HHS page for Protecting the Rights of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Intersex (LGBTQI+) People
Context: Trump on Jan. 22  
He's targeted transgender health care in several executive orders.
He also pulled the U.S. from the World Health Administration.
What they're saying: "The removal of HIV- and LGBTQ-related resources from the websites of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and other health agencies is deeply concerning and creates a dangerous gap in scientific information and data to monitor and respond to disease outbreaks," the Infectious Diseases Society of America said in a statement.
Zoom out: USDA websites that were down as of Friday afternoon included:
The climate change homepage and resources
A page on climate change and its effects
Catch up quick: Trump   
USDA employees were ordered to delete landing pages on climate change from the agency's website and document climate change references for further review,  
Go deeper:  
Editor's note: This story has been updated with developments.


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
