




telegraph.co.uk
January 25, 2025 Saturday 6:00 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: MONEY; Version:2
Length: 856 words
Byline: By Noah Eastwood, Money Reporter, Sanchez Manning
Highlight: Tax office seeks new LGBTQ+ role as it faces fierce criticism over poor customer service levels
Body


Civil servants at the tax office are being given the equivalent of one day a week off to promote “gender ideology”, The Telegraph can reveal.
An internal job advert, seen by The Telegraph, states HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) is seeking a new deputy chair of its LGBT+ staff network.
The job specification states that the successful candidate will be permitted to dedicate 20pc of their working week to supporting the network’s activities.
“Your current role is not as important as your experience and drive to promote fairness,” HMRC workers are told.
It adds: “You won’t have to do this on top of your normal job. We’ll give you 20pc of your time to dedicate to network activities.”
The working arrangements – that see staff keep full pay – are understood to apply to three workers at HMRC who lead the department’s so-called Prism LGBT+ Network, and are signed off by the tax authority’s executive committee.
It comes after the tax office has faced 
A damning report by the Public Accounts Committee, a spending watchdog, claimed on Wednesday that HMRC was “damaging trust in the tax system” through failings such as cutting customers off with no explanation after they had been waiting on the line for as long as 70 minutes.
The committee said that HMRC had blamed such shortfalls on not being “adequately resourced” to 
Nigel Farage, the leader of Reform UK, said taxpayer-funded diversity, equality and inclusion (DEI) initiatives should be stopped. “This all has to end. A Reform government will end DEI lunacy,” he said.
Sir Jacob Rees-Mogg, the former business secretary, said: “Civil servants are not meant to involve themselves in politics and this is just another type of campaigning which ought not to be funded by taxpayers.”
“  and stop all this costly nonsense,” he added.
HMRC defended allowing staff to take time off their main roles to promote LGBT+ issues, and said it was legally compelled to consider the needs of people with characteristics protected in equality legislation.
In the job advert, the Prism network is described as being committed to supporting all members of the LGBT+ community and says this specifically includes colleagues who are gay, lesbian, trans, non-binary and “allies”.
It further states that successful candidates selected for the position will be expected to execute tasks such as promoting HMRC as an inclusive employer and submitting reports to the equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) team.
An HMRC insider claimed that members of the LGBT advocacy group often led presentations for staff during work hours, with many focusing on the issue of trans rights.
The whistle-blower – who asked not to be named for fear of professional repercussions – described one session held last year that lasted more than 45 minutes on being transgender and sharing pronouns.
At this meeting, the insider said, the presenter explained what it meant to be transgender, non-binary, intersex and cisgender [meaning someone who identifies as a gender which is the same as their birth sex].
Staff were encouraged to share their preferred pronouns to demonstrate their “allyship” to trans colleagues, while being introduced to the concept of gender neutral pronouns such as “zie/zen”, they said.
The insider said: “This network is basically just internal trans activists. They are supposed to be about supporting all gay staff, but really it seems that the bulk of their work is about promoting gender ideology.
“While I’m trying to do my actual job, they’re just faffing around making up training that is all just based on their personal views. They are basically getting paid by the taxpayer to do peer-to-peer political activism.”
The revelations about the LGBT+ network come as the public accounts committee accused HMRC of deliberately running its phone services to fail in a bid to force taxpayers online.
  for its telephone services since 2017-18.
Meanwhile, average call wait times exceeded 23 minutes and HMRC cut off nearly 44,000 taxpayers who had been waiting 70 minutes to speak to an adviser in the first 11 months of the 2023-24 tax year.
Helen Joyce, director of the campaign group Sex Matters, said: “In the same week that people are scrambling to complete their tax returns and HMRC is in the spotlight for not hitting its customer service targets, these revelations on the embedding of fantasy beliefs on gender within the organisation are shocking.
“HMRC should be focused on service delivery rather than selecting an employee who will dedicate 20pc of their work week to promoting transgender rights to other HMRC employees during working hours.”
An HMRC spokesman said: “We must legally meet our obligations under the Public Sector Equality Duty, and like other large organisations, we have Staff Diversity Networks.
“By getting equality, diversity and inclusion right, we retain and recruit people with the skills we need and deliver effectively for our customers.”
                     Recommended                   
Inside the shambolic demise of HMRC

Load-Date: January 25, 2025


End of Document
