




thetimes.co.uk
February 17, 2025 Monday 12:01 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 974 words
Byline: Tomiwa Owolade
Highlight: As the tide turns on woke causes, it’s clear they were driven by intimidation instead of argument
Body


The idea that trans women should be able to compete in women’s sport, that they should have automatic access to women’s changing rooms, that children should be allowed to undergo life-altering surgery to “change their gender” are all unusual views. They do not tally with the attitudes of a society that respects women’s rights and takes seriously the safeguarding of children.
Such views, because they are so odd, should be supported by extraordinary evidence and compelling arguments. But for so long what we have had instead is abuse and moral blackmail: why are you such a bad person? Why do you hate trans people? But you can’t persuade people by haranguing them. Stigma is the worst way to convince someone of your point.
To what extent wokeness, for want of a better term, damaged Kamala Harris’s electoral prospects in 2024 is up for debate (her defeat was largely, in my view, about inflation and immigration). What is indisputable is that many of the assumptions of the progressive worldview were swept away in the US election. The Democrats did not do enough to distinguish themselves from an activist left so carried away by its own righteousness that it took the support of women and ethnic minority people for granted. 

As the sociologist Musa al-Gharbi pointed out, the only two groups who voted in greater numbers for the Democrats than in the 2020 election were white people and the most affluent members of society. The vote share for black and Latino voters declined; Harris got the lowest share of women voters for a Democratic nominee since John Kerry in 2004.
The argument was always that wokeness and DEI were about protecting women and ethnic minorities from white supremacy and patriarchy. That the interests of these groups also converged with the interests of gay people and trans people. And that all these groups shared a common enemy: whether that be 

, say, or gender-critical feminists. All of this was self-evident: there was no need to understand what might motivate people in these groups.
Trump, whatever one might say about him, built a working-class and multiracial coalition. The idea that gender-critical feminists were in cahoots with misogyny and white supremacists was absurd from the very start; they were in cahoots with common sense.
In the UK, too, the evidence is that voters are fed up with being told what to think in order to qualify as a good person, rather than being offered arguments to consider on their own merits. Last week, polling by YouGov on changing attitudes to trans rights showed that, while in 2022, 55 per cent of the British public thought someone should be able to identify as a different gender to that in which they were born, that figure has fallen to 49 per cent, with those against self-identification rising 10 percentage points during the period.

Matthew Smith, the head of data journalism at YouGov, said there had been “an increased scepticism towards transgender rights across the board”. What is especially striking is that there is “growing resistance on transgender rights among those groups that are typically more permissive on the issue, like women and young people”.
Women have notably flipped: “In 2022 women supported allowing people to change their gender legally by 44 per cent to 32 per cent.” Now only 37 per cent continue to be in favour and 42 per cent are opposed.
Among 18 to 24-year-olds, moreover, the proportion who believe you should be allowed to legally change gender is now 50 per cent, down 7 percentage points since 2022. The number who believe you should not be allowed to legally change gender has risen in that short period from 20 per cent to 36 per cent.
This is a tragedy for trans women who genuinely respect women’s rights and want to get on with their own lives. It is unfortunate that they have some of the worst advocates in the world. By trying to impose the most extreme version of their beliefs on the rest of society, they have alienated ordinary people from their cause.
A set of positions that include threats to women’s sports and physical safety, abolishing the police and prisons, and describing British history as little more than a catalogue of racism and oppression have gained ascendancy, not through argument but by fear.
It is a cliché that young people are the most transgressive members of society. In fact they follow etiquette and social clues with the intensity of royal courtiers. So much is at stake for them: they don’t want to lose their social circle for expressing the wrong view. So they quickly familiarise themselves with the right jargon and the correct talking point.
I understand it. Many of these young people don’t genuinely believe many of the radical ideas espoused by the loudest activists who claim to speak on their behalf. But they want a quiet life. They understand argument and debate are often considered to be not collisions of legitimate viewpoints but statements of moral character.

But fear can only take one so far. The most successful movements for social justice operate by appealing to our basic moral and practical intuitions. They start from a place of understanding, not condescension. The aim is rights for marginalised communities — but they understand you can’t get there by disregarding the rights and concerns of everyone else.
That young people, so often presented as the bedrock of the woke left, are now increasingly rejecting many of its claims shows what a hollow movement it was from the very start. Truth will out, as the saying goes, and the only way to sustain your movement is by the subtle art of persuasion. It is not by policing what other people think through fear and intimidation.

Load-Date: February 16, 2025


End of Document
