




Fox News THE STORY WITH MARTHA MACCALLUM 3:00 PM EST
February 12, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7078 words
Byline: Martha MacCallum, Peter Doocy, Larry Kudlow, Brian Kilmeade, Edward Lawrence, Jessica Tarlov
Guests: Adam Boehler, Rich Lowry
Body


MARTHA MACCALLUM, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: All righty. Thank you very much, you guys. Good afternoon. I'm Martha MacCallum, and this is The Story.
So, right now, we're waiting for what we're told will be some breaking news from the White House in just a short time. Earlier today, there was a big DOGE hearing on Capitol Hill. Lawmakers got a venue here to battle over Elon Musk and the constitutional crisis they keep talking about, and the work that he has cut out for himself to trim the fat in the U.S. government. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. MELANIE STANSBURY (D-NM): We do not work for an unelected billionaire like apparently this guy does.
REP. BRANDON GILL (R-TX): If Democrats really care about unelected bureaucrats making decisions over our lives, where were they whenever their god, Anthony Fauci, was forcing vaccine and mask mandates?
REP. JASMINE CROCKETT (D-TX): If you were trying to conduct audits and figure out where the waste, fraud, and abuse is, I don't know why you would go to some tech guy.
REP. BRIAN JACK (R-GA): I just took a rudimentary count of the Dems testimony, or rather comments today, and I've got 27 mentions of Elon Musk and three mentions of waste.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: So, when witnesses did get a chance to open their mouths and testify, here's a little bit of what these folks who have watched government waste over the years had to say. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
HAYWOOD TALCOVE, CEO, LEXIS NEXIS RISK SOLUTIONS: We continue to pay benefits to deceased and incarcerated individuals, direct money to bad actors flagged on the do-not-pay list and overlooked duplicate Social Security numbers.
STEWART WHITSON, FOUNDATION FOR GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY: $59 million paid to luxury hotels in New York to house illegal immigrants, $1.5 million to advance DEI and Serbia's workplaces, $32,000 for a transgender comic book in Peru.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: You can hear the peanut gallery in here coming up in just a minute. The administration says that more than 2 million federal employees and 400 federal agencies might be a bit too much, especially when you consider that only 6 percent of those individuals actually come in and work in the office full time, like most of the rest of us.
So, the new rule is that for every one employee that is hired in these agencies, four need to be caught from the payroll.
Larry Kudlow joins me. But first you Senior White House Correspondent standing outside the White House on the lawn there Peter Doocy. Hi, Peter.
PETER DOOCY, FOX NEWS SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Martha, good afternoon. We're hearing now that DOGE's mission is a lot more narrow than rooting out waste and fraud and abuse.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: I would argue that all of these things are fraudulent, they are wasteful, and they are an abuse of the American taxpayer's dollar. This is not what the government should be spending money on. It's contrary to the president's priorities and agenda.
If anybody in here wants to argue that the federal government is not fraudulent in some capacity, be my guest.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
DOOCY: Like the Iron Mountain OPM facility, 230 feet underground, millions of manila envelopes, and the only way federal workers can process their retirements.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ELON MUSK, CEO, TESLA AND SPACEX: This mine looks like something out of the '50s because it was started in 1955. So, it looks like, it's like a time warp. And then the speed -- then the limiting factor is the speed at which the mine shaft elevator can move determines how many people can retire from the federal government.
You could do practically anything else, and you would add to the goods and services of the United States in a more useful way.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
DOOCY: Musk, of course, still has lucrative government contracts, but White House officials say they are not concerned he's going to cut something that would line his pockets.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
LEAVITT: He is filing the proper financial disclosure and he is complying with all applicable federal laws.
Before he moves forward with anything, he consults with the president of the United States.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
DOOCY: The president, Donald Trump, does not seem too concerned by these constant Democratic attacks that Elon Musk is the real president or the co- president because in all this video from yesterday, there is of course only one seat at the Resolute Desk and Donald Trump is in it. Martha?
MACCALLUM: This is true. Thank you very much, Peter Doocy at the White House.
Let's bring in Larry Kudlow, host of Kudlow on Fox Business and former Trump official in the last administration.
Larry, I just want to play something that I know you'll recognize. This is from 1993. This is Al Gore back in 1993. Watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
AL GORE, FORMER U.S. VICE PRESIDENT: This report tells us how to cut waste, cut red tape, streamline the bureaucracy, change procurement rules, change the personnel rules and create a government that works better and costs less.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
LARRY KUDLOW, FOX BUSINESS HOST: How about that? How about that?
MACCALLUM: I mean, we've done that so many times, Larry, but this is the only time it actually feels like it might be happening.
KUDLOW: I mean, there's -- I do remember it, okay, and it was a good thing. This is a bigger one.
Look, tell me at one point because Democrats keep saying this about he's a private -- Elon's a private citizen. He is presently a member of the U.S. government, okay? He has been sworn in duly, as Karoline Leavitt was talking about. He's passed all the tests, and the people working with him, ditto. They are government employees.
Now, whatever their past life was, we all have past lives, but when you go in, that's it. So, they are there and they have a right to be there.
Second point I want to make is this is an audit, okay? It's an audit of the roughly $7 trillion size of the federal government, okay? Now, audits are good. Al Gore believes in audits. Any corporate CEO believes in audits. This particular audit, like every other financial audit, trying to figure out the flow of money, it starts here and it goes here, by law. But then you look at it, and, oh, wait a minute, it went to places that weren't by law.
Agencies were spending money on them. I mean, USAID is the perfect example, as was put in the in Peter Doocy's introduction and so forth. There's lots of examples of that, okay? It's not the whole government, but it's a big chunk of the government. It hasn't been done in how many decades. Okay, so Al Gore and Bill Clinton were in the mid 90s. That's a long time ago, 25, 30 years ago.
MACCALLUM: But it didn't -- nothing got cut back then. That's the point. Nothing got cut back then.
KUDLOW: Well, I don't know that. I mean, I don't recall that.
MACCALLUM: It's only grown since then.
KUDLOW: It's a -- oh, yes.
MACCALLUM: Correct?
KUDLOW: The size of the budget, right, has grown enormously and the number of agencies have grown enormously. So, therefore, it is very smart for the CEO, which is Donald J. Trump, to bring in people to run a financial audit. That's all it is.
MACCALLUM: And it may be very important to bring in someone from the outside, from the corporate world. Because my point is that, you know, when we've seen people in Congress try to do this, Simpson Bowles, when you saw Tom Colburn, all these people, it never really -- their heart was in the right place, but it can't happen. You can't do it to your own agencies and government.
KUDLOW: Look, they can't. Congress can't do it to itself. It never does. Look, most of these agencies, ironically, supposed to have audits. They just don't really do them or they don't do them well. That's what Scott Bessent said about the Treasury. He was not satisfied.
The other point you have to make here is why the judges are joining them from pausing a lot of federal spending. Now, let me just say on this pause, which the judges have ruled against, but I think is ruled improper. It's a pause, which then leads to a review after the audit is completed. You see what I'm saying? They're not necessarily going in and ending programs, or violating Congressional mandates, or violating legislation. They are examining the finances, and there's a review, and then the pause will end, or not, depending on how it runs.
MACCALLUM: I mean, it seems strange that anybody would be against that. No company would be against it, as you pointed out.
KUDLOW: This is like -- can I just say, politically? Okay, you're a political expert.
MACCALLUM: Yes.
KUDLOW: This is an 80-20 issue and the Democrats are on the 20. I mean, the taxpayers of this country who vote want to see these kinds of audits.
MACCALLUM: 86, 83 percent said they wanted substantial or complete overhaul of the U.S. government.
I just want to play this from Elon Musk because I think this taps into something. This is about the salary that they uncovered, people making a lot more money than the amount that -- you know, their salary in the government. I think there's a lot more underneath this iceberg. Watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MUSK: We do find it sort of rather odd that you know, there, there are quite a few people in the bureaucracy who have ostensibly a salary of a few hundred thousand dollars, but somehow manage to accrue tens of millions of dollars in net worth while they are in that position, which is, you know, what happened to USAID. We're just curious as to where it came from.
MACCALLUM: You heard Trump sort of like chored a little bit there, understandably.
KUDLOW: This is Samantha Power, who was an Obama intimate, Biden appointed her to run USAID. Now, I don't know all the details. We will learn the details. She came into office with a salary of about $180,000 a year. She came into office with about $6.5 million net worth, okay, very respectable, left office with a $30 million net worth.
Let's call that a fivefold increase. The stock market didn't go up five fold during the three years that she was in office. So, this was something that will be explored.
Before you throw me out of here, I want to make one other point. I interviewed Russell Vought last night, the OMB director, a very good friend of mine and a very tough guy. They are going to go for impoundment, presidential impoundment. And, John, you the legal expert, who worked in the Justice Department, if Trump builds a bridge -- I'm sorry, if Congress mandates a bridge to be built, infrastructure, billion dollar bridge, okay, and Trump says, wait a second, I want to look at this, I can build it for half as much, $500 million, okay? Why shouldn't they do the $500 million and impound the rest of the money, which is unnecessary and not used?
And presidents have had this impoundment authority for most of our republic until the Watergate Congress, the left wing Watergate Congress took it away from Richard Nixon ever since.
So, impoundment is going to be part of this. Reviews, pauses, you wait and see. People came in saying Donald Trump didn't want to cut the budget. Think again.
MACCALLUM: I mean, the idea that when you've laid out money to spend on something and you think it's over budget and you can't reevaluate it is completely unique to every other part of the industry.
KUDLOW: No company would run itself like this.
MACCALLUM: And why shouldn't U.S. taxpayers want the same kind of oversight of their own money?
Larry, thank you. I know you have to run off and do your own show.
KUDLOW: Thank you, Martha. My pleasure, my pleasure. Thank you.
MACCALLUM: So, thank you very much for being here today, always good to have you.
So, President Trump, who says he wants to be remembered as a peacemaker, making moves in that direction today. This is a huge story and we will peel the cover of it off for you. Can Russia and Ukraine come to terms and end the war? Adam Boehler, United States envoy for hostages, joins me next.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
LEAVITT: I think as deals in the past have come to fruition, the president has proven one of the things that makes him a very effective negotiator is not revealing what he's anticipating from both sides. But he is at the forefront of these negotiations in addition to the very qualified individuals who he's tasked with speaking to both President Putin and President Zelenskyy.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
MACCALLUM: So, President Trump announcing a major breakthrough in efforts to end the war in Ukraine, speaking with both Russian President Putin and Ukrainian President Zelenskyy today, posting on Truth Social, quote, we want to stop the millions of deaths taking place in the war with Russia, Ukraine. We agreed to work together very closely, including visiting each other's nations. We have also agreed to have our respective teams start negotiations immediately.
President Zelenskyy posting on X, quote, together with the U.S., we are charting our next steps to stop Russian aggression and ensure a lasting, reliable peace. As President Trump said, let's get it done, says Zelenskyy.
Remember, this war started nearly three years ago. It has killed an estimated 100,000 Ukrainian troops, 150, 000 Russian forces, although most people that we speak with say that estimate is very low and includes, of course, thousands of civilians.
So, all of these discussions happening just hours after Russia released American Marc Fogel in a prisoner swap. Now, another American is about to be free, one of three detainees released by Belarus.
Let's bring in Adam Boehler, the U.S. envoy for hostages. Adam, your thoughts on these discussions as we look toward a hopeful end to the war and on these releases of hostages, which I know you have worked very hard on.
ADAM BOEHLER, U.S. ENVOY FOR HOSTAGES: Well, you know, I think it was a major step forward. Marc Fogel's released to Steve Witkoff on his own personal plane, I'll note, going out under the president's orders to get him. And now you see what these kind of things do. I think when you have a country take a unilateral step and release a priority and focus on a priority of the president's, that can move things forward.
Now, they weren't connected. It was a step, but it means that people can be in contact. And the president has been very clear here, he's got a few priorities in this area. One is getting our Americans home and two is ending a war that has killed so many millions of people on both sides.
MACCALLUM: You know, one of the interesting sequences here was that we saw the defense secretary, Pete Hegseth, say in Europe that Ukraine will never be part of NATO, that that is not part of this plan, at least not right now. And then you have the phone call with Putin and Trump. Clearly, that is a big priority for Putin in Russia. He does not want Ukraine to join NATO and NATO has had -- Ukraine has had assurances that will be in the future. How does that get reconciled? What are your thoughts on that?
BOEHLER: Well, I think the president himself is able to imagine things past way where they are now in terms of, you know, Russia and Ukraine. Now, I think both countries need to understand that they're in relative safety. If Russia feels their borders are constantly being threatened or there's an issue there, that's a problem for them.
So, I think the president looks forward and says, this is how it should be. We should end the war. There should be territorial sovereignty on both sides. Now, what does that need to look like?
Does Ukraine need to join NATO tomorrow? I don't think so. It's an agitator. So, that's what he's thinking.
MACCALLUM: So, Ukraine has entered the area of Kursk. And it sounds like from what Zelenskyy is talking about, that he could see some sort of trade where he gives Russia back the territory they went into in Kursk in exchange for the Donbas. So, is that the shape that you see this potentially taking? And is Crimea done? Is Crimea gone from Ukraine as far as these negotiations are concerned?
BOEHLER: I don't really know. Quite frankly, I think that folks need to present their best offers to the president. The president of the United States will make that decision. He'll make that decision with people like national security adviser, like our secretary of state, like Steve Witkoff, and they're going to weigh the options in a view from an American perspective.
So, I think it's nice if Ukraine has some thoughts, I'm sure Putin has some thoughts. Let's try to reconcile it together. And if the president can provide that extra oomph to get things done, that's what he's going to do.
MACCALLUM: So, let me ask you about Saturday because there has been a deadline put down for Hamas to release the rest of the hostages by Saturday, or in the president's words, all hell will break loose. You obviously are intimately involved in hostage negotiations and releases. Tell us what you can about this plan.
BOEHLER: I just spoke with the families. We have seven Americans right now held by Hamas. It's a terror organization and that's unacceptable. And so I fully believe the president, in following through on the what else, because he's done that multiple times before. I think Iran found that out the hard way in our prior administration. And if Hamas wants to test and wants to test that, well, I think it's a big mistake.
What they should look at is countries that have unilaterally released people, like Russia, even Venezuela, that are usually enemies and what they're doing in order to make an impression on the president. And I would suggest that approach for them, at least with our Americans, and then with all hostages. Because the president made it clear, all hostages have to come back.
MACCALLUM: Obviously, Israel has said that they are holding to that deadline as well, and that the ceasefire will dissolve at noon on Saturday if the hostages are not released. So, that would put these hostages that remain in Gaza in danger, wouldn't it?
BOEHLER: Well, I think it's Hamas that's putting those hostages in danger. So, as you can see, once again, Hamas is in a position as a terror organization where they're deciding what happens not only to hostages but to the entire group of the people that live in Gaza, the people that live in the West Bank. They're the reasons that their lives are being destroyed. We need to expunge this threat. And I think they need to come forward and be constructive or it's going to be a real problem.
So, I think this is Hamas's decision as a terror organization. We're just following through and we'll be set.
MACCALLUM: It's been devastating, obviously incredible to see these individuals, the most recent men, come home. We know how hard you have been working on this and Steve Witkoff. It's very heartbreaking to see the condition that some of these individuals are in and we hope and pray that these individuals will be released before Saturday at noon and that we can also work towards peace in that area.
Adam Boehler, thank you very, very much for the work you're doing. Good to see you today. Thank you, sir.
BOEHLER: You too.
MACCALLUM: So, President Trump's DHS recoups nearly $60 million in checks that were cut for the migrant crisis amid another stunning turnaround at our southern border.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I love you, Joe Biden. Thank you for everything, Joe Biden.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I don't advise to anyone to go to the U.S.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
MACCALLUM: Breaking new developments around the four FEMA employees now fired after making unauthorized payments to the tune of $59 million dollars so that migrants could be housed in luxury New York City hotels. I mean, you can't make this up.
National correspondent Bill Melugin has the latest as we uncover these expenditures. Hi, Bill.
BILL MELUGIN, FOX NEWS NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hey Martha, good afternoon to you. So, DHS says it is fully clawed back a $59 million payment that FEMA made to New York City to fund migrant hotels. That's a decision that ended up getting several FEMA staffers fired. A DHS spokesperson tells Fox News, quote, Secretary Noem has clawed back the full payment that FEMA deep state activists unilaterally gave the New York City migrant hotels. FEMA was funding the Roosevelt Hotel that serves as a Tren de Aragua base of operations and was used to house Laken Riley's killer. There will not be a single penny spent that goes against the interest and safety of the American people.
Now, today, New York City's comptroller claimed it's actually $80 million in FEMA funds that they lost, and he says they want that money back.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BRAD LANDER, NEW YORK CITY COMPTROLLER: We can't recover money we already spent on shelter and services for asylum seekers. So, it would require cutting $80 million of some other city expense.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MELUGIN: In the meantime, new data shows the number of illegal aliens evading apprehension at the southern border is plummeting. In the first weeks of the new Trump administration, a senior DHS source tells Fox News, since February 1st, the average daily number of recorded gotaways has been just 132 per day. Martha, that is a 93 percent drop since the all-time highs during the Biden administration in fiscal year 2023. That's when average daily gotaways were over 1,800 every single day.
Trump administration officials believe that steep drop is a great start, but they anticipate it dropping even further in the coming months with the senior DHS official telling Fox in part, we have only just begun. Policy matters.
And, Martha, just to put this in perspective for you, if the current gotaways numbers hold, Trump's looking at about 48,000 gotaways in an entire year. That would still be less than President Biden's monthly average of $55,000 in fiscal year 2023.
We'll send it back to you.
MACCALLUM: Policy makes a difference, indeed. Bill, thank you very much.
With that, we bring in Brian Kilmeade, co host of Fox and Friends and host of One Nation with Brian Kilmeade and the Brian Kilmeade Show on Fox Radio. He'll be in St. Louis next month for the History, Liberty and Laughs Tour. Hello there, Brian.
BRIAN KILMEADE, FOX NEWS HOST: At Jacksonville Saturday, we'll be streaming live. And we just have done this on the radio talking something very similar to this.
How about that New York? He wants to run -- that New York lawmaker --
MACCALLUM: Yes.
KILMEADE: -- he wants to run for mayor or governor. He wants us to feel bad for him. You made yourself a sanctuary city. You do not let ICE pick up your would be criminals. You have made it play -- a destination site for all legals because you give them the hotel rooms, you give them three meals a day, you give them the accommodations, you allow them to run free. You don't cooperate with the police.
So you asked for them to come. You greeted the buses from Texas and now you're saying, boy, this has turned out to be costly.
MACCALLUM: Exactly.
KILMEADE: And when your mayor stood up and said, we can't afford this, nobody backed him.
MACCALLUM: And clearly there was money disappearing, it would seem, $59 million on luxury hotels. And he said, you know, we would have to find that money in other places in our budget. Wow.
KILMEADE: Wow.
MACCALLUM: What a novel idea. Well, you make your choice, as you say, if you want to be a sanctuary city, you must figure out what you're going to do and how you're going to house people in that sanctuary cities. We like to look at then and now sound bites because so much has changed so dramatically.
KILMEADE: And you know I love history.
MACCALLUM: And I know you love history, so watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF UNITED STATES: We're a nation that says, if you want to flee and you're fleeing oppression, you should come.
TOM HOMAN, BORDER CZAR: I got a message to the millions of illegal aliens that Joe Biden's released in our country in violation of federal law, you better start packing now. You're damn right, because you're going home.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: And that man was the wall. He was wearing a blazer that was physically made of bricks, so.
KILMEADE: Right. But both told the truth, didn't they, Martha?
MACCALLUM: Yes.
KILMEADE: He said, come one, come all, and they did.
MACCALLUM: He said it many times.
KILMEADE: And he says, if you elect Trump, you're going to stop, and he has. Also keep your eye on this. I know you like to look ahead. Lindsey Graham told Speaker Johnson, he said, let Tom Homan go address your Republicans. They need $175 million. They got to finish the wall, they got to handle deportations.
ICE needs more officers. We can't wait for you to do the one bill, two bill or all of us to do one bill. They need immediate -- they need immediate money. And I think you got to look for that because Republicans can talk tough, but it does cost money to pull all these entities together. So -- especially because they got to hire more people, they got to build more soft sided facilities, something else that took place.
We are sending Venezuelans back for the first time in over a year, many of which are convicted gang bangers bawling in prison. They thought it would be cute to open up their prisons. Now it's really cute as we send them back, as Maduro tries to hold on to power. So there's a few things going on.
Also off the coast, the Coast Guard picked up Haitians and Cubans trying to come into our country. They were stopped before they got onto land. And they will push back. It goes a long way. Not only did they stop, but the message goes back to Haiti, the message goes back to Cuba. Guys, now's not the time.
You see how it's falling down. You can go upstairs, you could fall downstairs. We want them falling downstairs in a nice way.
MACCALLUM: You know, you look back at Tren d Aragua being allowed into this country and the money that was spent, and you have to think about the cartel presence in so many US states. That is going to dry up. Because if they see these members getting shipped off to Gitmo, they're not going to have a business center in all these different places where they've allowed them to come through human trafficking, drug money, stealing things from people, knocking people off their mopeds. That business is drying up for the cartels.
KILMEADE: And if they get angry about it and they start shooting at our guys, remember we declared them a terror organization.
MACCALLUM: That's right.
KILMEADE: So if we do that with al-Qaeda, we go after al-Qaeda. If they come after us, Trump has let everybody know we're coming after you, which I know will bring other problems. But that's a message I'm sure on some level the Mexican government wouldn't mind us sending.
MACCALLUM: Well, the Mexican government has tried for decades and they have not been able to control the.
KILMEADE: We're better at it.
MACCALLUM: And no doubt President Trump will stick by what he says for that. So they should think about that twice. Thank you, Brian.
KILMEADE: Great to see you.
MACCALLUM: I see you twice in one day.
KILMEADE: I know.
MACCALLUM: Great (inaudible) with Brian every Wednesday.
KILMEADE: Yes.
MACCALLUM: Thanks, Brian. We'll see you soon. So coming up, we're going to have breaking news from the White House just moments away as President Trump has announced on Truth Social that he was just elected chairman of the board of the Kennedy Center in Washington. He says, "It is a great honor to be chairman, especially with this amazing board of trustees. We will make it a very special and exciting place."
Just this weekend, he said he wants to make sure that the center runs properly and that we don't need woke there, he says. I think Brian's going to be getting a Kennedy Center Award, I'm pretty sure.
KILMEADE: How did you even know?
MACCALLUM: And you barely even sing. All right, we'll be right back after this.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
MACCALLUM: So we can now tell you that moments from now, Tulsi Gabbard, former Democrat congresswoman from Hawaii, former member of the United States Army National Guard, will be sworn in as the new Director of National Intelligence in the Oval Office. We will show you that. She was confirmed earlier today. And we will bring you that event soon in the Oval Office.
And in the meantime, Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth saying Ukraine may have to give up on their dream to join NATO and perhaps not getting back all of the territory that Russia has taken over time since 2014. A lot of negotiations will be underway, but the US is offering Ukraine a deal involving its valuable rare earth minerals used in all kinds of tech products. FOX Business correspondent Edward Lawrence traveling with Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent in Ukraine. Hi, Edward.
EDWARD LAWRENCE, FOX BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Martha. Yes, I'm live on a train somewhere in Ukraine now. I traveled with the Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent and a number of a small group of his staffers. And they were tasked by President Donald Trump to bring a proposal face to face to Ukrainian President Zelenskyy.
Now, this deal, it was expected to be a simple plan. Instead of giving a loan to Ukraine that they would have to pay back at some point, which is what some of the European countries are doing, a percentage of the profits would go to the US and a percentage of the profits would go to Ukraine. Now, on where the initial investment comes from, the Treasury Secretary, Scott Bessent, told me this, "we're still working on the structure of the sovereign wealth fund, but I think this could likely be one of the first assets that we put into the sovereign wealth fund."
Now, the proposal would have the US and Ukraine investing in mining, rare earth minerals, energy like oil and natural gas and infrastructure. In a news conference after the meeting, President Zelenskyy, the Ukrainian president, agreed to look over the offer and present a counter proposal on Friday, he says, to Vice President Vance in Munich, Germany, which will likely include military aid.
The treasury secretary told me the economic plan would be a foundation for a greater peace plan because he says the President believes, President Trump that is, believes an economic partnership shows Russia, the US has a stake in country that it will defend. President Trump also calling Russian President Putin today, saying negotiation teams will go to Russia and work on a deal.
The President also calling President Zelenskyy after the meeting with the treasury secretary, saying that he's hopeful for an economic deal leading to a peace deal. Now, in response on social media, the Ukrainian President Zelenskyy says that he would need military aid attached to any economic joint venture. Martha?
MACCALLUM: Remarkable watching these cabinet members in action, having been just sworn in, you know, days ago, now on the ground in Ukraine working on a deal, an economic deal that could share some profits of some of the resources in Ukraine with the United States in order to repay some of what has been sent in the form of aids and weapons. Fascinating.
Edward, enjoy the train ride. We'll see you soon. Thank you very much.
All right, as I said, Tulsi Gabbard about to be sworn in. So were going to take you there and show you that as soon as we get it. In the meantime, Joe Rogan talking DOGE and the return of common sense to the White House.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOE ROGAN, "THE JOE ROGAN EXPERIENCE" HOST: This other thing about Elon, Elon's going to steal everybody's money. He has $400 billion, I'm telling you, he's not going to steal your money. Like, wow, we have a brilliant mind that is examining these really corrupt and goofy systems, and bringing in a bunch of psychopath wizards.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
MACCALLUM: So not all Democrats are resisting the DOGE effort to weed out fraud and abuse of American taxpayer dollars. Listen to two former advisers to President Obama lament about not doing more to cut waste and the kind of things that are happening now when they were at the White House. Watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DAN PFEIFFER, "POD SAVE AMERICA" HOST: I've seen the messaging memos and it's like, you know, the young people, Gen Z, they like DOGE and what Elon's doing. We all know that government is slow, we all know that government can be inefficient, we all know that the bureaucracy can be bloated. We all worked in the White House, we tried to reorganize the government, we tried to find efficiency, it's hard to do.
JON LOVETT, "POD SAVE AMERICA" HOST: And honestly, some of this is pretty annoying because it's some of the stuff we should have done.
PFEIFFER: Right, yes.
LOVETT: You could do some of this.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: Interesting. With that, we bring in Rich Lowry, National Review Editor in Chief, and Jessica Tarlov, co-host of "The Five." Great to have both of you here.
RICH LOWRY, EDITOR IN CHIEF, NATIONAL REVIEW: Hi there.
MACCALLUM: Jessica, let me start with you. What's your reaction when you hear that?
JESSICA TARLOV, FOX NEWS HOST: That sounds like a completely normal reaction to this. The problem isn't with DOGE or the mission of DOGE. Everyone remembers when it got announced, there were a bunch of Democrats who said, let me on the committee. You know, Jared Moss was like --
MACCALLUM: That's right.
TARLOV: -- sign me up. The problem is with what's actually happening. And if you look between the numbers, people are broadly supportive of DOGE, even the Gen Z class. But Elon Musk only has a 31 percent approval rating with 18 to 29 year olds, and how he's executing this. And they can see the difference between chaos and actually creating efficiency. They're looking at a world in which hundreds of millions of dollars of aid is going to perish because they're blocking us sending it out.
There was a story about a 71-year-old woman in Thailand who goes to a USAID hospital to get her oxygen treatments. She died because that hospital was cut off from their aid package. They're looking at lies that have been spread --
MACCALLUM: It's unfortunate that USAID wasted so much of their own money that they put themselves in this position --
TARLOV: USAID is what, about $40 billion And you look at that in contrast to --
MACCALLUM: That's a lot of money.
TARLOV: Well, it isn't when you look at $4.5 trillion dollars --
MACCALLUM: No, it is. No matter how you look at it, $40 million is a lot of money.
TARLOV: It's not. They want to take $2 trillion out in Medicare, in Medicaid, in SNAP benefits. They want to add $4.5 trillion in tax cuts, but they can't fund a hospital in Thailand so that woman can get her treatment?
MACCALLUM: Rich, let me get you in here.
LOWRY: Sure. So one of the extraordinary things about this moment is like Elon Musk is the Trump heat shield. There's more emotion devoted --
MACCALLUM: Yes.
LOWRY: -- to opposing Elon Musk and making him a hate figure than Donald Trump.
MACCALLUM: Yes.
LOWRY: And I think the conventional wisdom about DOGE going in, and I thought this too, it'll be a think-tanky type commission, grace commission. We've seen these things before as the Obama brothers are talking about, you think about these ideas and you come up with things that don't make sense, and then nothing ever happens. So you have this genius who is into action, into moving fast and breaking things. And that's what you need to actually break the ice of the federal bureaucracy.
And USAID was running out of control, had all sorts of priorities that no one, if they're sitting down rationally has said, yes, this is going to serve the United States interests. So as Larry was saying earlier in the program, this is a huge audit. They're coming up with tons of stuff that doesn't make sense. And Elon himself might not be that popular, but the basic idea of going in and making the government more rational, and having it waste less makes sense to everyone because we all know that's the way government.
MACCALLUM: It's common sense, spending and shaking things up. And that's why nobody inside the government has ever been able to accomplish this. Only people outside the government who run businesses and companies like Trump and Musk have been able to actually start this process of weeding out some of this ridiculous waste, frankly.
Here's the ladies at "The View" who are always super supportive about these ideas. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
WHOOPI GOLDBERG, "THE VIEW" HOST: What you're doing is a lot more than just cutting fat. And nobody elected you.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes.
GOLDBERG: That's the part. That's the part.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: That's the main part.
SUNNY HOSTIN, THE VIEW HOST: He is not elected and he is talking about our American democracy. A man who grew up in South Africa during the apartheid era, benefited from apartheid.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: So this was never a secret, Jessica. I mean, all along the way, during the campaign, President Trump talked about, then candidate Trump, Elon Musk is going to come in. I think when they had discussions early on, Musk was like this is what I want to do. I do this at my companies all the time. There is so much waste. Let me at it. And he said, yes, but it was no secret that this was going to happen.
TARLOV: No, absolutely not. Some people were caught flat footed on it. A lot of people have been, you know, feeling pretty left adrift, let's say, by Democratic leadership in terms of the messaging about this.
I'm not interested in pillaring Elon Musk. I have tremendous respect for him and liberal s, we used to love him, right? We're driving around in our Tesla as though the stock price is not doing so well lately. But the real issue here is that, he's talking a big game about transparency but he's not being transparent himself.
This idea that Elon Musk shouldn't have to do financial disclosures like everybody else who's working in the government is ludicrous. The New York Times --
MACCALLUM: They're all over the DOGE website.
TARLOV: No. Well, also when you pull it up, it's empty right now. And President Trump said yesterday, oh, well, he doesn't need to do it. Karoline Leavitt has said we don't -- he doesn't need to do it.
The New York Times is reporting that at least 11 of the federal agencies that they have gone after have open complaints, over 32, open complaints into Musk's businesses. Don't the American people deserve to know he has tens of billions of dollars in government contracts.
If you are the DOGE master, then open up your own books. That's part of the federal government. They are spending money on Elon Musk and all this technology. --
LOWRY: Can I address the unelected thing, because this is such a canard. No one in the executive branch besides the president --
MACCALLUM: None of the cabinet members are elected.
LOWRY: -- and vice president in elected. No cabinet members -- none of these unelected bureaucrats. And the whole point is the bureaucrats aren't elected, right? And Elon Musk is technically a government employee now and an agent of the President of the United States, who was elected and reflects the will of the American people.
As you said, this was open. It wasn't secret. He said, I'm going to do this. Yes, I love Elon. I'm going to have him take a look at the government and kick the cans on everything, kick the tires and everything. So it was part of his mandate to do this.
MACCALLUM: Yes. I mean, there is information on the website. I looked at a number of things on there this morning. And, you know, I think you're right, Jessica, that you do have to be transparent about what we're doing here. I just think that in some cases you have to scrap and you have to start from scratch.
TARLOV: But there is a procedure --
MACCALLUM: And you have to say what's a valuable expenditure of money, what is, you know, I mean, President Carter started the Department of Education, President Trump can end it. It was a presidential edict that developed that agency. It has failed miserably and a president can just -- can dissolve it.
TARLOV: I have a child that is going to be heading into kindergarten. We are touring our local public schools. I'm thinking about all of these issues. But when you' saying that it hasn't been done before, the Clinton administration did it. They had the National Performance Review. It was headed up by Al Gore, who was elected.
They cut over 400,000 government regulations and agencies and they went agency by agency and made smart decisions. That's the way that you do this. This money was appropriated by Congress that three branches of government, co-equal.
MACCALLUM: Congress has a responsibility to watch our tax dollars. And if there is waste and abuse and fraud, today they testify that 20 percent of government expenditure waste and fraud. A corporation has a 3 percent top threshold of waste and fraud. So we need to do it.
TARLOV: Just do it the right way.
MACCALLUM: You know, we're going to break a few eggs in the process.
TARLOV: They're too expensive.
MACCALLUM: Martha, thank you very much.
LOWRY: Yes. No one can afford to buy egg, yes.
MACCALLUM: See you on "The Five," thank you guys. All right.
So we're waiting this new turnaround a video -- how beautiful does the White House look in the snow? I love it.
TARLOV: Yes.
MACCALLUM: Tulsi Gabbard being sworn in at the White House as we speak. We will show you moments away. Stick around.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
MACCALLUM: So at this moment, Tulsi Gabbard sworn in as director of National Intelligence just moments ago. You're going to see that tape in just a minute. Attorney General Pam Bondi administering the oath and President Trump on hand to congratulate her. Mitch McConnell, the only Republican senator to vote against her in the confirmation today.
And on a new episode of My Untold Story podcast, Ukrainian author and Wall Street Journal chief foreign affairs correspondent Yaroslav Trofimov weighs in on the possibility of Ukraine giving up some territory to Russia as part of a peace deal.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Yaroslav Trofimov: I don't think Zelenskyy is in no position or anyone else in Ukraine to legally, you know, give away territory. It's one thing to say, well, we recognize the reality, which is what he's saying, you know, we are not able right now to take back our land. It's another thing to say, well, our land is your land and we'll accept it legally.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: Such a thorough reporter, fascinating conversation. You can check that out on the Untold Story, available now at foxnewspodcast.com very timely with the deal that is emerging.
That is "The Story" for today. Wednesday, February 12. "The Story" goes on. And it is a busy story these days. We'll see you right back here tomorrow at 3:00. But stay tuned, the Will Cain show starts now.

Load-Date: February 12, 2025


End of Document
