




Targeted News Service
January 29, 2025 Wednesday 9:20 AM  EST


Copyright 2025 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved


Length: 1379 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


Rep. Brendan Boyle, D-Pennsylvania, ranking member of the House Budget Committee, issued the following statement on Jan. 28, 2025:
* * *
Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-02), Ranking Member of the House Budget Committee, released the following statement in response to Office of Management and Budget (OMB) memo M-25-13 ordering a wide-ranging pause for federal grants and loans:
"This outrageous directive from the Trump White House is a direct attack on the American people. It jeopardizes critical programs that millions of families and countless communities depend on--programs that fund healthcare, education, infrastructure, and public safety. By recklessly halting these funds, the administration is not just sowing chaos--it is actively hurting the very people it is supposed to serve.
We cannot trust this administration's dubious claims that this pause is temporary. Right now, Senate Republicans are rushing to confirm Russell Vought as OMB Director--a nominee who has repeatedly promoted radical, unconstitutional theories suggesting the President can unlawfully withhold funding already approved by Congress. This is the same playbook they've used before, and we know exactly where it leads: flagrant violations of the law and blatant disregard for Congress's constitutional authority over federal spending.
Let me be clear: Congress holds the power of the purse. Much of the funding the administration seeks to pause was approved on a bipartisan basis. Distributing this funding to the American people is a legal requirement. I am calling on the administration to immediately reverse this action. Anything less is a betrayal of the hardworking American families and communities that rely on these vital resources."
The Democratic Staff of the House Budget Committee previously released a fact sheet explaining unlawful presidential impoundments. The fact sheet details the importance of the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 and makes clear that the power of the purse rests solely with Congress.
* * *
January 27, 2025
M-25-13
MEMORANDUM FOR HEADS OF EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES
FROM: Matthew J. Vaeth, Acting Director, Office of Management and Budget
SUBJECT: Temporary Pause of Agency Grant, Loan, and Other Financial Assistance Programs
The American people elected Donald J. Trump to be President of the United States and gave him a mandate to increase the impact of every federal taxpayer dollar. In Fiscal Year 2024, of the nearly $10 trillion that the Federal Government spent, more than $3 trillion was Federal financial assistance, such as grants and loans. Career and political appointees in the Executive Branch have a duty to align Federal spending and action with the will of the American people as expressed through Presidential priorities. Financial assistance should be dedicated to advancing Administration priorities, focusing taxpayer dollars to advance a stronger and safer America, eliminating the financial burden of inflation for citizens, unleashing American energy and manufacturing, ending "wokeness" and the weaponization of government, promoting efficiency in government, and Making America Healthy Again. The use of Federal resources to advance Marxist equity, transgenderism, and green new deal social engineering policies is a waste of taxpayer dollars that does not improve the day-to-day lives of those we serve.
This memorandum requires Federal agencies to identify and review all Federal financial assistance1 programs and supporting activities consistent with the President's policies and requirements.2 For example, during the initial days of his Administration, President Donald J.
Trump issued a series of executive orders to protect the American people and safeguard valuable taxpayer resources, including Protecting the American People Against Invasion (Jan. 20, 2025), Reevaluating and Realigning United States Foreign Aid (Jan. 20, 2025), Putting America First in International Environmental Agreements (Jan. 20, 2025), Unleashing American Energy (Jan. 20, 2025), Ending Radical and Wasteful Government DEI Programs and Preferencing (Jan. 20, 2 2025), Defending Women from Gender Ideology Extremism and Restoring Biological Truth to the Federal Government (Jan. 20, 2025), and Enforcing the Hyde Amendment (Jan. 24, 2025).
These executive orders ensure that Federal funds are used to support hardworking American families.
To implement these orders, each agency must complete a comprehensive analysis of all of their Federal financial assistance programs to identify programs, projects, and activities that may be implicated by any of the President's executive orders. In the interim, to the extent permissible under applicable law, Federal agencies must temporarily pause all activities related to obligation or disbursement of all Federal financial assistance, and other relevant agency activities that may be implicated by the executive orders, including, but not limited to, financial assistance for foreign aid, nongovernmental organizations, DEI, woke gender ideology, and the green new deal.
This temporary pause will provide the Administration time to review agency programs and determine the best uses of the funding for those programs consistent with the law and the President's priorities. The temporary pause will become effective on January 28, 2025, at 5:00 PM. Even before completing their comprehensive analysis, Federal agencies must immediately identify any legally mandated actions or deadlines for assistance programs arising while the pause remains in effect. Federal agencies must report this information to OMB along with an analysis of the requirement. OMB also directs Federal agencies to pause all activities associated with open NOFOs, such as conducting merit review panels.
No later than February 10, 2025, agencies shall submit to OMB detailed information on any programs, projects or activities subject to this pause. Each agency must pause: (i) issuance of new awards; (ii) disbursement of Federal funds under all open awards; and (iii) other relevant agency actions that may be implicated by the executive orders, to the extent permissible by law, until OMB has reviewed and provided guidance to your agency with respect to the information submitted.
OMB may grant exceptions allowing Federal agencies to issue new awards or take other actions on a case-by-case basis. To the extent required by law, Federal agencies may continue taking certain administrative actions, such as closeout of Federal awards (2 CFR 200.344), or recording obligations expressly required by law.
Additionally, agencies must, for each Federal financial assistance program: (i) assign responsibility and oversight to a senior political appointee to ensure Federal financial assistance conforms to Administration priorities; (ii) review currently pending Federal financial assistance announcements to ensure Administration priorities are addressed, and, subject to program statutory authority, modify unpublished Federal financial assistance announcements, withdraw any announcements already published, and, to the extent permissible by law, cancel awards already awarded that are in conflict with Administration priorities, and; (iii) ensure adequate oversight of Federal financial assistance programs and initiate investigations when warranted to identify underperforming recipients, and address identified issues up to and including cancellation of awards.
Footnotes:
1 2 CFR 200.1 defines Federal financial assistance to mean "[a]ssistance that recipients or subrecipients receive or administer" in various forms, but this term does not include assistance provided directly to individuals. For the purposes of this memorandum, Federal financial assistance includes: (i) all forms of assistance listed in paragraphs (1) and (2) of the definition of this term at 2 CFR 200.1; and (ii) assistance received or administered by recipients or subrecipients of any type except for assistance received directly by individuals.
2 Nothing in this memo should be construed to impact Medicare or Social Security benefits.
* * *
Original text here: 
Copyright Targeted News Services
MSTRUCK-9021493 MSTRUCK

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
