




Fox News FOX NEWS @ NIGHT 11:00 PM EST
February 7, 2025 Friday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Length: 7569 words
Byline: Kevin Corke, Chanley Painter; Garrett Tenney, Dan Springer, Marc Siegel
Guests: Carly Bird, Mehek Cooke, Roma Daravi, Brilyn Hollyhand, Julian Epstein, Jack Brewer, Frank Murphy
Body


(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Out of time. Todd Piro, Dagen McDowell, Rob Long, Kat Timpf, our studio audience. "FOX NEWS @ NIGHT" is next. I'm Greg Gutfeld. I love you, America.
KEVIN CORKE, FOX NEWS CHANNEL SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Evening, everybody. I'm Kevin Corke, in for Trace Gallagher, 8:00 on the West Coast, 11:00 here in D.C., and this is America's late News, FOX NEWS @ NIGHT.
Breaking tonight, Elon Musk is demanding the receipts, and this time, it's for the billions and billions and billions of dollars spent on education each year. And apparently, the Democrats are really mad about it.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They allow billionaires and his minions to come in.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The kids deserve to have us go in and fight for them.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes, absolutely. This is appalling.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The children of this country deserve that battle for them.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This is a public institution. This is not Russia.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CORKE: The 30 House Democrats that you saw there, storming the Department of Education this morning. You get it. They were all denied access, as DOGE continues to check the books.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. MAXINE WATERS (D-CA): Give me that I.D., again.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I have given you the I.D. I showed it to you.
WATERS: So what?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I showed you the I.D.
WATERS: You do what?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I showed you the I.D.
WATERS: Could you let me see the I.D. again?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Does this remind you of the other people who have blocked the school house doors before?
WATERS: Yes, yes. Yes.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Boy, this is a flashback.
WATERS: Do they have guns on him?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes.
WATERS: Do they have guns?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Do you have any weapons?
WATERS: Are they prepared to shoot us?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CORKE: By the way, a recent national report card shows, a third of U.S. public school students are currently behind grade level. So, some might call this just a bit of political theater.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: They look foolish. Today, they tried to break into the Department of Education just because we want to go and check the books.
They don't love our country. We want great education.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CORKE: Meantime, President Trump, officially revoking former President Biden security clearance writing tonight, "Joe, you're fired."
More on that story coming up. But first, to Chanley Painter, live in New York, with more on the DOGE derangement syndrome. Evening, Chanley.
CHANLEY PAINTER, FOX NEWS CHANNEL, OVERNIGHT ANCHOR: Yes. Happy Friday, Kevin.
So, some say it was a necessary protest and oversight to President Trump and DOGE, others though, calling it unhinged and pathetic political theater. But for us, it's all caught on camera. As a couple dozen House Democrats attempted to enter the Department of Education building this morning, demanding to meet with the acting education secretary. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You don't have a business reason to be here, mean --
REP. MARK TAKANO (D-CA): You don't had have authority, sir. You don't had have authority.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: -- access entrance.
TAKANO: There is no authority for you to deny members of Congress that oversaw responsibility.
WATERS: And this is going to go out in history. The man who blocked the doors of the Department of -- hold your face up so they can see you.
Let his children see him, let his children know that he was standing in the way of all children being educated.
Look them in the eye. Come on, hold your face up.
PAINTER (voice over): Those lawmakers could be seen berating that security guard for more than half an hour. Saying, they were just trying to exert their congressional oversight duties, regarding Trump's plans to significantly downsize or even eliminate the department.
REP. MAXWELL FROST (D-FL): The Department of Education needs to stay. And Trump can't do -- without Congress. It's unconstitutional, it's illegal, and we are going to stand here to fight against it.
PAINTER (voice over): Now, the president, though, reaffirming his belief that states could do a better job in education, today, while addressing what happened this morning with this. Watch.
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Maxine Waters is a lunatic. And you know, they are -- they are all lunatics. Frankly, they are so -- it's so sad to see. They should be happy.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
PAINTER (on camera): And we know this is all coming as the nation's report card, as you mentioned, Kevin, shows seven out of 10 4th graders are not proficient readers. In fact, reading scores showed, "no significant change" since 1992.
And also, Kevin, just in this evening, a U.S. judge declined to block Musk' DOGE from accessing Labor Department systems, which is, of course, a big win for President Trump tonight.
GALLAGHER: Yes. I'll say so. Chanley Painter in New York. Chanley, thank you.
Let's continue the conversation. Joining us, Republican strategist and Bird's Eye Consulting president, Carly Bird, along with RNC surrogate and attorney Mehek Cooke.
Let me share this very quick sound bite. It's Maxine Waters over at the education department, really putting on a show, Mehek. Let's get your reaction on the other side.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
WATERS: We are coming in.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're members of Congress.
WATERS: We are coming in.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're members of Congress.
WATERS: We are coming in. Don't close the door. We are coming in. Who are you?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You're not -- you're not -- you're not coming in.
WATERS: Who are you?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Who are --
WATERS: Who are you?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Who are you?
WATERS: Who are you?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Who are you?
WATERS: Who are you?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Who are you, sir?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do you have -- do you had business here?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.
WATERS: Yes.
Get out of the way.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: -- the security.
WATERS: We pay -- we pay for your job. We pay you.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I understand.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We're members of Congress. We're not a threat.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're members of Congress.
WATERS: What are you going to do? You going to beat us up if we go in?
You won't have a job if we don't help you.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CORKE: They are calling this political theater. I think those who are on -- are on pretty solid footing. Mehek, what's say you?
MEHEK COOKE, GOP STRATEGIST: Kevin, I 100 percent agree with you. Look, where were Maxine Waters and Democrats when we continue to see our fourth and eighth graders failing in reading and math?
Where is Maxine Waters when she was watching as we were letting little boys in girls' sports and locker room? Where was Maxine Waters and Democrats as we have continued to see parents fight for school choice, but she stood the side of unions, as schools continue to fail. This is what American people are seeing today.
The way that Maxine Waters is treating that security guard is the way that American parents have been treated. We have been trampled by Democrats like Maxine Waters and we are pushing back. Enough is enough. We believe in school choice. These are our tax dollars, and we are not going to let go of it very easily, especially under President Trump's leadership.
CORKE: Carly, let me get you to weigh in on this. Who is this for, this sort of protest?
CARLY BIRD, PRESIDENT, BIRD'S EYE CONSULTING: Yes, I agree with my co panelists. I mean, I guarantee you, every single one of those Democrats who was protesting in front of that building today was perfectly happy to let schools continue to be locked down and kids so-called learning virtually at home for years.
And we know that, that has created irreversible gaps in education for kids who went through that. So, this is a joke. These people are not to be taken seriously. The Democrat Party is the party that has cried wolf for a hundred times over.
Nobody takes these people seriously, rather than try and actually do the job that they're elected to do, they want to get in front of a camera, and I guess, try and make a show out of this job, but it's embarrassing, it's a distraction.
CORKE: Yes.
BIRD: And the American people are sick of it.
CORKE: Yes, quite the show indeed.
Let me get you both to weigh in on this. Have a full screen, Katie.
Former President Biden's security clearance has been revoked. Let me share this from the current president, Donald Trump, on Truth Social. "There is no need for Joe Biden to continue receiving access to classified information. Therefore, we're immediately revoking Joe Biden security clearances and stopping his daily intelligence briefings. He set this precedent back in 2021, when he instructed the intel community to stop the 45th president of the U.S., me, from accessing details on national security, a courtesy provided to former presidents.
The Hur Report," this is interesting, "revealed that Biden suffers from poor memory and is even," and by the way, "even in his prime, could not be trusted with sensitive information." Talk about a dig on the way out the door. "I will always protect our national security. Joe, you're fired. Make America Great Again!"
Very briefly, 10 seconds each, maybe 15. Mehek, strong wording there. Is this petty or is this the right thing to do?
COOKE: Look, I think the American people want the truth. Everybody knew from the Hur report that Biden was declining. He was mentally unfit to be president, and President Trump is finally telling the American people what they wanted to hear all along.
You can't trust Joe Biden. He shouldn't have national security, intelligence, secret or anything to do with the U.S. government. We don't trust him.
CORKE: Carly?
BIRD: Absolutely. I think -- I don't think this is petty at all. In fact, I think for most Americans, they are probably wondering, wait, you still get security clearance once you're out of office? I think that this is common sense. This makes sense to a lot of people. This is what American people voted for. They want Donald Trump to do things like this. Continue doing things like this. They trust him.
CORKE: Now, very -- again, very short time left in the segment. But I do want to talk about where the president may go next with DOGE? The Department of Government Efficiency.
You heard him talking about it's not just the Department of Education. They're going to look at the Pentagon, they are going to look around a lot and continue to kick over rocks.
Is this the right thing, politically, and the right thing for America? 15 seconds each, beginning with you, Carly.
BIRD: Absolutely, this is what the American people voted for. For far too long, we have an elected bureaucrats who are in charge of the American taxpayer dollars. And what the left fails to understand is that it is not the government's money. It's the American people's money. We absolutely have a right to see where our tax dollars are being sent.
CORKE: Right.
BIED: So, this is what the American people voted for. Let's get to the bottom of it for sure.
CORKE: Mehek, wrap us up.
COOKE: Well, I think, Carly nailed it. Look, we have a $1.8 trillion deficit, Kevin. And if you look at just fiscal year 2024, Americans brought in -- the American government brought in close to $5 trillion, but we spent 6.7 5 trillion. We're going to be in bankruptcy if Elon Musk and President Trump don't cure this balanced budget crisis we're having.
We haven't had a balanced budget in 25 years. It's time to go, it's time to reset, it's time to save America, and this is the only way to do it.
CORKE: And remember, this is just the tip of the iceberg. People talking about USAID. They have no idea what's coming down the pike. Things are going to get very interesting very quickly.
Carly and Mehek, thank you so much for joining us tonight. We appreciate it.
BIRD: Thank you.
COOKE: Thank you.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
STEPHEN COLBERT, HOST, THE LATE SHOW WITH STEPHEN COLBERT, CBS: Down in Washington, Elon Musk and his crew of teenage mutant in cells continue to tear apart 250 years of democracy like seagulls fighting over a bag of French fries.
ANDREW WEISSMANN, LEGAL ANALYST, MSNBC: Elon Musk and his band of musketeers, who are rampaging through government --
JOHN HEILEMANN, NATIONAL-AFFAIRS ANALYST, MSNBC: An unelected plutocrat and his group of toadies and henchmen with their zip drives, staging a digital coup.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CORKE: Hey, throwing out henchmen. I mean, come on, toadies? Really? But musketeers, I kind of like that.
Elon Musk, obviously making some big-name enemies on the left as DOGE's perch in of alleged government waste and fraud continues.
We want to bring in the founder and CEO of Daravi strategies, former White House Strategic Communications Director, Roma Daravi, along with the author of "One Generation Away, RNC Youth Advisory Council, Brilyn Hollyhand.
Brilyn, this is interesting for me, because it always gives us a chance to really sort of break down what is happening. I'm loving this, but I'm sure there are people in D.C. and elsewhere who feel like this is a bridge too far, because they are going line by line through the big budgets, and they are finding all sorts and all manner of malfeasance.
In fact, before you weigh in, let me share this. This is the cover of Time Magazine, and it shows President Musk? OK, they didn't call them that, but basically, they are giving him that sort of vibe with that cover.
What do you think of that? And how is -- how are things going with this White House as they continue to look at the books?
BRILYN HOLLYHAND, RNC YOUTH ADVISORY COUNCIL: Kevin, we're going to be paying millions of dollars to countries who hate us. They should be allowed to hate us for free. It's not on behalf of Gen Z.
I just want to say thank you to Elon Musk. Thank you, because America is officially unburdened by what has been, and that has been in this case, is this decades of egregious spending. This egregious government waste that has saddled my generation with $32 trillion in debt.
I'm on the campus of Penn State right now. I'm speaking here in the morning, and young Republicans in Pennsylvania delivered a rejection in November, a rejection of these failed, woke liberal policies that have run our government into the ground.
Thank goodness they did, because now we have things like DOGE that are bringing America back and saving America in two short weeks.
CORKE: Oh, I got to get your reaction though, Roma on this -- what the president said about Time Magazine, putting Elon Musk on the cover. Listen to this and get your reaction on the other side.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Do you have a reaction to the new Time Magazine cover that has Elon Musk sitting behind your resolute desk?
TRUMP: Is Time Magazine still in business? I don't even know that.
Elon is doing a great job. He is finding tremendous fraud and corruption and waste. You see it with the USAID, but you're going to see it even more so with other agencies and other parts of government.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CORKE: Got to give him credit, he is quick with a line, and he was ready for that one.
ROMA DARAVI, FORMER DIRECTOR, WHITE HOUSE DEPUTY STRATEGIC COMMUNICATION: Absolutely. Look, President Trump is single handedly keeping a lot of media companies in business. We saw some stats that MSNBC is up for the last couple weeks, ever since President Trump got in the White House. So, I think they actually owe him a thank you here.
But look, I mean, this is what Elon Musk is tasked to do. And it's not just the Department of Ed, it's not just USDA, it's all the different small organizations as well.
The Kennedy Center today was announced that President Trump is going to clean house there, and speaking as a former professional ballet dancer, I cannot wait to see what he does there. It needs it.
There is no more DEI push down America's throat. That's not what the American people want. They spoke loud and clear in November, and it's about time for change.
CORKE: Speaking of change, a change with the NFL removing end racism from the end zone. Get your reaction on the other side of this. Listen to this from "The View".
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SUNNY HOSTIN, HOST, ABC NEWS: It seems to me like the end racism probably has a lot to do with the fact that the sitting president is there.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I think if you're going to take something that important away, you don't put anything there.
WHOOPI GOLDBERG, HOST, ABC: I've been thinking about it during the course of the day, because why that phrase? Why choose love? You know --
HOSTIN: Especially, when the transgender communities under attacked.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes. It is more --
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CORKE: OK. Well, "The View", feeling very strongly that this is somehow an affront, because they are taking it out of the end zone. Good call or bad call there, Brilyn?
HOLLYHAND: Great call. Should have never been there in the first place. President Trump made clear on the campaign trail that if elected and when inaugurated that DEI was going to die. That's exactly what happened. Asking nothing more patriotic than what's happening this weekend, President Trump becoming the first sitting president to attend the Super Bowl. It's a stark contrast in what we just saw the past four years, where Joe Biden stayed at home, where he skipped the biggest sporting event in American history.
We got to get the guy a little bit of credit, because it was probably past his bedtime, and I doubt that if we asked the former president who was even playing this Sunday, he could say, but it Go Eagles for me (INAUDIBLE). I'm glad it's out of the end zone. That was a good call.
CORKE: Yes, fly, Eagles, fly. Let me get your take on this real quickly, because I kind of feel like, Roma, if there's one place where racism isn't a major issue, it's the National Football League. It's a merit-based League. You can do what you can do on the field, or you can't. At least among the players, they're taking this out of the end zone. 20 seconds left. Good call, or bad call?
DARAVI: Well, you know they're taking their cues from President Trump, as is the rest of private organizations right now. You saw the NAACP coming out that men are no longer allowed to play in women's sports. All it took was the strong hand of President Trump to lead this country in the right direction, and we're on track again.
CORKE: And it was beautiful to watch that ceremony. The picture, I think, will be maybe the picture of the year. The president signing that executive order, just surrounded by all those young women and children. It was a very beautiful thing.
Thank you so much, Roma. Appreciate that.
DARAVI: Thank you.
CORKE: And of course, Brilyn as well.
Border czar, Tom Homan, threatening to arrest immigration activists who try to interfere with ICE raids following a largely disappointing operation in Colorado this week. Now, this comes as the Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem gets a firsthand look at the border detention facility at Guantanamo Bay. Cuba.
With more on that story, we take you to Los Angeles, and that is where we find my good friend. Christina Coleman. Hey, C.C.
CHRISTINA COLEMAN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Hi, Kevin.
Yes, Border czar Tom Homan is exploring possible legal action against activists who showed up to ICE raids in Aurora, Colorado Wednesday to warn and advise immigrants.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (text): Please remain silent. Don't open the door.
TOM HOMAN, FORMER ACTING DIRECTOR, IMMIGRATION AND CUSTOMS ENFORCEMENT: They may find themselves in pair handcuffs very soon. So, working with DOJ on that, get some legal guidance.
COLEMAN (voice over): According to Title 8 of U.S. immigration law, anyone who, "Attempts to conceal, harbor, or shield from detection an illegal immigrant is violating federal law."
FRANCEY HAKES, FORMER FEDERAL PROSECUTOR: The statute specifically says the person can either know they are harboring or shielding an illegal alien, or be in reckless disregard of the fact that they are.
COLEMAN (voice over): Federal authorities fell short of their goal of arresting dozens of members of the notorious Tren de Aragua gang in the raid in Aurora on Wednesday. The White House border czar and ICE officials blame leaked information to local media.
HOMAN: We've already identified how this operation got leaked. I'll deal with that.
COLEMAN (voice over): The raid was originally planned for last Thursday, but was canceled the day before, after Colorado news outlets reported details of the operation.
HOMAN: People -- this isn't a game. When operations get leaked like that puts our officers at great risk. It's already a dangerous job, but when they get a heads up we're coming, it's only a matter of time before officers are ambushed, and their job is dangerous enough. So, we're going to address this very seriously.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
COLEMAN: Meanwhile, Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem, visited Guantanamo Bay today, getting a first-hand look at criminal aliens being unloaded off a flight from the U.S.
Flights began taking apprehended illegal immigrants to the facility this week. Secretary Noem, says this flight on Thursday transported murderers, drug dealers, and weapons traffickers, and says all on board were known gang members from Venezuela.
Very disturbing. Kevin.
CORKE: Yes, disturbing indeed. Christina Coleman, for us over in Los Angeles. Christina, thank you so much.
Now, back to the uproar on the left, over Elon Musk and DOGE's purge of parts of the federal government, we want to bring in former chief democratic counsel for the House Judiciary Committee, Attorney Julian Epstein.
Julian, listen, this is interesting, because you're more than just that. You've actually done some oversight work as well.
JULIAN EPSTEIN, FORMER HOUSE JUDICIARY CHIEF COUNSEL: Yes.
CORKE: Tell me about that, and what's coming down the pike as we continue to sort of unpack every day what's happening, by way of DOGE.
EPSTEIN: Sure, before the Judiciary Committee, I was a staff director of the government oversight committee, and we did investigations, this was some years ago, and we documented hundreds of billions of dollars of waste in federal agencies. Everyone said -- every president says they are going to clean it up. President Trump looks like he's actually going to be the first president to do it.
But right now, Democrats are sort of like that squirrel in the middle of the road. You know, you see the squirrels looking all over the place, can't quite figure out where to direct his attention. It's because so much is happening at the same time, and Democrats don't know what to do, other than to express some type of sanctimony and outrage, which is what their currency is right now, rather than building.
They are going to lose this fight. And the reason they are going to lose this fight is because Musk is very, very smart as to how he's handling the media on it. He is dripping out all of the abuses by USAID.
$8 million to teach Sri Lankan journalists how to use gender pronouns.
CORKE: Yes.
EPSTEIN: And there is dozens of these. And they will not win the debate -- the Republicans will win the debate, the Democrats will lose the debate because they probably got 80-90 percent of the public on their side in terms of getting away from this type of abuse of taxpayer dollars.
But what's coming next, and the Democrats are not prepared for this, is they're going to start unloading evidence of massive fraud. For example, just over payments in the Medicaid Medicare system is about $300 billion. That's a third of our defense budget.
And when they start going through agency by agency, and chronicling the waste, the grift. You notice in some of the USAID revelations we found out that democratic sort of operatives are getting all these sweetheart deals and contracts.
It's going to keep going, and they are going to pile this out for -- they are going to continue to drip this out for the next two months. And this is going to be a debate that Democrats can't win.
Rather than joining with the Republicans and saying, let's work together to root out waste.
(CROSSTALK)
CORKE: Right.
EPSTEIN: They are fighting it, and they are going to lose that fight.
CORKE: This is the real problem for them, Julian, if you are on the wrong side of this battle, it doesn't make you look better in the midterms. If they are serious about regaining power here in Washington, come the midterms, they better get in line and get on board. Otherwise, I think they'll be punished for this.
I've only got about 30 seconds left. You wrote an op-ed. I think it's very interesting. You said, among other things, "Donald Trump is making religion great again." Tell me why you wrote the op-ed and why this was so important, especially now.
EPSTEIN: We are seeing a breakdown of western civilization. We are seeing it in the dissolution of the family, the birth replacement -- birth rates are below replacement level. Institutions are seeing massive distrust, depression, anxiety, isolation.
There are many causes of this. Part of this is social media, but a large part of it can be tracked almost directly with the breakdown of faith over the last 60 years, which the left wing, and particularly left-wing academia, has been attacking for the last 60 years.
Americans, I think, are yearning for a new inclusive kind of nationalism. Not a sectarian nationalism, but an inclusive type of nationalism, where we have shared values, shared values of excellence, shared values of community, shared values of merit, and they are -- I think they're looking for that sort of rejuvenation of the American and the Western civilizational spirit.
CORKE: Yes.
EPSTEIN: And I think Donald Trump has an opportunity does it right in a non-sectarian way to do it.
CORKE: Awesome. It's in the New York Post. Julian Epstein, the smartest man I know. Thank you, my friend, really appreciate you.
EPSTEIN: Yes. Kevin, thank you so much.
CORKE: Thank you.
Coming up, an update tonight on the Alaska plane crash that happened. You know, 10 people are on board. That plane went missing. We're going to tell you about that.
And Fox News going on -- goes on a ride along inside of an F-15 fighter jet. An exclusive look coming your way next.
And later in the "NIGHTCAP", the president revoking the security clearance of former President Biden. What do you think? Good idea or bad idea? We want you to weigh in on X, @tracegallagher, and of course, also on Instagram. We'll tell you about your responses in the "NIGHTCAP". That's coming right up.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CORKE: 28 minutes after the hour now. Welcome back, everybody to FOX NEWS @ NIGHT.
The search for a missing commuter plane in western Alaska has come to a tragic end tonight with the discovery of a crash site on sea ice, outside of the city of Nome. All 10 people on board were killed.
The Bering Air single-engine turboprop was actually flying to Nome on Thursday afternoon when air traffic control lost contact with the aircraft.
Now, following last week's crashes in Washington and in Philadelphia, this is now the third U.S. air disaster in just the past 10 days.
Super Bowl LIX from New Orleans, kicking off in around 43 hours from now, right here on Fox.
Players from the Chiefs and Eagles out the only people practicing for the big day. In fact, tonight, correspondent Garrett Tenney takes us on a ride inside of a fighter jet on a training mission. They are out there to not just protect the Superdome, but also to protect the big game.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
GARRETT TENNEY, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Today, we're training for Sunday's big game with major Robert Nomad Shine of the Louisiana Air National Guard's 122d Fighter Squadron.
ROBERT SHINE, MAJOR, LOUISIANA AIR NATIONAL GUARD'S 122D FIGHTER SQUADRON: We train for this all year, just like the teams that are playing.
TENNEY (voice over): His mission, along with the North American Aerospace Defense Command, is enforcing the FAA's 30 nautical mile lockdown of the airspace around New Orleans for the Super Bowl in his F-15 fighter jet.
SHINE: I remember flying, chasing the intercepting aircraft, as we're trying to stay in formation with him, we'll probably do some barrel rolls around them.
TENNEY (voice over): For these pilots, every day is game day.
And for this exercise, they scramble to their jets when radar picks up an unauthorized aircraft entering restricted airspace, heading towards the superdome.
The single-engine, Cessna, isn't responding to radio calls. But after some aggressive maneuvers at high speeds, the trio of fully armed fighter planes is able to get the pilots attention and firmly guide them away in a different direction.
NORAD's mission to protect the skies on Super Bowl Sunday comes a month after the New Year's terror attack. And this week, it's all hands-on deck to make sure nothing like that happens again.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We have a very layered approach to defending the Super Bowl this year. So, rest assured, we're watching the skies so you can watch the game.
TENNEY: Nomad will be in the air Super Bowl Sunday, while more than two dozen federal agencies, along with state and local police, handle security on the ground in New Orleans for what officials say will be the most secure Super Bowl in history. Kevin?
(END VIDEOTAPE)
CORKE: Garrett Tenney in Nolens. Oh, they're right by St. Aug. Garrett, thank you. Let's bring in Jack Brewer Foundation Chairman, former NFL Defensive Back, Jack Brewer; and America First Policy Institute Chairman and former NFL Wide-Receiver, Frank Murphy.
Guys, great to have you with us tonight, as we look forward to the big game, obviously. I want to get your reaction beginning with you Jack on Travis Kelce. He was asked about what he thought about the president attending the big game, here's what Travis said, get your reaction on the other side.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRAVIS KELCE, TIGHT-END FOR KANSAS CITY CHIEFS: No matter who the president is, I know -- I'm excited because it's the biggest game of my life, you know. And having the president there, you know, it's the best country in the world. So, it'd be pretty cool.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CORKE: Best country in the world. Good to have the leader of the free world there. Jack, your thoughts on what Travis said?
JACK BREWER, JACK BREWER FOUNDATION CHAIRMAN: I love it. It's about time Travis is coming on board. I hope he scores a couple touchdowns and does the Trump dance, you know. President Trump is uniting this country. I think everyone knows it.
It's exciting to think that, you know, we have President Trump addressing the nation before the Super Bowl, and then obviously going to attend the game. This is what we need. This is what leadership looks like.
And I applaud Travis because I know, you know, in the past he hasn't been so willing to support President Trump. And it sounds like Patrick Mahomes has been whispering in his ear.
CORKE: You know, I'm sure a lot of bettors out there are hoping -- Frank, they're hoping that Jack's right, that Travis will get a couple of tutties and make their prop bets look really good.
Your thoughts on the President attending the game and what the reaction has been like. It seems to me like it's pretty positive overall.
FRANK MURPHY, AMERICA FIRST POLICY INSTITUTE CHAIRMAN: Yes, I think it should be positive. Hard as he's been working, putting these policies in place and making sure that these executive orders go through in different areas of the community, hey, why not? He needs a break.
So, I love it, I love it. This is the biggest game going on right now. You know that the NFL is number one in America, number two in the world. You can't beat it. I love it.
CORKE: You know what's interesting though, as much as I think most people would feel like this is a good thing to have the leader of the free world attend the biggest game, not everybody feels that way. I mentioned this earlier, there's an opinion piece actually out -- this is The Nation, so if you know it, you know that they're left leaning.
They're slamming the president's attendance and Roger Goodell for moving and racism and the end zone, as you see the headline: "Trump's presence at the Super Bowl is an affront to every NFL player." It says in part, "He'll be the first sitting president to attend the Super Bowl. His presence, that is, will be a gob of spit in the face of every NFL player whether you voted for him or not." Wow.
Jack, pretty strong even for the liberal nation. Your thoughts?
BREWER: Yes, well I got a message to liberals. The National Football League is the best and greatest meritocracy in this country and in the world. You got years of almost 70 percent of the players are black on the field. Can you imagine if white men started asking to be cornerbacks more, or black guys started asking for more kickers in the National Football League?
Those things don't happen because teams want to win football games and that's what they judge players off of, not the color of their skin, but their ability to play the game. And so, you know, don't bring that garbage to the National Football League.
Let's keep our sport pure and let's keep our sport the greatest sport on earth because it brings people together and it brings this country together, and the Super Bowl will be the most watched event probably ever tomorrow.
CORKE: Frank, I think Jack nails it. It brings the country together. It's divisive in the minds of many Americans when you start interjecting politics and political viewpoints.
In racism, the NFL has a pretty good track record, I think one could argue, among the major sports, particularly, as Jack said, when it comes to the players out there. Your reaction to what the nation had to say?
MURPHY: Well, I think a lot of people are going to be pushing that narrative and that fake ID.
CORKE: Yes.
MURPHY: A fake ID is always going to be pushed when somebody is doing something great. So, when somebody is in the midst of doing something great, you got to watch the fake ID being pushed.
I'm telling people, man, put down that fake ID and pick up your real ID. If you want to see success in your life, if you want to start looking at a different viewpoint, if you want to be in a place that not only motivate yourself, but intrigue yourself to think more, read more, study more.
And I think the NFL got enough problems. You know, I really think about, you know, why a person like Scott Turner is not being mentioned, my brother. Coming from America First Policy Institute, he does so much in the community, then he gets confirmed at hood.
I'm just saying, this brother needs to be recognized -- Black History Month. And the NFL need to do a better job recognizing their players. That's the things I want to talk about.
CORKE: OK guys, I've got 10 seconds left. Who you got? Chiefs or Eagles? Jack?
BREWER: I played for Andy Reid, so I can't go against him. So, I'm hoping the Chiefs pull it off again.
CORKE: Ah, OK. How about you there, Murph?
MURPHY: I'm going for the best quarterback to play the game that's going to go down as the greatest quarterback ever. I'm going for Mahomes with the Kansas City Chiefs. Not just because I went to Kansas State, but I'm going for it.
CORKE: You're a former Wildcat, I knew that about you. Murphy and Brewer, gentlemen, thank you so much. I appreciate you guys tonight. Have a good weekend.
MURPHY: No problem. You, too.
CORKE: Coming up, how Democrats in one state are trying to limit parental rights over their children in public schools. It's a story you will not want to miss.
Plus, Moms Across America speaking out in support of RFK Jr.'s Make America Healthy Again movement. That's next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CORKE: 41 minutes after the hour now, welcome back everybody. Kevin Corke in for Trace Gallagher here on FOX NEWS @ NIGHT.
Critics tonight are furious with Democrats in Washington State who they say are trying to limit parental rights over their own children in public schools. Here's the argument, lawmakers on the left are pushing a bill that they say would allow officials to delay notifying parents if their child was the victim of a crime, was receiving counseling, or even getting an abortion.
Correspondent Dan Springer with that story tonight from Seattle.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) REP. JIM WALSH (R-WA): This is left-wing ideology that the state raises children that families don't, and that is just wrong.
DAN SPRINGER, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Democrats in the Washington state legislature are poised to strip a number of rights from parents with kids in public school.
Among them, the right to be notified immediately if their child has been the victim of a crime committed by a fellow student, teacher, or other school employee.
BRIAN HEYWOOD, LET'S GO WASHINGTON: Who would say that if your child is raped at school that the parents shouldn't know immediately? Who would say that?
SPRINGER: Brian Heywood spearheaded the Washington Parents Bill of Rights, which just became law last week. Now, Democrats are trying to rewrite the law. One change, allowing schools 48 hours to notify parents when their child is a crime victim.
Democrats say that's consistent with state law before the parents' bill of rights. It's also their argument for removing parents right to be notified anytime their child receives mental health counseling for anything including gender dysphoria and health care even help to get an abortion.
STATE SEN. JAMIE PEDERSON (D-WA): Young women have, if they're old enough to get pregnant, they're old enough to make their own decisions about what happens with their bodies. And parents do not have the right to change that or make a different decision or be notified in advance.
SPRINGER: The Parents' Bill of Rights does have safeguards for when parents or legal guardians are abusive towards their kids. But Republican leaders say those cases are the exception and schools should never be allowed to keep information from parents.
WALSH: We've seen the effects of this in broken nuclear families and higher rates of suicidal ideation in young children.
SPRINGER: The biggest problem facing Republicans is the fact that Democrats hold super majorities in both the state house and senate as well as the governor's office. So, their best chance may be to take this issue directly to the voters through a ballot initiative in an effort to restore what they say are critical parental rights. Kevin.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CORKE: Dan Springer in Seattle. Dan, thanks.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The Make America Healthy Again movement is an answer to my prayers.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I'm a pediatrician and my children were sick, all three of them were super sick in 2007 on many chronic medications and they were -- I was told, they're just going to need to be on chronic medications forever and that's going to keep their diseases at bay, and I just refuse to take that answer for one more day.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: There's so many modern-day parenting problems, but getting our kids outside, it solves so many of them.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CORKE: Moms across the country speaking out in support of R.K. Junior's Make America Healthy Again movement. Trump's HHS secretary nominee expected to get a confirmation vote in the Senate next week, up or down.
Let's bring in the author of "COVID: The Politics of Fear and The Power of Science," Fox News Medical Contributor, Dr. Mark Siegel. So great to have you with us tonight, my friend. I just want to share this.
This is a headline about RFK, Jr., advancing the final Senate vote for his HHS secretary. This, of course, referring to Robert Kennedy Jr. It says, "The controversial environmental lawyer turned public health critic cleared his first hurdle on Tuesday to become the nation's top health official when the Senate Finance Committee voted to advance his nomination for a floor vote. His nomination will now face a full Senate vote."
What are your suspicious prospects are there, Dr. Siegel?
DR. MARC SIEGEL, FOX NEWS MEDICAL CONTRIBUTOR: Oh, he's going to get in, Kevin, because Bill Cassidy, who was the one holdout on the Republican side, voted to get him out of committee and onto the floor. And so, he's clear, he's a physician from Louisiana, Senator Cassidy, and he's the head of the health committee.
With him on board, he's going to be voted in. And to the point about what the mothers were saying, 20 percent of children are obese. And so, that's what they're referring to when they say kids are popping pills, when we can get them back to a healthier lifestyle, where they lose weight, where they exercise, where they eat right, where they look at what they're eating, not ultra-processed foods maybe, but maybe more produce --
CORKE: Yes.
SIEGEL: -- you know, and healthier foods. We may not need the pills, and that's make America healthy again, getting back to farm to fork basically and I'm all on board with that.
CORKE: Yes, strong point indeed. Let me get your thoughts Dr. Siegel on the Washington Parents' Rights Bill changes. I mentioned this in the introduction, this Washington Senate panel changing to parental rights in education.
This initiative outlined 15 specific rights to parents related to their child's public school education including access to student records and the ability to review classroom curricula. That to me seems like a no-brainer.
When I hear lawmakers saying, hey, if they're old enough to get pregnant, they can make their own decisions, which seems to me to be preposterous. You can be talking about 10 or 11, 12-year-olds. This initiative to get parents back in the information game seems like a good one.
SIEGEL: Hugely important. I couldn't even believe that that Democratic lawmaker in the soundbite was keeping a straight face. A 13-year-old gets pregnant, and the parents shouldn't know about it? Don't kids go home after school?
What about mental health? What about all the depression? We're having a depression epidemic in the United States right now. Don't parents have a right to know what their kids are going through if they're having gender dysphoria, the kid comes home and doesn't even tell their parents that in Washington State they're considering a sex change operation?
CORKE: Yes.
SIEGEL: Completely ridiculous. It's a partnership between parent, child, and school. Last I checked, Kevin, a minor was anyone under the age of 18, not 13. That's been since 1971, since 1971 in most states.
CORKE: Yes, this is crazy. Doc, we're out of time, but we're wearing red. The American Heart Association, go red for women. I know this is an important issue for you. I hate to wrap it up. In 10 seconds, can you tell us why it's so important?
SIEGEL: Because we got to keep track of our cholesterol, of our sugar, of our blood pressure, of our weight. Keep track of that, and women, 300,000 women die every year of heart disease.
CORKE: Yes.
SIEGEL: It's not just men, and their symptoms are different. So, know your symptoms, tell your doctor and women don't be like men are, you know, pretending that there's not something wrong.
There could be something wrong as you get older and your body's change, you're at risk of heart disease. This is the -- we're spotlighting this today. That's why I'm wearing red. That's why you're wearing red. It's very, very important.
CORKE: Dr. Siegel, thank you so much for your time. Have a good weekend, buddy. We appreciate it.
President Trump revoking the security clearance of former President Biden. Good call, bad call. Your thoughts next in the "NIGHTCAP."
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CORKE: And we're back with the "NIGHTCAP" crew: Chanley Painter, Roma Daravi, Julian Epstein, Mehek Cooke, and Brilyn Hollyhand.
Tonight's topic, right call or just revenge? President Trump revoking the security clearance of former President Joe Biden tonight. What do you think? Good move or petty revenge? Chanley Painter.
PAINTER: Hey Kevin, it's just what goes around, comes around. Biden revoked Trump's in 2021, so he's just returning the favor.
CORKE: Mehek Cooke.
COOKE: Such a good move. Nobody trusts Joe Biden and he's an elderly man that has bad intention. So, great move by President Trump.
CORKE: Oh, man, let me bring it inside. Julian.
EPSTEIN: Biden's really humiliated himself with re-elect and the pardons. I would say a no on this, but I certainly wouldn't give him the keys to the family car.
CORKE: Roma Daravi.
DARAVI: Well, this is what we call the power of the presidency and guess what Joe Biden has that.
CORKE: Brilyn, wrap us up.
HOLLYHAND: On November 5th, the people said you're fired to Joe Biden. Tonight, Donald Trump got to say you're fired to Joe Biden. We learned that Joe Biden used to keep classified documents stored in his garage. He's the last person that needs this classification.
CORKE: Very interesting note that the president did say, you're fired, Joe. Let me share your responses from home.
This is from Valerie, "Absolutely necessary. We have one nation, one foreign policy, no undercutting, no continued graft, no way to influence or block this administration's actions."
Lori calls it a great move. "Joe Biden kept classified documents he didn't have the right to have in his garage. His memory is toast. He can't be trusted with America's secrets."
John says, "Why does anyone need a security clearance after they leave the government or a job that they're doing? Revoke them all."
And that is where we will leave it tonight. We want to thank you all for watching FOX NEWS @ NIGHT. I'm Kevin Cork in Washington for Trace Gallagher. He will be back on Monday, and we hope to see you then.

Load-Date: February 8, 2025


End of Document
