




Newsweek.com
January 31, 2025 Friday 5:50 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 1420 words
Byline: Andrew Stanton
Highlight: After the Washington, D.C., plane crash, Trump said he previously set "extraordinary" standards for air traffic control employees.
Body


President  this week said he raised standards for Air Traffic Control (ATC) during his first term in office, following an airplane crash in Washington, D.C.
The president pinned blame for the disaster on previous administrations while saying air traffic personnel "have to be the highest intellect."
Newsweek reached out to the White House for comment via email.
The Context
Trump made the comments just hours after an  plane carrying 60 passengers and four crew members from Wichita, Kansas, collided with a Black Hawk helicopter while attempting to land at Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport on Wednesday evening.
The air disaster marked the first major U.S. commercial airline crash since 2009.
An extensive search-and-rescue effort was launched in the Potomac River, where the plane went down, but D.C. Fire Chief John Donnelly said during a press conference on Thursday that officials do not believe there were any survivors. The crash renewed conversations about aviation safety in the U.S.
What to Know
The response to the crash quickly turned political, with Trump blaming Diversity, Equity and Inclusion standards and pointing to policies implemented by former Presidents  and .
"We must have only the highest standards for those who work in the aviation system. I changed the Obama standards from very mediocre at best to extraordinary," Trump said during a press conference Thursday.
The cause of the crash, however, remains under investigation and the president faced criticism for pointing the finger at DEI programs.
"Victims are still in the water. The Blackhawk crew is still strapped into the cockpit. Families are mourning. And Trump is blaming DEI, suggesting our pilots and air traffic controllers don't deserve their jobs. We need compassion and leadership— Our President showed none," Senator Tammy Duckworth, an Illinois Democrat, posted on X (formerly ).
In 2018, Trump ended a biographical assessment implemented by the Obama administration that was intended to broaden the application pool for potential air traffic controllers.
Critics of the assessment argued it lowered standards by eliminating qualified candidates by focusing on factors beyond technical qualifications. Air traffic controllers go through rigorous training, as the job requires substantial experience and knowledge to make quick decisions to avoid tragedies.
Robert Poole, the director of transportation policy for the Reason Foundation, told Newsweek removing the assessment was a "positive step" toward improving standards.
The assessment likely reduced the standard of those going through training at the FAA Academy by "reducing the fraction of graduates of the Controller Training Initiative program." Still, he said graduates had to pass "serious" tests before being assigned to a facility, where they would continue to be trained for years, he said
"However, it's quite possible that if marginally qualified Academy graduates got sent to facilities where they could not control traffic successfully, the washout rate would have increased," he said. "FAA has never published any analysis of the washout rate for controller trainees, such as success rates for CTI grads and off-the-street hires."
Melanie Dickman, lecturer at the Ohio State University's Center for Aviation Studies, told Newsweek there isn't public data to suggest ending the assessment had any effect on standards.
"All candidates who are accepted to the academy go through the same rigorous training process and are expected to perform to the same high standards if they want to continue on to their assigned facility. Then, they face even more training once they get to their actual facility," she said.
She noted ATC has "extremely high" standards, and that a "significant" number of candidates don't make it through the initial training.
A 2016 Transportation Department noted the assessment was also meant to "address critical and important attributes that are key to controller performance."
Trump also backed the privatization of ATC in 2017, a measure that he argued would make air travel safer and more efficient. But critics said privatization would give too much power to private businesses over a public asset and would actually increase costs to consumers.
Despite his endorsement, the plan lacked support from , even when  held a majority, according to a February 2018 report from Reuters.
Poole said Trump "spoiled' efforts to reform ATC by "including only  former DOT/FAA officials, when there were many people from the Clinton Administration's ATC corporation efforts" who supported the reform bill, introduced by former Representative Bill Shuster, a Pennsylvania Republican.
This "disappointed all of us who had worked years to build the coalition on this," Poole said.
Dickman said there is "no conclusive evidence" privatization would save any money, improve safety or be more efficient.
"To be sure, it would be a very lengthy process to safely transform to a privatized model, with no guarantee of success. The top concern here in this case should be safety. Prioritizing targeted initiatives toward hiring qualified controllers and updated technology in the existing facilities would be a better investment," she said.
He said Trump should begin the process of serious ATC reform during his second term, focusing on self-supporting ATC public utilities outside of the government budget, funded by user charges, that would be able to issue revenue bonds for modernization.
Upon returning to the White House, Trump moved quickly to end any diversity-focused-initiatives in the FAA in one of his first executive orders.
In 2024, Biden signed into law legislation aimed at boosting the number of air traffic controllers amid concerns about worker shortages following several near miss incidents. The FAA was short about 3,000 air traffic controllers last year,  reported.
How Trump Can Address ATC Standards in Second Term
One way Trump could address Air Traffic Control concerns during his second term is by focusing on staffing issues, which are below where they should be, Dickman said.
"It is imperative that we do everything we can to keep the training pipeline open so we can continue to train qualified candidates. I don't see the quality of the training as the problem, but rather that the staffing levels are not where they need to be," she said.
The U.S. aviation system is "one of the safest in the world," she said, while noting that the system is "stressed," with controllers at some facilities working 10 hour days, six days each week.
"This is not sustainable. Being proactive regarding hiring is the probably the biggest measure our administration could make to alleviate the fears of the flying public. Luckily, they have the opportunity to do just that, and it will pay off in safer skies," she said.
Poole agreed that Trump can address the controller shortage and address airspace questions to make aviation safer.
"We don't know enough about what led to yesterday's collision, but the controller shortage may have played a role. Also, there may be a need to restrict the operation of military helicopters in airspace close to commercial airport landing and takeoff paths," he said.
What People Are Saying
The White House, in a press release on Thursday: "President Donald Trump has repeatedly taken action to ensure that only the best are working as air traffic controllers. It's necessary to ensure that we have the highest standards with stakes as high as air travel. The  found that in Fiscal Year 2023, "there were 503 air traffic control lapses that the F.A.A. preliminarily categorized as 'significant.' "
Former Transportation Secretary Buttigieg on X (formerly Twitter): "Despicable. As families grieve, Trump should be leading, not lying. We put safety first, drove down close calls, grew Air Traffic Control, and had zero commercial airline crash fatalities out of millions of flights on our watch."
Senator Dick Durbin, an Illinois Democrat on X: "Pres. Trump has already turned a national tragedy into a craven, baseless political attack by blaming DEI programs at the FAA and past administrations. This is despicable and unconscionable. The American people deserve real answers, not narcissistic speculations."
What Happens Next
The crash remains under investigation by the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB). NTSB board member Todd Inman said on Thursday the preliminary report will be released within 30 days.


Graphic

 
How Donald Trump Changed ATC
Andrew Harnik/Getty Images
President Donald Trump speaks during a press conference at the White House on January 21, 2025.

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
