




Daily Collegian: Pennsylvania State University
February 21, 2025 Friday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 1148 words
Byline: Claire Huss
Body


Since President Donald Trump's inauguration in January, he has signed 68 executive orders as of Thursday night. According to NBC News, this is the highest number of executive orders by a president during their first 100 days in over 40 years.
These orders include promises to expand access to in vitro fertilization , secure borders to protect Americans from "invasion" by immigrants and rename the Gulf of Mexico and Mount Denali to the Gulf of America and Mount McKinley, respectively.
Students will be impacted by many of the orders, and here's how.
Ending diversity, equity and inclusion policies
According to executive order 14151, Biden era DEI initiatives unnecessarily spend taxpayer money and are "illegal" and lead to "shameful discrimination."
As a result, universities were sent a letter last Friday by the United States Department of Education Office for Civil Rights to end all race-based programs. If universities fail to comply within 14 days, they risk losing federal funding.
According to the letter, "treating students differently on the basis of race to achieve nebulous goals such as diversity, racial balancing, social justice, or equity is illegal under controlling Supreme Court precedent," citing 2023's Students for Fair Admissions v. Harvard Supreme Court decision.
Race-based programs include scholarships for students of color, race-conscious hiring decisions, heritage-specific professional fraternities and sororities, specific graduation ceremonies and college acceptance decisions.
"Penn State's leadership team is in discussion to determine how this guidance might impact the university," Penn State said in a statement. "While the university is still gathering information, it remains committed to its mission and to fostering a culture of inclusive excellence for our community. Everyone is welcome at Penn State, and we are at our strongest when we are surrounded by a diversity of thought, perspective and experience."
International students
In the order, "Protecting the United States from Foreign Terrorists and Other National Security and Public Safety Threats," Trump aims to ensure that all people who are granted visas "do not intend to harm Americans or (its) national interests."
The order also said that all immigrants should not hold "hostile attitudes" toward America's "citizens, culture, government, institutions, or founding principles" and "do not advocate for, aid, or support designated foreign terrorists and other threats to (its) national security."
This means that the visa application process for students studying abroad or studying full-time at U.S. universities will be more thorough and ensure students on visas are "vetted and screened to the maximum degree possible."
Undocumented students
In addition to students on visas, universities face the risk of funding cuts if they provide services "either directly or indirectly, to removable or illegal aliens" according to executive order "Protecting the American People Against Invasion."
The order prompted the Department of Homeland Security to rescind its policy on certain locations deemed as "sensitive" to maximize arrests. This removes protections on university campuses, making undocumented students vulnerable to Immigration and Customs Enforcement raids.
Under the Trump administration, the DHS posted on X that ICE agents have arrested 8,768 people as of Feb. 3. Information and resources for undocumented students can be found here.
Penn State athletes stand on stage with former President Donald Trump at Donald Trump's rally at the Bryce Jordan Center on Saturday, Oct. 26, 2024 in University Park, Pa.
Alexandra Antoniono
Transgender students
Executive Order 14168 "Defending Women from Gender Ideology Extremism and Restoring Biological Truth to the Federal Government" declared the United States will recognize two sexes only: male and female.
The order rescinded five Biden-era executive orders and 14 guidance documents pertaining to equality for transgender people and expansions of Title IX.
Biden's Title IX rule expanded protections to LGBTQ+ students facing discrimination in education and extracurriculars. Trump's rescinding of this will end protections for gender identity and sexual orientation under Title IX.
"Protecting Children From Chemical and Surgical Mutilation," Executive Order 14187, ends United States funding and support for gender-affirming surgeries.
The executive order will prevent any transgender person under age 19 from puberty blockers, Hormone Replacement Therapy and surgical procedures that "??transform an individual's physical appearance to align with an identity that differs from his or her sex" or "destroy their natural biological functions."
Another executive order, "Keeping Men Out Of Women's Sports" prevents transgender students from participating in sports that align with their gender identity.
The order aims to "protect a sex-based female sports category" and prohibits transgender athletes - specifically transgender women - from "all-female athletic opportunities and all-female locker rooms."
Executive departments and agencies are set to "review grants to educational programs" and potentially cut funding to programs that fail to comply with the executive order.
Federal funding freeze
The Office of Management and Budget released a memo on Jan. 27 calling for federal agencies to "temporarily pause all activities related to ... disbursement of all federal financial assistance, and other relevant agency activities" in order to perform analyses on these programs. The OMB rescinded the memo two days later.
If not rescinded, the memo would have paused disbursement of federal funds to students who took out student loans to fund higher education.
Elon Musk, who leads the Department of Government Efficiency , has also been allowed by a judge to access federal student loan information through the Department of Education. DOGE was created to limit unnecessary government spending and will examine aid spending through federal loans.
A protesters holds a signs that read "Student Power" outside the Bryce Jordan Center in response to former President Donald Trump's presidential campaign rally on Saturday, Oct. 26, 2024 in University Park, Pa.
Esteban Marenco
Abolishing the Department of Education
According to an NBC news report, Trump is "preparing an executive order to eliminate the Education Department." Trump reportedly aims to redelegate education needs back to states.
Abolishing the Department of Education could jeopardize education accessibility, make higher education even more expensive for middle-class families, end special education services for students with disabilities and limit student civil rights resources, NBC reported.
The Department of Education cannot be shut down without Congressional approval. Trump is currently seeking cooperation from teachers' unions and Congress to advance his proposal.
MORE NEWS CONTENT

Load-Date: February 21, 2025


End of Document
