




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 26, 2025 Sunday 2:36 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 584 words
Byline: Marc Caputo
Body


January 26th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )

Why it matters: No modern president has done more - across more areas of American policy, culture and life - than Trump in the past six days. This new operating style and system enabled a strategy of flooding the nation with so many huge moves that it's hard for critics to attack specific ones.
Trump        
Behind the scenes: Trump's inner circle is hellbent on running a more functional White House than his chaotic first term - partly to act quickly on his most  
It's stunning to veterans of Trump's first West Wing. But at least in Week 1, the new government has mirrored the discipline of his 2024 campaign operation - another sharp contrast with his previous teams.
"It's a total black box," a lobbyist close to the administration told Axios. "Nothing is leaking except what they want."
There's a "strong silo system" that has kept advocates and special interests from forum-shopping and end-running administration officials, the lobbyist added.
The biggest change of all, Axios has learned, is that White House Chief of Staff Susie Wiles and other aides have clamped down on the ability of random friends and reporters to call Trump directly.
Until now, if you had his phone number and called, Trump would answer and talk to you - and maybe even act on whatever you suggested.
Now, Trump wants to focus more on work and has less time for bull sessions so he's less prone to answer his phone.
Zoom out: Another huge difference between the two Trump administrations' first weeks is how this one started - with a deluge of deeply researched   
"There are more questions about how all this is going to work, and right now, there just aren't enough bodies to answer them," said a Washington consultant who worked in the first Trump administration.
Zoom in: Sergio Gor, Trump's director of presidential personnel,  
Trump's first administration was often a free-for-all, driven by rivalries between Chief of Staff Reince Priebus, adviser Steve Bannon and Trump's son-in-law, Jared Kushner.
This time, Trump and Wiles - along with deputy chiefs of staff Taylor Budowich, James Blair and Stephen Miller, the  
As Wiles  
When Trump was elected in 2017, he was new to politics, and essentially a foreign agent in the GOP.
That led Trump to make relatively conventional choices for his Cabinet and top staff - many of whom he wound up hating. This time, it's all Trump loyalists.
"Back then, he was trying to consolidate power in the Republican Party," said Marc Short, chief of staff to then-Vice President Mike Pence. "Today, Trump is the party."


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 26, 2025


End of Document
