




Forbes.com
January 28, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 Forbes LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 2560 words
Byline: Megan Poinski, Forbes Staff
Highlight: Also in the Forbes CFO newsletter: DeepSeek s debut chills markets, Trump remakes IRS and tax policy in his image, Boeing s bad 2024 continues a trend of losses.
Body


This is the published version of Forbes' CFO newsletter, which offers the latest news for chief finance officers and other leaders focused on the budget. Sign up here to get it delivered to your inbox every Tuesday.
Monday was one of the worst days the Nasdaq has seen in two years, thanks to amassive tech selloff. Chinese AI model DeepSeek, an apparently self-funded platform that reportedly cost just $5.6 million to train, and which was likely developedwith less powerful chipsthan those behind U.S.-based models from companies including OpenAI, made many U.S. tech investors pause and pull back. DeepSeek, which outperformed some OpenAI models, showed the U.S. that a Chinese tech company could become a frontrunner in the race to develop generative AI platforms, despite extensive restrictions placed on U.S. tech exports by former president Joe Biden to prevent that. Investor and billionaire Marc Andreessen wrote on X that DeepSeek s model is  AI s Sputnik moment,  Rashi Shrivastava and Richard Nieva wrote.
DeepSeek pulled the tech-heavy Nasdaq down more than 3% on Monday, but individual companies saw much deeper losses. Nvidia, which makes the processors that power the U.S. s AI revolution,saw its stock fallnearly 17% on Monday, setting records by shedding nearly $589 billion in the company s market value. In a statement, Nvidia called DeepSeek s model an  excellent AI advancement  that actually does use  significant numbers  of Nvidia s GPUs, but they re less powerful ones made for use in China that are  fully export control compliant.  Nvidia wasn t the only company to see a big loss on Monday driven by DeepSeek. Chipmakers Broadcom saw a 17% one-day drop, and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, whose stock fell 13%, were also hurt by the news. The markets slowlybegan recoveringTuesday, but increases were more gradual.
There s long been speculation that AI companies were becoming overvalued. Nvidia rocketed from a company that made graphics cards for video games to the leading player in AI hardware and now with eyes on self-driving cars, robotics and smart warehouses in a matter of years, and has at times been the world s most valuable company. While Microsoft, Google parent Alphabet, Meta and Apple have several other services, company progress on AI has played an outsized role as in how their shares have performed. And private companies including OpenAI valued at$157 billion and Anthropic worth $6 billionafter a pending $2 billion funding round is finalized are pulling in dollars and influence.According to Crunchbase, close to a third of all global venture funding in 2024 went to companies in AI-related fields, totaling more than $100 billion.
Is this the beginning of the burst of the AI bubble?It could be. Before DeepSeek impacted U.S. markets,AI to the tech bubble a generation ago, when early dot-com companies quickly went from ballooning fortunes to struggling to keep the lights on. The dot-com bubble was fueled by investor over-optimism in the power of the internet, overlooking rational considerations of what the technology could do and deliver. The companies that survived the bubble s burst, including Amazon, Google and eBay, Riani wrote, used the technology to bring specific values and usage to the technology.
The stock market leader of two years from nowmay be a company that can use AI to make a difference through AI-powered agents, or mostly autonomous robots and vehicles. But maybe it will still be Nvidia, which will continue creating the hardware for AI, and has a good track record of recovering from drastic swings in its value.
The CFO s role in a company is always evolving. I talked to Megan Weis, vice president and general manager of finance & accounting outsourcing services at finance talent company Personiv, and host of a weekly CFO podcast, about the changes she s seeing in the job. An excerpt from our conversation is later in this newsletter.
TAXES
<figure>
<figcaption>
President Donald Trump speaks at a White House news conference last week.
Andrew Harnik/Getty Images
</figcaption></figure>
Taxes are important to Donald Trump, andhe s pressing forward with remaking the IRS in his policy likeness. Former IRS Commissioner Danny Werfel officially left the department on January 20,writes , clearing a path for Trump nominee Billy Long to take over. IRS commissioners serve five-year terms and are generally not replaced as administrations change. Werfel s term wasn t up until late 2027. No confirmation hearings appear to be scheduled for Long, a former congressman and Trump loyalist with no direct background in tax policy.
Among his day one executive orders, Trump put a 90-day federal hiring freeze in place throughout the government so the new Department of Government Efficiency could figure out the correct size of the government workforce. However,the IRS hiring freeze seems more permanent, and will remain in placeuntil the Treasury secretary determines it s in the national interest to lift it,Phillips Erb writes. Biden boosted the IRS s personnel funding in order to provide better and faster service to taxpayers, as well as to pursue high-wealth individuals, large corporations and complex partnerships to ensure they are paying their fair share. In November and December 2023, the IRS offered positions to more than 560 new accountants. This week,Phillips Erb writes, job offers have been rescinded to job candidates with start dates after February 8.
Trump has also talked about firing existing IRS employees, aiming at the 87,000 new IRS workers for positions ranging from customer service and IT to enforcement that would be hired over the next decade through 2023 s Inflation Reduction Act.  They hired, or tried to hire, 88,000 workers to go after you and we're in the process of developing a plan to either terminate all of them, or maybe we'll move them to the border,  he told a crowd last week at the Circa Resort & Casino in Las Vegas, Phillips Erb reported.
While Trump passed large tax cuts in his first term and has saidextending or even increasing them is a priority in his second, Republicans in Congress are hashing out the best way to do that. Trump has said he wants everything in one bill so it s easier to get everything that is wanted. The Senateconfirmed Scott Bessentas Treasury secretary on Monday, so the leadership to enact those cuts is now in place. As far as international taxes, Trump also issued a memo saying that any commitment made under the Biden administration to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development with respect to the Global Tax Deal will not be followed. The OECD determines how international corporations are taxed by all countries, and Trump s memo says that Congress will work toward a more America first tax policy,Phillips Erb writes.
POLICY + REGULATIONS
<figure>
<figcaption>
A Costco store in Richmond, California.
Justin Sullivan/Getty Images
</figcaption></figure>
As some companiesrein intheir diversity, equity and inclusion efforts last week,Target joined the listof companies scaling back policies to increase hiring and promotions of people of color and women others are doubling down on them. Costco s shareholders almost unanimously bucked a challenge to its diversity policies,writes . The National Center for Public Policy Research had petitioned the retailer to audit the company s  litigation, reputational and financial risks  caused by its DEI policies. Costco s leadership rejected the proposal last month and urged shareholders to vote it down, saying that the retailer regularly evaluates its policies.
JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon also stood firmin his commitment to DEI initiatives, saying,  Bring them on  in an interview with CNBC last week, senior contributor Jack Kelly writes.
However,business DEI policies may be thrust in an uncomfortable spotlight by Trump, who opposes the policy. He signed a day oneexecutive orderending federal DEI programs, saying that the  illegal and immoral  plans  demonstrated immense public waste and shameful discrimination. Another executive orderbrings this crackdownto the private sectorby rescinding a 1965 anti-discrimination order for federal contractors from President Lyndon B. Johnson. Trump is now requiring agencies to identify contractors who use  coded or imprecise language  to  obscure  DEI initiatives, as well as identifying up to nine potential civil compliance investigations of private sector entities  to deter DEI programs or principles that constitute illegal discrimination or preferences.  The attorney general will take this information and issue a report of recommendations to take action within 120 days.
NOTABLE NEWS
<figure>
<figcaption>
The fuselage and one of the engines of a Boeing 777-9 jetliner aircraft on the tarmac at Dubai World Central - Al-Maktoum International Airport.
GIUSEPPE CACACE/AFP via Getty Images
</figcaption></figure>
With a shocking in-flight plane malfunction, a rejected plea deal for two fatal crashes in 2018 and 2019, and a seven-week machinists strike halting production,Boeing had a terrible 2024 posting a stunning $11.8 billion loss. But, Jeremy Bogaisky writes, that s actually part of a pattern for Boeing. The aircraft company is on a six-year losing streak, and is likely to have lost a total of $35.7 billion in that time period. senior contributor Jim Osman writesthat activist investors including investment titan Warren Buffett may be looking closely at Boeing as a potential target.
OFF THE LEDGER
Personiv VP On Why CFOs Have Become Storytellers
<figure>
<figcaption>
Personiv Vice President and General Manager of Finance & Accounting Outsourcing Services Megan Weis.
Personiv, Getty
</figcaption></figure>
As vice president and general manager of finance & accounting outsourcing services at finance talent company Personiv, Megan Weis has her finger on the pulse of how the CFO s profession is changing. She also talks with different CFOs about their work in her CFO Weekly podcast. I talked to her about the CFO s evolution in 2025. This conversation has been edited for length, clarity and continuity.
How do you see the CFO s role continuing to evolve in 2025?
Weis:I can t have a conversation these days without hearing about generative AI. It s still pretty nascent. Most smaller to mid-size companies are experimenting with some things here and there at the moment, whereas enterprise companies are using it to turn data into actionable insights. Technology is going to continue to evolve.
Cybersecurity is becoming a huge issue these days, and CFOs are becoming more and more responsible for managing that risk. Hackers are becoming more clever, and the risks are just becoming more and more.
Globally, it s becoming very unstable. We have supply chain issues, there are currency fluctuations, inflationary concerns. It s becoming more complex.
Soft skills are becoming and more and more of a requirement. The CFO role is like a ringleader; it s very collaborative. The CFO is becoming more responsible for communicating across the organization, and that ties back to the idea of being the storyteller. With so much data out there, it s becoming increasingly necessary to digest that data, turn it into actionable insights, and be able to communicate it back to the organization in a way that finance or non-finance and accounting people can understand, whether that be employees or investors.
How did the evolution to CFO-as-storyteller begin, and what stories can the CFO tell that a company would miss otherwise?
It started when the CFO role started gearing toward being more of a strategic role, or a right hand to the CEO. The CFO is becoming more responsible for bridging the gap between finance and other departments. They re responsible for collaborating. A lot of them throughout their career are stepping out of finance for a time and concentrating more in operational areas.
[It s important] being able to communicate to investors [and] employees, and really humanizing financial data. At this point, there s just so much data that's available to finance and accounting and the CFO that you really have to take that data, boil it down, digest it, tell a story with it, and then align that story with the culture and the objectives of the organization. In general, the world is looking for more transparency. They re looking for organizations who stand for something, and that s part of where the storytelling comes in. People want to work for organizations that are purpose-driven and where the stories align, whether that be the stories they re trying to sell to investors or the story that their financial data is telling. Transparency is becoming more and more critical.
Historically, CFOs have been more of a news reporter. They ve taken historical data and regurgitated it back to investors and companies, whereas today, they re more forward-looking, more strategic. They still have to get the numbers, but they re helping to shape the story more than just report the news.
How do fractional CFOs work, and how often are they being used?
Fractional CFOs are something that I hadn t really heard about before I d started this podcast. I do think that they are becoming more prevalent. They ve grown over the last decade or so, and they re being used a lot for small and mid-size businesses who can t afford a full-time CFO, but still need the guidance of someone with experience being a CFO.
The fractional CFO plays really well into the gig economy: People wanting a portfolio of work, and maybe not just relying on one employee to be their employee for their entire career. That s not the way things work anymore. An employe[r] might not hold on to you for your entire career. Building a portfolio of clients for CFOs is the route that they want to go.
Also, with more PE-backed companies, those PE firms are looking for CFOs, and someone with the experience of a CFO to help make strategic decisions for those organizations, help guide them through growth periods.
I also think fractional CFOs play a big part in a company being able to be agile and pull in experts when those experts are needed. Every company goes through different stages, whether that be growth or crisis, and I think the fractional CFO allows those small companies to be agile and pull in the right talent when it s needed.
FACTS + COMMENTS
Unionized employees at Costcovoted to go on strikewhen their contract expires on January 31.The company has rejected union proposalsfor increased seniority pay, paid family leave, bereavement policies, sick time and safeguards against surveillance.
18,000: Number of Costco employees represented by the Teamsters union about 8% of the warehouse retailer s full workforce
26%: Costco s profit growth since the current union contract, signed in 2022
 Costco claims to treat workers better than the competition, but right now, it s failing to live up to that reputation : Tom Erickson, director of the Teamsters Warehouse Division, said in astatement
STRATEGIES + ADVICE
To be a leader that employees, colleagues and investors trust,it s important to be authentic. Here are12 skillsthat can improve your authenticity.
Collaboration can yield the most innovative ideas. Here areexamples of collaborative successesat some companies.
QUIZ
Which streaming service announced itsfirst price increase since 2023last week?
A. Disney+
B. Netflix
C. Max
D. Apple+
See if you got it righthere.

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
