




The Bulletin: Emporia State University
February 7, 2025 Friday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 630 words
Byline: Isabel Ayala
Body


President Donald Trump has delivered on his promise to eliminate "radical" diversity, equity and inclusion efforts, signing an Executive Order after his inauguration on Jan. 20 that "terminate(s) DEI in the federal government" in favor of a "color-blind and competence-based workplace" as reported byThe White House. The order, entitled "Ending Radical and Wasteful Government DEI Programs and Preferencing," repealed many programs, mandates and policies implemented by and before the Biden Administration. 
Nyk Robertson, Emporia State's Senior Diversity Officer and Assistant Dean for the Institute of Interdisciplinary Studies, oversees ESU's Division of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion. Other ESU programs, such as TRIO, the Intercultural Center, and academics in Interdisciplinary Studies, report through the Division of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion. 
Per Robertson, Trump's Executive Order would not heavily impact ESU's DEI office and its programs because it only involves federal agencies and their funding. The only thing that may be affected is the federal grants that ESU DEI receives. If that were the case, Robertson says that ESU would try to find alternative ways to finance the work that depends on federal funding.
The state of Kansas primarily dictates ESU's DEI funding and what they are allowed to do regarding DEI. If the state were to implement DEI policies similar to those of the federal government, the policies would heavily impact ESU's DEI office and the work that they do.
"We can't do a lot of work or have resources without access to money to pay for that type of stuff," Robertson said. Robertson has discussed with the executive team at ESU the importance of the DEI office's work, ensuring that students and employees are served equitably. "We have all collectively agreed that even if there were, like, a state legislation that said we can no longer have a diversity officer on campus, that I wouldn't have the title of diversity officer," they said. "But that doesn't mean the work stops. It just means that we might be doing it through a different lens."
Federal legislation targeting DEI is based on the belief that these programs increase racial, gender and sexuality prejudice rather than make systems more diverse, equitable and inclusive. But DEI efforts don't just serve underrepresented races, genders and sexualities. At ESU, the DEI division and its programs also serve individuals with disabilities, first-generation students, low-income students, students from rural areas, veterans, international students and religious organizations. 
"I often get to talk to people about how diversity is much more than just race, gender and sexuality," said Robertson. "... Just, identities you might hold are probably identities that we're helping serve."
They believe that despite the pressure put on DEI, it is important in Kansas, especially with federal and state legislation that denies equality for certain minority groups. DEI efforts for academic institutions ensure that all students have equal access to education with minimal barriers. Advocating for people who need support is central to Robertson's work at ESU.
"A lot of definition(s) of what DEI is isn't always accurate, but I think the big piece to remember is that, as an institution, our goal, and part of what my division does, and the purpose of it is just to make sure that ... we are helping (institutional and systemic barriers) not exist for students to be successful, and that is for any student on this campus," Robertson said. "My office serves any student, no matter their identities at all. Like, if they are finding barriers where it's hard for them to be successful, then it's my job to figure out how to help overcome those barriers or get rid of them all together."

Load-Date: February 7, 2025


End of Document
