




thetimes.co.uk
February 23, 2025 Sunday 12:01 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 875 words
Byline: Irwin Stelzer
Highlight: The current American head of state is likely to be judged a consequential president, but it is too soon to judge whether that is good or bad
Body


Any doubts your columnist had that newspapers are the first rough draft of history disappeared as he watched his wife make use of hundreds of American newspaper reports of Winston Churchill’s 1929 and 1931 US lecture tours to enrich her century-later book on the great man. 
So as a gift to future historians, here is a first draft of the history of Donald’s Trump’s return to power, based on 30 days of his new term — fewer even than FDR’s famous 100 days that attracted so many historians. This is a tale of costs and benefits that have stunned not only America but the world.
The economic benefits are clear. Billions saved and to be saved by unleashing Elon Musk and his high-IQ contingent on the misbegotten spending of the Deep State. The border secured, and manacled illegals charged with crimes deported, no longer able to wreak costly havoc in America’s cities. Future costs of defending Ukraine from Vladimir Putin’s revanchist drive to re-establish the Russian Empire to be borne by the European allies.
Trump has awakened the animal spirits that John Maynard Keynes pointed out animate the investor/entrepreneurial class. No longer threatened by a president with regulations at the ready and a lustful eye on their wallets, businesses big and small can see possibilities that did not exist under the Ancient’s Regime. There is a bounce in the step of businessmen as they emerge from their defensive crouches. There is terror in the hearts of regulators as Musk’s reformers, shears at the ready, approach their favourite snippet of red tape, embedded in the record number of pages Biden added to the Federal Register.
Merit, and the efficiency associated with even its imperfect application, has been restored as a criterion for advancement through the educational system and into the job market, and so-called Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) is being scrubbed from corporate, educational and government websites and manifestos. That must be added to the benefit side of any first draft of the history of the early days of Trump’s renewed hold on power. 
Whether the new trading order that will emerge from the Trump tariffs will prove costly or beneficial we cannot yet see with sufficient clarity to include even in an early draft of history. Economists cannot predict with reasonable certainty whether the revenues from tariffs will offset any net loss in revenues from the Trump tax cuts, or whether deficits will come down or head up. Or whether the chaos of which Trump is so fond will eventually prompt job-creating innovators to stifle the animal spirits that have them reaching for their chequebooks. Let’s put this in the wait-and-see category.
Early drafts of the first 30 days would be incomplete without two additional considerations. First, a less agitated citizenry has immeasurable value, and America’s seems calmer now that the woke elites are on their on the back foot. Second, we must reckon the costs associated with the benefits, as fans of the great Franklin Roosevelt often neglect to do. 
We have a president with a tenuous-to-hostile relationship with the truth, who contends that: “He who saves the country cannot violate any law”. Who uses the power of his office to avenge himself against an extensive list of enemies who have aggrieved him and “are people we don’t respect.” Who insists the 2020 election was rigged, and who removed security protection from former colleagues who disagree, even though they are under threat from Iran’s assassins. Who is amassing personal and family wealth by techniques that, if not illegal, are at minimum unbecoming. Who launches execrable personal attacks on Ukraine’s president, who is resisting an invasion by a Russian dictator intent on re-establishing the Russian Empire. 
Add appalling appointments. The man now responsible for the nation’s health believes the polio vaccine killed more people than it saved, that vaccines cause autism, and has campaigned against a measles vaccine, doubly dangerous at a time when measles is making a reappearance in America as vaccination rates decline. 
Trump’s appointees to run the nation’s justice system are investigating lawyers who prosecuted January 6 rioters, and others who resigned as a matter of principle rather than obey an order to terminate a politically charged investigation on which they were working. The woman now in charge of national intelligence shared Trump’s belief that Putin was provoked into invading Ukraine long before she had access to the intelligence data she now will analyse for him. 
As this hectic month comes to a close, the hyper-active Trump remains a divisive figure. Some 93 per cent of Republicans tell Gallup pollsters they approve of the president’s performance. A mere 4 per cent of Democrats register such approval, making the partisan gap the highest recorded by any president. Champagne corks strew the tables of Mar-a-Lago, tissues wet with tears decorate tables in university common rooms and wherever Never Trumpers gather. 
Later drafts of history will likely find Trump to have been a consequential president. It is too soon to judge whether that will be good news or bad. 
                                      Irwin Stelzer is a business adviser                 

Load-Date: February 22, 2025


End of Document
