




Newsweek.com
February 24, 2025 Monday 7:03 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 944 words
Byline: Natalie Venegas
Highlight: Last week's poll of more than 2,400 voters gives insight into how they feel about Trump's sweeping changes.
Body


A month since President  has officially been in office, voters of former Vice President  are sharing how satisfied they are with Trump, according to a Harvard University/Harris poll.
Newsweek has reached out to the White House via email for comment.
Why It Matters
Trump took office January 20, 2025, after a decisive victory against Harris. Harris led a slightly over 100-day campaign with her running mate Minnesota Governor  for the 2024 presidential election, following former President 's withdrawal in July. Ultimately, she lost to now President Trump, who was previously in office prior to Harris and Biden. Trump won 312 electoral votes, while Harris received 226. The  also won every swing state.
Since his inauguration, Trump has implemented sweeping change via swathes of executive orders, targeting Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI), immigration and most recently expanding access to in vitro fertilization. Trump's first weeks in office have also been filled with Cabinet nominations, domestic tragedies including wildfires in Los Angeles, and aviation disasters. Trump also managed to secure the safe arrival of .
What To Know
The poll, released by on Monday, shows 9 percent of Democratic Harris voters are now satisfied with how Trump is doing in office and 6 percent of GOP Harris voters are now satisfied with Trump.
Meanwhile, 12 percent of Trump Democratic voters are satisfied with their choice, and 85 percent of GOP Trump voters are satisfied.
In addition, the poll also found 6 percent of Trump voters say they wish Harris won the presidential election, which is not much compared to 37 percent of Harris voters who say they wish Harris won.
Meanwhile, the poll also shows that 8 percent of Republicans think Trump is doing worse than expected while 63 percent of  think he is doing worse than expected. However, 13 percent of Democrats think Trump's doing better than expected and 66 percent of Republicans also think he's doing better.
The survey was conducted online within the United States on February 19-20, 2025, among 2,443 registered voters by the Harris Poll and HarrisX. The margin of error for the total sample is plus or minus 2.0 points.
The poll comes after Trump campaign pollster Tony Fabrizio is sounding the alarm about vulnerabilities congressional  will face in next year's midterm elections.
A memo from Fabrizio and his partner, Bob Ward said their polling finds that 59 percent of voters in 18 swing districts are concerned about their personal financial situation, including 61 percent of swing voters and 53 percent of President 's voters.
The memo said that polling found contests in 18 swing districts—eight held by Republicans and 10 by Democrats—are essentially tied.
However, it said that in a generic ballot matchup, the survey has the "generic Democrat winning by 5 points, so the Republicans have to play catch-up."
The memo suggests voters, including those who chose Trump over Harris, remain concerned about their financial situation despite Trump repeatedly touting how much better off they are now that he is back in the White House. Some recent polls have shown support for Trump's handling of the economy  since he returned to office.
It comes as Republicans have been confronted by angry voters at town halls in recent days, while other polls have suggested growing dissatisfaction with the Trump administration's actions in the first month since he returned to office, including efforts to downsize the federal government that has seen  fired.
What People Are Saying
Political analyst Craig Agranoff told Newsweek last week: "Trump's first month in office this time around is markedly different from his first term. Four years ago, he entered Washington as an outsider, disrupting the traditional political landscape with a flurry of executive orders and high-profile policy moves. This time, he's returning with experience, a clearer understanding of how the system works, and a more determined approach to advancing his agenda."
Agranoff added: "However, he also faces a more polarized political climate, legal challenges, and a  that may not always align with his priorities. The key question is whether he can translate his momentum into lasting policy achievements or if external pressures will slow his administration's effectiveness."
Former Vice President Kamala Harris in her November concession speech: "In our nation, we owe loyalty not to a president or a party, but to the Constitution of the United States, and loyalty to our conscience and to our God. My allegiance to all three is why I am here to say, while I concede this election, I do not concede the fight that fueled this campaign—the fight: the fight for freedom, for opportunity, for fairness, and the dignity of all people. A fight for the ideals at the heart of our nation, the ideals that reflect America at our best. That is a fight I will never give up."
President Donald Trump said in his Inauguration speech last month: "I return to the presidency confident and optimistic that we are at the start of a grilling, new era of national success. A tide of change is sweeping the country. Sunlight is pouring over the entire world, and America has the chance to seize this opportunity like never before, but first, we must be honest about the challenges we face.
What Happens Next
While Trump's first 100 days in office will continue to unfold, it is unclear what other actions Trump will take or how voters will respond.


Graphic

 
Kamala Harris and Donald Trump
Paras Griffin and Joe Raedle/Getty Images
Former Vice President Kamala Harris accepts the Chairman's Award onstage during the 56th NAACP Image Awards at Pasadena Civic Auditorium on February 22, 2025 in Pasadena, California. U.S. President Donald Trump delivers remarks before signing an executive order on expanding access to IVF at his Mar-a-Lago resort on February 18, 2025 in Palm Beach, Florida.

Load-Date: February 24, 2025


End of Document
