




Newsweek.com
January 27, 2025 Monday 1:41 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 790 words
Byline: Tom Norton
Highlight: President Donald Trump is expected to sign a new Executive Action prohibiting transgender Americans from serving in the military.
Body


President  is set to unveil a new executive order that would prohibit transgender citizens from serving in the United States military, an echo of legislation he enforced during his last term in the White House.
Trump, who criticized pro-transgender policy throughout his presidential campaign, was due to announce the new order on Monday, among his executive actions that have targeted gender identity.
During Trump's first term, he prevented trans people from joining the military but allowed those already serving to continue. The new orders aim to clarify the  which revoked protections for transgender troops established by former President .
This new policy is expected to peel back efforts by Biden's administration to welcome transgender and non-gender conforming Americans into the .
Newly-confirmed Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth told the press on Monday that Trump's newest executive orders would include "reinstating troops who were pushed out because of COVID", "removing DEI inside the ," and supporting the development of an Iron Dome defense system for the U.S.
Hegseth said an Executive Order concerning transgender troops would be announced today but did not give further details.
With Trump reverting to policies from his last administration that will alter the careers of thousands of personnel, Newsweek examined how many military personnel identify as transgender.
How many U.S. Military personnel identify as transgender?
While the Biden administration attempted to encourage personnel to serve openly, there is limited data on how many members of the combined U.S. Armed Forces are transgender. It is not data that the Department of Defense routinely surveys; what information is available is based on survey data gathered by organizations outside the U.S. military.
Newsweek has contacted a media representative for the Department of Defense and the White House via email for comment.
A Congressional Research Service paper from January 2024 referred to a 2016 RAND Corporation report which estimated that of the 1.3 million active duty service members, 1,320 to 6,630 personnel serving in the active component and 830 to 4,160 in the selected reserve identified as transgender.
The Department of Defense, according to the same Congressional Research Service paper, had provided gender-affirming care (surgical and non-surgical) to 1,892 service members between January 2016 and May 2021.
A 2021 Department of Defence Office of People Analytics report on Workplace and Gender Relations of Military Members which surveyed 98,690 members, found that 0.4 percent identified as transgender, and 1.2 percent whose sex as birth did not match their current gender identity.
A 2015 Department of Defense Health Related Behaviors Survey for Active-Duty Service Members identified that 0.6 percent of service members described themselves as transgender. This question was not asked in the follow-up 2018 survey.
Research from the UCLA School of Law Williams Institute from 2014, based on the National Transgender Discrimination Survey, estimated that 15,500 transgender individuals were serving in the armed forces. It also estimated there were more than 134,000 transgender individuals who were veterans or had retired from Guard or Reserve service. This, it said, implied that an estimated 0.6 percent of adults who reported service in the armed forces were transgender.
Executive backlash
Ahead of Monday's expected announcement, 
The complaint was filed on behalf of a plaintiff using the pseudonym Maria Moe. It alleges the order violates Moe's constitutional and statutory rights and that if transferred to a men's facility, "she will be at an extremely high risk of harassment, abuse, violence and sexual assault."
The president is already facing  in response to executive orders he signed and many more legal challenges are likely to be filed as federal agencies start working to carry out the president's directives.
He has also faced veiled criticism for his attitude toward the transgender community. Last week, Bishop Mariann Edgar Budde confronted Trump about immigration and LGBTQ+ issues during an inaugural prayer service.
"There are gay, lesbian and transgender children in Democratic, , and Independent families, some who fear for their lives," Buddes said.
Trump later   on Truth Social, his social media platform, calling the bishop a "radical Left hard line Trump hater," "very ungracious" and "not very good at her job."


Graphic

 
Donald Trump
Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images
President Donald Trump signs executive orders in the Oval Office on January 20, 2025 in Washington, DC. Trump takes office for his second term as the 47th president of the United States.

Load-Date: January 27, 2025


End of Document
