




Newsweek.com
January 22, 2025 Wednesday 1:21 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 500 words
Byline: Flynn Nicholls
Highlight: This marks Trump's first formal interview since returning to the White House,.
Body


President  is set to conduct his first sit-down television interview since his inauguration, airing Wednesday night at 9 p.m. ET on ' Hannity.
Why It Matters
This marks Trump's first formal interview since returning to the White House, and will be set in the Oval Office. The President is expected to discuss the  he has already signed, and his plans for the first 100 days in office.
What To Know
Veteran cable host , a longtime Trump ally who was referred to by advisers as the "shadow" chief of staff during Trump's first administration, will host the exclusive interview from the Oval Office on Fox News at 9 p.m. ET on Wednesday.
Since his inauguration on Monday, Trump has already signed a .
The latest round targeted diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) programs in the federal government. On Monday, he signed several , announced upcoming tariffs and issued pardons to  related to the deadly , 2021 .
Among other things, the president withdrew the United States from the World Health Organization and the landmark , rescinded 78 Biden-era executive actions and implemented a federal hiring freeze.
How To Watch or Stream Donald Trump's Interview
To watch the interview, tune in to Fox News on your television or stream it through the Fox News website or mobile app. The Fox News app is available for download on iOS and Android devices, as well as on smart TVs and streaming platforms such as Roku,  Fire TV,  TV, and  Chromecast.
For viewers without cable access, subscription-based streaming services such as YouTube TV,  Live, and Sling TV include Fox News as part of their live channel lineup. These platforms typically offer free trial periods for new users.
The interview will not be livestreamed for free on platforms like YouTube, so it's best to plan ahead with an active subscription or app download.
Trump's Political Comeback
The formal transfer of power Monday completed one of the most remarkable political comebacks in the country's history. Trump is just the second American president to serve two nonconsecutive terms. The other is Grover Cleveland, who accomplished the feat back in the late 19th century.
Trump made history in other ways as well. He is now the first occupant of the Oval Office with a felony conviction. Trump, who turns 79 in June, also became the oldest president at the time of his swearing-in ceremony, beating by approximately six months the record Biden set when he took office in 2021.
Trump's return to power comes after an embattled four-year hiatus out of office following his failed effort to overturn the results of his 2020 election loss to Biden.
But his critics were silenced in November when he took every swing state to win the Electoral College, as well as becoming the  in 20 years.


Graphic

 
Donald Trump
Evan Vucci/ASSOCIATED PRESS
President Donald Trump in Washington D.C., January 21, 2024.

Load-Date: January 22, 2025


End of Document
