




thetimes.co.uk
February 9, 2025 Sunday 12:01 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 1284 words
Byline: Danny Fortson, West Coast Correspondent
Highlight: Big Tech has changed sides as AI, geopolitics and resentment of Democrat interference push Google and Meta into the ‘business of war’
Body


Seven years ago, the tech giant Alphabet faced a crisis. Employees revolted after it emerged that its Google subsidiary had agreed a drone contract with the Pentagon. Petitions were signed demanding the company get out of the “business of war”. Workers walked out in protest. The company caved.
It pulled out of the Pentagon deal, and under duress, drew a line in the sand, publishing a list of seven types of AI application that it would not pursue. These ranged from weapons and surveillance systems to “technologies that cause or are likely to cause overall harm”.
Last week, the $2.4 trillion Alphabet quietly deleted those principles and signalled that it was, in fact, ready to dive back into the business of war. “Google is updating its 

 principles because the technology has become far more widespread, and companies in democratic nations must serve government and national security needs,” wrote 

, the British head of Alphabet’s AI efforts.

It was the latest sign of the stunning 

 that has taken hold in Silicon Valley. Famed as a progressive heartland, the West Coast’s biggest companies have unabashedly linked arms with the defence establishment, and 

’s administration in particular.
Alphabet’s move came just weeks after chief executive Sundar Pichai stood in the gallery at Trump’s inauguration alongside several other tech titans. Meta, whose billionaire boss 

 also attended the president’s swearing-in, announced in November that it had changed its policies to allow its AI models to be used by the military. 
San Francisco-based Anthropic said it would start selling AI to the military via a partnership with Palantir, the software giant that bills itself as the “operating system” of western intelligence and defence agencies.
Palantir is run by billionaire Alex Karp, who in 2020 moved himself, and his company, from Silicon Valley to Denver, Colorado, out of disgust with his fellow techies’ unwillingness to provide the best technologies to the US government. How times change. 
Silicon Valley’s handbrake turn is, in part, both a technology story and a geopolitical one. Intelligence officials have for years been warning that AI presents a threat similar to the nuclear bomb — a technology so powerful that whoever controls it will render its enemies defeated without even firing a shot. The release in November 2022 of 

, an AI tool that was instantly better than humans at any number of tasks, gave ballast to that argument. The AI age had finally arrived, but the West could at least rest easy knowing that America had stolen a march on China.
This sense of security was shattered last month when a previously obscure Chinese hedge fund 

, an AI model that rivalled the capabilities of America’s top companies. Matt Pearl, of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a Washington DC think tank, said DeepSeek “sent shockwaves through the administration”. He added: “We are in an AI arms race and we saw it exponentially heat up. DeepSeek really lit a fire, both in Silicon Valley with the companies, but also here in DC.”
Meanwhile, leaders in the field from Anthropic boss Dario Amodei to OpenAI chief executive Sam Altman and Google’s Hassabis have all predicted recently that “superintelligence” — a system better than the best humans at all cognitive tasks — is barrelling towards us far faster than they had anticipated. Amodei said it could come as soon as next year. The stakes, in short, have risen.
At the same time, wars have broken out in 

 and 

, where drones, AI, 

’s Starlink satellite-based internet service, and other technologies have taken on a central role. 
Sales have soared for Anduril, the defence tech startup founded by the 32-year-old billionaire and Hawaiian shirt fan Palmer Luckey, who has become a darling of the right. Last week, it was reported that Peter Thiel was leading a $2.5 billion funding round for Anduril that will value it at $28 billion, double its valuation six months ago, as the industry booms.
Shares in Palantir, which is also deeply involved in the conflicts, have exploded 13-fold in just two years.
Tech’s rightward lurch, however, runs far deeper than profit motives and exponential technology leaps. Marc Andreessen, eponymous founder of the blue-chip venture firm Andreessen Horowitz, was an enthusiastic Democrat for decades. Partly, this was due to what he called “the deal”: the political establishment would allow techies to invent the future, get wildly rich, pay taxes, create jobs and, in the end, show their largesse through donations and be celebrated as great humanitarians and innovators.
But then Washington broke its end of the bargain. Over time, in Andreessen’s telling, the Democrat government turned on Silicon Valley as its wealth and influence mushroomed, with the billionaire count in the San Francisco Bay Area rising to 68, topping any other city in the world, and with once-plucky start-ups being transformed into the most valuable companies on the planet; seven of the top eight have their headquarters on the West Coast.
Under the former president 

, prominent tech critic Lina Khan was appointed head of the Federal Trade Commission, which pursued antitrust suits against Alphabet, Meta, Amazon and Apple. Andreessen said that the tech industry came to be seen as “presumptively evil”.
Alarmed by the increasingly anti-tech bent of the Democratic Party, in particular, Andreessen last year broke ranks and endorsed Trump. He now calls himself an “unpaid intern” at the 

 (Doge), the Musk guerrilla operation charged with shutting down entire departments and cutting waste. 
Margaret O’Mara, historian and author of 
                   The Code: Silicon Valley and the Remaking of America                   
, said: “There’s a sense of real betrayal. The people that were cheering on these CEOs … they have turned on them.” Listen to Zuckerberg these days and he tells a similar tale of woe.
In this shift, however, there is also a tinge of revenge from executives who felt like they had, for years, been forced to bend to employee demands on everything from 

 to remote working and even forcing companies — as Google’s employees did back in 2018 — to hue to their collective moral compass. That balance of power has shifted dramatically, especially in the post-Covid era, in which large employers have sacked hundreds of thousands of well-paid workers — and done better than ever.
It is no coincidence that just as Meta and Google bin their DEI policies, they have also focused on the Pentagon — a move that in another era they would have been reticent to make, for fear of upsetting their workforces. 
“Companies have been really successful at laying off workers without having it hurt their productivity,” Pearl said. “So there are tech employees who might have spoken up who are less likely to do so now.”

As if to highlight the vibe shift, Andreessen last week hired Daniel Penny, a former Marine who was 

 after choking a homeless man on a New York City subway. Penny, whose case became a cause célèbre on the right, joined as an investment partner. He appears to have no investment experience. 
“Hiring Penny in this very [public] way is a departure,” O’Mara said. “The public image that these companies had cultivated so carefully seems to have slipped away, partly in response to the real and perceived power of the new president and the Trump administration, which is really quite extraordinary.”

Load-Date: February 8, 2025


End of Document
