




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 31, 2025 Friday 1:19 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 464 words
Byline: Alayna Alvarez
Body


January 31st, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
In the first days of Donald Trump's second presidency, Colorado has been hit by an   
The big picture: In less than two weeks, President Trump has already begun reshaping Colorado in his quest to punish blue-led strongholds and push the limits of executive power.
Zoom in: Denver Mayor Mike Johnston's  
What he's saying: "I don't have regrets," Johnston told Axios Denver in an interview this week, acknowledging his vocal opposition has drawn backlash from Washington.
Denver will "collaborate on common-sense priorities" but will "stand our ground if our residents are under threat," he said. "We're not going to be bullied" or "blackmailed."
State of play: Here's how Trump has shaken Denver and the state in just 12 days:
️ Legal battles escalate -Colorado Attorney General Phil Weiser    
Federal immigration raids loom - Aurora is facing threats of      
Meanwhile, Denver activated social services and foster care support in anticipation of parents being detained or deported, Johnston told reporters this week.
Federal scrutiny intensifies -A U.S. House committee has  
Health care under pressure -Denver Health paused performing gender-affirming surgeries for trans youth out of fear of losing federal funding,   
Public schools under federal review - The U.S. Department of Education is  
Federal workers face upheaval -  
Financial shockwaves reverberate -Trump's attempt to freeze federal grants and assistance programs threw state agencies, city governments, nonprofits and health care providers  
The bottom line: In a matter of days, Colorado has become a battleground for Trump's sweeping power plays.


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
