




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 22, 2025 Wednesday 7:06 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 388 words
Byline: Alayna Alvarez
Body


January 22nd, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
Data: U.S. Census; Note: Share who said they worked from home at least once the week before they were surveyed; includes military
President Trump signed  
The big picture: The orders aim to shrink the federal workforce - which employs tens of thousands in Colorado - and target what the administration calls " 
Why it matters: Colorado,  
That's particularly true for Denver and Boulder, where the rate of remote work is  
What they're saying: "Requiring federal employees to come to the office five days a week would result in a wave of voluntary terminations that we welcome," Elon Musk, head of the newly formed Department of Government Efficiency, co-wrote in a November  
By the numbers: The latest U.S. Census data shows nearly 134,000 federal employees, including military personnel, worked in Colorado as of 2023.
About 13.7% of that labor pool worked remotely, exceeding the national rate of 12.7%.
State of play: Trump has directed department and agency heads to phase out remote work arrangements "as soon as practicable."
He also issued an executive order that effectively  
Additionally, he has ordered federal agencies to move to  
What we're watching: Trump's orders are poised to reshape the federal workforce, but they also risk  
As federal employees weigh their options, the state could face a significant workforce shake-up - and the consequences may ripple far beyond the office.
Go deeper:  


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 22, 2025


End of Document
