




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 6, 2025 Thursday 4:58 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 916 words
Byline: Eleanor Hawkins
Body


February 6th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
The communication team at American Airlines had to activate a crisis plan it hoped it would never have to use after last week's midair collision of a passenger jet and Army helicopter that  
Why it matters: Responding to a tragedy of this magnitude requires clarity, discipline and speed.
The American Airlines comms team had a communications plan ready, followed it and managed to avoid major political  
Catch up quick: The passenger flight from Wichita, Kansas, was on approach to Reagan National Airport outside Washington, D.C., when it collided with the helicopter about 9pm ET on Jan. 29. Both plunged into the Potomac River in the  
Within an hour of the crash, the airline released  
The airline also established its newsroom page as the key source for updates related to the crash and activated its CARE Team, a group of specialists who are trained to offer support for those affected.
Context: By 11pm the night of the crash, American Airlines CEO Robert Isom  
From there, Isom acknowledged there were still unanswered questions but shared what information he could.
The following morning, Isom appeared alongside local officials and first responders for a   
Since then, the airline has been cooperating with the investigation, letting the National Transportation Safety Board take the lead while prioritizing internal communications and support for the affected families and all crew members.
American Airlines declined to be interviewed for this story.
Between the lines: American Airlines did not respond to the political narrative  
Of note, Trump's strategy of pointing to DEI and the Biden administration did not resonate with Americans, according to Morning Consult data shared with Axios.
Only 24% of U.S. adults said DEI was responsible for the crash and 22% said the Biden administration was to blame. More U.S. adults (26%) said the Trump administration was responsible.
What they're saying: While your first communication is never going to be your last in a crisis of this scale, it does set the tone - and the tone American Airlines established was transparent and empathetic, says Carreen Winters, president of corporate strategy and reputation at MikeWorldWide.
"Airlines are the godfathers of modern crisis communications in the way that they've established their protocols and the rigor that they have around continually thinking about new scenarios, practicing and testing their response team," Winters said.
"Everybody's a crisis communicator and is trained and has that muscle. This is not a muscle that needs to be used often, but it is one that needs to be used with excellence and with speed."
Zoom out: News communications have drastically changed in the more than two decades since a U.S. airline experienced a crash of this magnitude.
Now, speed is of the essence and the standard of issuing a response in the first hour has been replaced by the need to respond within the first minutes.
Plus, owned channels have become a more powerful tool for distilling information in the midst of a crisis.
" It used to be that you had to find a broadcast outlet and put your CEO on the hot seat in order to get any kind of video out into the market," Winters said. "The fact that they can be their own news channel, if you will, and utilize video as well as they have, is one really big communication strategy that's evolved."
Data: Morning Consult; Chart: Jacque Schrag/Axios
Before the crash, only 8% of U.S. adults reported seeing, reading or hearing something negative about American Airlines, according to Morning Consult's daily brand tracking.
Since the collision, 25% say they have heard negative buzz. However, American Airlines' reputation metrics around brand favorability, trust and purchasing consideration have not moved.
Yes, but: The stable reputation metrics could signal the airline's response has been appropriate and well-received by key stakeholders and the general population.
Zoom out: While most Americans who heard about the collision knew it was an American Airlines carrier that was involved, 8% thought it was United Airlines and 5% thought it was Delta Air Lines.
Some of that confusion translated to negative buzz, per Morning Consult.
The big picture: 66% of U.S. adults are concerned about flying in the future, with one-third of those saying they are "very concerned."
Plus, recent operational failures - like the  
What's next: Calming nerves after this tragedy will be a task for all U.S.-based airlines.
More on Axios:  


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
