




Newsweek.com
February 10, 2025 Monday 12:42 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 1106 words
Byline: Katherine Fung
Highlight: The Eagles weren't the only ones to win big Sunday night. The president also scored a string of political, cultural and social victories.
Body


After Jalen Hurts and the Philadelphia Eagles, the biggest winner of Super Bowl LIX may as well have been President  himself.
Trump, who became the first sitting president to attend a Super Bowl on Sunday, scored a string of political, cultural and social victories before he even took his seat inside New Orleans' Superdome for the big game.
By kickoff, the stage had been set for Trump to flex that ascendant power.
After having it appear during  games for the last five seasons, the league arbuptly decided to remove the "END RACISM" lettering from the end zone—a slogan that was adopted in 2020 in the aftermath of 's murder and the subsequent  protests that erupted across the nation. Instead, Sunday's end zones were emblazoned with the less overtly political message "CHOOSE LOVE," a phrase the  has called "appropriate" in the wake of the New Orleans attack, the wildfires in California and the plane crashes in both Washington D.C. and Philadelphia.
While the league denied that the slogan change was tied to the president's Super Bowl appearance, the move came amid Trump's greater efforts to ban diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) programs and shut down "woke" policies across the country.
Trump also famously feuded with the  across his first term, taking issue with players who knelt during the national anthem in protest of racial injustice. The president had called for the league to fire former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick, who led the protest, and repeatedly attacked the league and its commissioner, Roger Goodell, on social media.
Trump began Super Bowl Sunday by traveling from Mar-a-Lago to New Orleans, signing a proclamation that declared February 9 as inaugural "Gulf of America Day" as Air Force One made the short hop over the Gulf of Mexico. The stunt was the latest in his push to rename the body of water, an effort that has drawn pushback from Mexico's government.
"Today, I am making my first visit to the Gulf of America since its renaming," the proclamation stated. "As my Administration restores American pride in the history of American greatness, it is fitting and appropriate for our great Nation to come together and commemorate this momentous occasion and the renaming of the Gulf of America."
Before landing in New Orleans, the president also received good news from his favorite media punching bags at , whose news division he is currently suing, alleging that the network's "60 Minutes" interview with Vice President  was deceptively edited to favor Harris and mislead the public. CBS has forcefully denied those allegations, though its parent company is reportedly considering a settlement in the case.
Earlier on Sunday, CBS published a poll that showed Trump receiving high marks across the board after his first three weeks in office. A majority, 53 percent, of Americans said the approved of his handling of the presidency, while 47 percent disapproved. His ratings also marked the highest score Trump has seen since pollsters began tracking attitudes on his presidency. At the same juncture in February 2017, CBS News found that only 40 percent of Americans approved of Trump.
The latest survey also found that a large majority, 70 percent, said Trump was doing what he promised in the campaign. The most common word used to describe the president was "tough," a term used by 69 percent of respondents, followed by "energetic," 63 percent, "focused," 60 percent and "effective," 48 percent.
"New polling from CBS News shows Americans are overwhelmingly positive about President Donald J. Trump's return to office and his commitment to making good on his promises," the White House celebrated in a Sunday email.
Once in the Big Easy, Trump headed to the Caesars Superdome before kickoff to meet with the participants in the honorary coin toss, including the families of victims of the deadly New Year's Day terrorist attack, police and emergency personnel.
His first appearance on the big screen came during the National Anthem, when the cameras panned to the commander-in-chief, who saluted from the stands as Jon Batiste sang, the Star-Spangled Banner. The crowd erupted into cheers at the sight of Trump.
And though the president received a roaring welcome in New Orleans, superstar —who earned Trump's ere in September for endorsing Harris—did not. Swift's image on the stadium Jumbotron was met with scattered boos from the audience. Trump delighted in his nemesis' harsh reception, suggesting on Truth Soical after the Eagles blew out Chiefs that Swift was the only one who had a worse night than her boyfriend's team.
"The only one that had a tougher night than the Kansas City Chiefs was Taylor Swift. She got BOOED out of the Stadium. MAGA is very unforgiving!" Trump wrote.
Trump picked the Chiefs to win in a pregame interview with  (an annual ritual that former President Biden notoriously skipped last year — the first in a series of events that presaged his eventual decision to quit the race. But while the Chiefs collapsed on the gridiron, Philadelphia's championship produced another opportunity for the commander-in-chief to project his cultural influence.
Super Bowl champs have visited the White House since 1980. But it wasn't until 2018 that a team was disinvited. Trump's decision to revoke the invite came after he learned that nearly all of the Eagles players — who had just defeated the New England Patriots for the 2017 championship —were planning to boycott the traditional visit in opposition to the president.
"The Philadelphia Eagles are unable to come to the White House with their full team to be celebrated tomorrow. They disagree with their President because he insists that they proudly stand for the National Anthem, hand on heart, in honor of the great men and women of our military and the people of our country," Trump said at the time.
But with the cultural tide turning in Trump's favor, the Eagles seem less likely to snub the president this time around.
"I'd be honored to go, regardless of who the president is, but we'll see," Eagles captain and right tackle Lane Johnson  "It's ultimately a team decision. I'll do what's best for the team." Johnson is one of four players from the 2017 team who were disinvited from 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue seven years ago.
Newsweek reached out to the Philadelphia Eagles for comment on whether they plan to attend a White House celebration. Newsweek also reached out to the White House for comment about the status of the team's invitation but did not immediately hear back.


Graphic

 
Trump Philadelphia Eagles Win
Roberto Schmidt/Getty Images
Trump salutes as the national anthem is played before the start of Super Bowl LIX between the Kansas City Chiefs and the Philadelphia Eagles. Trump was met with cheers as the cameras in the stadium panned to the president.

Load-Date: February 10, 2025


End of Document
