




Newsweek.com
February 13, 2025 Thursday 6:36 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 553 words
Byline: Anna Skinner
Highlight: A grant received by residents in need of assistance with their heating bills was rescinded by a recent executive order.
Body


Some Huntsville, Alabama, residents saw a $100 increase in their electric bills after a recent  signed by President .
Newsweek reached out to the Community Action Partnership of Huntsville/Madison & Limestone Counties via email for comment.
Why It Matters
Since taking office in January, Trump has signed a flurry of executive orders enacting his conservative agenda, quickly fulfilling campaign promises with several , ending diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) programs, and orders related to the economy and .
Among other things, the president withdrew from the landmark , rescinded 78 Biden-era executive actions and implemented a federal hiring freeze.
What To Know
On February 4, Huntsville Utilities in Alabama sent some of its customers a letter alerting them that a grant they previously received was no longer valid. The grant was distributed by the Community Action Partnership of Huntsville/Madison & Limestone Counties.
In a photo of one such letter posted on , the utility company told its customer that the grant they had received "for $100 on January 23, 2025, is no longer valid due to President Trump's Executive Order to rescind the funding behind the grant."
The company alerted the customer that the $100 has been debited to their account and is due on their next invoice.
More than $50 million in federal funds that Alabama received for this year's Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) was unaffected by Trump's executive order because the funds came from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, al.com reported. LIHEAP provides heating bill assistance to those in need, and it was unaffected by Trump's executive order.
LIHEAP received $1 million from the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA). This act grants an additional $100 to households receiving LIHEAP assistance. Unleashing American Energy paused the supplemental funding from the IIJA, meaning that the families who received the grant in January now must pay for it with their next electric bill.
What People Are Saying
A Facebook post from an account that shared an image of one of the Huntsville Utilities letters: "Huntsville, Alabama had a federally-funded grant program that helped low income people pay their utility bills. Trump ended that program via executive order and now people are being sent bills to repay the grants they received in January and will be getting no such support moving forward. When billionaires say they are cutting 'government waste,' this is what they mean."
The Unleashing American Energy executive order reads: "All agencies shall immediately pause the disbursement of funds appropriated through the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (Public Law 117-169) or the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (Public Law 117-58)."
The executive order goes on to say that those agencies "shall review their processes, policies, and programs for issuing grants, loans, contracts, or any other financial disbursements of such appropriated funds for consistency" with the order's law and policy.
What Happens Next
If a customer was impacted by the rescinded grant, they should contact the Community Action Partnership of Huntsville/Madison & Limestone Counties for further guidance.


Graphic

 
Americans Surprise Electric Bill Trump Executive Order
Andrew Harnik/Getty
U.S. President Donald Trump signs a series of executive orders in the Oval Office at the White House on February 10, 2025 in Washington, DC.

Load-Date: February 13, 2025


End of Document
