




Targeted News Service
February 20, 2025 Thursday 8:47 PM  EST


Copyright 2025 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved


Length: 580 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


Sen. Cindy Hyde-Smith, R-Mississippi, issued the following news release:
* * *
HYDE-SMITH MOVES TO RESTORE MERIT-BASED HIRING IN THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Reestablishing merit-based hiring at all federal agencies is the goal of legislation cosponsored by U.S. Senator Cindy Hyde-Smith (R-Miss.) to codify President Trump's Executive Order to end discriminatory hiring practices in the federal government.
The Restore Merit to Government Service Act (S.591) was introduced by U.S. Senator Rick Scott (R-Fla.) to ensure the best-qualified candidates are working in the federal government and for the American people.
"I think it's apparent to many Americans that their government's hiring practices have been warped by prioritizing radical social agendas over the basic qualifications needed to be an effective federal employee. I support this bill because it affirms President Trump's commonsense effort to reset federal hiring practices," Senator Hyde-Smith said.
"For years, Democrats have pushed radicalized policies into the innermost workings of our government, spending tax dollars against Americans' own best interests. President Trump is right -- in order to make the federal government work best for the American people, the federal workforce must hire based on merit above all else. Just like in any business and any job outside of the federal government, our federal agencies should be choosing the best-qualified candidate to show up and get to work for the American people," Senator Scott said. "I encourage my colleagues to pass this good bill that codifies the President's action so we can make Washington work better for American families."
In his first days in office, President Trump signed executive actions to reform the federal hiring process and end illegal discrimination in hiring to restore merit-based opportunity at all federal agencies.
S.591, in line with the President's executive actions, would:
* Restore Merit to the Hiring Process: Prioritizes the recruitment of individuals who are committed to improving the efficiency of the federal government, upholding the rule of law and the Constitution of the United States, and are passionate about the ideals of our nation.
* Eliminate DEI Hiring: Prevents the appointment of any individual based on race, sex, or religion.
* Update Hiring Procedures : Improves the overall hiring process for individuals by establishing a hiring timeline of no more than 80 days, offers a more streamlined communications process with candidates, and integrates modern technology to support agencies with the recruitment and selection process. This would ensure that the heads, or designees, of agencies are active participants in the new processes.
* Hold Agencies Accountable: Requires the Office of Personnel Management director to establish performance metrics to evaluate the success of the new hiring procedures.
U.S. Senators Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn.) and Tommy Tuberville (R-Ala.) also cosponsored S.591, which has been referred to the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee.
Hyde-Smith also recently threw her support behind the Dismantle DEI Act of 2025 (S.382), which was introduced by U.S. Senator Eric Schmitt (R-Mo.) to codify the President's executive order to eliminate Biden-era DEI edicts on federal agencies.
***
Original text here: 
Copyright Targeted News Services
MSTRUCK-9065204 MSTRUCK

Load-Date: February 20, 2025


End of Document
