




telegraph.co.uk
February 20, 2025 Thursday 2:13 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: BUSINESS; Version:2
Length: 611 words
Byline: By Louis Goss, Business reporter
Highlight: James Fishback’s ‘anti-woke’ fund excludes companies with DEI hiring from its portfolio
Body


A major US investor with close links to Donald Trump has said he would avoid investing in “backwards” Britain under Sir Keir Starmer.
James Fishback, who   at Mr Trump’s Mar-a-Lago resort in December, said he would only ever trade shares in British companies in order to bet against them.
Traders who “short” stocks do so in the hope they will make money when they fall in value.
Mr Fishback said: “You guys [the UK] are a totally backward country. We don’t want to be involved in that market one way or another.
“The only thing I would ever do is short British companies.”
Instead, Mr Fishback said there are more than enough opportunities to make money by investing in American companies.
He said the money to be made by betting on US stocks rising is more than would ever be made by betting that UK stocks will fall.
Mr Fishback added: “There’s a lot of opportunity. Our stocks can go up a lot more than your stocks can go down.”
His comments came as Mr Trump appeared to   that would see US citizens paid $5,000 (£4,000) each from savings made through the Department of Government Efficiency (Doge).
The 29-year-old fund manager, who is chief executive of the investment firm Azoria Partners, met with US politicians in Washington on Wednesday to discuss plans for the payouts.
Mr Trump later suggested 20pc of the savings from Doge, which aims to cut US government spending by $50bn, could be distributed to the public in the form of a dividend.
Mr Fishback said he has also discussed cutting public sector inefficiency with politicians in the UK, including the Reform UK leader Nigel Farage. It comes amid fierce criticism of Sir Keir, the Prime Minister, by Republican luminaries including Elon Musk.
He said: “I met with Farage when I was in the UK. He shares our enthusiasm for getting to ‘the blob’ and routing it out.”
Azoria Partners, which was started by Mr Fishback in 2023, launched its Meritocracy exchange traded fund (ETF) at the end of last year with a view to capitalising on Mr Trump’s victory in the US elections.
The “anti-woke” fund invests in major US companies listed on the S&P 500 index, while excluding any firms that use diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) policies in their hiring processes.
The Trump administration has led a major   including by banning diversity initiatives in the US Federal government.
Mr Trump’s anti-DEI policies have prompted a raft of top companies including Meta, JP Morgan and Deloitte to drop their own diversity initiatives.
                     Greenlight Capital spat                   
Mr Fishback first came to prominence following a public spat with David Einhorn, his former boss and the billionaire founder of New York hedge fund Greenlight Capital.
Mr Fishback and Greenlight filed lawsuits against each other in a dispute over his job title while he worked at the firm.
Mr Fishback had claimed he worked as Greenlight Capital’s “head of macro”, while the New York fund claimed that position had never existed.
Greenlight Capital had previously gained notoriety for shorting Lehman Brothers stock shortly before the bank was plunged into bankruptcy in the 2008 financial crash.
Mr Fishback, who is the son of a bus driver, also sued Greenlight Capital over claims he was discriminated against for his age and for being a Roman Catholic.
The 29-year-old investor previously also had links to Vivek Ramaswamy, a hedge fund manager who was given the task of leading Doge alongside Elon Musk.
Mr Fishback has appeared on podcasts with Mr Ramaswamy related to his pro-free speech organisation Incubate Debate.

Load-Date: February 20, 2025


End of Document
