




The Daily Telegraph (London)
February 21, 2025 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 18
Length: 364 words
Byline: Louis Goss
Body


A MAJOR US investor with close links to Donald Trump has said he would avoid ever investing in "backward" Britain.
James Fishback, who launched his "anti-woke" investment fund at Mr Trump's Mar-a-Lago resort in December, said he would only ever trade shares in British companies in order to bet against them. Traders who "short" stocks do so in the hope they will make money when they fall in value.
Mr Fishback said: "You guys [the UK] are a totally backward country.
"We don't want to be involved in that market one way or another. The only thing I would ever do is short British companies."
Instead, Mr Fishback said there are more than enough opportunities to make money by investing in American companies. He said the money to be made by betting on US stocks rising is more than would ever be made by betting that UK stocks will fall.
Mr Fishback added: "There's a lot of opportunity. Our stocks can go up a lot more than your stocks can go down."
His comments came as Mr Trump appeared to publicly endorse the investor's calls for a "Doge dividend" that would see US citizens paid $5,000 (£4,000) each from savings made through the Department of Government Efficiency (Doge).
The 29-year-old fund manager, who is chief executive of the investment firm Azoria Partners, met with US politicians in Washington on Wednesday to discuss plans for the payouts.
Mr Trump later suggested 20pc of the savings from Doge, which aims to cut US government spending by $50bn, could be distributed to the public in the form of a dividend. Mr Fishback said he has also discussed cutting public sector inefficiency with politicians in the UK, including Nigel Farage, the leader of Reform UK. Azoria Partners, which was started by Mr Fishback in 2023, launched its Meritocracy exchange traded fund (ETF) at the end of last year with a view to capitalising on Mr Trump's victory in the US elections.
The fund invests in major US companies listed on the S&P 500 index, while excluding any firms that use diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) policies in their hiring processes.
The Trump administration has led a major pushback against DEI including banning diversity initiatives in the US Federal government.

Graphic

 
Donald Trump with James Fishback, who runs 'anti-woke' Meritocracy exchange traded fund. The 29-year-old said: 'The only thing I would ever do is short British companies'

Load-Date: February 21, 2025


End of Document
