




The Oracle: University of South Florida
February 11, 2025 Tuesday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 699 words
Byline: MARIA RUIZ CORTES, CORRESPONDENT
Body


ICE is now allowed on university campuses following the removal of federal protections. ORACLE GRAPHIC/WILL RAINSBERGER
Immigration enforcement officers will be allowed in schools after a federal policy preventing that was rescinded, raising concerns about student well-being. USF has yet to determine how it will respond.
USF spokesperson Althea Johnson said the university is monitoring and assessing the "potential impacts" of updates and executive orders at the federal level. The university will "provide updates as needed."
The protected areas policy, established in 2021, prevented Immigration and Customs Enforcement and U.S. Customs and Border Protection from performing enforcement actions in "protected areas," such as schools, hospitals and churches. 
However, Trump's administration revoked the policy on Jan. 20. 
With the removal of the policy, it remains unclear what enforcement could look like on USF's campuses. Some experts said students should be aware of their rights.
Elizabeth Aranda, director of the Im/migrant Well-Being Research Center at USF, said the removal of the protected areas means schools are no longer a "safe" place for immigrant and undocumented students. 
The Department of Homeland Security stated "criminals will no longer be able to hide in America's schools and churches to avoid arrest." 
Related: Some USF students reconsider their careers after Trump's DEI cuts
Aranda said the possibility of arrests on campus creates stress and anxiety.
"If students are fearful, they might not go to class," Aranda said. "If they are anxious, they may not be able to focus and may disengage. All of these could have mental health implications."
The Florida Legislature passed a bill on Jan. 28 requiring state entities, including public and private institutions, to cooperate with federal immigration enforcement efforts.
The Senate also proposed a bill banning Florida College System institutions and state universities with an acceptance rate below 85% from admitting undocumented immigrants.
USF has an acceptance rate of 41%, according to U.S. News & World Report.
Although it's unclear how ICE visits would unfold, immigration and former ICE attorney John Gihon said enforcement actions were never "haphazard" during his six years in the agency.
He said officials could likely visit campus for a "specific purpose."
"ICE may be there to meet with administrators or because they know someone is violating immigration laws," Gihon said. "They might want to locate that person and perhaps question them and have them deported." 
Related: USF SG opens applications for general elections
He said students who are worried should talk to an immigration attorney or professional about their situation.
"Fear is usually a product of not having full knowledge of what could happen," Gihon said. "Find out about your situation and find someone who can help you get through it."
Jason Bent, a professor at Stetson College of Law, said students have a Fifth Amendment right to remain silent if approached by an enforcement officer.
"They cannot and should not be arrested in the absence of a warrant," Bent said.
He said immigrant students also have privacy rights. 
The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act protects the disclosure of student records unless presented with a court order, subpoena or written approval from the student.
Despite removing the protected areas policy, Florida schools "may provide education" to students regardless of their immigration status, according to the bill analysis of the law passed on Jan. 28.
Related: Panel at USF discusses Trump's pledge to end the Department of Education
Bent said removing the protected areas policy "is disrupting" civil society. He said he is concerned about potential barriers to health care, religious participation and education for undocumented people. 
"Elections have consequences," Bent said. "I don't expect things to get better."
As USF works to determine its response to federal updates, Aranda said students should connect with support organizations to have a community to "lean on" during stressful times.
"Students should have the right to learn in a safe environment," Aranda said.
MARIA RUIZ CORTES, CORRESPONDENT
Profile

Load-Date: February 11, 2025


End of Document
