




States News Service
February 3, 2025 Monday


Copyright 2025 States News Service
Length: 589 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


The following information was released by the office of Michigan Rep. Jack Bergman:
Read Rep. Bergman's latest opinion piece in the Washington Examiner here or below:
For the last several years, I have been sounding the alarm on the most dangerous recession in our country: the recession of recruitment in ourmilitary.
Thesignificant failureof every branch to fully meet its objectives has been a terrifying and unsustainable trend. Under theBiden administration, this difficulty in enticing the next generation of service members was only exacerbated by the woke propaganda greeting recruits at every juncture.
Biden and his leftist lackeys forced our men and women into politicized spaces they should have never had to be in. They ingrained in our military the idea that merit doesn't determine their destiny, but the color of their skin can. They discouraged patriotism and replaced our emblems of national pride with those of rainbow pride.
To add fuel to that fire, former President Joe Biden entangled our nation in unnecessary tensions and conflicts through his feckless leadership and told those who refused to comply with an experimental vaccine order that they must give up their entire livelihoods as a consequence of their medical autonomy. As anyone could have predicted, our national security suffered for it.
With numbers dwindling among young people willing to step up for the greatest cause on earth defending the red, white, and blue our adversaries took note. The distinct shift from a focus on lethality to one of liberalism and social experiments only served to embolden our enemies and make anyone think twice before joining the armed forces.
Enter President Donald Trump.
Our new commander in chief is already delivering on his promises, including the reinstatement of military members who were fired for objecting to the COVID-19 vaccine and giving them the backpay they rightfully deserve. He has made headway in ending international conflicts and has laid the groundwork for peace.
This is a great start. Trump has set out to prove that it's OK to be proud of our country and of service to our country and the next generation is intently watching this change in messaging.
The greatest course correction that the new president is offering for our young recruits is not just the promise of ending all social experiments on them but of being willing to stop those things that aren't working. Trump is demonstrating a much-needed ability to put an end to whatever fails to add value to our military or future security including DEI initiatives.
Finally, diversity, equity, and inclusion is dead on arrival. Our men and women in uniform can once more focus on the only mission that matters: security. They can be lethal and effective, not concerned with the politics of the soldier on their left or right in the trenches.
The military exists for one reason: to fight and win wars. There's one word that describes that aim and it's not "woke." We have to be lethal. Lethality is imperative to deter our enemies, both foreign and domestic. By weeding out the toxin that has been leftist propaganda, our message to those who wish the United States and her citizens harm is 'there's a new sheriff in town, so if you mess around, you're going to find out.'
This crucial pivot is bound to boost every branch's recruitment efforts, as mothers, fathers, pastors, and other mentors can have faith that by encouraging their child to pursue this high calling of service above self, their country and commander in chief will have their back.

Load-Date: February 4, 2025


End of Document
