




MailOnline
January 26, 2025 Sunday 4:44 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:4
Length: 816 words
Byline: Will Potter For Dailymail.Com
Body


A Texas teacher sparked outrage after urging Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents to target his own students because they 'don't even speak English'. 
The teacher, who goes by @HookEm232 on X but has not been identified by officials, sparked an investigation from the Fort Worth Independent School District following his social media posts. 
The educator responded to a daily update from ICE announcing how many arrests and detainers the agency had made against illegal immigrants amid President Trump's crackdown on his first week back in power. 
'Yall should come to Fort Worth, TX to Northside High School,' he wrote. 'I have many students who don't even speak English and they are in 10th-11th grade. 
'They have to communicate through their iPhone translator with me. The (Department of Education) should totally overhaul our school system in Texas too.' 
In another post from his account, the teacher responded to a tweet highlighting a North Carolina teacher who vowed to combat Trump's anti-DEI executive orders this week. 
'I teach these f****** libtards every day and that's what I talk to no one at work except the kids,' he responded. 
The teacher's inflammatory posts against his own students came after a directive from Trump's administration that allows ICE agents to raid 'sensitive areas'.
This includes hospitals, schools and churches. 
Within hours of the X posts coming to light, Fort Worth Independent School District Board President Roxanne Martinez said in a statement the district was launching an investigation. 
'We are aware of a recent social media post referencing North Side High School which was allegedly made by a substitute teacher and has caused concern among out Fort Worth ISD community,' the statement read. 
'We take this matter very seriously and are conducting a thorough investigation to understand the circumstances and ensure appropriate actions are taken. 
'As per district protocol, the employee will not be on campus during the investigation. We are committed to maintaining a positive and supportive environment for all students.' 
The teacher's insistence on ICE targeting his own students stands in contrast to some liberals who have vowed to fight Trump's deportation efforts. 
A wave of 'warning' messages have emerged on social media alerting communities in cities including New York, Chicago and Los Angeles of possible ICE raids in their areas. 
President Trump's new Border Czar Tom Homan issued a warning to local governments that may have similar ideas this week, saying they could face criminal prosecution if they seek to shield illegal immigrants from detection or deportation by federal authorities. 
A memo sent by Trump appointee and Acting Deputy Attorney General Emil Bove on Tuesday re-iterated the threat, saying: 'Federal law prohibits state and local actors from resisting, obstructing or otherwise failing to comply with lawful immigration-related commands and requests.' 
Arrests and deportations already began on Tuesday, and the number of arrested illegal immigrants has since risen to over 2,000 in Trump's first week. 
Thursday morning also marked the start of Trump's move to deploy the US military to the southern border, with 1,500 active-duty troops arriving early in the day.
The Pentagon confirmed the 1,000 Army soldiers and 500 Marines deployed south include those from Military Police units as well as combat engineers and intelligence specialists to aid in detection and monitoring of illegal border jumpers.
The additional active forces, which adds to the roughly 2,500 already currently stationed along the border, will also aid in constructing barriers along the border and providing the air power for deportations.
Over 5,400 migrants who are currently in detention in the US will be flown out of the country by the military forces, as a show of force for Trump's early days back in the White House.
As part of the effort, four C-17 and C-130 military aircraft were moved to El Paso, Texas, and San Diego, California this week, an official told Task & Purpose.
One of these planes was dramatically rejected from deporting another wave of migrants on Thursday after the Mexican government blocked the move. 
Trump is planning to send a total of 10,000 active-duty military to the border. 
As he toured natural disaster sites in North Carolina and California on Friday, Trump issued a stern warning to illegal migrants with criminal records, saying 'we're taking them out first.' 
A senior official in the Trump administration revealed exclusive deportation and arrest numbers to DailyMail.com the same day, showing shocking details of the worst criminals that had slipped through the net. 
                     Among the worst of the worst to be picked up by ICE on Friday included Cesar Augusto Polanco, 59, a Dominican Republican national who was living free in Boston despite a criminal conviction for second-degree murder. 

Load-Date: January 28, 2025


End of Document
