




Fox News INGRAHAM ANGLE 7:00 PM EST
January 28, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6784 words
Byline: Bret Baier, Laura Ingraham, Byron York, Jimmy Failla
Guests: Ron DeSantis, John Hart, David Schoen, CJ Pearson
Body


BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS HOST: Thanks for inviting us into your home tonight. That's it for this Special Report. Fair, balanced and still unafraid. It is painful, but it's almost Super Bowl 59 and it's right here on Fox. The Ingraham Angle is next.
LAURA INGRAHAM, FOX NEWS HOST: Good evening, everyone. I'm Laura Ingraham. This is The Ingraham Angle from Washington tonight. Breaking news, the barbarians in lab coats lose another one. Today, President Trump issued an executive order that prohibits the use of federal funds to fund the mutilation of children and, of course, the stuff that's fraudulently dubbed gender affirming care. Well, I can't say Trump didn't campaign on the issue.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I will revoke every Biden policy promoting the disfigurement of our youth and ask Congress to send me a bill prohibiting child sexual mutilation in all 50 states.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: The doctors and he put that in quotes and the hospitals that make huge profits, including, I understand, Catholic hospitals off of children's genitalia mutilation. It's all -- they're all complicit here, and our tax dollars should never fund this hideous, hideous barbarism. And by the way, Mark Milley is getting a comeuppance with his call -- for his call with China. Apparently, the Pentagon just pulled General Milley's security clearance, and he could be demoted. We're going to get into all the details in moments. But first, our country, our border, that's the focus of tonight's Angle.
President Trump is doing what his millions of supporters, new and old, are begging for. His administration is finally enforcing the border and carrying out mass deportations. Now the total number rounded up so far is nearly 5000, remember, 15 million are here, and a lot of the ones just picked up and rounded up are hardened criminals, including murderers, accused child rapists and Tren de Aragua gang members.
And not just in places like Denver, we knew that Tren de Aragua story really erupted, but also in the Big Apple as well. Last night, New York got a little safer and the new DHS Secretary was on the scene to capture the ICE operation. But rather than breathing a sigh of relief, rather than stepping up to help make America safer, working with the Trump administration, liberal officials in cities and states plagued by crime, including migrant crime are siding with illegals.
Brandon Johnson in Chicago.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BRANDON JOHNSON, MAYOR, CHICAGO: What this administration is attempting to do, he is attempting to get us to surrender our humanity. We're not going to do that in Chicago. There's a real goal here to stoke fear into the American people.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Of course, that's a lie. American citizens have no reason to fear unless they're someone involved in human or drug trafficking themselves, and they have someone to fear. But the empathy always goes one way for these open borders fanatics, to the poor illegals, because to the fanatics, they're not really illegal aliens. They're not even illegal immigrants. They're simply undocumented Democrats.
This from New York A.G. Letitia James, she says, my office is aware of the increased presence of ICE across New York City. I'm monitoring the situation to ensure that our laws are being respected, and people's rights are not being violated. Think about this. Whether people's rights are being violated. Now, remember, she's talking about illegal aliens who had no right to be here. So what about the rights of this poor woman, Debrina Kawam, 57 years of age, who was allegedly murdered by illegal alien Sebastian Zapeta Calil from Guatemala, who, by the way, was deported himself in 2018 only to cross the border again.
On December 22nd, Zapeta Calil casually walked up to the bench where she was sitting, pulled a lighter from his pocket and then set her on fire. She screamed in agony as she died, yes. And of course, this man was in the United States illegally. We know that. 33 years of age. Again, is that individual, someone we should actually fight for, fight for the rights of those people.
But the slow rolling border invasion that settled 15 million illegals here has already cost the American taxpayers hundreds of billions of dollars, and it has brutalized countless lives, not to mention how many entry level jobs are being taken by illegals, boxing first time legal job seekers out of the workplace entirely, in some cases, and at her first press briefing as White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt, was more than ready to answer the usual pro-illegal alien chorus from the media.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: ICE arrested 1179 undocumented immigrants on Sunday, but nearly half of them, 566 of the migrants appear to have no prior criminal record besides entering the country illegally, which is a civil crime, not a, it's not criminal.
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: It's federal crime.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He said he was going to focus on those violent offenders first, so is violent offenders no longer the predicate for these people to be deported.
LEAVITT: He is focused on launching the largest mass deportation operation in American history of illegal criminals. And if you are an individual, a foreign national, who illegally enters the United States of America, you are by definition, a criminal.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Yes, illegal means illegal, but remember, the elites love their cheap labor.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: 3500 arrests ICE has made so far since President Trump came back into office. Can you just tell us the numbers? How many have a criminal record versus those who are just in the country illegally?
LEAVITT: All of them because they illegally broke our nation's laws, and therefore they are criminals. As far as this administration goes, I know the last administration didn't see it that way, so it's a big culture shift in our nation to view someone who breaks our immigration laws as a criminal. But that's exactly what they are.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: We're going to get into her performance today, which was masterful in a little bit, but hallelujah now, never forget though, one of the other reasons the Left loves wave after wave of illegal immigrants, new converts. I mean, most people are onto their game at this point, but millions of illegals, many of whom are, sadly and this has already reported, illiterate in their own languages, they're ripe for the Left's anti-American propaganda. So they're new, brainwashed activists who will be, I think, sought after to protest and they hope, eventually vote. Eventually they want them all to speak like this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What they actually do behind the scenes, they trust will not really get out, and it's part of a different agenda they have, which is really to make America white again. You start having Gestapo raids in America, and we start becoming a country where, as in East Germany, a knock on the door is the thing people are thinking about.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Yes, yes. Yes, after it failed miserably in the 2024 presidential election against Trump, they're back to the Hitler routine again. It's always a sure sign they're losing the argument. So what do we expect? So doing right by our workers, our citizens, our legal immigrants, our border and our budgets requires that we keep the focus on enforcing the law. Those who wish to come here will need to come legally or not at all. It's our country and our border, and that's the Angle.
Now on this issue of mass deportation, the divide between the open borders crew and American citizens couldn't be more stark. Fox Digital checked in with the folks at the villages in Florida.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I think the border is most important for us.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: People coming across the border.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Secure our borders.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Immigration. It has to be taken care of it, and God bless him. He's getting -- he's had everything in line and his plan completely ready to go on day one.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: There you have it. But believe it or not, even in red states like Florida, where the citizens, the people who vote, support these efforts of deportation and forcing the border, there are political forces at work that are absolutely determined to slow roll President Trump's priorities, and that of Governor Ron DeSantis. Take the Florida State Legislature, now, despite Trump's popularity there, they released a watered down immigration bill that does not mandate local law enforcement cooperate with ICE officials. In both chambers of Congress, they released a bill that didn't actually jive with what the voters want. Why is that? And we have late breaking information on that.
Joining us now, Florida Governor Ron DeSantis, who is trying to implement the Trump border agenda. Governor, I mean, the state, you're probably one of the most popular governors they've ever had. Donald Trump won by an incredible margin no one predicted just a few years back, and now Republicans are part of the problem in the state legislature. Explain.
GOV. RON DESANTIS (R-FL): We all, as Republicans, enthusiastically supported Donald Trump's promise to conduct the largest mass deportation in American history of illegal aliens. He won a mandate in November to effectuate that. He got into office and issued bold executive orders providing a roadmap for yes, going after the cartels, securing the border, but then enlisting local and state law enforcement in the deportation efforts. The reality is, they don't have enough resources to succeed in fulfilling that mandate unless states like Florida step up.
We want to make sure all of our local law enforcement and state are in the fight. They're assisting with deportations so that we can reach this record threshold and fulfill the mandate.
Now, all the Republicans I know were supportive of that. They all ran on that. But now, when it comes time to do it, you've got folks that don't want to do. So, I called a special session of the legislature that started on Monday, one week after the President took office, because we wanted to be strong, and we want to get the job done. The legislative leaders initially said it was premature and there was no urgency for the issue of immigration. I've been waiting four years to do this. I've got a lot of urgency. Then they said it was a stunt to do illegal immigration legislation, but they got really negative feedback, so they came out with a bill that they unveiled yesterday that gutted all the enforcement that I was calling for, no state and local.
INGRAHAM: Well, Governor, people are listening to this, and they can -- their ears are bleeding because, like this can't be happening. What specifically, really quickly did they gut from your agenda, which again, I know is supported by the President.
DESANTIS: Three things. One, no requirement for state and local to enforce immigration laws and work with ICE. That is a huge part of it. Two, they strip the governor, me, of authority and they give it to the Commissioner of Agriculture. We just conducted raids with ICE. We got Chinese illegals down in Miami. We did a raid in Tallahassee. They want to give that to the Commissioner of Agriculture. They also allow catch and release. We don't think you allow catch and release. You have an illegal they should be denied bail and turned over to ICE.
So -- but here's what they did, Laura, and this is, I think, the play. This is all true. It's weak bill, but they named it the Trump Act. So they think by putting the name of a strong president on a weak bill that somehow that is going to pull the wool over the eyes. I can tell you that did not work with Florida voters yesterday, I've never seen an outpouring as negative against the legislature. Is what I saw yesterday, they've now had to go back. They're trying to add more window dressing to the bill, but it's still very, very weak.
This is our moment, the voters sent us here to do this. We've got to be strong. We cannot let these guys squish out on this issue.
INGRAHAM: Yes, well, Republicans squishing out on issues like this. Oh, how shocking. Oh, wait, it's not. They do this all the time. This is so predictable. I mean, I've been fighting these immigration amnesty bills for what, 28 years, and this is happening, doesn't surprise me, but now time to name names and say, look, this is what you do. You thwart the will of the people, then you're going to be voted out of office, end of story. But they're hitting back at you, Governor, some of the legislative leaders say this is a blatant lie about the Florida law enforcement officers who are on the front lines protecting our communities from criminal illegals. Unlike others, the legislature is not interested in misleading or attacking Floridians, et cetera, et cetera. Their goal is to work with President Trump.
DESANTIS: Well, notice what they say, though. Notice what they say and they're having debate now in the legislature, they say the only people you're going to enforce on is in jails, people that have committed crimes. That's not how you do interior enforcement. When we picked up the Chinese illegals today, they didn't commit crimes. The crime was being here illegally. They don't want interior enforcement. They only want to enforce on people who are already in our jails.
Yes, you do that, but that is just like 1 percent of what you got to do if we want to reach the threshold of having record deportations. And the final thing I'll just say, do you want to know who is shooting straight with you? They did not want to do this special session. So if they are also gung ho about this immigration agenda, why did I have to drag them in? Why did they deride me and say it was a stunt to do this? Why did they say immigration could wait for many months? They would not have done anything on this issue had I not pulled the trigger.
Obviously, I want to be strong, and we as Republicans need to be strong. We don't have time for their weak sauce anymore on the issue of immigration.
INGRAHAM: Governor, how many illegals would you estimate are currently in the state of Florida? Because we got 15 million or so who have come in just under Biden. There's probably, I bet there's 30 million, 35 million total in the country. But how many do you think in the state of Florida?
DESANTIS: Look, I've heard different estimates. I mean, certainly you're talking about hundreds of thousands. Some people say a million or more. I can tell you, I did a really strong package of immigration bills in 2023, it has slowed the flow. There's no question, because we have mandatory e- verify. We have nationality checks at emergency rooms. We've saved a lot of money, but the way you do it right is to have interior enforcement, and this is our moment to do it. You will see the numbers dwindle in Florida. You will see other states follow suit, and eventually you will see President Trump's promise of having the largest deportation in American history realized if we all work together on this.
INGRAHAM: Yes. I mean, if we got, if we got 30 million illegals in the country, and we have 15 million under Biden, deporting 5000 a week, it ain't going to get you there, right. So it's going to take local and state --
DESANTIS: Not at all.
INGRAHAM: -- law enforcement to work together, and I know they're just getting started. I'm not trying to jump on them, but it's just going to require states to do something. Well, you blew the lid off this tonight, Governor, thank you very much. We really appreciate it. And ahead, liberals sue Trump for targeting government spending that is out of control, bloated and unaccountable, next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
INGRAHAM: All right, the media sob stories, Democrat sob stories, they're not just limited to immigration, by the way, deportation, because Trump, now, after all, is following through on his campaign promise to vet all federal spending, meaning, if we don't know really where it's going, or if it's going to things that are actually working against the people, certainly against his agenda, he's going to take a second look at it. So today, he issued an executive order that freezes some federal programs, and they went nuts.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): This decision is lawless, dangerous, destructive, cruel, it's illegal, it's unconstitutional. I spoke to my Attorney General this morning. She's head of the State Attorneys General Association. They're going to court right away on this horror.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: On this horror, horror. Remember, Joe Biden was well within his rights, though to just forgive all these outstanding student loans. Chuck Schumer didn't have a problem with that or completely subverting U.S. immigration. Chuck Schumer didn't have a problem with that. But when it's billions and billions of dollars to their cronies and their friends that are going out the door, oh yes, they have a problem with any President taking a second look.
And of course, the Democrats have their favorite resistance allies trying to, you know, throw a monkey wrench into all of this. A Biden appointed D.C. District Judge Loren AliKhan has issued a temporary stay or block on Trump's freeze on federal grants and loans.
Joining us now to break it all down is John Hart, CEO of OpenTheBooks. John, it's not surprising that a Biden appointee to the federal courts issued this stay, but I know you have already identified 75 defunct government agencies that somehow need still get some type of funding. Explain that?
JOHN HART, CEO, OPENTHEBOOKS: Yes, Laura, thanks for having me. Look, a federal judge can take away the pause button, but they can't take away his veto pen. So the President has ample opportunities to play hardball with Congress, and he should work with the Republican Congress to constrain the spending. So our organization OpenTheBooks. We're taking a deep dive look at all 441 agencies listed in the Federal Register.
The first thing we found was 75 of those are actually obsolete, so the Trump administration can today claim that they can go in and cut the number of agencies by almost 20 percent just by watching the store and paying attention like any business owner would do. And but it goes way beyond that, Laura, there's -- we have this crazy user to loser role within federal agencies that force agencies to throw money out the door at the end of the year because they're afraid they're going to cut their budget. And so what we've seen at the Pentagon under Biden, the last September, in the last five days of the fiscal year, they threw $33 billion out the door. And that's more than what Israel spent all year on its national defense for the entire year.
And that included things like $200 million for new furniture, 22 million for things like ribeye steaks and lobster tail. So that may be delicious, but it's not much of a deterrent on the world stage. And also Biden's HHS spent $39 million on DEI staff. So this is a target rich environment, and again, the President has all kinds of opportunities to look at wasteful spending. You know, this is a historic opportunity for DOGE to bring about what I call a 1989 moment for this country, and that's to tear down the bureaucratic wall that separated we, the people, from their government for decades.
INGRAHAM: Well, hold on. Hold on a second, John. I'm optimistic too. However, I think people need to understand it's a lot bigger than a bunch of stakes. OK. This is hundreds of billions of dollars. It's not 50,000 here and 100,000 there. We're talking about money that actually makes a real difference to our national debt and our overall budget deficit annually.
So when you think about what they're talking about here with some of these grants to NGOs, these NGOs, including, I'm sad to say, Catholic charities that then go to like things called like the border institute in El Paso, they're all facilitating, sadly, illegal immigration, right? That's what they're doing. And so, I think he wants to -- wait a second, what are we doing here? And why are we doing that? Up on the screen, you see just some of the other things, like DEI staffers, the Pentagon money. You know, again, I don't care about $36,000. That's chump change, but millions and billions, yes, I care about that. And I think that people do as well. Trump wins on this. Meals on wheels, no, no one's cutting meals on wheels. That's just a complete media -- that's a typical media sob story, is it not?
HART: Absolutely, and look, Laura, one of the nonprofits that got funding actually sued DOGE for a lack of transparency before the executive order was even written. So it's a really a grotesque example of self-dealing and but it goes way beyond these $5 million, $10 million, $6 million examples, where you've got hundreds of billions of dollars of waste and fraud within Pentagon contracting, within Medicare, Medicaid. So if you have a committed executive who's willing to go after these things, you can generate incredible savings for taxpayers.
INGRAHAM: Yes, well, and he mentioned disability, how disability somehow has skyrocketed over the last 15 years in federal spending, and some of that is obviously fraudulent as well. John, thank you very much.
And yesterday, President Trump fired more than a dozen employees who worked on his criminal prosecutions. Those are staffers at DOJ, including more than a dozen officials from former Special Counsel Jack Smith's team. So look, Americans, they have to be happy. Trump's actually beginning to restore the integrity of our justice system. But of course, of course, the media is calling it's a wholesale retribution, political retribution. The usual.
Joining me now is David Schoen, former Trump Impeachment Attorney. David, by excising these DOJ employees who were clearly in on the weaponization of government. Isn't that the ultimate and a basic necessity of restoring trust in the DOJ?
DAVID SCHOEN, FORMER TRUMP IMPEACHMENT ATTORNEY: Absolutely, it's an essential first step. I believe this was an election issue. I believe the American people are fair minded, and they saw the weaponization of the justice system in an unprecedented manner, and Jack Smith is the face of that weaponization, and anyone who served on his team and went along with that agenda to come out with these long speaking indictments and then demand a gag order for President Trump has no sense of fairness. You know, the regulations for the Special Counsel under 600.3 require the appointment of an impartial decision maker. That wasn't Jack Smith. He's shown bad judgment his entire career in the John Edwards case and McDonald cases. I know the lawyers in those cases. They met with him and explained why there was no crime committed, and he refused to listen because he was politically driven.
I'll give you an example of two people on his team, Molly Gaston and JP Cooney, I have a sanctions motion going against them because they sought the records of a lawyer in a case, email records, phone records, and lied in a Stored Communications Act request to a federal judge. These are the people he chose for his team, and those are two of the people who were fired. I have a sanctions motion pending that the judge is going to hear one day. That's all going to come out, I hope. That's why President Trump had to take this step. You say, restore the Americans faith in the justice system. That's an essential first step.
INGRAHAM: And David, Toobin is dreaming over at CNN of the lawsuits that Trump could face over all of this. Watch
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JEFFREY TOOBIN, CNN LEGAL ANALYST: Coming after Assistant U.S. attorneys, career people who are not even accused of any misconduct. They simply were part of a case, the idea that they could lose their jobs simply for doing their jobs in an appropriate way is genuinely shocking, and it may well be illegal.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: David, does the Chief Executive Officer of the U.S. government have the authority to fire any executive branch employee?
SCHOEN: The authority and the responsibility in this case, again, you know, lawfare, weaponization, Letitia James, Alvin Bragg, Fani Willis, those are out of President Trump's direct control. Here he has a responsibility, as the elected leader of this country, to deal with Article 2 problems. The Justice Department is his responsibility and the Attorney General's responsibility. The incoming Attorney General.
We saw, unfortunately, from Merrick Garland, additional politicalization, the idea that he claimed executive privilege on the Hur report of the transcript of the Biden interview, not possible. There's no executive privilege there in that kind of confrontation. So it's important to take these steps to restore faith in the integrity. We can't have people targeted. I have a client right now, Roger Ver being targeted from the Biden administration because he spoke out against government. We have to stop this kind of thing, and I'm hoping this administration will take a look at all of those kinds of cases.
INGRAHAM: David, thank you so much. Just ahead --
SCHOEN: Thank you.
INGRAHAM: -- just ahead, a remarkable debut.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
INGRAHAM: Now to greet President Trump's new press secretary today, the once mighty and now discredited scribblers in the White House briefing room were back on their high horses.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNKNOWN: When you're up here in this briefing room speaking to the American public, you view yourself and your role as advocating on behalf of the president or providing the unvarnished truth.
UNKNOWN: I commit to telling the truth from this podium every single day. We ask that all of you in this room hold yourselves to that same standard. We know for a fact, there have been lies that have been pushed by many legacy media outlets in this country about this president, about his family, and we will not accept that.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Ooh, that was fun to watch. She's like, lev it to press, stop lying. Well, she was just stupendous, and she was very unlike her predecessor in one key respect. Where was the binder? Do you guys see the binder? If she had one, I didn't see it. And she batted away their immigration sob stories.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNKNOWN: Executive order, as Trump's saying, he would be open to deporting those students who are here on visas. but, you know, hold pro-Hamas sympathies.
UNKNOWN: The president is open to deporting individuals who have broken our nation's immigration laws. So, if they are here illegally, then certainly he is open to deporting them.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Bingo. And as far as freezing spending on certain government programs, she also hit the right note.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNKNOWN: Why not give organizations more time to plan for the fact that they are about to lose, in some cases, really crucial federal funding, at least for a period of time?
UNKNOWN: There was notice. It was the executive order that the president signed. DOGE and OMB also found that there was about to be 50 million taxpayer dollars that went out the door to fund condoms in Gaza. That is a preposterous waste of taxpayer money. So, that's what this pause is focus on, being good stewards of tax dollars.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Wait a second, good stewards of tax dollars? Like, when have we heard that? Well, not since the last Trump administration. Joining us now, Byron York, Washington Examiner, chief political correspondent, Fox News contributor. Byron, what is she, 27 years old? She was unbelievable.
BYRON YORK, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Yep.
INGRAHAM: I was like, this is --
YORK: Absolutely.
INGRAHAM: Fabulous. Fabulous job.
YORK: The first thing to say about this is to compare today's briefing to every briefing of the last four years of the Biden administration, in which the spokesperson, Karine Jean-Pierre, either would not or could not engage with reporters on a daily basis. Today was an absolute breath of fresh air, should have been, for a reporter of any stripe.
INGRAHAM: Right. And also, the White House's view on the first amendment and the need to have a plethora of voices in that briefing room. Watch what she said.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNKNOWN: The House believe strongly in the first amendment. So, it's why our team will work diligently to restore the press passes of the 440 journalists whose passes were wrongly revoked by the previous administration. We welcome independent journalists, podcasters, social media influencers, and content creators to apply for credentials to cover this White House.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Byron, the truth is, the elites, the old regime media, dinosaur media, whatever you want to call them, that's their territory. They don't like the little people going into their territory at all.
YORK: Yeah. And this comes after a long period of self-discrediting by a lot of reporters. I remember in the Biden White House press corps, there was a secret. That is, the president was not up to the job, and all the press was either looking the other way or claiming that he was when he was not.
And the Biden administration kept very, very close hold on all sorts of information, as far as the press was concerned, which was happy to look the other way. So, today was just an absolute complete explosion of openness and sunshine.
INGRAHAM: I just loved -- I loved it from beginning to end. I joined it late, watching late. I was like, oh, I missed the first. But the great thing about this also, is it reveals the press's total hypocrisy on issues like inflation, because Trump's been in there for what, eight days? But now they realize eggs are expensive. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNKNOWN: Egg prices have skyrocketed since President Trump took office. So, what specifically is he doing to lower those costs for Americans?
UNKNOWN: Really glad you brought this up because there is a lot of reporting out there that is putting the onus on this White House for the increased cost of eggs. I would like to point out to each and every one of you that in 2024, when Joe Biden was in the Oval Office or upstairs in the residence sleeping, I'm not so sure, egg prices increased 65 percent in this country.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Of the little dig on Biden's sleeping. I'm sorry. I enjoyed that. I maybe I shouldn't, but I did. They've now gotten, actually a light bulb, Byron, on inflation, and now they're worried about spending how much deporting illegal aliens is going to cost. I've never seen Democrats so worried about spending and inflation.
YORK: Well, this was actually a real shot across the bow for the more ideologically oriented members of the media that if they put a false claim or questionable claim, any question, it's going to be questioned in turn. And though their premise of the question will be question.
So, that's a big, big deal and it really suggested you're just going to have much, much different interactions between the Trump White House and the press in the briefing room.
INGRAHAM: I think she enjoyed sparring with them as much as Trump does. She loved it. It looks like she just enjoyed every minute of it, which was refreshing as well. Byron, wonderful to see you. Thank you so much. And ahead, the media gets busted trying to smear young MAGA supporters as, you guessed it, racist.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
INGRAHAM: The editors at New York Magazine are in hot water. Why? Because of this cover photo. Now for this story, it's called The Cruel Kids Table. It's about a party on inauguration to celebrate the inauguration in New York. The article itself, other than the ridiculous title, included quotes such as, "almost everyone is white. And have you noticed the entire room is white," describing the attendees of the party.
But the truth is New York Magazine selectively cropped the photo, it would appear, so it would not show the various people of color who were in the original version. And the event that was featured in that article was hosted by CJ Pearson. Get this, a young black man. CJ joins me now. He's the co-chair of the GOP Youth Advisory Council.
CJ, I saw this and I said, of course they did this. But could there, CJ, be just an innocent explanation for this?
CJ PEARSON, GOP YOUTH ADVISOR COUNCIL CO-CHAIR: You know, no. And it's one of those things where just when you think the leftist corporate media couldn't go any lower, they somehow find their way to the basement. It's disgusting, but it's part of the course. They wanted to perpetuate the narrative that the MAGA movement is nothing more than some white supremacist racist cult, so they deliberately erased the black people from these images.
And I can tell you, I'm a little offended. We're days away from black history month and they pull this stunt? It's a little offensive.
INGRAHAM: So, we've heard of White House blackout. I mean, they're actually accusing Republicans of what they're doing. And they're always the most exclusionary people out there, aren't they?
PEARSON: Yeah, they always have been, and they absolutely despise half of America. And that is exactly what this story was riddled with, a disdain for people who love this country, love this president. I got to tell you, I don't give a damn about what these people think of me, because we are so back and we're not going anywhere. We have President Trump to thank.
And I got to tell you, everyone in that picture was happy for a reason. And we have four more years to be happy.
INGRAHAM: You know what I think? The left really hates it when Americans are happy. They really don't like America. They love COVID when people couldn't go to church or couldn't see their elderly parents and could sit at home in their sweatpants. They love that. But they don't like scenes like this.
It's the way they felt during the 80's when Reagan came along, when people are all happy and in a good mood, patriotic Rambo, you know, they don't like that. But they hate the fact that you guys are enjoying yourselves, CJ.
PEARSON: Yeah, they hate that we're happy and they hate that we have a reason to be happy. Look at everyone's face in that photo. I think that is actually the thing that made them most upset, that we have everything to be happy about and they have nothing to be happy about.
I think they're also a little bit upset that no woman in that picture actually has a penis. They were probably a little upset about that as well.
INGRAHAM: Well, they probably -- yeah, they're used to different looks at some of their White House parties during Biden's time.
PEARSON: No purple hair there, I don't know.
INGRAHAM: Yeah, they had a slightly different look. But do you get the sense, CJ, like, and with what the Wall Street Journal is writing now, and we have a full screen of it, we'll put it up on the screen, supporters of the new president on campus say they now feel more comfortable acknowledging one another in public membership at Long Moribund College Republican clubs around the country is up, according to interviews with the students at a dozen schools.
I know you're not in school any longer, but you're trying to keep the conservative youth base rocking here. But I feel it. It's -- people aren't afraid anymore.
PEARSON: No, I feel it as well. You know, Laura, I'm 22 years old. And when I listen to my peers, my younger peers, they're saying they have never seen more enthusiasm on their campus and more energy for President Trump in the America First Movement than right now.
It is cruel to be a conservative again. And it doesn't matter how much the left tries to demonize us and make us feel as if we are the others, we are the normal ones. We are the ones who know how many genders they are. We are the ones who understand that men should not play women's sports. They can try their best to stigmatize us, but we are the moment.
INGRAHAM: Yeah, and that means, write what you believe in your college essays. Don't write what the professor believes. Be brave. CJ, come back soon. You were great. Thanks so much.
All right, a CNN anchor rage quits live on air. And Gen Z is taking micro retirements. What? Jimmy Failla has it all, coming up.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
INGRAHAM: All right, now it's time for WTF, What the Failla? Joining me now, Jimmy Failla, host of Fox News Saturday Night. Jimmy, I was dying when I saw this because I thought we got Failla on tonight. But, Jim Acosta, you know, it's very sad, very sad. I don't like celebrating anyone losing their job. But he didn't lose it. He quit. He declined a later time slot on CNN, and he chose to say goodbye this way.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNKNOWN: One final message, don't give into the lies. Don't give into the fear. Hold on to the truth and to hope. Even if you have to get out your phone, record that message, I will not give into the lies. I will not give into the fear. Post it on your social media so people can hear from you too.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
JIMMY FAILLA, HOST, FOX NEWS SATURDAY NIGHT: I know. I don't even know where to start. First off, congratulations to Jim Acosta on finally reporting a true story. Yes, he is resigning. That was the first accurate report I've ever seen on this show. But I love the self-important message at the end, like he's leading some type of national resistance movement.
Dude, you're on the lowest rated show on the lowest rated network. Half of the control room remote started their cars in the D-block. They've already had their jackets on and you're sitting there like you're broadcasting from some bunker and the fate of journalism hangs in the balance.
My guest, Laura, he winds up on Dancing with the Stars because he's been dancing with the truth for like 18 years.
INGRAHAM: Like, don't ever lose sight of the truth, Jimmy Failla. Record it with your phone if you have to stay connected. Mr. Acosta goes to Washington and leaves. All right.
FAILLA: There it is.
INGRAHAM: And then this was also good. Plus-sized rapper out of Detroit, apparently is suing Lyft, the ride sharing service, after she was refused to ride by a driver because of her weight. She captured the incident on video. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNKNOWN: I got no space. My car is small.
UNKNOWN: I can fit in this car.
UNKNOWN: But believe me, you can't.
UNKNOWN: Yes, I can. So, you're telling me I can't get in a Lyft because I can't fit in your car.
UNKNOWN: Yeah, you need to order a bigger car. To be more specific with you, I got very tired tires.
UNKNOWN: What I got to do with your tires?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(LAUGHTER)
FAILLA: Listen, I love this, OK, for a lot of reasons. OK. But the driver had a bad excuse, because he said he's worried about his tires. She clearly has a spare tire. Maybe even two, if we're going to be honest. This is not quite Queen Latifah. This is more like Dairy Queen.
And again, the story is hilarious because why is she suing? She's like, he hurt my feelings. Dude, I'm a cab driver and people called me fat my whole life. You're not supposed to have feelings when it comes to mass transit because everyone on the road is your enemy.
INGRAHAM: Well, there are people that run around that are just litigious people.
FAILLA: Yep.
INGRAHAM: Right? They look for these incidents. I mean, I don't know. Maybe sometime a plus-size person could pick the smallest car possible just to make the case better. I mean, but this is a way of, for some people, I'm not saying this individually, but some people can make money.
FAILLA: Of course.
INGRAHAM: And companies settle. I don't know if Lyft wouldn't tell us about the pending litigation, but they settle and they make a lot of money. We have to do lawsuit reform in this country because, you know, it's out of control. I mean, it's just completely out of control.
FAILLA: Well, at the very least, we have to confirm RFK and make this country healthy again.
INGRAHAM: Exactly. That's a good point. All right. Promoting micro retirements to optimize their health, their mental health. Watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNKNOWN: The idea of working your entire adult life and retiring after 40 years is absolute (BLEEP). What I think we should do instead is like mini- retirements, take like a summer off, and then go travel to the Greek islands. You're not even going to enjoy this much when you're 65. But like if I'm 25, 35, I'm going to have a great time in Mykonos. I'm not going to have fun there. My arthritis is going to act up.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Now, we know who not to hire on the Angle, Jimmy.
FAILLA: Spoken like a guy whose wife is going to walk out on him at the age of 40, because he doesn't have anything in the bank. I mean, that's the problem with being a loser. It trends well on Instagram, but it doesn't end well in life.
INGRAHAM: Micro retirement. We're going to micro have to close it out, Jimmy. We'll see you next time. Jesse is next.

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
