




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 28, 2025 Tuesday 11:14 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 370 words
Byline: Justin Kaufmann
Body


January 28th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
Illinois lawmakers are happy a federal judge halted  
Why it matters: State lawmakers are worried that the freeze could have lasting damage to residents who rely on Medicaid and other public services.
What they're saying: "We don't know what the impact on our budget will be," Gov. JB Pritzker said Tuesday afternoon.
"This is only a temporary restraint."
Zoom out: A federal judge on Tuesday temporarily halted   
The administrative stay was supposed to go into effect Tuesday afternoon. The temporary stay will expire on Monday.
The intrigue: Illinois Attorney General Kwame Raoul announced the state has joined  
"I will not stand silent as they try to impose unconstitutional mandates," Raoul said.
The big picture: State agencies complained on Tuesday that they were shut out of accessing federal funding sites and disbursement systems, including  
The governor said child care agencies, local universities and the state's Medicaid program are all in danger.
"There were several Head Start programs that would not have been able to pay their payrolls today, " Pritzker added.
Zoom in: Chicago Mayor Brandon Johnson's office is still assessing what the exact impact could be on budgets and services.
City officials said Chicago received $4 billion in grants last year, and a portion of that number was from the federal government. The city counts on federal dollars for big projects like the expansion of the Red Line, disaster relief and low-income housing assistance, just to name a few areas.
Yes, but: The Trump administration says the freeze was to get spending in line with recent executive orders, like eliminating DEI programs and auditing foreign aid.
Administration officials also said the freeze would not affect Social Security or Medicare, or any individual payouts.


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
