




Business Insider
February 4, 2025 Tuesday 09:57 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Insider Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 539 words
Byline: ekim@businessinsider.com (Eugene Kim)
Highlight: AWS VP Mai-Lan Tomsen Bukovec assured employees there is no change in DEI initiatives despite recent website alterations and program halts.
Body


Amazon recently changed some of its DEI websites and halted some programs.
An AWS VP clarified Amazon's continued commitment to DEI in a meeting in late January.
Other firms such as Meta and Target recently pulled back on DEI efforts.
An  executive told employees the company remains committed to diversity, equity, and inclusion, during a recent internal meeting.
The tech giant has changed some of its websites about  and halted some programs. That prompted some employees to ask about this ahead of the meeting in late January with Mai-Lan Tomsen Bukovec, VP of technology at .
The question about DEI received the highest interest among employees, Tomsen Bukovec noted, according to a meeting transcript obtained by Business Insider.
The AWS executive said she wasn't aware of the changes to Amazon's DEI websites. She said she asked internally to ensure that Amazon was still committed to its DEI programs. The feedback she received was "no change," she said.
"We are not pulling back on DEI initiatives. I looked at all the changes. We are not making any changes to any of the benefits," Tomsen Bukovec added. "There's no change to the commitment, but we didn't roll it out that well."
Other companies, including , Target, and McDonald's, have pulled back or  in recent months as  from conservative activists and Donald Trump's administration increased. At the same time, other companies, such as JPMorgan and Costco, are  for DEI.
Media reports in recent months have suggested that Amazon's approach to DEI may be changing.
In December, Candi Castleberry, Amazon's VP of inclusive experiences and technology, said the company was shutting down several "outdated" DEI programs to focus on those with "proven outcomes," according to Bloomberg. Amazon also recently removed or changed some words about its DEI benefits on some of its websites, The Information previously reported.
During the late January staff meeting, Tomsen Bukovec said Amazon consolidated some words and dropped some paragraphs from its DEI websites and blogs. But the company "didn't change the underlying capabilities that people can do, and we did not change any of the commitment that we have to the programs," she said.
She specifically addressed a transgender benefit that Amazon offers and said "we are not making any changes to that."
"We just made some changes to the words, and then I think we deprioritized one or two programs that were not making much of a difference anyway," she added.
Amazon's spokesperson declined to comment on the specifics of this story but shared a link to the  that show its commitment "to creating a diverse and inclusive" culture.
The spokesperson also shared a copy of Castleberry's December email that said, "We remain dedicated to delivering inclusive experiences for customers, employees, and communities around the world."
Do you work at Amazon? Got a tip?
Contact the reporter Eugene Kim via the encrypted-messaging apps Signal or Telegram (+1-650-942-3061) or email (). Reach out using a nonwork device.  for other tips on sharing information securely.
Read the original article on


Load-Date: February 4, 2025


End of Document
