




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 10, 2025 Monday 3:18 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 747 words
Byline: Rebecca FalconerDonica Phifer
Body


February 9th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
The Philadelphia Eagles didn't just win; they dominated  
The big picture: Kansas City's dreams of a Super Bowl three-peat were crushed by the Eagles defense, which sacked Chiefs QB Patrick Mahomes six times and forced three turnovers, including a pick-six in the second quarter by rookie cornerback Cooper DeJean, who is celebrating his 22nd birthday today along with teammate Saquon Barkley.
Hot off winning five   
DeVonta Smith #6 of the Philadelphia Eagles catches a pass for a touchdown against Jaylen Watson #35 of the Kansas City Chiefs in the third quarter during Super Bowl LIX. Photo: Patrick Smith/Getty Images
Jake Elliott #4 of the Philadelphia Eagles kicks a field goal in the third quarter against the Kansas City Chiefs during Super Bowl LIX . Photo: Jamie Squire/Getty Images
Kendrick Lamar and SZA perform onstage during the Super Bowl LIX Chiefs vs Eagles Apple Music Halftime Show, as the Philadelphia Eagles led the Kansas City Chiefs 24-0 at halftime on Feb. 9. Photo: Jamie Squire/Getty Images
Rapper Kendrick Lamar performs during Super Bowl LIX Halftime Show. Photo: Chandan Khanna/AFP via Getty Images
Serena Williams performs onstage during Apple Music Super Bowl LIX Halftime Show at Caesars Superdome on February 09, 2025 in New Orleans, Louisiana. Photo: Emilee Chinn/Getty Images
A protester holds a Palestinian flag with the words "Gaza" and "Sudan" as Lamar performs during the Super Bowl LIX Halftime Show. The protester was led away by security soon after. Photo: Chandan Khann/AFP via Getty Images
Lamar performs onstage during the halftime show at the Super Bowl. Photo: Cindy Ord/Getty Images
WR A.J. Brown #11 of the Philadelphia Eagles celebrates after catching a pass for a touchdown in the second quarter during Super Bowl LIX. Photo: David Buono/Icon Sportswire via Getty Images
Jake Elliott #4 of the Philadelphia Eagles kicks a field goal in the second quarter during Super Bowl LIX. Photo: David Buono/Icon Sportswire via Getty Images
Cooper DeJean #33 of the Philadelphia Eagles scores a touchdown past Patrick Mahomes #15 of the Kansas City Chiefs after making an interception in the second quarter during Super Bowl LIX. Photo: Gregory Shamus/Getty Images
Saquon Barkley #26 of the Philadelphia Eagles is tackled by Tershawn Wharton #98, Mike Pennel Jr. #69 and Drue Tranquill #23 of the Kansas City Chiefs in the second quarter during Super Bowl LIX. Photo: Patrick Smith/Getty Images
Patrick Mahomes, #15 of the Kansas City Chiefs, hands the ball off to Isiah Pacheco, #10, in the second quarter against the Philadelphia Eagles during Super Bowl LIX. Photo: Patrick Smith/Getty Images
Philadelphia Eagles' defensive back #33 Cooper DeJean returns an interception for a touchdown during Super Bowl LIX. Photo: Timothy A. Clary/AFP via Getty Images
Philadelphia Eagles' quarterback #1 Jalen Hurts rushes for a touchdown as Eagles' wide receiver #89 Johnny Wilson celebrates during Super Bowl LIX. Photo: Timothy A. Clary/AFP via Getty Images
Travis Kelce #87 and Patrick Mahomes #15 of the Kansas City Chiefs take the field before Super Bowl LIX. Photo: Jamie Squire/Getty Images
Ed Kelce, Ashley Avignone, Alana Haim, Ross Travis, Taylor Swift, Este Haim, Danielle Haim and Donna Kelce attend Super Bowl LIX. Photo: Gregory Shamus/Getty Images
Presiden Trump meets with New Orleans law enforcement officers and people impacted by the city's  
Hollywood actor Bradley Cooper walks the sidelines before the start of Super Bowl LIX. Photo: Timothy A. Clary/AFP via Getty Images
Retired seven-time Super Bowl champion Tom Brady, now a Fox analyst, walks the sidelines before the start of Super Bowl LIX. Photo: Timothy A. Clary/AFP via Getty Images
More from Axios:




Editor's note: This a breaking news story and will be updated with more photos as they come in.


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 9, 2025


End of Document
