



Newsweek.com
January 27, 2025 Monday 12:39 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 1654 words
Byline: Aman Kidwai
Highlight: The right-leaning behavior of Mark Zuckerberg and Jeff Bezos shouldn't be an influence in most U.S. workplaces.
Body


For an HR or diversity leader, or any manager who values inclusive workplaces, the headlines over the last few months may be disheartening, even gaining momentum since Inauguration Day.
On Day 1 of his presidency, President  signed  to "terminate" the government's DEI (diversity, equity and inclusion) mandates. In the corporate world, some of the other potentially concerning reports include the push to , the  the corporate world needs more "masculine energy" and a  that it's great to be able to say certain expletives again and not be worried about offending anyone.
Additionally, Trump has tapped the outspoken tech billionaire  to be .
Observers will also note 's $40 million documentary deal with , donations from myriad CEOs to , 's  and The Washington Post, owned by Amazon founder , not only abandoning a long-held practice by opting not to  in the 2024 U.S. presidential election, but also, more recently, changing its slogan from "Democracy Dies in Darkness" to "Riveting Storytelling for All of America."
The Atlantic writes that it's "."
However, the actions of , Jeff Bezos and a relatively small handful of prominent executives do not define a national corporate culture. For companies that work closely with the federal government, the changing presidential administration may be a central issue in the workplace. For the many that do not, this may not affect the workplace at all.
The vast majority of U.S. CEOs weren't angling for a seat at last Monday's inauguration in D.C., given that small businesses make up more than 99 percent of the country's employers and provide jobs to around 46 percent of the U.S. workforce, .
"Over the next four years, there is a full majority across the executive and legislative branch of conservatives," Michael Franklin, a communications consultant and executive director of the nonprofit Speechwriters of Color, told Newsweek. "So you're seeing these [tech leaders'] messages completely shift based on the audience."
"As a small-business owner myself, I'd say their actions should not impact [mine], because my business model and how I engage and interact with consumers and audiences should not be the same as the largest companies on Earth," Franklin explained. "While I think it's always important to see how larger businesses are navigating the business space, it shouldn't mean that I follow their lead."
Moreover, some argue that the rollback of DEI programs is largely a result of right-wing activists tipping the scales of public opinion.
"I think what we're seeing is an opportunistic response to a new administration," Alphonso David, president of the Global Black Economic Forum, told Newsweek.
The Motivations of Big Tech Are Not Those of the Average CEO
The actions of Big Tech, finance and major corporate leaders appear to be driven by a desire for federal contracts or to influence policy preferences well beyond any appeal to hiring strategy, internal culture or consumer strategy.
"A lot of these executives, I suspect but don't know, are making a calculated business decision that if [they] embrace the narrative and the rhetoric of the far right and of those of some in the new administration, it will be to their benefit," David said. "There are opportunities for the tech giants to take government dollars and leverage them to further amass power and wealth."
Despite a set of politically motivated groups engaging in activism against corporate DEI programs,  including ,  and Delta are standing strong on their commitments. Conversely,  that 16 companies have announced rolled back DEI programs.
Many companies have kept DEI goals and staff and just renamed teams, or absorbed those initiatives into broader HR, strategy or other teams, . For any individual company in the headlines for backing off DEI commitments, hundreds are staying the course.
Forty-three percent of companies in the Fortune 100 mentioned DEI in 2023 earnings calls, according to . In 2024, that figure fell to 31 percent, but Gravity Research found a 59 percent rise in "neutral" but related terms such as "belonging" or "diverse perspectives."
"The majority of companies in the United States are still embracing the values of diversity. From JPMorgan to Costco, companies are leaning into their strengths, and they understand that diversity is a strength," David said, emphasizing the business imperative behind any principled DEI strategy. Recently, 98 percent of Costco shareholders  at the warehouse retailer.
A 2024 Deloitte study, among others, backs up a reality that's true no matter who sits in the Oval Office: Many millennials and members of . Also, they don't want to  about politics. In an increasingly global economy and labor market, openness to other cultures and backgrounds contains tangible business value and reduces business risk.
"If you don't want or like diverse teams, executives must recognize that diverse teams lead to greater innovation and revenues. We have decades of research from Harvard Business Review to McKinsey that prove that diversity increases the bottom line for companies in every single sector, [and] if companies decimate their diversity initiatives, they compromise their ability to comply with antidiscrimination laws," David added.
Practical Considerations
Regardless of a business leader's ideological beliefs, research from higher education,  and nonprofit institutions advocates for a social and financial benefit to diverse and equitable work environments.
"At the end of the day, companies want a skilled, talented workforce that's going to help grow the future of their companies," Ebony Thomas, a longtime financial services and management consulting leader and now managing partner at Grads of Life, a nonprofit that focuses on labor market opportunity, told Newsweek.
Experts also point out the temporary or PR-driven nature of DEI announcements made in 2020, which are just as easy to roll back a few years later if the corporations are not sincere in their efforts.
If large companies are willing to recalibrate their values with every incoming president and abandon programs aimed at addressing long-term structural problems like equality, they open themselves up to criticism for turning their backs on earlier commitments.
"[The companies cutting DEI] show that their DEI plans were a PR plan and not about actual action," Franklin said. "A lot of companies in 2020 were virtue signaling. It wasn't about actively transferring power and being able to transform how folks are engaging and interacting with one another."
Any principled DEI strategy, no matter when it was devised, would have incorporated a strong tie to business goals, Thomas said.
"Attracting and retaining the right talent is going to be an ongoing business challenge," she said. "Talent management is nonpartisan."
Beyond promoting the shared moral value of a fair and just society, diverse workforces lead to more diverse customer bases and . The consulting firm McKinsey has outlined in extensive research how companies that have higher gender and ethnic diversity consistently outperform companies with less diversity, and also identified a performance penalty for not being diverse.
"If you don't have diverse perspectives, you will lose perspective. You will lose the opportunity to broaden your product outreach. You will lose the opportunity to think of new and innovative ways to reach consumers," David said.
Thomas added that in addition to financial benefits, an inclusive and respectful culture can also be a boon for retention, which lowers turnover and can carry significant costs.
Regarding the banker who wished to use profane language, managers who are rude to direct reports are still falling out of favor. Preferences on acceptable workplace behavior , as 61 percent of employees in a recent Pew survey said their company has programs to ensure fairness in hiring, pay or promotions, and 72 percent of those people say these programs have a positive impact.
"If you're going to demoralize your staff, then they're not going to be incentivized to help you do anything more than the minimum that they need to achieve," David said. "There is also a disconnect where young people have less and less allegiance to employers."
Performative DEI Is Dead
As Thomas has noted, inclusion is a matter of sound talent strategy. If companies want the best talent from around the world and to sell their products around the world, then managers need to develop and maintain fair and inclusive cultures for everyone that may be in that workplace.
"It really is around how to create the best workforce, and getting the best talent in the door," Thomas said. "It's not about helping any specific group that comes to advancing, sourcing, hiring and growing talent. It helps everyone. It's not meant to segment or cut off or exclude a particular group."
Even the famously cutthroat leaders in the financial services industry are standing ground on the business value of inclusion and fair, respectful company cultures, no matter what you call it. It's a business decision.
David points out that even the "unwoke" JP Morgan CEO Jamie Dimon maintains his .
"He's not devaluing his employees," David said. "Corporations exist to make profit, we understand that. If you want to make profit, you can't devalue diversity."


Graphic

 
Boardroom dark imagery
Getty Images
Boardrooms are unsure how to proceed with diversity initiatives.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Web Publication

Subject: DIVERSITY & INCLUSION (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TRUMP'S FIRST 100 DAYS (90%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY & INCLUSION (90%); COMPANY ACTIVITIES & MANAGEMENT (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CORPORATE CULTURE (78%); DEMOCRACIES (78%); GOVERNMENT & PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); TYPES OF GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (77%); GOVERNMENT BODIES & OFFICES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2024 (77%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); CONSUMERS (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); HEADS OF GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (72%); POLITICAL ACTIVISM (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (52%); ACTIVISM (50%); Work (%)

Company:  FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (71%);  GRAHAM HOLDINGS CO (55%)

Ticker: GHC (NYSE) (55%)

Industry: NAICS513110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (71%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (71%); NAICS516210 MEDIA STREAMING DIST SVCS, SOCIAL NETWORKS, AND OTHER MEDIA NETWORKS AND CONTENT PROVIDERS (55%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%)

Person: MARK ZUCKERBERG (89%); DONALD TRUMP (79%); ELON MUSK (79%); MELANIA TRUMP (79%); JEFFREY P BEZOS (78%)

Geographic: UNITED STATES (94%)

Load-Date: January 27, 2025


End of Document
