




States News Service
February 1, 2025 Saturday


Copyright 2025 States News Service
Length: 337 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON, D.C. 
Body


The following information was released by the Independent Women's Forum:
Patrice Onwuka
Today is the start of Black History Month, celebrating the contributions made by black Americans throughout the history of our nation.
Patrice Onwuka, director of the Center for Economic Opportunity (CEO) at Independent Women's Forum, issued the following statement:
"Fighting discrimination and bigotry is a hallmark of our nation's struggle for equality. Securing the freedoms, rights, and prosperity of blacks in America has delivered tremendous progress: full participation in society, a thriving black middle class, black leaders in the highest offices, and a rising class of black entrepreneurs.
"Disparities persist. Many black youth are trapped in failing schools with no options for better education, households are trapped in cycles of poverty and government dependency, and men and women feel like the American Dream is out of touch. The affordability crisis driven by four years of high inflation disproportionately impacts low-income households, especially black homes.
"Blacks are not seeking empty promises, but access to opportunities. A robust economy charged up by tax cuts strengthens black businesses and lowers black unemployment, as the 2017 Trump Tax Cuts and Jobs Act delivered. Policies from Washington and states that dismantle barriers to work such as occupational licensing reform, reduce costly and strangling regulations, and protect the freedom to work for ourselves such as independent contracting clear the way for black workers and professionals to pursue their dreams.
"These are economic policies that will lift blacks and Americans of all races compared to divisive and counterproductive diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) efforts. Now is the time to acknowledge that we cannot remedy past discrimination with new discrimination. As corporations, organizations, and government agencies, abandon the use of DEI, we move closer to guaranteeing every man and woman equality of treatment and opportunity."

Load-Date: February 1, 2025


End of Document
