




USA Today Online
February 12, 2025 8:01 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Section: ECONOMICS NEWS & US NEWS
Length: 729 words
Byline: Rex Huppke, USA TODAY
Body


When news broke Wednesday that , President Donald Trump wasted no time taking personal responsibility and vowing to focus solely on making life better for all Americans.
HAH! Just kidding. He posted “!” on social media and then presumably went back to planning the Trump-branded hotel and casinos I imagine  once .
The man who claims to care deeply about “” and “” swore up and down that he would fix inflation and food prices "." 
He also started  well before the 2024 election, saying the mere fact he was leading in the polls was driving the market higher.
Well, I guess I’d like to know where those magical economic powers are now and why he isn’t using them to make the average trip to the grocery store more affordable.
Inflation, food prices hike on Trump's watch, along with layoffs

, and  on a monthly basis since August 2023. 
Last month,  and gas prices were 1.8%. Eggs prices rose astronomically –  – thanks largely to the spread of bird flu, which Trump appears to be ignoring while he plots out a “Gaza redevelopment plan” and lets Elon Musk fire thousands of federal workers.
Opinion: 
We also learned Wednesday that the  and that the U.S. oil company Chevron, , is laying off as much as 20% of its global workforce.
Earlier this month,  it plans to lay off as many as 7,000 workers. And in late January,  and closed 27 stores.
By letting Musk fire federal workers, Trump is just adding economic woes

Add to all that what , mandating via an executive order signed Tuesday that agency heads “initiate large-scale reductions in force.”  
Keep in mind that the “force” that’s being reduced aren't just nameless, faceless bureaucrats in Washington, D.C.  include Texas, Florida, Georgia and Alabama. These job losses will be felt nationwide.
Opinion: 
 is also likely to drive up prices and increase inflation, despite the president’s ignorant belief that he knows better .
Nothing is ever Trump's fault. Blame, blame, blame.

If you’ve been living in a cave for the past decade, you might have missed the simple fact that Trump takes credit for good things he has nothing to do with and passes blame for bad things that are his responsibility.
The economy, inflation, food prices and gas prices are now his responsibility, and he should be held accountable for them in the same way he and Republicans and Fox News and every right-wing blatherer out there .
Opinion alerts: Get columns from your favorite columnists + expert analysis on top issues, delivered straight to your device through the USA TODAY app. Don't have the app? .
Fair’s fair. Trump promised to fix things for us on Day 1. We’re way past Day 1. 
His focus has been on , ,  and daydreaming about .
America first? Nah. Trump first. The rest of us can eat cake, assuming we can afford the eggs to make it.
Follow USA TODAY columnist Rex Huppke on Bluesky at  and on Facebook at 
You can read diverse opinions from our  and other writers on the , on X, formerly Twitter,  and in our .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: February 12, 2025


End of Document
