




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 29, 2025 Wednesday 7:48 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 394 words
Byline: Andrew Solender
Body


January 29th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
The Trump administration's freeze on federal grants and loans may have been  
Why it matters: House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries (D-N.Y.), in a call with his members Wednesday, touted the 48-hour funding freeze saga as a clear-cut victory for his party's strategy for countering Trump.
Jeffries urged Democrats to "maximize our unity and comms and engagement," according to sources on the call, telling his colleagues "this is only the beginning."
Rep. Debbie Dingell (D-Mich.), the chair of House Democrats' messaging arm, urged them to brand the freeze as the "Republican Ripoff" and to hold events in their district highlighting its impact on their constituents.
Driving the news: The White House Office of Management and Budget on Wednesday rescinded a  
The memo, issued Monday night, led to widespread confusion in both federal agencies and state governments, with some states unable to access the Medicaid portal the following day.
Democrats were  
Yes, but: White House press secretary   
Other targets include funding for foreign aid, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and efforts to combat climate change.
What we're hearing: Jeffries, in the call on Wednesday, laid out a three-pronged strategy for combating Trump that involves litigation, public messaging and using the appropriations process as leverage.
House Democratic caucus chair Pete Aguilar (D-Calif.) gave a preview of some of Democrats' messaging, arguing on the call that the funding freeze proves Project 2025 is Trump's governing playbook.
Democrats may also try to keep the funding freeze fresh in voters' minds by hitting the airwaves, with Democratic National Committee spokesperson Ammar Moussa  
Axios' Erin Doherty contributed reporting for this story.


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
