




Fox News JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME 8:00 PM EST
February 12, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6696 words
Byline: Jesse Watters, Julie Banderas
Guests: Karoline Leavitt, Jonathan Turley, Sarah Huckabee Sanders
Body


LAURA INGRAHAM, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST, "THE INGRAHAM ANGLE": Okay, we are going to go really practical with you, I hope next time you join us. Thank you so much.
All right, that is it for us tonight. Don't forget to tune in tomorrow night at 7:00 PM Eastern for my exclusive with RFK, Jr. It will be the first after the Senate votes on his nomination.
Check me out on social media, a special photo going up after the show.
Jesse is next.
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST, "JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME": Welcome to JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME.
Tonight --
JOE ROGAN, PODCAST HOST, "THE JOE ROGAN EXPERIENCE": He is a super genius that has been [bleep] with. He is going to hunt you down. He is going to find out what is going on and that is good for everybody.
WATTERS: DOGE keeps dunking on the Democrats.
REP. EMANUEL CLEAVER (D-MO): You get your musty hands off of our money.
PAM BONDI, US ATTORNEY GENERAL: We are here today because we have filed charges against the state of New York. We have filed charges against Kathy Hochul. We have filed charges against Letitia James and Mark Schroeder.
WATTERS: Trump is all gas, no brakes.
MARC FOGEL, AMERICAN PRISONER RELEASED FROM RUSSIA: President Trump is a hero.
JOE SCARBOROUGH, MSNBC HOST: I've got to say, I'm a bit frustrated when I hear about how helpless Democrats are.
WATTERS: The machine is in pieces.
RACHEL MADDOW, MSNBC HOST: (Laughing)
WATTERS: Plus --
UNIDENTIFIED PERSON: If you think you are afraid of Trump, you should see how afraid of Trump I am.
WATTERS: There has been an urban legend for years in Washington. It is about a cave full of bureaucrats hidden 200 feet underground in Pennsylvania. Inside, over 28,000 file cabinets of manila folders and there are rumors of ghosts pulling drawers open in the middle of the night. One Obama official called it that "crazy cave."
People inside never see a ray of sunlight. Employees enter in the dark and leave in the dark. And the mood? Crabby and miserable. There is no kitchen inside. It's a fire hazard, so if you want a meal, a pizza man with a security clearance will deliver a large cheese.
One worker quit and took a new job blasting holes in oil and gas wells with explosives. Saying one of the five worst jobs in the world was a great alternative to being down there. It is called Iron Mountain.
(YOUTUBE/IRON MOUNTAIN DATA CENTERS VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If you are a high compliance or high security need organization, this is the place to be.
The Western Pennsylvania facility is a city underground. It has many of the same things that a city would have. It has fire and rescue teams and a store, with 30-foot thick limestone and 200 feet of stone above the facility lead to natural weather protection and the ambient temperature of 53 degrees helps the facility remain cool.
Iron Mountain works with our customers to design the space of their needs. Whether it is what you can see over my shoulder, caged material or solid steel wall, faraday enclosures or coops, Iron Mountain is there to support those customers.
Additionally, this facility is very unique. All of the cooling goes back to an underground lake. We pump and transfer the heat from the crawl units that you see beside me, back to the lake and then pump the heat into the water.
That lake can sustain 10 megawatts of heat coming from these facilities as it stands today.
WATTERS: This is a retirement cave. When John Smith from the EPA retires, his paperwork is buried in this cave. And it takes anywhere from two months to six months to get it processed. In Texas, it takes two days.
The work inside runs at the speed of human fingers and feet and as slowly now as it did in 1977. There are no state-of-the-art computers, bureaucrats use ballpoint pens and reams of paper --ream after ream after ream.
"The Washington Post" did a big expose on the retirement cave 10 years ago and called it a "sinkhole of bureaucracy." Obama knew about the cave and tried to fix it, but failed. Barry spent millions and just ended up hiring 200 more cave dwellers.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JON FAVREAU, "POD SAVE AMERICA": We all know the government is slow, we know the government can be inefficient, we all know the bureaucracy can be bloated. We all worked in the (bleep) White House, we tried to reorganize the government, we tried to find efficiency, it's hard to do. I wish they - -
JON LOVETT, "POD SAVE AMERICA": And honestly, some of this is pretty annoying because it's some of the stuff we should have done.
FAVREAU: Right. Yes, yes.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: "The Washington Post" did a full six-part series about bloated federal bureaucracy during the Obama years -- on the cave, the VA, Medicare fraud, Social Security -- even Biden was pro-DOGE.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOE BIDEN, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: As long as there is waste and fraud in government and serious waste and fraud, people lose confidence in the ability of their government to do their job for them, deal with taxpayers' dollars.
And when taxpayers' money is wasted on fraudulent behavior, it robs the taxpayers not only of their money but undercuts accountability for us to serve the people who we are elected to serve.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Now, Democrats are screaming at DOGE for cleaning up the waste that frustrated them a decade ago.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. GREG CASAR (D-TX): The Trump-Musk administration wants to do is they want to look in your kids' lunch money. They want to take that money and give it out in billionaire tax cuts.
It is about helping Elon Musk and Donald Trump be as efficient as possible in robbing our government.
REP. ROBERT GARCIA (D-CA): Chairwoman Greene literally showed a (bleep) pick in Oversight congressional hearing, so I thought I would bring one as well.
Now, this of course, we know, is President Elon Musk. He is also the world's richest man.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Even the media is like, "Really?"
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN ANCHOR: Do you think that calling Elon Musk a (bleep) is effective messaging?
GARCIA: Well he is a (bleep).
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Well, this just in, the guy the Democrats are calling -- just discovered we were spending thousands of dollars on therapy sessions for transgender refugees in Greece. We obviously cancelled it.
Notice how none of the Democrats defending these specific programs are like, hey, we definitely need Greek shrinks for trans refugees. They are just acting busted.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
CLEAVER: Elon, take your musty millions and musty Moscow rights to the moon.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
CLEAVER: Because if you don't, we are going to stand up, we are going to speak out, we're going to march and we are going to do anything we need to do to make sure that the people of this country understand that the CFPB is for them. You get your musty hands off of our money or go to Moscow, you musty moo-moo.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: He said get your musty hands off our money. Cleaver just let the cat out of the bag. They think it is their money -- it is your money.
Even the media is defending this. Listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ANDERSON COOPER, CNN HOST, "ANDERSON COOPER: 360": Some of the details that have come out, like the $59 million spent on luxury hotels, it is actually not --
CHRIS SUNUNU (R), FORMER NEW HAMPSHIRE GOVERNOR: Are you talking about the FEMA money that was abused for migrants, that was --
ANDERSON COOPER, CNN HOST, "ANDERSON COOPER: 360": Yes.
SUNUNU: FEMA money for migrants, that's okay now?
COOPER: No, I am not saying it's okay. Don't put words in my mouth.
SUNUNU: So, would you stop that? Would you stop that process?
COOPER: Don't be a (bleep). The portrayal -- what I am saying is, the portraying by him is just not factually accurate. He is talking about. He is talking about luxury hotels.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: When you migrate from a farm in El Salvador and live in a Midtown Manhattan hotel for free, I would call that luxury. Maybe not to Anderson Cooper, but definitely to Jose who never left his village his whole life.
Singing and swearing is not working so Democrats are judge shopping. Liberal lawyers filed suit in Judge John McConnell's courtroom, an Obama appointee with a long list of donations to Biden, Schumer, Bill and Hillary. He ruled that Trump cannot freeze funds, but then was overruled and this thing is going all the way to the Supreme Court. Even AXIOS is saying Trump and DOGE will probably win.
And if they don't, it doesn't matter, because Democrats say that you can ignore the court.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BIDEN: When the Supreme Court told me I couldn't, I found two other ways to do it.
REP. ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ (D-NY): I believe that the Biden administration should ignore this ruling. It is the justices themselves through the deeply partisan and unfounded nature of these rulings.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Biden went around the Supreme Court to bribe college grads and bragged about it. Congress never gave him money to do that.
Trump is saving money. It is unconstitutional to save money? If Congress appropriates money and an unelected bureaucrats sends it to Greek shrinks to hear about trans refugee trauma, you can't cancel the contract?
Biden fired people who wanted to come to work, even though they weren't vaxxed. Trump can't fire people who don't want to come to work?
If it is illegal to cut spending and lay people off, this country is going to go bankrupt.
The media keeps asking the White House to bring receipts like they don't believe these programs exist. Oh, they do.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: These are screenshots of contracts that DOGE found across our government. This is a DEI contract, $36,000.00 for US Citizenship and Immigration Services. That is against the president policies and his America First agenda.
This is a $3.4 million contract, a counsel for Inclusive Innovation at the US Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce, another DEI contract that DOGE identified.
I can continue to go through these.
Oh, I love this one, 57,000 bucks for climate change in Sri Lanka. What is this doing to continue the interest of the American people? Absolutely nothing.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: We paid for a terrorist's tuition and then invited him for lunch at The Pentagon and served him smoked ham. Muslims don't even eat ham. That is the kind of pork we can get rid of.
The State Department spent $2.5 million to reduce emissions from cow flatulence in Brazil. How do you reduce cow flatulence? You can't change the cow's diet, all they do is graze on grass. Are they somehow capturing the flatulence? I would love to see that.
Someone got $1.5 million to monitor a mailroom, not even open or send the mail, just monitor it. How can anyone support this?
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: If you tell me that we should be giving money to those things, those entities, I think you probably have to as a reporter because you are not very talented.
There is no chance that there are not kickbacks or something going on. When you give millions and millions of dollars to somebody that stands to look at something for 15 minutes and walks away with millions of dollars, that money is coming back in some form, and that is only one form of corruption.
The biggest thing is what they do to our country, they are taking massive amounts of money and spending it on items -- I went through a list of 200 expenditures that were made and I found three that looked like they were reasonable.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: The president hired a rocket scientist to open up America's books. He is literally a rocket scientist.
The world's greatest IT guy -- Math, Accounting, Engineering, Computer Science, it's child's play. Musk found more fraud in three weeks than the House Oversight Committee found in 30 years.
When there is a problem with your computer at work or you need to streamline the payroll system, do you call the 75-year-old partner at his martini lunch? No. You call the young tech genius.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ROGAN: He is a super genius that has been (bleep) with, okay, and when you have been (bleep) with by these nitwits that hide behind three letter agencies and you are dealing with one of the smartest people alive and he helps Donald Trump get into office and he goes, I want to find out what kind of corruption is really around.
Well, you're (bleep) up. You're (bleep) up and picked the wrong psychopath on the spectrum because he is going to (bleep). He is going to hunt you down. He is going to find out what is going on and that is good, that is good for everybody. That is how you should be looking at this. Like wow, we have a brilliant mind that is examining these really (bleep) corrupt and goofy systems, and bringing in a bunch of psychopath wizards.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Musk is going from department to department. DOGErs are at the GSA, telling people to cancel meetings, sitting them down for interviews and asking, "What do you do?"
Every department should have to justify themselves.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REPORTER: How soon do you want the Department of Education to be closed?
TRUMP: I would like it to be closed immediately.
Look, the Department of Education is a big con job. We are ranked -- so they ranked the top 40 countries in the world, we are ranked number 40th, but we are ranked number one in one department, cost per pupil.
So we spend more per-pupil than any other country in the world.
Norway, Denmark, Sweden -- I hate to say it, China, as big as it is, it is ranked in the top five, and that is our -- that is a primary competitor.
We are ranked number 40. So if we are ranked number 40, that means something is wrong, right?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Democrat governors shut schools down for two years and our children's test scores flopped and they are mad we are DOGEing DEI classes. Something is seriously wrong with these people.
But we are not picking on people, every department is going to get DOGE'd.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PETE HEGSETH, US DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SECRETARY: There are waste redundancies and head counts in headquarters that need to be addressed. There is just no doubt.
Look at a lot of the climate programs that have been pursued at the Defense Department. The Defense Department is not in the business of climate change and solving the global thermostat. We are in the business of deterring and winning wars.
So things like that, we want to look for to find efficiencies and many others -- the way we acquire weapon systems, procurement. There are plenty of places where we want the Kenai of DOGE.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Golf legend, Phil Mickelson is saying this: "Dear Elon, please do California next."
The American people voted for this and the Supreme Court ruled that unelected bureaucrats can't make rules and regulations. So Trump is just following the law and neutralizing the runaway bureaucrats.
We have to stop this insane spending and release the hostages from the caves.
White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt joins me now.
How are you, Karoline?
LEAVITT: I'm doing very well, Jesse. Thanks for having me.
WATTERS: Of course.
So Obama knew about the retirement cave, spent millions to try to computerize America's workforce retirement paperwork, it failed. Does President Trump promise we are going to shut this cave down?
LEAVITT: Yes, he does. And that is why Elon Musk and President Trump brought it to the American people's attention in the Oval Office yesterday, and as they did that, Jesse, I was watching the faces of the mainstream media reporters who were in the Oval Office and there was sheer silence because it appeared that many of them who are supposed to be writing the truth about our federal bureaucracy had no idea that the federal retirement system is being processed deep into the ground and is not computerized.
And the president and Elon are shining a light on the truth about our federal government, but the mainstream media simultaneously is saying there is an alleged lack of transparency and access. It is preposterous.
Together, President Trump and Elon, the entire DOGE team and this entire administration are shining a light on the corruption, the waste, the fraud and abuse.
Sunlight is the best disinfectant and they are revealing the rock of this city every single day and it is music to the ears of the American people who voted for this as you rightly pointed out, 77 million of them liked what President Trump promised on the campaign trail and he is delivering and it is fascinating to watch.
WATTERS: Everyone is coming up to me, talking about these ridiculous items, the Guatemalan sex change surgeries, terrorist's tuition -- it is unbelievable.
The president, the other day, Karoline, said some of this has to be kickbacks. Is he going to direct Pam Bondi to look into some of these spending items to see if people were skimming?
LEAVITT: Well, he has already directed Elon Musk and DOGE to do just that, and of course the secretaries at all of these departments as well, who have signed secretarial orders to direct their staff at their respective agencies to cancel these contracts if they do not align with the president's America First agenda.
And so, all of these secretaries have been directed to go line by line and determine whether or not this funding advances America's interests.
And as you heard President Trump say in the Oval Office today, the vast majority of these contracts that America has been dishing out do not align with the American people's interests. They are the antithesis of putting America First and it has been a complete waste and abuse of the American taxpayers' hard-earned dollars.
And so, the entire administration is on board with this effort and it is about time that people in the city treat the federal government as a business.
Small business owners across the country have to look at their money in and their money out every single day. Bureaucrats have never done that and that is the other irony and the mainstream media saying that there is no transparency.
I mean, before it was Elon Musk and President Trump doing this and being highly scrutinized for it, it was just unnamed bureaucrats in the city that nobody knew just writing checks.
And finally, we are actually looking at the books and what they are revealing is truly appalling, but I guess not surprising when you look at the way that Washington has been run for decades.
Again, the American people voted for this monumental change and that is exactly what they are getting.
WATTERS: You know, you showed some receipts today, like they didn't believe these things existed. If you show these people in the press room, this is $2.5 million for cow flatulence reduction.
Do any of these reporters make a case for $2.5 mil for cow flatulence reduction in Brazil?
LEAVITT: Well, they tried to make the case yesterday for $50 million in condoms to Gaza saying that they actually went to another country, as if that's any better. The point is that we are discovering this egregious misuse of American taxpayer funds.
And yes, Jesse, we have the receipts and I will continue to pull them at every briefing if they continue to ask and we will provide that information. We have nothing to hide.
Again, President Trump is exposing what the American people want him to do.
WATTERS: All right, Karoline, we look forward to your briefings, they are very entertaining and informative.
Good luck.
LEAVITT: Thank you, Jesse.
WATTERS: Pam Bondi is pressing charges against one of Trump's biggest enemies.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: Fox News Alert: Pam Bondi is coming down hard on the resistance. The DOJ just slapped charges on New York Governor Kathy Hochul and Attorney General Tish James for protecting illegals from federal law enforcement.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BONDI: We are here today because we have filed charges against the state of New York. We have filed charges against Kathy Hochul. We have filed charged against Letitia James and Mark Schroeder who is with DMV.
This is a new DOJ and we are taking steps to protect Americans, American citizens and Angel Moms like the moms standing right behind me.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: And now, we are learning Hochul has cancelled a trip to the White House that was supposed to take place tomorrow.
New York is handing out driver's license to illegals and then blocking ICE from accessing their database and Bondi is making an example out of them.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BONDI: New York has chosen to prioritize illegal aliens over American citizens. We are giving a greenlight to any illegal alien in New York where law enforcement officers cannot check their identity if they pull them over. Law enforcement officers do not have access to their background.
And if these great men and women pull over someone and don't have access to their background, they have no idea who they are dealing with.
If you are a state not complying with federal law, you are next. Get ready.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: This is not revenge, it just so happens that the people who have weaponized the government against Trump were also the ones breaking the law and we didn't have to make up this law. This law is on the books.
And relax, MSNBC, they're not trying to throw Tish James in jail or bankrupt her, this is not a civil or even criminal case. They just want her to do her job and protect American citizens over illegal aliens.
George Washington Law Professor and Constitutional Law attorney, Jonathan Turley is here. So this is really Tish James in court with the feds now for the rest of the year at least because she has been breaking the law and sabotaging the federal effort to go get these aliens out of here?
JONATHAN TURLEY, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: This is going to be a very interesting fight and there is nothing subtle about this. This is sort of smash mouth litigation saying we are at odds and we are going to have to resolve this in the courts.
This is part of a general move by the Trump administration to go ahead and get these fights going. They want to establish the rules and President Trump said look, I will comply with court orders that go against me, I will appeal them. But we want judicial review.
So, this is an important step to try to establish what the rules here really are.
One of the interesting aspects about the case against New York is that its law has a provision that is called a tip-off provision, so that an unlawful immigrant is told whether the federal authorities have inquired about your status.
And the federal officials are saying well, what gives with that? You are basically giving a tip-off to someone that we are trying to apprehend, what do you think their response would be?
WATTERS: They have an illegal alien tip-line here so the feds can't find these guys? Is that we were telling me? So, let me get this straight. You have a Biden migrant who breaks into the country, gets released into the country, commits crimes, okay, gets out, they don't do anything.
Gets a driver's license and all the Feds want to do is go inside the database to see where these people live, get their license, get their address and they are blocking them from that? And then if they try to access it, they call the migrant and say that ICE is on their back?
TURLEY: Yes, the important distinction there, Jesse, is that there is a line of cases in the Supreme Court called anti-commandeering cases, and in those cases, which rest on states' rights, the court has said look, you can't require the state to carry out federal functions and federal policies.
But that tip-off provision is an active effort that works against federal enforcement and that may make that provision distinct in the eyes of the court.
So all of this has got to shake out in the courts, but at the same time, it is important for Congress to focus on grants and funding of cities and states. There is no reason in my view, why the federal government has to give grants to jurisdictions that are actively undermining federal efforts and that will also have to be litigated, but they need to press on both fronts and I think they are.
WATTERS: All right, well, it is interesting to see Tish James on her heels.
Jonathan Turley, thank you so much, a constitutional scholar.
LEAVITT: Thank you.
WATTERS: What a beautiful resume.
Well what is going on here?
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED PERSON: Can you look at me and tell me how many of my friends need to die before you do anything? Look at me.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Please wrap up. Okay, we are all done here.
UNIDENTIFIED PERSON: (Bleep). Pathetic.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're all done.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: The Democrat machine has been smashed to pieces and they don't have a mechanic with the tools to fix it. Nobody watches liberal media, welfare is dead, all the hoaxes have been debunked. Cancel culture is cancelled and the left cannot censor you.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. AYANNA PRESSLEY (D-MA): We are all willing to work with anyone who is serious about doing the work of censoring the American people and advancing progress.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Democrats lost their weapons. Their protests are lame, the only one getting giddy is Maddow.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
RACHEL MADDOW, MSNBC HOST: At a Tesla dealership showroom thing in Manhattan. This is from a big crowd turning out there with very good signage. This is a pretty good one. Bad DOGE.
Laughs1
MADDOW: We've been wondering if we should call -- why do we say DOGE, right? Like why are playing along with the joke and their framing of it? There is just as much of a case that we should be calling it Dog-E.
(LAUGHTER)
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Schumer told us Democrats were getting aroused, but it turns out people are pissed.
The top brass at the party is mad at liberal groups that keep calling congressional offices telling them to fight harder. One Democrat answered the phone and said just call the Republicans, please.
Democrats have given up until the midterms, but "Morning Joe" is not buying it.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOE SCARBOROUGH, MSNBC HOST: I'm a bit frustrated when I hear about how helpless Democrats are, because they are the minority in the Senate, because they're the minority in the House.
I keep hearing about how the Democrat -- poor Democrats are so helpless that they cannot do anything. No, they are elected and they are elected to do just this. I mean, the minority in the United States Senate always, always has power.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: The only thing Schumer could cook up to fight Trump was a Deep State snitch line where people were supposed to rat on Republicans, but it backfired.
Chuck has been flooded with reports of insider trading, relationships with Chinese spies and complaints about Fauci. Oops.
No one is listening to Democrat leaders so they are calling in their kids for backup.
Tim Walz's daughter is on the frontlines.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
HOPE WALZ, TIM WALZ'S DAUGHTER: Signing an executive order that pertains to one percent of the population is not protecting women and it is loser behavior.
I have never felt unsafe around a trans person. I have felt unsafe around men, so maybe let's deal with that.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: You feel unsafe around men, that's why Trump is keeping them out of your locker room. He is going to protect you, whether you like it or not.
But there is a small feisty group of people that want to change that.
Wister, Massachusetts held a vote on whether it should become a transgender sanctuary city.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED PERSON: Normally, I would say good evening, but through the chair, I will only impart my sour grapes.
DEWEY PASGROVE ATIENZA, TRANS PERSON: My name in drag is Stevie Delight and my name out of drag his, Dewey Pasgrove Atienza (ph).
PASTOR JULIE PANBRITAIN, TRANS PERSON: My name is pastor Julie Panbritain (ph). I use the pronouns she and her and I am disabled, cisgender lesbian.
UNIDENTIFIED PERSON: I speak as both the B and the T in the LGBT. I speak as someone who is always misgendered like all the time. People refer to me as sir, when I prefer to be referred to as, ma'am.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: That is the new face of the resistance. The golden age put them in a dark place.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED PERSON: I'm shaking right now. I don't want to be here. I'm sorry, am I taking too long pleading for my life?
UNIDENTIFIED PERSON: I need the city to protect me because the federal government won't. And if you think you are afraid of Trump, you should see how afraid of Trump I am.
You better prepare for trans people to make this a very unsafe space.
UNIDENTIFIED PERSON: I do not want to be here. It is my day off. I don't want to spend an hour applying glitter on my face so that you will hear and see me.
UNIDENTIFIED PERSON: Can you look at me and tell me how many of my friends need to die before you do anything?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Please wrap up.
UNIDENTIFIED PERSON: Look at me.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Okay, we are all done here.
UNIDENTIFIED PERSON: (Bleep) pathetic.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We are all done.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: It would not be a drag show without a musical number.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
(GROUP singing)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Oh, my gosh.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: All know how to do is swear, sue and sing.
Wister saw all of that and sided with the drag squad. It is now a trans sanctuary city.
But that is not going to stop Trump from penetrating the city lines. If illegals cannot hide from Homan in Chicago, men cannot sneak into girls bathrooms in Massachusetts.
This is a desperate play. We are less than one month into Trump's presidency and they are making new sanctuary cities and calling for reparations.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. SUMMER LEE (D-PA): Our government, no matter who is in power, has an obligation to right these wrongs. To provide reparations for descendants of enslaved Africans to eliminate the racial wealth gap and uplift the Black community. White Supremacy is rampant in this country. Just look at the current administration.
REP. BONNIE WATSON COLEMAN (D-NJ):Black excellence scares Donald Trump. It scares Stephen miller and it scares Elon Musk because, you know what? Deep down, they recognize their own mediocrity.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: While Democrats are complaining, Trump is working around the clock. He held a press conference at 10:00 at night to welcome home Marc Fogel, an American hostage who he promised to free during the campaign.
Fogel was arrested by Russia in 2021 and then detained for three years. Biden could not get him out, but Trump brought him home in less than a month.
Fogel sung Trump's praises while holding a can of beer from his home state of PA.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
FOGEL: I feel like the luckiest man on Earth right now. And I want you to know that I am not a hero in this at all and President Trump is a hero.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: A second American prisoner was just released from Belarus earlier today.
Trump's motor will not stop running, even his own family is impressed.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KAI TRUMP, PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP'S GRANDDAUGHTER: Grandpa hardly sleeps.
DONALD TRUMP, JR., FORMER PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP'S SON: Yes. He is -- he is a whole different animal, like I mean, during the end of the campaign --
KAI TRUMP: It's insane.
DONALD TRUMP, JR.: When I watched a 78-year-old man do two all-nighters and a row, and like, I'm dying. I mean, we were on the plane coming back and he puts on music and he is doing Trump DJ and I'm like, I just want to go to bed.
The guy, after two all-nighters, he goes right on like national television, like, "Morning Joe." Like, it matters.
KAI TRUMP: It's crazy for like what he does in his age, I think it's crazy.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Arkansas' governor Sarah Huckabee Sanders is a former White House press secretary.
How are you, Governor?
GOV. SARAH HUCKABEE SANDERS (R-AR): I am doing great. Thanks for having me on tonight.
WATTERS: you have any trans sanctuary cities in Arkansas?
SANDERS: We most certainly don't, and all that I see when I'm watching these desperate political stunts is a reminder of how thankful I am that Donald Trump is in the White House.
Honestly, it is sad and laughable what is taking place and just shows how out of touch the woke left really is. After losing so badly in November, you would think that they might try to change tactics, change courses but they don't.
While they are having these ridiculous displays, Donald Trump is literally freeing hostages and welcoming them into the White House. What a contrast. What a difference of what real leadership looks like and I'm thankful that we have Donald Trump back there fighting for all of us.
WATTERS: If freeing hostages is not a Republican or Democrat issue, neither is cutting waste, fraud and abuse. Why do you think, Governor, the Democrats are moving radical left? They just got whacked in November and now we're hearing about reparations, trans sanctuary cities and God knows what else.
SANDERS: I am honestly almost at a loss for words. It is truly baffling to see that they don't understand where the American public is.
Donald Trump won an overwhelming victory because people wanted something different. They wanted somebody who would actually secure our borders instead of opening them up wide. They wanted somebody that would be respected across the globe.
They wanted somebody who would bring our people back home, bring law and order to our country, and get rid of the absolute waste.
America is $36 trillion in debt. We should be looking at all of the waste and fraud. The president is spot on to go after all of these insane programs, get rid of them and make sure we are actually using taxpayer money wisely.
He has not stopped since the day he stepped into office and I don't think he is going to over the next four years.
I think that the Democrats are terrified at what all he is going to find. Maybe they are using this as a distraction and it's really the only thing I can think of that makes sense why they are continuing down this road.
WATTERS: Yes, they definitely are acting guilty, like they got caught with their hand in the cookie jar. Real quick because we have to go, what is the one thing you notice differently about Donald Trump in the second term?
SANDERS: Look, I think this is a person who now has been there and has experience. He is moving at a rapid lightning speed at which Joe Biden did not do in all four years of office what President Trump has already been able to accomplish just in the first few weeks.
I think this is a person who is motivated and has a very clear priority list and he is going to get it all done and get it done quickly.
WATTERS: All right, checking a lot of boxes.
Good to see you, Governor. Say to everybody, hello from Watters' World down in Arkansas.
Well, Trump just kicked a reporter out of the Oval Office. We will tell you what happened.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: Time for Watters' Cooler.
Let's bring in Fox News host, Julie Banderas.
There is a youthful energy back in the White House and it is not just because Biden is gone. Thanks to JD and Usha Vance, children have finally returned to the White House.
And Elon is bringing Little X to the Oval.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: X, are you okay? This is X. And he is a great guy. High IQ. He is a high IQ individual.
ELON MUSK, DIRECTOR, DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT EFFICIENCY: Sorry for this. Although I might seem to enjoy this, but he is sticking his fingers in my ears, so it's a bit hard to hear sometimes.
Hey, stop that.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Well, he stole the show.
JULIE BANDERAS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL ANCHOR: That was very cute. At one point he said to the president, you need to go away, which I thought was amazing.
I love the honesty of children, that's like the best part of being a parent, is just getting the honesty, I don't know how brutally honest your children are with you. Have they ever told you, you look fat?
WATTERS: Yes.
BANDERAS: Yes? Seriously? My kids would be like --
WATTERS: Like my daughters were 13 when they said it.
BANDERAS: Oh, no, I meant your little ones. Okay, that is really sad.
WATTERS: Emma was like, you can't say that guys, that's mean.
BANDERAS: That's hysterical. That's so funny. No, but kids just bring this innocence and joy and it is really sweet and is actually really funny to watch Elon Musk who is like, one of the most powerful people in the world having a kid on his shoulder sticking his fingers in his ears.
WATTERS: I think, every press conference you should have children on your shoulder going forward. That would be my executive order if I were president.
The Gulf of Mexico is officially dead. It is now the Gulf of America.
But not everyone is getting the memo. The Associated Press is sticking with Mexico, and now, they are banned from the oval office. Here is why.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
LEAVITT: I was very upfront in my briefing on day one that if we feel like there are lies being pushed by outlets in this room, we are going to hold those lies accountable.
And it is a fact that the body of water off the Coast of Louisiana is called the Gulf of America, and I'm not sure why news outlets don't want to call it that, but that is what it is.
Apple has recognized that, Google has recognized that, pretty much every other outlet in this room has recognized that body of water as the Gulf of America.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Julie Banderas, you are Mexican, do you recognize that?
BANDERAS: Oh God. I mean, first of all, I don't even know why they care. Like, are they from Mexico? Is the AP a Mexican news outlet and they are offended by this? Like, it has been changed, get over it.
And you know what? Under the Biden administration, they didn't like the conservative media either, it goes both ways. Come on, they didn't like it.
WATTERS: Kick them out. Kick them out and kick some other out while you're at it. I have a list. Not an enemies list, we don't have those.
BANDERAS: No, we don't have enemies. What are you talking about?
WATTERS: Never.
And for the moment you have all been waiting for, a question men have been asking themselves for generations. What do women want Valentine's Day?
BANDERAS: Valentine's Day sucks. I have always gone on the record with this. But I believe roses. Roses and a nice dinner.
WATTERS: Oh, dinner, too.
BANDERAS: It has to be dinner.
WATTERS: I was excited with it just being roses.
BANDERAS: Dude, you're not getting out of dinner. Would you stop it. Take her to dinner.
WATTERS: I -- dinner time is now. I can't go to dinner on the show.
BANDERAS: Oh, that's right.
WATTERS: Maybe a nice romantic breakfast.
BANDERAS: Call out sick.
WATTERS: Call out sick?
BANDERAS: Yes.
WATTERS: Now, I can't. We have already announced that I am going to call out sick.
BANDERAS: All right, well, then take her out to dinner on Saturday.
WATTERS: Saturday night.
BANDERAS: But a romantic dinner, and also by the way on Friday night, it is impossible to get a reservation anyway.
WATTERS: All right.
BANDERAS: Do it on Saturday.
WATTERS: So we can move around the days. I learned a lot just now.
BANDERAS: Yes.
WATTERS: Thank you.
BANDERAS: And some lingerie would be nice.
WATTERS: Okay.
BANDERAS: Oh, we are out of time.
WATTERS: You were doing so well.
BANDERAS: I was going to give you more, but no more time.
WATTERS: More PRIMETIME straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: Singing along to music in the car is good for your health. I read that in some study in this book I'm reading. It supposed to boost your dopamine or endorphins or something like that. That's all I know, but I've been doing it by myself obviously and it works, so try it. Sing alone to music in the car.
Let's do texts.
Joe from Flowery Branch, Georgia: They always say it doesn't take a rocket scientist, but in our government's case, it does.
Lester from Arbutus, Maryland: Hey, I installed computers in the cave back in the 90s. The people who work there are patriots.
Yes, there are computers in the cave, but it's all paper. They have to take what's on the computer, put it on to paper and then write -- it's a long story. Yes, it's a lot of paper.
Diane from Merrill, Wisconsin: Those Democrat singers would sound great in the cave.
The acoustics in the retirement cave are phenomenal.
Chris from Detroit: Can I get the number for Schumer's snitch line? The Mickey D's here is still using paper straws.
Sarah from Tuscaloosa, Alabama: I love ending my night watching you.
Met, too.
I'm Watters, this is my world.

Load-Date: February 13, 2025


End of Document
