




MailOnline
January 28, 2025 Tuesday 6:30 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:2
Length: 916 words
Byline: Emily Goodin, Senior White House Correspondent
Body


Trump tried to make it easier to fire federal workers in his first term
Joe Biden overturned Trump efforts
                     President Donald Trump is pushing ahead with his plan to make it easier to fire federal employees, blasting past roadblocks Joe Biden put in his path and giving agencies just 90 days to respond to his order.It's the latest in Trump's moves to shake up the federal government, coming after he froze foreign and domestic federal aid, and got rid of his first round of civil servants.Trump tried to purge the federal work force in his first term but ran out of time. Now the Office of Personnel Management announced a rebranded effort as part of Trump's war on the government.The OPM memo outlined a new designation for federal employees called: 'Schedule Career/Policy.' It is what Trump called 'Schedule F' when he pushed this plan in his first term.And the heads of federal agencies are given 90 days - until April 20th - to review all the positions in their agency to find those that fit into the 'policy-determining, policy-making, or policy-advocating character.'The OPM memo specifically orders employees who 'are not normally subject to change as a result of a Presidential transition' to be reviewed - those are employees who usually have broad protections from being fired or suspended.It could impact hundreds of thousands of federal workers. [item name=video id=6952159 style=2 /]It is the latest step in Trump's greater plan to purge the federal government of those who disagree with his agenda. 
Trump wants to have the power to easily fire federal workers, which has brought fears he will fire career employees who have different political ideologies.The OPM memo, however, says Schedule Policy/Career positions 'are not required to personally or politically support the current president or the policies of the current administration.'But they are expected to be loyal to the Trump administration.'They are required to faithfully implement administration policies to the best of their ability, consistent with their constitutional oath and the vesting of executive authority solely in the president,' the memo states. 'Failure to do so is grounds for dismissal.'Already Trump has targeted federal employees who don't agree with him. On Monday, he has suspended dozens of government officials for trying to circumvent his executive order on freezing all foreign aid.He also fired the inspectors general from more than a dozen federal agencies in a Friday night purge. His executive order terminating all federal diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) programs has sidelined 395 government bureaucrats.And he's worked on clearing out Justice Department staff who worked with special counsel Jack Smith, who led the prosecutions against him.Finally, his DOGE - Department of Government Efficiency - is looking to do even more. Trump has long argued there is a 'deep state' at work in the bowels of the federal government, blaming it for his many woes in his first administration. In 2020, during the final weeks of his first term, Trump issued an executive order creating a new class of federal workers known as Schedule F.Those staffers would be exempt from the country's traditional merit-based civil service program. And opponents argued it was an attempt to hire and fire people based on their political loyalty.Joe Biden, when he came into office in January 2021, rescinded that order.Then-President Biden then took it one step further last spring, when he issued a new rule that strengthens existing rights for career federal workers by making it clear that civil service protections cannot be taken away from employees unless they give them up voluntarily.In other words, Biden tried to make it nearly impossible for Trump to classify current federal employees under a Schedule F type order.But Acting OPM Director Charles Ezell, in the OPM memo, argues President Trump has the constitutional authority to unilaterally rescind regulations governing federal personnel issues.'President Trump used his authority under the Constitution and [Title 5 of the U.S. Code] to directly nullify these regulations,' Ezell wrote. 'Section 4 of [the order] provides that, until OPM effectuates their formal rescission '[these regulations] shall be held inoperative and without effect.' This presidential directive immediately superseded OPM regulations issued using delegated presidential authority.'And he sees the new Trump order applying to a lot of federal workers. Ezell wrote that agencies should consider 'rescheduling' positions involved in:
Directing the work of an organizational unit
Being held accountable for the success of one or more specific programs or projects
Substantive participation and discretionary authority in agency grantmaking including 'evaluation of grant applications
Those publicly advocating for the policies of the agency or the administration, including before the news media or on social media
Currently, federal employees are entitled to notice of a removal, an opportunity to reply, representation by an attorney and a written decision. They can also appeal the removal to the Merit Systems Protection Board or file a grievance under the terms of a collective bargaining agreement. 
The National Treasury Employees Union, on behalf of employees in 36 federal agencies, has filed a lawsuit against Trump's order. 
Union President Doreen Greenwald said the new classification would lead to 'political loyalty tests' for public employees.

Load-Date: January 28, 2025


End of Document
