




Fox News THE WILL CAIN SHOW 4:50 PM EST
January 29, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; International
Length: 1829 words
Byline: Will Cain
Guests: Pete Hegseth
Body


WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: All right, now to the leader of the other department involved in this, the new defense secretary. It says in the prompter "my friend." I think I can say my friend.
Pete Hegseth joins us for his very first interview since being confirmed.
Mr. Secretary, great to see you here today.
PETE HEGSETH, U.S. DEFENSE SECRETARY: Great to see you too, the host of "The Will Cain Show." Up and out, man. Congratulations on a fantastic show. Love watching it. Great to see you. Nothing but blue sky ahead.
CAIN: My plan was to score this very first interview with the secretary of defense, promote it, and build up to an hour-long sit-down.
Instead, it was a phone call in the middle of a commercial break, because you want to talk to us and everyone watching America about this new order from President Trump to house some 30,000 criminal illegal immigrants at Guantanamo Bay.
HEGSETH: Yes.
To piggyback on what Secretary Noem said, first of all, DOD and DHS are in complete partnership behind President Trump`s mission to secure the southern border. Everyone watching your show understands that that responsibility was completely abdicated for four years under the Biden administration.
We have seen an invasion of criminal gangs, of human trafficking, of drug trafficking that`s completely unacceptable. And so you saw on day one from President Trump executive orders reestablishing the military, the military specifically, commitment to protecting the territorial sovereignty of the southern border, which is a shift.
The military has been in support of DHS, and rightfully -- and, in many ways, rightfully so, for a long time. We have allowed an invasion. That needs to stop. The president declares an emergency. We`re committed to that.
So we have sent troops, both National Guard and Reserve, but also active- duty, to the southern border, Marines to the southern border, both to assist in CBP and DHS in interdictions, but also to help fortify the border wall that President -- President Biden allowed to become more dilapidated with gaps and others. We`re filling those gaps.
Ultimately, we`re also providing, for the first time ever, Will, ever, gray tails, as we call them, military aircraft to support mass deportations. As CBP finds criminal aspects and others who are here illegally, DOD is there to support exporting those folks to other countries.
Now, in some cases, that`s taken some time. And President Trump has been very clear with those countries that, if you aren`t willing to take your criminals back, your illegals back, then we will hold you accountable, and things have shifted quickly. In other cases, we want somewhere else to hold them safely in the interim, criminal illegals.
Guantanamo Bay, Will, is a perfect place. I served there from 2004 to 2005. Americans think of Gitmo as the images you see on your screen, right, the detention facilities with folks from the Taliban and Al Qaeda. Those are the people I guarded in Camp 5 and Camp 5 and Camp X-Ray. That`s one part of Guantanamo Bay.
The other part of Guantanamo Bay, Will, is a Naval station, where it has long been for decades a mission of that Naval station to provide for migrants and refugees and resettlement. So, there are places -- this is not the camps.
CAIN: Right.
HEGSETH: You`re not putting criminals in camps where ISIS and other criminals -- there`s a -- this is a temporary transit, which is already the mission of Naval Station Guantanamo Bay, where we can plus up thousands and tens of thousands, if necessary, to humanely move illegals out of our country, where they do not belong, back to the countries where they came from in proper process.
CAIN: So, I want to make sure I understand this, the way you have described it.
Of course, the image is going to be evoked by many people, when you say Guantanamo Bay, is going to be the prison side of Guantanamo Bay.
HEGSETH: Right.
CAIN: And the question is, are you treating illegal immigrants the same way you treated Khalid Sheikh Mohammed?
What you`re telling us is, and I know this to be true, Guantanamo has been used for illegal immigrants dating back, I think it`s 30 years. Bill Clinton used it for something very similarly back in the 1990s. So you`re going to be using it as a way station, in essence, where criminal illegal immigrants are not yet accepted by their home country?
Describe -- is -- do I have that correctly? And if that`s the case, describe for me the kind of illegal immigrant that will be sent to Guantanamo.
HEGSETH: More or less, you`re right.
It`s folks who maybe are in transit to their home country or a safe third harbor country, and it`s taking a little time to move with that processing of the paperwork. Better they be held at a safe location, like Guantanamo Bay, which is meant and built for migrants, meant and built to sustain that, away from the American people as they are processed properly to where they came from.
And one -- I mean, I could break down for you the locations at Gitmo, because I -- it`s burned in my brain. I spent so much time there.
CAIN: Right.
HEGSETH: They`re built for it. One of them is the golf course on the Naval station, which can be expanded to provide an additional 6,000 places where migrants or illegals could go.
So this is a plan in movement, but not in movement because we`re behind, but because we`re ramping up for the possibility to expand mass deportations, because President Trump is dead serious about getting illegal criminals out of our country. And the DOD is not only willing to, is proud to partner with DHS to defend the sovereignty of our southern border and advance that mission.
CAIN: I want to ask you about General Mark Milley.
His photo, his portrait was taken down at the Pentagon. He has -- I think there is currently a commission being put together to explore whether or not he should be demoted. His security clearances have been taken away.
Tell me the thought process both there at the Pentagon at the White House with Mark Milley.
HEGSETH: Accountability is back, Will.
It`s the understanding that, if you actively undermined the chain of command, as General Milley did under the previous Trump administration, we`re going to review those actions administratively inside the Defense Department. Mark Milley got a pardon. That`s something President Biden was in his purview to do, just like, in our purview at the Defense Department, we have the opportunity to review things he may have done inside the chain of command while President Trump was president that undermined those authorities.
So, security clearance in the interim is revoked. There will be a review of his -- of his -- the rank he will retain upon retirement, and he will have that process. But this is a demonstration that, inside President Trump`s Defense Department, we`re going to hold not just -- not just junior levels, the mid-level, the highest levels possible accountable for actions.
And that`s what -- the signal this is meant to send.
CAIN: Well, I know you have been busy. I haven`t got many return texts. I certainly had my phone calls go straight to voice-mail.
You have been busy. And one of the things you have been busy with is addressing DEI right off the bat. We just had, by the way, Mr. Secretary, an interview with an Air Force brigadier general that talked about what he encountered with DEI over his time essentially as a mole inside the Air Force and what they tried to do.
It was one of the first thing you did. You wrote -- you wrote, it looked like on a notepad: "DOD does not equal DEI."
What`s being done right now to cut out DEI in the military?
HEGSETH: Well, President Trump put out the executive order on it. We have got our directive coming out today. It might out -- even be out already.
And I think President Trump said it perfect in his inaugural address, which is what we`re reinforcing in our directive as well. DOD will be colorblind and merit-based, colorblind, as it has been, and merit-based, as it should be, because, as you know better than anybody, DEI sends the opposite signals. It`s picking winners and losers. It`s pitting people against each other based on their color, their background or their gender.
The Defense Department is in the business of fighting and winning wars, the highest of possible stakes. We want the best people, regardless of backgrounds, competing for those positions, ready to fight, accountable to their senior leaders. DEI does not do that.
Not only does it not do it. It undermines it. So, everyone`s going to be treated equally, based on merit. And we`re making sure across the Army and the Navy and the Marine Corps and the Space Force that`s happening. There`s no hedging here, Will. We`re not joking around.
There`s no changing of names or softly manipulating something. DEI is gone. We`re ripping it out root and branch, and we`re getting back to the basics with high standards. And guess what? The force is responding, because that`s what they want. They want to be war fighters.
CAIN: OK, I told you just a moment ago, this doesn`t count. This little interview we just did for 10 minutes together, I`m super honored that I`m your first interview as secretary of defense, but this doesn`t count.
We`re going to have a sit-down together. We`re going to figure it out.
But I`m going to ask you one of my questions right now. I watched you on Saturday.
HEGSETH: Right.
CAIN: I watched your wife, Jen. I watched all of those kids, and you gave a hug to them right after you were confirmed.
I wish I could have been there. I would have asked you that day, man, how do you feel? How did that moment feel, to be confirmed, hug your family, kiss your wife as secretary of defense?
HEGSETH: Well, thank you for the question, Will.
What an honor. And I said it then, and I will say it today. All glory to God. His will be done in this process. I couldn`t have done it without my lord and savior, Jesus Christ, and without my wife. You know her, Will, who she is, how strong she is. Jenny has been behind my side this entire time.
And what an absolute humbling honor to have a chance to represent the fighting men and women of this country. So, it was a sigh of relief that one process was over, Will, hug my family and say, we`re in this together.
And I know you wanted to be there, brother. So I -- you will get that interview. I will salute as a sign that that`s going to happen.
(LAUGHTER)
HEGSETH: And I look forward to it.
CAIN: All right, thank you so much.
I know. I knew and I know you had to get straight to work, and we appreciate the work that you`re doing for America.
Your new secretary of defense, Pete Hegseth.
HEGSETH: Thanks, Will.
CAIN: Thank you.
All right, there you have it. There`s your first exclusive interview. Didn`t know it was going to happen today, or we would have promoted it a little bit. But I promise you, we will be giving more interviews, getting more interviews, and giving them to you here from the heart of America, getting to the heart of what matters here on "The Will Cain Show."

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
