



Fox News THE WILL CAIN SHOW 4:00 PM EST
January 22, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; International
Length: 7008 words
Byline: Charlie Hurt, Peter Doocy, Will Cain
Guests: Stephen A. Smith, Rand Paul, Abe Hamadeh, Brandon Gill, Dave Rubin
Body


WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: One key promise made, one key promise kept.
I'm Will Cain, and this is "The Will Cain Show" live from the heartland.
President Trump told us that he would end DEI in America.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I will eliminate all diversity, equity and inclusion programs across the entire federal government.
(CHEERING)
TRUMP: We will terminate every diversity, equity and inclusion program across the entire federal government.
(CHEERING)
TRUMP: On day one I will revoke Joe Biden's crazy executive order, installing Marxist diversity, equity and inclusion czars in every federal agency.
(CHEERING)
TRUMP: And I will immediately terminate all staffers hired to implement this horrible agenda.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Now he's doing it.
In one hour, at 5:00 p.m. Eastern time, federal agencies must begin closing all DEI offices and put those employees on paid leave.
So, as we start getting back to merit-based opportunity, let's go to our Peter Doocy at the White House for the latest on this DEI action -- Peter.
PETER DOOCY, FOX NEWS SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: And, Will, it's now less than an hour until all those federally controlled DEI offices will be closed. They will at least be empty because all of the workers are going to be placed on paid leave and all of their Web sites and social media pages have to be by 5:00 tonight taken offline.
And President Trump is explaining his issue with all of this in the executive order. He writes, in part: "These illegal DEI and DEIA policies also threaten the safety of American men, women and children across the nation by diminishing the importance of individual merit, aptitude, hard work and determination when selecting people for jobs and services in key sectors of American society, including all levels of government and the medical, aviation and law enforcement communities."
The prior administration shelled out 16 million taxpayer dollars worth of diversity training in 2023 alone. We don't know what the Trump team plans to do with the millions that had been set aside for these DEI priorities. Something else that is happening, the only Trump Cabinet member to be confirmed so far sent a note to everybody that works for the State Department, that is the secretary of state, the new secretary of state, Marco Rubio.
And he is instructing all U.S. outposts around the world, there are hundreds, that they can no longer fly things like the BLM flag or the Pride flag there. They can only fly American flags -- Will.
CAIN: Incredible, Peter.
Help me understand or get some sense of expectation of the visuals a little bit later today. Will there be employees walking out with boxes, having cleaned out their offices, former DEI employees walking out of federal buildings?
DOOCY: Yes, somebody has got to go and turn off the lights and lock the door. And so I don't think that it's going to be something that's happening en masse, because these are not all huge offices, but they did have a huge impact, as the president describes, on hiring practices and on staffing with the federal government.
And this isn't something that applies to private businesses, at least not yet. We will see if President Trump tries to put forth something that would be more of a blanket law for all employees in the country right now. It just applies to the people that he can directly control, and that are -- that would be federal workers.
CAIN: I got to ask you about Monday night, Peter. That must have been fun, that 60-minute freewheeling Q&A session from the Oval Office as President Trump signed executive orders. It pulled my attention away from Ohio State- Notre Dame.
But you were in the room directing him to the letter left to him by Joe Biden. This has to have felt incredibly different, Peter, from the way you were doing your work for the last four years under Biden.
DOOCY: Yes, and I didn't really cover the first Trump administration, so all that I knew was the Biden way of doing things, where you go into the Oval Office and you have a staffer that they call a wrangler because they basically just wrangle members of the press and photographers around, a wrangler yelling in my face, OK, thank you, press, thank you, no questions.
And the president, he will go over at the chair next to the fireplace or at the desk, and he's just smiling, just trying to pretend like he can't hear us until we're all gone. So it's totally different.
And something remarkable, historymaking, that this president did today, so, on Monday night, just out of complete curiosity, I asked him about this Biden letter, and he did a big dramatic reveal. He opened the desk drawer, didn't take it out right away, just maximum suspense.
Today, this afternoon, I had a chance to read the letter. I think I'm one of the only people that has not been elected president that has actually held this letter in their hands. And it was -- as advertised yesterday by the president, it was an inspirational message, but short.
And President Biden, I can report, has very hard-to-read cursive handwriting.
(LAUGHTER)
CAIN: Yes. That's -- well, that's understandable at 80-some-odd years of age. I did think the letter that you revealed earlier today was classy from former President Biden.
I thought it was an incredible display of confidence from President Trump to take any and all questions and think out loud the answers as you fired away on Monday. I can't wait to see the work you do over the next four years. And, hopefully, you will do it right here as well on "The Will Cain Show."
Thank you, Peter.
DOOCY: We will be...
CAIN: I do not think you can overstate the importance of Donald Trump killing DEI, because I truly believe that DEI could have killed America.
My big three takeaways. Number one, President Trump caged the end of DEI in language calling back to civil rights. From America's founding and then growing through the civil rights era, we have had a focus on the individual. We have wanted to see each other through character and ability and not through our superficial characteristics.
So it's inspiring to hear President Trump write: "Illegal DEI and DEI policies not only violate the text and spirit of our longstanding federal civil rights laws. They also undermine our national unity, as they deny, discredit and undermine the traditional American values of hard work, excellence and individual achievement in favor of an unlawful, corrosive and pernicious identity-based spoil system."
That brings me to number two. DEI is a cancer. It's a cancer that destroys merit and incentive and it pits the American people against one another. We are a one people. We are not people broken up into different tribes.
And if we institute a policy that forces us into our tribes based upon our skin color or whatever the current fashion of ideology may be, it could end America. This kind of language is the type of thing that is a cancer.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REV. AL SHARPTON, CIVIL RIGHTS ACTIVIST: Why do we have DEI? We have DEI because you denied us diversity. You denied us equity. You denied us inclusion.
REP. AYANNA PRESSLEY (D-MA): The G.I. Bill, you're supposed to be race- neutral, denied access to black Americans, denying them equal access to education and housing benefits, which is why we do not have generational wealth. Don't talk to me about merit when those black servicemen fought for our freedoms.
SUNNY HOSTIN, CO-HOST, "THE VIEW": Donald Trump saying things, that this country would be a meritocracy, you're talking about a man who didn't become the president of the United States because of merit. He hasn't had - - really, he had no political experience whatsoever. He had no business experience. He was given everything that he has. He is a legacy hire. He is, if anything, a DEI hire, a didn't earn it hire.
(APPLAUSE)
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: She gets it wrong about Donald Trump, but at least she stumbles upon eventually the nature of DEI, the unearned.
Finally, it's not a talking point. It's not simply a culture war flag. It is historical fact that DEI is rooted in Marxism. The Soviet Union from its inception pitted its own people against one another on the basis of class, and then it embarked on a decades-long project to spread that across the world, dividing people on any possible line.
Luckily, that has failed. Wall Street Journal wrote: "Like everything based on the writings of Karl Marx, seeing oppressors and colonial struggles everywhere, DEI was doomed to fail."
Thankfully, DEI appears to have failed because it would have failed America.
Now, as the clock ticks closer to this 5:00 p.m. DEI crackdown, let's bring in the host of The Rubin Report, David Rubin here on "The Will Cain Show."
Dave, great to see you.
I want to start with this question when it comes to DEI. Are you concerned that it will just be buried in other federal departments and also throughout the private sector under a different euphemism, a different name?
DAVE RUBIN, HOST, "THE RUBIN REPORT": Well, first off, will, I think the number one evidence that DEI is dying is, look at Will Cain, a straight white man getting a new TV show on FOX News. Diversity, equity and inclusion are officially dead, my friends, and I congratulate you on the new gig. It is well-deserved.
CAIN: Thank you, Dave. Thank you.
RUBIN: And, look, it's 5:00 somewhere, right? And just, what, about a half-hour-plus from now, these people will be leaving their offices.
And I was thinking as you were talking to Peter there, it's like, what would they be walking out with? I mean, they might have files that say, oh, this person's black and this person's white and this person's straight or gay or whatever else it might be. But it's not going to harm the federal government in any way that all of these people are going home.
I was -- I was sad to hear that they will be -- they're paid. It's paid leave, apparently. I don't know how long that's going to last, hopefully not that long.
CAIN: For now.
RUBIN: But think how different that would be if the federal government was, say, firing a whole bunch of engineers or electricians or even janitors. Then there would be an actual granular difference, because those are the types of people who do real things.
And now to directly answer your question, can they always hide it in another way? Of course they can. There's socioemotional learning, which we're hearing a lot about in schools now, which seems to be their new way of ushering in some of the woke stuff as it pertains to getting kids in elementary and junior high schools. That's one portion of it.
But then also you -- look, when you played that clip of Al Sharpton and just the angry hysterics, and it's like, look, he's on a grift that, without racism, he has to go home, right? He doesn't have that show on MSNBC anymore.
CAIN: Right.
RUBIN: They don't put him on TV anymore without perceived racism.
So these people will always push this nonsensical stuff. But what you said in your in your points there was absolutely right. Nobody in this new America, this renewed America, I should say, that began just two days ago cares about this stuff. If you are confident, if you are a good person, if you are a hard worker, you will succeed.
That's why all of our ancestors came here.
CAIN: Right.
RUBIN: And that's what's that's what's being reignited right now. And that's why I'm so excited about where America is heading. And now it looks like we have got about 40 minutes.
CAIN: A little under 40 minutes until this clock sets on DEI.
Dave, a theme of Donald Trump throughout the four years he was out of office was the permanent Washington, the deep state that worked against him. One of the first actions, a theme through the first actions of what he's been doing so far, it appears to be dismantling that permanent Washington.
He put out on TRUTH Social that he's fired over 1,000 people. And he said: "My personal presidential office is actively in the process of identifying and removing 1,000 presidential appointees from the previous administration who are not aligned with our vision to make America great again."
It seems he is in on this project, Dave, to take down permanent Washington.
RUBIN: Oh, yes, I first person to say it, but this is a very different Donald Trump than walked into the White House eight years ago. He is battle-scarred, quite literally.
And I think he has this time assembled the right team to go in there and do what we elected to do. Everyone seems to think, or if you listen to mainstream media or the crazy people on "The View" -- I don't -- I don't recommend anyone do it, but I know some people do it, or we at least play their clips to make fun of them.
There seems to be this idea that Donald Trump's coming in with the idea of retribution, he's going to come get everybody. But I like what Donald Trump has said a few times before the election. And I hope he will continue to say it, which is that revenge, his revenge will be success.
It's not that he has to go out and try to find every person that ever said anything bad about him. The revenge will be that, oh, America is thriving and it's because we got rid of you people. That really is it.
So I am -- I am very happy with virtually all of the nominations and it looks like basically everybody's going to get through, which is great. And I think they're very clear this time around. Look, it's hard for people to remember, when he got in there eight years ago, not only was the world different. He was different as a man.
And I don't think any of us, you and I included, Will, and anyone watching us, we didn't realize how deep that deep state thing was, whatever you want to call it, the swamp, the cesspool, how those tentacles were in every part of our institutions across the board.
So, this time, Trump is coming in and he's barely been president for 48 hours and he's firing people. And you know that the new heads...
CAIN: Right.
RUBIN: I mean, Bobby Kennedy has said repeatedly he's going into HHS for major reform. They're going to hire 2,000-some-odd new people, and a lot of people got to go.
CAIN: It's been said personnel is policy. Donald Trump is addressing personnel through these DEI initiatives to firing people who have been there permanently and seemingly add no added value to Washington. So this is the new direction for Washington, D.C.
Dave Rubin, man, always great to see you. Thank you for the well-wishes.
RUBIN: Good to see you, Will.
CAIN: All right.
It's been two days and President Trump has already spoken to the press twice. And now he's sitting down with our own Sean Hannity.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Let's talk about the moment you walked back in this office, this desk, this room, your carpet. How did you feel?
TRUMP: Well, it was a lot of work. And, as you know, I felt that we shouldn't have had it necessarily be here. Could have been done -- a lot of work. Could have been -- it would have been over. We wouldn't have inflation. We wouldn't have had the Afghanistan disaster.
We wouldn't have October 7 with Israel, where so many people were killed, and you wouldn't have a Ukraine war going on. But with all that being said, I think it's bigger. It's bigger than if it were more traditional.
HANNITY: Only the second time in history...
TRUMP: Yes.
HANNITY: ... somebody didn't have consecutive terms.
TRUMP: Yes. Well, they say it's historically bigger. I don't know about that, but I can say it showed us a couple of things. It showed us that the radical left, their philosophies and policies are horrible.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Well, you can watch Sean Hannity's exclusive Oval Office interview with President Trump tonight 9:00 Eastern on the FOX News Channel.
The House set to vote on the Laken Riley Act this hour, making it the first bill to be signed by President Trump.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: You're looking live at Capitol Hill, the House set to vote on the Laken Riley Act this hour.
The bill, named after a Georgia nursing student who was murdered by an illegal immigrant, it would require federal authorities to detain illegal immigrants accused of theft and violent crimes. It would be the first bill that could head to the president's desk.
Joining us from the Hill before they head over to vote on that in just a few moments are two of the youngest Republicans in this new Congress. Arizona Congressman Abe Hamadeh and Texas Congressman Brandon Gill join us now.
Congressman Gill, I'd love to start with you.
Let's start with this. Would this bill have stopped Jose Ibarra, the murder of Laken Riley, before that terrible event ever occurred in Georgia?
REP. BRANDON GILL (R-TX): It would.
And, Will, first of all, thanks for having us on the show.
We hear a lot about bipartisanship from our Democrat colleagues across the aisle. The Laken Riley Act would have saved Laken Riley's life. It merely directs DHS to detain illegal aliens who are burglarizing American citizens on American territory. This should have been the easiest vote the Democrats take all Congress, and yet a majority of Democrats voted against it.
I think -- whenever I think of their calls for bipartisanship, I think of the American people sent Republicans and President Trump to Washington to save this country. I don't believe in bipartisanship for the sake of bipartisanship. I believe in saving this country.
I hope that Democrats will come across the aisle and work with us, but it's time to save the country.
CAIN: We should point out that it did pass the Senate. It's headed back to the House. It got 63 votes in the Senate. It did earn the vote of some Democrats, like Pennsylvania Senator John Fetterman. We will see now how that is treated in the House.
Congressman Hamadeh, I want to just understand the details.
So, Congressman Gill tells us the details of this bill would have saved the life of Laken Riley. What will it do with illegal immigrants who have committed crimes in their home country? That is a problem as well, criminals from, say, Venezuela or Chile coming into our country.
I know it's difficult to get their records when they're here illegally, but can this bill help stop people who have committed crimes before they got to America?
REP. ABE HAMADEH (R-AZ): Absolutely, Will. And good to be with you. And congratulations on your new show. It's exciting to have you on this hour.
CAIN: Thank you.
HAMADEH: Here, President Trump has always said from the beginning, we need to secure our border. I'm from the state of Arizona. We understand that these illegal immigrants are pouring across the southern border, especially under Joe Biden for the last four years.
So many of them, we had no records of them. And what Biden did by allowing so many illegals from Venezuela, Chile, all these countries coming in, it really put our country at risk. But now with this new Laken Riley Act, it's not going to allow these illegal immigrants who have criminal records to enter our country or seek asylum.
And they have -- we have abused -- they have abused the asylum process for too long. And here in Arizona, we understand the firsthand effects of the border. We have the fentanyl coming in from the communist Chinese. We have the drug cartels that President Trump is intending to go to war with them.
And I'm glad to see that foreign terrorist designation. I have been calling that for a long time.
CAIN: Right.
HAMADEH: If there's one war we should be fighting, it's to secure our country from these barbarians who are the drug cartels.
CAIN: You point out stopping them before they get into the country, at the very least, not release these criminals once they're detained at some point here in America. This is all a step forward.
I want to ask both of you. You're both younger than me. I think you're both in your early 30s. You're both new congressmen. And you're part of what many are calling as a youth movement when it comes to Republican Party, conservatives, on college campuses everywhere.
In my lifetime, conservatism has not been cool. Now, all of a sudden -- and I don't know if you two are cool. I will let the audience decide that over time as we get to know you. But you are emblems of what The Wall Street Journal writes, the rise of young Republicans on America's college campuses.
They say: "When Donald Trump was first elected president, universities set out milk and cookies for rattled undergraduate college students who wore MAGA hats and were berated by classmates. This time around, those same hats are eliciting fist bumps and nods."
I will go to each of you quickly on this, Congressman Gill. Do you see a shift in people your age and younger when it comes to the way they view conservatism or simply patriotism?
GILL: Absolutely.
Young people, like the rest of the country, could see the difference between what Republicans had to offer and what Democrats had to offer. The choice was simple. It was censorship or free speech. It was inflation or economic prosperity. It was men in women's bathrooms and locker rooms or common sense.
It was siding with innocent Israeli citizens or Hamas terrorists. And young people, just like everybody else, wanted a sane country. They wanted common sense. They wanted decency. And that's why they're moving in droves to the Republican Party. We absolutely welcome them.
We are here to save the country. We're here to work for the American people and to put Americans first. And that's what young people and all Americans are looking for.
CAIN: Really quickly, Congressman Hamadeh, I would have to think as part of the list just rattled off by Congressman Gill is also the embrace of masculinity, not as toxic, but masculinity as a virtue.
HAMADEH: Absolutely.
I served in the U.S. military. I'm a veteran. And you saw under the Biden administration, the recruitment was terrible. Nobody wanted to join the military because they were focused on DEI. They were focused on the woke, the wokeness. When I was deployed overseas under both President Trump and Biden, Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin's first action was to have a stand-down order so we can learn about the rise of right-wing extremism.
And now you saw President Trump's first action was to allow the service members who were discharged during the COVID guidelines back in. And that's the difference in leadership style. So masculinity's back. Here we are.
I always say it's amazing that we have to talk about so many of these issues like men in women's sports. I mean, I honestly think we're just bringing sanity back. So that's what I'm so excited about. The American people are with us, and I assure you the young people understand what's going on a lot better than people think.
CAIN: Well, thank you for your service. I wish both of you luck in your new service to the country.
Congressman Gill, Congressman Hamadeh, appreciate you being on "The Will Cain Show."
HAMADEH: Thank you, Will.
GILL: Thanks.
CAIN: All right.
All right, up next, growing backlash over this pastor's comments to President Trump:
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BISHOP MARIANN EDGAR BUDDE, EPISCOPAL DIOCESE OF WASHINGTON: There are gay, lesbian and transgender children in Democratic, Republican and independent families, some who fear for their lives.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: I want to bring you quickly to Los Angeles County, where the wildfires are starting to ramp up again, the Hughes Fire raging, forcing evacuations, and blazing over 5,000 acres. You can see it on your screen right there.
We're also watching, by the way, this historic weather event sweeping the Gulf of America. And it's hitting as well my home state of Texas. I got calls from friends in Alabama. We saw the images from New Orleans, as a massive cold blast and snowstorm, historic dating back to the 1800s.
All right, now to the growing storm over this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BUDDE: I ask you to have mercy upon the people in our country who are scared now. There are gay, lesbian and transgender children in Democratic, Republican and independent families, some who fear for their lives.
And the people, the people who pick our crops and clean our office buildings, who labor in poultry farms and meatpacking plants, who wash the dishes after we eat in restaurants and work the night shifts in hospitals, they may not be citizens or have the proper documentation, but the vast majority of immigrants are not criminals.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Well, let's bring in "FOX & Friends Weekend" co-host Charlie Hurt.
First of all, what a wonderful title. I'm so excited to say that officially, "FOX & Friends Weekend" co-host. You're going to be awesome, Charlie.
CHARLIE HURT, CO-HOST, "FOX & FRIENDS WEEKEND": Thank you, Will. Congratulations on the show.
I love -- my favorite thing is, you're reporting from America.
CAIN: Thank you, and hopefully in touch with America.
HURT: Yes.
CAIN: On that note, Charlie, we talked about this bishop a little bit yesterday, and I pointed out how inappropriate it was to sermonize politics from the pulpit.
But I want to move beyond that. There's something else that strikes me here, Charlie, and I'm curious your thoughts. She's actually somewhat symbolic. This is something that's happened. Woke virus hasn't just infected government and sports and every other aspect of American culture. It has also infected the church.
HURT: Yes. Yes, I think it's such an important point.
And I think, in a lot of ways, it's sort of infected the church worse than anyplace else, or at least it's the worst place that it can infect. And, of course, you can see it in the numbers. I have been a part of the Episcopal Church for 20 years, and you're wondering why people have fled the Episcopal Church. Well, this is exactly why they have fled the Episcopal Church.
You have politicians who dress themselves up in these silk robes and then continue to be politicians and they're bad politicians haranguing about this. You have a situation where you have the president of the United States who comes in to a church to be prayed for, and then this is what he has to listen to, some stupid political lecture from some tin-pot politician who couldn't succeed outside of -- in the real political world?
But the other thing that I think is really shocking about it, is if you want to get down into the details and think about it, here she is, she's politicking on behalf of a party, of a candidate who managed to somehow hand anywhere from tens of thousands to hundreds of thousands of children from foreign countries over to drug cartels and human smugglers.
CAIN: Right.
HURT: That's what she's going to -- that's who she's arguing on behalf of to a guy who is trying to do everything he can to try to solve that kind of human misery.
And so not only is she terrible at teaching the word of God, but she's even worse as a politician.
CAIN: It is true that tolerance and empathy are virtues that we seek under the guidance of God, but so is righteousness. Righteousness is what we should seek under the guidance of God.
On that note of cliches, Charlie, yesterday was stunning. We didn't get to this yesterday on "The Will Cain Show," but Elon Musk is being accused of giving a pro-Nazi Hitlerian salute at Donald Trump's post-inauguration rally.
(LAUGHTER)
CAIN: It was an awkward gesture that Elon Musk gave where he was suggesting the crowd had filled his heart. But that didn't stop them from doing the same thing they have done for four years, Charlie, which is yell Hitler. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes, that salute was evocative of things that we have seen through history. It was quick. I think our viewers are smart and they can take a look at that, but it certainly was -- it's not something that you typically see in American political rallies. Put it that way.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: No, no, it was not something that you usually would see.
REP. ROBERT GARCIA (D-CA): That was a Nazi salute, and he didn't just do it one time. He did it twice for emphasis. And if you talk to anyone, historians, folks who actually study the Nazis and study this actual kind of disgusting display will be -- have been very clear about what that was. And he should not just apologize.
He should be condemned for those kinds of actions, so gross, disgusting, but more of what we can expect, I think, from Elon Musk and Donald Trump.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: You know, the funny thing is, Charlie, these Nazi experts, they have nothing to say about the college protests from a few years ago that have now kicked off again at Columbia.
You can see students protesting, rioting, anti-Israel protests. At times, of course, it's been as well pro-Hamas. That's happening on Columbia University today. So really concerned about Elon, not at all concerned about this antisemitism.
HURT: Yes, it's kind of interesting. If I were to list all of the most important evidence that you don't actually care about antisemitism, it's that you're willing to use it as an attack cudgel to advance your own political interests, which, of course, is exactly what they are doing to attack Elon Musk, as they are completely silent about true antisemitism across the country on college campuses.
CAIN: Stick with it. It really worked for you over the last four years.
I will tell you what, Charlie Hurt is going to work on "FOX & Friends Weekend." So make sure you tune in on Saturday.
Thank you, Charlie.
HURT: Thanks, Will. Great to see you, buddy.
CAIN: All right, it's a story making a lot of headlines, President Trump pardoning a Dark Web marketplace creator.
It's something Senator Rand Paul pushed for, saying the punishment never fit the crime. So he's here to tell us why coming up.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: Well, you may have seen this story today, so we're beginning to dig a little more into it for you.
President Trump today signing a pardon for Ross Ulbricht, the creator of a Dark Web marketplace named Silk Road. Now, Ross was arrested back in 2013 after police revealed his site was being used to sell illegal drugs like heroin, as well as hacking equipment and stolen passports.
Six overdoses were linked to the drugs sold on his site. For this, Ross received two life sentences plus 40 years.
Now, Senator Rand Paul has been pushing for his pardon, saying he was shocked by the harsh sentence.
Kentucky Senator Rand Paul joins me now.
Senator, thanks for being with us today.
As you know, and for anyone watching, President Trump has granted Ross Ulbricht this pardon. Tell me why this was important. This was something you fought for and many others. Why was it important?
SEN. RAND PAUL (R-KY): You know, I have always been a believer in fair and appropriate punishment.
I was for the FIRST STEP Act. I talked to President Trump many times in his first administration about it. There were many nonviolent drug prisoners in federal prison that had been in for decades and had never harmed anyone purposefully.
In Ross' case, they were using his Web sites. He designed a Web site that he allowed people to do and trade illegally on. And that's against the law. But that doesn't sound like something that you get no second chance. I'm a believer that people who make mistakes by either using or selling drugs deserve a second chance.
I mean, he's been in prison for 12 years. He's been a model prisoner, but he was looking at never, ever getting out for designing a Web site. The people that sold drugs on his Web site got like four years in prison, six, seven years in prison, which you can argue whether that's appropriate or not.
CAIN: The people that actually sold the drugs, right.
PAUL: Yes, the people that sold the drugs got minor sentences. I guess they convinced them to testify against him somehow, and he gets 12 years. So it just wasn't appropriate.
It was a big cause also for libertarians.
CAIN: Right.
PAUL: Donald Trump went to libertarians and he said, I want your vote and I will free Ross Ulbricht, and he kept his promise. And all I can say is, thank you, Donald Trump.
CAIN: Do you think, Senator, therefore this was President Trump seeing that the sentence was overly harsh, identifying with Ross Ulbricht in some way when it comes to being pursued by the Justice Department, or was this a transactional deal with libertarians, who in turn supported him for the presidency?
PAUL: You know, the president's comments were very much that he can sympathize with this. And I think all of the -- many of the president's supporters who have seen the weaponization of government have seen that government prosecutors and Department of Justice can be used unfairly.
And this is a real case of unfairness. I was there -- when the FIRST STEP Act passed, the first man released was Matthew Charles. And I met him in the first weeks after he was released. And just to see the look on the man's face, he had found religion. He had found so many good things. And he was wanting to reform his life, but he was never getting out.
And he said he saw me on television in prison pushing the FIRST STEP Act. And then he found it would be applied to him. He's been out and been a model person for the last couple of years. And really people deserve a second chance. Just putting people in jail and throwing away the key was wrong for Matthew Charles. It's wrong for Ross Ulbricht.
And he's going to get a second chance in life. And I think people do deserve that.
CAIN: As you pointed out, I know it's been a cause celebre among libertarians. And now Ross Ulbricht is free.
Senator Rand Paul, thanks for being with us today on "The Will Cain Show."
PAUL: Thank you.
CAIN: All right.
About 15 minutes from now, federal DEI offices will shut down, employees put on paid leave.
My friend Stephen A. Smith joins me on that next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: In just about 10 minutes, President Trump's mandate ordering all diversity, equity and inclusion offices to close will take effect.
Trump has vowed to return to a society that's colorblind and merit-based.
Let's bring in my friend Stephen A. Smith, the host of "The Stephen A. Smith Show, to discuss.
Hey, Stephen A.
STEPHEN A. SMITH, ESPN ANALYST: Well, first of all -- first of all, before we even start, congratulations to my buddy for having his own afternoon show. Major, major props to you.
Just because you support Trump don't mean you have to look like him. Don't mean you have to dress like him.
(LAUGHTER)
SMITH: That's what you're doing. That's what you're doing right now, Will Cain, but it's OK. Congratulations. It's well-deserved. It's long overdue. And I'm sorry I couldn't make it yesterday for your first show, because I was traveling. What's up?
CAIN: Well, first of all, I don't know that he has patented red, white and blue. Others are allowed to wear red, white and blue besides the president of the United States.
Secondarily, I just want to say thank you. You have been there with me every step of the way. You put me on "First Take." You advocated for "The Will Cain Show" on ESPN Radio. You were there for the launch of "The Will Cain Show" on podcast and digital. And you're here now at the beginning of "The Will Cain Show." And I always appreciate your support, friend.
SMITH: No doubt, well deserved, my brother.
CAIN: All right.
SMITH: Let's do it.
CAIN: Let me get to this. Speaking of our past, we have had a lot of knock-down, drag-out fights, Stephen A. We have had a lot of conversations kind of around DEI.
But you have changed a little bit. I have been noticing you a little bit, some different perspectives coming from you. Is this something you celebrate or are you highly concerned about the sunset of DEI?
SMITH: I'm concerned about it. I'm concerned about it. I certainly am not going to celebrate it, because I don't like the way I believe the right is handling this particular issue.
When you talk about diversity, equity and inclusion, the conversations that you and I have had as far different than the things that I have heard from everybody else. You ask questions and you talk about a merit-based society. That's cool.
But there are others on the right that are hiding behind that verbiage to disguise how they're really -- how they're really coming across. When you say diversity, equity and inclusion, you're basically trying to imply -- not you, but I'm talking about someone to right are trying to imply that everybody that got hired under DEI is that you certainly weren't competent, you weren't qualified.
Well, that might be the case, or it might not be. Let's understand that we don't get to ignore why the existence of DEI came to be. It was because of the inequities in the system, the people that weren't hired before, competent individuals from minority communities throughout this country that weren't feeling like they were being treated fairly.
You and I have had this discussion over the Rooney Rule in sports. Certainly, you would think that you shouldn't have -- you should be able to interview whoever you want. You shouldn't be forced to interview an African-American candidate.
CAIN: Right.
SMITH: Why did the NFL implement that policy? It implemented that policy because of inequities that were exercised by various NFL owners spanning history.
All I'm saying is, let's not forget that reality, its existence. Why did it come to be to begin with? So when you eradicate the program, and then you turn around -- let's say, for example, hypothetically, you get rid of DEI at ESPN or you get rid of DEI at FOX News or anyplace else.
CAIN: Right.
SMITH: And then you turn around and you got seven, eight, nine different positions, and all of them are white. You're basically implying that all of those white folks are the best candidates and we couldn't find anybody from any different community that could that were competent.
CAIN: Hold on. Hold on.
SMITH: That's my concern.
CAIN: You are the top personality at ESPN. That is not me complimenting you.
SMITH: Yes.
CAIN: It's a fact. You are number one.
SMITH: Yes.
CAIN: Did you get there because of DEI?
SMITH: No, I don't think so. I don't think so.
But I know that my...
(CROSSTALK)
CAIN: But you don't have to worry. Look, you don't have to worry that people...
(CROSSTALK)
SMITH: ... into this business that might have played a role in that. That might have played a role, absolutely.
CAIN: My point is, you don't have to worry. Your life is a testament to merit winning out over the necessity to prioritize skin color.
You pointed out that people will be like, well, everybody that was hired over the past five years were beneficiaries of DEI. Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas talked about this. That's one of the prices of affirmative action.
Because some people get something that they might not have earned for their superficial characteristics, then it's logical to look around and go, well, if you have those same characteristics and you didn't earn it, or you didn't get it for merit, did you not earn it?
My point is, DEI actually undercuts people like you who earned it by merit.
SMITH: And I'm saying to you, that argument can be made in some cases. And, in some cases, it cannot be.
So the way you truly eradicate it, let's say, for example, like you just did, you want to eradicate DEI programs.
CAIN: Right.
SMITH: And then the hiring process is revisited, and 40 percent of the candidates are African-Americans or (AUDIO GAP) both, and 60 percent of them are white. Nobody's going to have a problem with that.
But if 95 percent to 100 percent of them are white from the moment that DEI is eradicated, then you're sending the message that the only reason other folks had those opportunities was because of DEI, as opposed to their qualifications.
And I'm saying you have to be mindful and careful of making sure that that message is not disseminated, because that's inaccurate and history has proven that in a lot of different circumstances. That's all I'm saying.
CAIN: I truly do believe in black Americans to not just survive, but to excel, in a system based upon merit. I don't think DEI is necessary.
SMITH: No.
CAIN: In fact, I think it is cancerous and undercuts their accomplishments.
I do want to ask you this, Stephen A.
SMITH: Hold on, Will.
CAIN: You have made -- I'm running out of time, but I do have to ask you this, OK?
And that is this, that you told me and -- that you voted for Kamala Harris.
SMITH: Yes.
CAIN: I don't think -- you're somewhat independent, but you have been leaning to the left. Lately, I feel like you're leaning to the right. You told our own Sean Hannity that you're not mad that Donald Trump won.
SMITH: Correct.
CAIN: If you had a do-over, Stephen A., would you vote for Donald Trump?
SMITH: I don't know if I would vote for him because I don't trust that chaos is not going to reign.
I don't like -- I don't like -- and I don't want to use -- I'm not trying to call him an authoritarian or whatever. But the White House, the Senate, the House Congress, et cetera, complete power like that makes me nervous, especially in the hands of somebody like him, who can be a bit petty and stuff like that.
But I want to be very, very clear. I have voted for some Republicans in the past. I would vote for Republicans in the future. I'm not against all -- there's a lot of conservative policies that I support, just like there are some liberal policies I support. I'm an independent.
My issue was not with the party. My issue was with Trump and how I thought Trump would act. I'm hoping I'm wrong. I'm rooting for him to have a successful presidency, but a successful presidency to me is what benefits America, not him. And if that means voting right, I will vote right next election and election after that, then the election after that, I ain't ashamed to tell you.
CAIN: I got to leave it here, but, I mean, you got to like what's happening in the first couple of days.
CAIN: I think you would take that do-over, Stephen A.
SMITH: No. I don't know about that. I don't know.
CAIN: I think you would take that do-over.
SMITH: We will talk about it.
(CROSSTALK)
CAIN: By the way, we will find out.
SMITH: We will find out.
CAIN: Because people can watch you on "The Stephen A. Smith Show," on "The Stephen A. Smith Show."
Thank you so much, Stephen A.
All right, thanks for joining us as we get to the heart of matter from the heart of America.
We will be right back here again tomorrow on "The Will Cain Show."
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: SHOW

Publication-Type: Transcript

Transcript: 012201cb.140

Subject: GOVERNMENT BODIES & OFFICES (91%); DIVERSITY & INCLUSION (90%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (89%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (89%); GOVERNMENT & PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (89%); GOVERNMENT ADVISORS & MINISTERS (89%); GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS & AUTHORITIES (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY & FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); SAFETY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CABINET OFFICES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY & INCLUSION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); HUMAN RESOURCES (76%); COMPENSATION & BENEFITS (74%); CRIME, LAW ENFORCEMENT & CORRECTIONS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); SOCIAL MEDIA (64%); Rand Paul (%); Crime (%); Abe Hamadeh (%); Stephen A. Smith (%); Religion (%); Children (%); Brandon Gill (%); Donald Trump (%); Government (%); Minorities (%); Republican Party (%)

Company:  FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (93%)

Industry: NAICS516120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%); SOCIAL MEDIA (64%)

Person: DONALD TRUMP (94%); ABRAHAM HAMADEH (92%); BRANDON GILL (92%); JOE BIDEN (79%); RAND PAUL (74%); MARCO RUBIO (58%)

Geographic: KENTUCKY, USA (79%); UNITED STATES (94%)

Load-Date: January 22, 2025


End of Document
