




Fox News THE WILL CAIN SHOW 4:00 PM EST
February 18, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; International
Length: 8528 words
Byline: Will Cain
Guests: Kevin Costner, Sean Duffy
Body


WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Live the heartland, this is "The Will Cain Show."
It's 4:00. And that means, as we have come to expect, news from President Donald Trump. Images on your screen of Palm Beach, Florida, where President Trump is at Mar-a-Lago. He's signing another batch of executive orders.
We just swapped out the signing desk for the podium you see there. So we expect the president to speak very soon. We just got details on what he is signing. It relates to expanding access to IVF and reducing health care costs. We're monitoring that situation and what the president is up to in Florida, and we're going to bring you updates.
We have a big show here for you today, including an interview with celebrity actor superstar Kevin Costner. We're supposed to be joined as well by the secretary of transportation, Sean Duffy. And later in the show, we're going to talk about the flu with Alex Berenson. Nobody is talking about it, but everyone is experiencing the flu.
While we keep an eye on Palm Beach, Florida, we're going to begin with this:
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. HAKEEM JEFFRIES (D-NY): The American people are alarmed about the possibility that Elon Musk and his far right extreme minions have access to their personal and financial information.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: President Trump really is on a rampage of illegality. He has a lot of authority. He has an agenda. He's entitled to pursue his agenda with all the power of the executive branch, but he's not entitled to do it in a way that's not constitutional.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I'm here to protest the president, protest Elon Musk, protest all the executive orders. He is not our president. Everything he's doing is mass destruction. He is a weapon of mass destruction.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: No slowdown in the meltdowns over Elon Musk and his efforts to cut government waste.
But while the left paints DOGE as a reason to panic, there's really no reason. That brings us to today's "Big Three."
Let's dive deep, if we might, on DOGE, where we are. First, this is what's been saved so far by estimates of DOGE cutting government waste and unneeded contracts, $55 billion in saving so far. Where did that come from? Here's a list of the top 10 agencies where that money has been found. Of course, you have heard about USAID, the Department of Education.
If we just zoomed in on DOE for one moment, you would see that we canceled something like $600 million in contracts for DEI training. The Office of Personnel Management, HHS, the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Homeland Security. And DOGE has been asked to step in and take a look at the Pentagon.
He's also been invited in to take a look at the Department of Transportation, specifically, as we will talk about hopefully in just a few moments, with the secretary of transportation, Sean Duffy, SpaceX engineers visiting the FAA.
But Elon Musk said something absolutely fascinating recently. He said there's $4.7 trillion in Treasury payments with no tracking code. Every payment from the federal government is supposed to have a comment field telling you where that money was spent. Congress legislates the money. Treasury assigns the checks.
But if Treasury is not saying where that money went, we have absolutely no idea where $4.7 trillion was spent. Elon Musk talks about this and much more tonight with Donald Trump and Sean Hannity.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Now you're going to rescue astronauts. And now, again, you do all of this. I would think liberals would love the fact that you have the biggest electric vehicle company in the world.
ELON MUSK, OWNER, X: Yes, I mean, I used to be adored by the left.
HANNITY: Yes, not anymore.
MUSK: Less so these days.
HANNITY: He killed that, huh?
MUSK: I mean, less so...
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I really...
(CROSSTALK)
MUSK: Well, I mean, there's this whole sort of like -- they call it like Trump duration syndrome. And I didn't -- you don't realize how real this is until, like, it's -- you can't reason with people.
So, like, I was at a friend's birthday party in L.A., just a birthday dinner. And it was like a nice quiet dinner and everything was -- everyone was behaving normally. And I happened to mention -- this is before the election, like a month or two before.
I happened to mention the president's name. And it was like they got shot with a dart in the jugular that contained like methamphetamine and rabies, OK? And they're like -- I'm like, what is wrong? Guys, like, you can't have like normal conversation.
HANNITY: Yes.
MUSK: And it's like -- it's like that become completely irrational.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: A lot of speculation about the relationship between Elon Musk and President Donald Trump.
A rare and pleasant image to see Donald Trump open-mouth smile and laughing along with Elon Musk. You don't want to miss that tonight on "Sean Hannity."
But that brings us to number two. There's a federal judge currently hearing the cases over DOGE, and it's fascinating to listen to the back-and-forth.
Kerri Urbahn Kupec, who's a legal analyst here at FOX News, she's been listening in and she pointed out some very important things. I think it's important to understand that, from the filings, what we have come to understand is that Elon Musk has no actual formal authority to make government decisions. He's simply serving as an adviser to President Trump.
He can advise the president and communicate to president's directives. He's not an employee of DOGE, but he's an employee of the White House. Here's the comp. Here's the analogy. Musk is like Anita Dunn, who was also a special government employee, but influential adviser to President Biden.
That's a fascinating analogy and one that undercuts the hyperventilating freak-out from the left. What more? DOGE employees are not unique. Kerri Urbahn again points out this morning that DOGE employees are federal employees. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KERRI URBAHN, FOX NEWS LEGAL EDITOR: DOGE employees are federal government employees. And not only should they have the same access as their career official colleagues. They should have more access because they were effectively directly elected by the people via the president in the election.
And a lot of what we're seeing over the last few weeks is just the media and certain lawmakers being disingenuous and I think exploiting the American people's lack of knowledge over how this works and that political appointees are federal government employees just like everyone else and therefore should be able and permitted to do their job.
And if they aren't, it's essentially like a usurpation of the democratic process.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Here's what's fascinating about what you just heard. Federal employees have access to your information, whether or not they work at the Treasury or the IRS.
If a DOGE employee is a federal employee, they simply have access, all the concerns about privacy, to the same information that we have had granted to other federal employees. It's almost as though this were a manufactured crisis.
And, in fact, it is a manufactured crisis when guys like Senator John Fetterman are telling you should be terrified about Elon Musk rummaging around your information. Musk responded, by the way, on X.
He said: "Bruh, if I wanted to rummage through random personal stuff, I could have done that at PayPal. Hello? I have tens of millions of people marked in Social Security as alive when they are definitely dead. It's a huge problem, obviously."
A lot of people have made the comparison, by the way, to programs under then Democrat President Barack Obama, who also sought at the time to cut away waste and look for efficiency in government. What's new about DOGE?
But I actually want to look to a different source of inspiration. That takes us to number three. And that's Argentina. A few months to a year ago, we focused a lot on Javier Milei. He's the new leader of Argentina. And he came in with a meat cleaver, cutting away government waste and spending. Here's what he did in Argentina.
He halved the number of ministries to eight. He downgraded ministries of education, culture, labor, gender, and diversity. Hooray. Public sector workers down 10 percent. That's nearly 400,000 jobs in Argentina. So what's the effect, right? Was there an MSNBC hyperventilating about Argentina?
And what do they say now that Argentina inflation has hit a five-year low for Javier Milei? It seems to be the inspiration for DOGE might have been found in Argentina and perhaps as well the success for America could have been modeled in Argentina.
That's the deep dive on DOGE for today.
We're still monitoring Palm Beach, Florida. It's in the bottom of your screen right there. We're expecting President Trump to come in and talk about new executive orders that he signed today. We're probably also expecting a wide-ranging Q&A. We hope that we can take that, as well as get to what we think is a big show for you, including Transportation Secretary Sean Duffy, Alex Berenson on the flu that is spreading all around this nation.
And actor Kevin Costner joins us. He's going to talk about his new FOX Nation special and much, much more.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: Right now, President Trump is speaking after signing executive orders from Mar-a-Lago in Palm Beach, Florida. Let's watch.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Good afternoon, you all.
A short while ago, President Trump signed three items. The first is an executive order relating to the affordability and availability of in vitro fertilization and other fertility treatments. These are treatments that have become unaffordable for many Americans or have been unaffordable for many Americans.
And the executive order is a directive to the Domestic Policy Council to examine ways to make IVF and other fertility treatments more affordable for more Americans. The second item that we signed was a presidential memorandum imposing radical transparency requirements on government departments and agencies.
In keeping with President Trump and the administration's broader commitment to governmental transparency, what this presidential memorandum would do is require, as waste, fraud, and abuse is uncovered, as programs are canceled, and ultimately as taxpayer dollars are saved, this presidential memorandum would require departments and agencies to make all of the details of that freely available to the public.
Lastly, we have another executive order that President Trump signed relating to independent agencies. This executive order would establish important oversight functions in the Office of Management and Budget in its subsidiary office, OIRA, supervising independent agencies and many of their actions, and also reestablishes the longstanding norm that only the president or the attorney general can speak for the United States when stating an opinion as to what the law is.
TRUMP: All right, thank you very much, Will.
That was the primary purpose of this conference, to explain that. They're all very important in their own way. Fertilization, I have been saying that we're going to do what we have to do. And I think the women and families, husbands, are very appreciative of it. But that was it.
I do want to say while I'm up here I have been contacted by some of the biggest companies in the world, and because of what we're doing economically and through tariffs and taxes and incentives. They want to come back into the United States. And we will be announcing various very large companies, the biggest actually.
And they will be coming back having to do with chips and having to do also with cars and lots of other things. We're going to be announcing some very, very big, very big, momentous, I think momentous decisions are being made by companies all around the world, the biggest, and they want to come back into the U.S.
Car plants are being canceled in other locations now because they want to build them here. And you read about a couple, not that I want to mention names or anything, but you read about a couple of big ones in Mexico just got canceled because they're going to be building them in the United States. And that's very simply because of what we're doing with respect to taxes, tariffs, and incentives.
And I think it's a very important thing. And you will be seeing this over the next -- probably over the next two years, to be honest, but you're going to see a lot of it over the next couple of weeks. A lot of big ones are going to be announcing.
And so while we're here, I guess we can take a couple of quick questions. Go ahead. Please. Please.
QUESTION: Mr. President, have you decided specifically what the auto tariff rate should be?
TRUMP: Yes, I probably will tell you that in -- on April 2, but it'll be in the neighborhood of 25 percent.
QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) pharmaceuticals?
TRUMP: It'll be 25 percent and higher, and it'll go very substantially higher over a course of a year, but we want to give them time to come in, because, as you know, when they come into the United States and they have their plant or factory here, there is no tariff.
So we want to give them a little bit of a chance.
Yes, thank
QUESTION: The E.U. -- I'm sorry Andrea (OFF-MIKE)
An E.U. representative is going to be here in Washington next week -- I'm sorry -- tomorrow. He's going to be meeting with Hassett and Greer and Lutnick. What can the E.U. do to sort of avoid the reciprocal tariffs that you have talked about? And you have talked a lot about the VAT. Do you expect them to reduce that?
TRUMP: Well, they did already, as I understand it, reduce their car tariff all the way down to what we have. And a lot of that will take place and I think some won't do it and some will do it. But the E.U. had a 10 percent tax on cars and now they have a 2.5 percent tax, which is the exact same as us. So already we have saved a tremendous amount.
That would be great. If everybody would do that, then we'd all be on the same playing field, because essentially what we're doing with the tariffs is, they charge us, we charge them, same amount. And it's called reciprocal, actually, and whatever they charge us, we're charging them.
And so the E.U. is -- I appreciate that they did this, but the E.U. has been very unfair to us. We have a deficit of $350 billion. They don't take our cars. They don't take our farm products. They don't take almost anything. They take very little.
And we're going to have to straighten that out and we will. I have no doubt about it.
Yes, go ahead, please.
QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. President.
Can you tell us a little bit more about the Russia talks, your impression of how they went today...
TRUMP: Yes. Sure.
QUESTION: ... and if you're perhaps more confident or less confident of a deal after what happened today?
TRUMP: Well, much more confident. They were very good. Russia wants to do something. They want to stop the savage barbarianism, I mean, what's going on over there.
It's -- soldiers are being killed by the thousands on a weekly basis. It's ridiculous. And they're not American soldiers. They're Russian soldiers, and they're Ukrainian soldiers, largely, although a lot of Koreans have been killed, as you know. Quite a bit of them have been killed. They came over to fight, and a large portion have been wiped out.
But we want to end it. It's a senseless war. It should have never happened. It would have never happened if I was president. And it's a shame to see it. And I see pictures that you don't see. But I see pictures of fields that look just horrible. It looks like Gettysburg. If you see the old pictures of Gettysburg, it's soldiers lying all over the field, body parts all over the field. They're all dead.
And this is going on, on a daily basis. It's a horrible thing. Both Russia and Ukraine, they're losing thousands and thousands of soldiers. And a lot of people have been killed too. I think that's one of the things that you will see historically. And you will see later on as it goes along. I think people are going to be surprised at how many people, not only soldiers, have been killed in Ukraine, a lot more people than you think.
Yes, please.
QUESTION: President Trump, as part of a peace deal with Putin, would you be willing to consider removing all American troops from Europe?
TRUMP: Well, nobody's asked me to do that. So I don't think we'd have to do that. I wouldn't want to do that. But that question's never really come up.
Yes, please.
QUESTION: Sir, do you support stationing European peacekeeping troops in Ukraine as part of this peace deal?
TRUMP: If they want to do, that's great. I'm all for it. If they want to do that, I think that's -- that'd be fine.
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: I mean, I know France has mentioned it. Others have mentioned it. U.K. has mentioned it. But, yes, well, if we have a peace deal, I think having troops over there for -- from the standpoint of Europe, we won't have to put any over there, because we're very far away. But having troops over there would be fine. I would not object to it at all.
We're talking about this now peace. We have either a cease-fire or a peace itself, and we're looking to do both. It would start off with a cease-fire, and if they want to do that. I know France was willing to do that, and I thought that was a beautiful gesture.
Yes, please.
QUESTION: Sir, do you have any message for Ukrainians who, after three years of fighting, might feel betrayed or disappointed at not having a seat at these initial talks in Saudi Arabia?
TRUMP: Well, I think I'm really disappointed in what's happened. I have been watching this for three years. It's a war that would have never happened if I was president, and I have been watching these people being killed at levels that you have rarely seen, not even close, since the Second World War.
And I'm very disappointed. I hear that they're upset about not having a seat. Well, they have had a seat for three years, and a long time before that. This could have been settled very easily. Just a half-baked negotiator could have settled this years ago, without -- I think without the loss of much land, very little land, without the loss of any lives, and without the loss of cities that are just laying on their side.
You have those magnificent golden domes that are shattered, will never be replaced. You can't replace them, 1,000-year-old domes that are so beautiful. You can't replace that. The whole civilization has changed because of what -- so, when they're worried about not being seated, you mean somebody that should have gone in and made a deal a long time ago?
You could have made a deal. This is one that could have made a deal. There was no talk of this during the Trump administration. Putin would have never, ever done it. And, by the way, we wouldn't have had October 7. You know that. We wouldn't have had October 7 either in Israel, and we wouldn't have had that mess that's going on over there.
It's like we have great fire people here. We're putting out fires. All over the world, we're putting out fires. So that wouldn't have happened. And you know what else wouldn't have happened? Inflation. Because it was caused really by the cost of energy going through the roof because of their bad energy policies and also their spending, their terrible spending, wasteful spending on the green new scam.
It's a scam. It's a whole big scam.
Yes, please.
QUESTION: Yes, sir.
I want to ask you a little closer to home. What would it take for you to reconsider the restrictions on the Associated Press? And, secondly, some of your advisers are concerned with the Associated Press' style guide using language and giving guidance to not use words like illegal immigrant, or to use phrases like gender-affirming care.
And they're concerned about that being an encroaching of liberalism in the way in which the press writes about things. Do you share those concerns?
TRUMP: Well, I do think that some of the phrases that they want to use are ridiculous. And I think, frankly, they have become obsolete, especially in the last three weeks, because many things have happened in the last three weeks.
And I didn't know about that, but I would say that, if they want to use certain phrases like that, and I guess some are OK, but many aren't. But the Associated Press just refuses to go with what the law is and what is taking place. It's called the Gulf of America now. It's not called the Gulf of Mexico any longer.
I have the right to do it, just like we have the right to do Mount McKinley, and nobody's even challenging that. But only the Associated -- essentially, it's primarily the Associated Press, and I don't know what they're doing, but I just say that we're going to keep them out until such time as they agree that it's the Gulf of America. We're very proud of this country, and we want it to be the Gulf of America.
Now, the Associated Press, as you know, has been very, very wrong on the election, on Trump and the treatment of Trump, and other things having to do with Trump and Republicans and conservatives. And they're doing us no favors, and I guess I'm not doing them any favors. That's the way life works. But thank you for the question. Who are you with?
QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)
TRUMP: Very good question. Thank you.
Yes.
QUESTION: We're hearing that Russia wants to force Ukraine to hold new elections in order to sign any kind of a peace deal. Is that something that the U.S. would ever support?
TRUMP: Well, we have a situation where we haven't had elections in Ukraine, where we have martial law, essentially martial law in Ukraine, where the leader in Ukraine, I mean, I hate to say it, but he's down at 4 percent approval rating, and where a country has been blown to smithereens.
You got most of the cities are laying on their sides. The buildings are collapsed. It looks like a massive demolition site. The whole -- I mean, so many of the cities. I mean, they haven't done it in Kyiv because I guess they don't want to shoot too many rockets in there. They have done it 20 percent, but they haven't done it 100 percent.
If they wanted to do it 100 percent, it would probably happen very quickly. But you have cities that are absolutely decimated. And, yes, I would say that, when they want to seat at the table, you could say that people have to -- wouldn't the people of Ukraine have to say, like, it's been a long time since we have had an election?
That's not a Russia thing. That's something coming from me and coming from many other countries also. Ukraine is being just wiped out. Look at what's happening to the cities. There are cities. There's not even a building standing. It's a massive -- it's -- you talk about Gaza.
I mean, it's literally -- these cities look like Gaza. Actually, many have, percentage-wise, more buildings knocked down than in Gaza. So people are tired of it. People want to see something happen. And the other thing that it's been bothering me for a long time, because I solved the problem with NATO. They paid hundreds of billions of dollars into the funds of NATO when I said you got to pay, because the United States was paying for European countries.
And then they take advantage of us on trade. But I have seen it. Look, we have to -- they have to pay. They have to find out, where is the money going to? We have -- I believe President Zelenskyy said last week that he doesn't know where half of the money is that we gave him. Well, we gave them, I believe, $350 billion.
But let's say it's something less than that, but it's a lot. And we have to equalize with Europe, because Europe has given us a -- given a very much smaller percentage than that. I think Europe has given $100 billion. And we have given, let's say, 300-plus. And it's more important for them than it is for us. We have an ocean in between and they don't.
But where is all the money that's been given? Where is it going? And nobody -- I have never seen an accounting of it. We give hundreds of billions of dollars. I have -- I don't see any accounting. So I want to see peace.
Look, you know why I want -- because I don't want all these people killed anymore, I'm looking at people that are being killed. And they're Russian and Ukrainian people, but they're people. Doesn't matter where they're from on the whole planet. And I think I have the power to end this war. And I think it's going very well.
But, today, I heard, oh, well, we weren't invited. Well, you have been there for three years. You should have ended it three years. You should have never started it. You could have made a deal. I could have made a deal for Ukraine that would have given them almost all of the land, everything, almost all of the land, and no people would have been killed and no city would have been demolished, and not one dome would have been knocked down.
But they chose not to do it that way. And President Biden, in all fairness, he doesn't have a clue what he -- he was so bad for this. He was so bad, so pathetic. It's so sad.
But with all of that being said, look, we -- it is what it is. When I left, there was no chance that this could have happened. But it happened because we had incompetent leadership at many different levels. But when you see what's taking place in Ukraine with millions of people killed, including the soldiers, millions of people killed, a big percentage of their cities knocked down to the ground, I don't know how anybody even lives there.
You know, when they say they took a poll, and Zelenskyy is at 4 percent, who's living there? I mean, people are -- it's hard to believe that people live there. Their cities are being knocked down. And this is something that would have never happened. And, by the way, for four years, it didn't happen. It was never going to happen. Go ahead.
QUESTION: I have one follow-up a question. How would you counter the perception, because Russia is pushing for this, obviously -- they don't really hold true elections -- that that would be a capitulation of some sort?
How would you guard against potentially Russia installing a puppet government? And then, finally, how would that new election have an impact on getting Zelenskyy to sign the rare earth minerals deal?
TRUMP: Look, you have leadership. And I like him personally. He's fine. But I don't care about personally. I care about getting the job done.
You have leadership now that's allowed a war to go on that should have never even happened, even without the United States. Look, we had a president who was grossly incompetent. He had no idea what he was doing. He said some very stupid things, like going in for portions and all of the things. He made a lot of bad statements, but he's grossly incompetent. And I think everyone knew that.
This is something that should have never happened, would have never happened. And I used to discuss it with Putin. President Putin and I would talk about Ukraine. And it was the apple of his eye. I will tell you that. But he never -- there was never a chance of him going in. And I told him, you better not go in. Don't go in. Don't go in. And he understood that. He understood it fully.
But I'm only interested -- I want to see if I can save maybe millions of lives. This could even end up in a World War III, I mean, to be honest with you. You have been hearing now Europe is saying, well, I think we're going to go in and we're going to go. All of a sudden, you're going to end up in World War III over something that should have never happened.
And it's a very sad situation. Yes, please.
QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) In a court filing, the White House said that...
CAIN: All right, that is President Trump taking a few questions from the press at Mar-a-Lago. We're going to step away. We have several big interviews we want to get to you today.
It's always a difficult decision what to cover. We will keep our minds and our eye -- ears on that press conference and bring you anything notable that comes from that. But this is where we're going to move this afternoon.
President Trump was talking about a cease-fire between Russia and Ukraine, negotiations under way to bring that war to an end. He also, by the way, signed an executive order on IVF. He pointed out that one in seven families are unable to conceive. He pointed out as well that fertility rates -- and this is striking.
Fertility rates in the United States have dropped 2 percent a year since 2010, but that accelerated the 3 percent drop in fertility for the past year. As a result, people seek IVF, and costs are $18,000 to $25,000 per cycle. People need multiple cycles. So the executive order today is looking to make it more accessible and more affordable for American families.
Again, we're going to continue to monitor that press conference from Florida.
But now to a FOX News Alert, terrifying video from yesterday's plane crash landing at Toronto Pearson International Airport.
Officials today confirming two passengers remain in the hospital following the ordeal. And as the investigation in Canada continues, so does the blame game. And some on the left go after President Trump and Elon Musk for it.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TOM COSTELLO, NBC NEWS SENIOR CORRESPONDENT: This is a Canadian air traffic control tower, and this is under Canadian authority once it crosses the border. And yet, as you know, there has been this talk about maybe staff cuts at the FAA as a part of President Trump's effort to trim down the federal work force.
WHOOPI GOLDBERG, CO-HOST, "THE VIEW": I have been panicking over all this insanity with these planes.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes.
GOLDBERG: And there's all kinds of stuff going on. So let's start with the string of mass firings by Elon Musk's DOGE. DOGE. DOGE. DOGE.
(CROSSTALK)
JOY BEHAR, CO-HOST, "THE VIEW": I feel like we're living in some kind of chaos right now.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: They didn't stop there. Former Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg asking the question: "The flying public needs answers. How the FAA personnel -- how many were fired? What positions and why?"
In fact, California Democratic Congressman Eric Swalwell went so far as saying: "Since 2009, how many American airlines crashed before Trump came to office? Zero. When does Trump start taking responsibility for the next plane crash?"
And it goes on and on. So we thought we'd dig into those numbers with the guy in charge of all of this. He's Transportation Secretary Sean Duffy, who joins us now.
Hey, Sean, it's great to see you, man.
(CROSSTALK)
CAIN: As you know, your boss, our president is speaking right now, we're monitoring him from Mar-a-Lago as we speak.
I do want to start, if we might, Sean, with just some context. You saw what Swalwell said about the number of plane crashes before Trump, the number of plane crashes after Trump. Is that a fact?
SEAN DUFFY, U.S. TRANSPORTATION SECRETARY: Yes, it's not a fact. We have the numbers.
So we look at it from the beginning of Joe Biden's presidency until today, there were 57 airplane accidents. Under President Trump, there were 35. So, obviously, there's been more high-profile crashes with DCA and what happened in Alaska and Philly and now up in Canada.
But, again, air crashes happened, but there were more under Biden than Donald Trump. But the point here is, we want to get to a place where we have zero crashes. We don't want people to die in aircraft, which is why what I have done is focus on, how do you upgrade the system?
But, Will, you look at what's happened, the airspace around DCA, that was allowed to stay open under the last administration. The inspections that were done of the aircraft that have crashed, that was done under the last administration. So it is rich that they would come at this administration for the mistakes that they have made and blame us for the crashes.
We're going to fix what they refuse to fix over the course of their four years. And that's the mission of this department.
CAIN: That seems intuitive, Sean. You have been on the job less than a month, President Trump approximately a month. That first plane crash, I believe, if I'm correct, Sean, tell me, if not correct me, I think you were on the job for about an hour-and-a-half when the DCA -- when the plane crash in Washington, D.C., occurred.
I think you were still touring the Department of Transportation. So, as you point out, the policies, the inspections and everything would have been in place from the prior administration.
DUFFY: No, you're absolutely right. So, now I was on the job for about 28 hours.
But, Will, it goes to the point of, let's stop pointing fingers at each other and let's do the work now that should have been done five, 10, 30 years ago. Let's do it today.
CAIN: Right.
DUFFY: So, just recently, you mentioned DOGE and all the attention that Elon Musk is getting.
We want the best and brightest minds in America to come in and help us figure out how we fix the system. So where else do you go but SpaceX? We had some SpaceX engineers go to the FAA and just observe yesterday, Will. And they're going to craft proposals for us, a phased approach on how we might be able to fix the American system.
But it's not just SpaceX. We're going to ask everyone else to come in that's smart and bright and loves America to help us think through the process.
But, Will, what we're doing is we're, like, using a rotary phone, Will. And we're spending 90 percent of our money to keep the rotary phone working from back in the 1980s, as opposed to thinking through. We use cell phones today. We have such antiquated, old equipment that no one has fixed.
Donald Trump has said fix this system, make it work, keep people safe and make it more efficient. And that's what we're going to do. It's going to take some time. But, again, to cast blame on this administration? Give me a break.
CAIN: So, is that what you're hoping to get from SpaceX, Mr. Secretary? You're hoping to look essentially for advice and innovation?
DUFFY: Yes.
So, again, we want a phased approach from them. And, again, there's some easy fixes and wins we can make, and then some other phased approaches we can implement. By the way -- and, again, it's not just SpaceX. I put out a tweet asking for all great, smart Americans to help out, a number of companies that have done the same.
But here's the deal. You have air traffic controllers who are brilliant. They're smart. They dedicate their lives to keeping planes separated and safe. They're working in this antiquated equipment.
CAIN: Right.
DUFFY: They want us to fix it for them. They want the new system that makes it easier for them to do their jobs.
CAIN: Sean...
DUFFY: They -- basically, they had no one to do it for them.
CAIN: Hey, speaking of air traffic controllers, I do have to ask you about this.
So, I believe -- I don't know if it was recommended by DOGE or not, but that about 100 firings from the FAA under the Department of Transportation. Sean, I do understand there to be somewhat of a shortage when it comes to air traffic controllers. So tell me about these firings at the FAA.
DUFFY: Yes, so we're trying to hire up more air traffic controllers. So there were firings at the FAA, but the critical safety positions like air traffic controllers and safety inspectors, they all were exempted.
But, Will, there are 45,000 employees at the FAA. Under 400 lost their jobs. And they were people who had been employed for less than a year. Could have been there for two months, three months, four months, and they didn't have safety jobs.
So, again, less than 1 percent of the work force was let go at the FAA. They were new employees. So those critical employees that keep us safe, they're still on the job.
CAIN: Right.
DUFFY: And, again, this is Democrats trying to point fingers at DOGE and Donald Trump, as opposed to looking at solutions that can help fix the problems.
CAIN: So, let's wind this up with just a little bit more context. I would ask you about the plane crash in Canada, but that is in Canada. That's not being investigated by you, correct?
DUFFY: That's right. So the NTSB investigates here in America. The Transport Canada is a board that investigates in Canada.
So, usually, we would get more information more quickly from the U.S. investigators. I anticipate that, over the next short time period, we will get more information from Canada.
But, Will, you look at that crash, and, I mean, by the grace of God, no one lost their life.
CAIN: Right.
DUFFY: But they were dealing with very difficult conditions. It was -- it had been snowing for a couple of days. There was ice on the runway, high winds, and this is the result that we had.
And, again, we have to get the results of the investigation and then learn from that investigation to implement safety protocols that make sure this doesn't happen again all right.
CAIN: All right, well, Mr. Secretary. I came into you from the president of the United States talking about IVF.
You are not someone who I think that would necessarily apply to. You have nine children. It doesn't appear that you need any assistance in building your family. We have our prayers and hopes for everybody that does. But I know you and your family very well.
And I appreciate you jumping on with us today. I wish you the best of luck. The country needs you. Wish you the best of luck, Mr. Secretary.
DUFFY: And, Will Cain, Donald Trump keeping his promise there. He said on the campaign trail he was going to do it. He did it here. And this is about making America healthy again.
If we're -- have a declining fertility rates, let's make us healthy and have more babies, make America strong.
Thanks, Will.
CAIN: Right. Well, all right, Sean Duffy, thank you so much.
All right, lights, camera, action.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KEVIN COSTNER, ACTOR/DIRECTOR/PRODUCER: You know, John Muir was clearly infatuated with this place. You could tell how it how it inspired him.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Well, legendary actor Kevin Costner teams up with FOX Nation for "Yellowstone to Yosemite With Kevin Costner." And he joined me for a wide- ranging interview.
That's next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: Welcome back to "The Will Cain Show."
I'm really excited for my next guest. You know him from "Field of Dreams," "The Untouchables," and the award-winning show "Yellowstone," and that's just scratching the surface.
Legendary actor Kevin Costner is here. And he's teaming up with FOX Nation to bring you "Yellowstone to Yosemite With Kevin Costner."
Here's a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KEVIN COSTNER, ACTOR/DIRECTOR/PRODUCER: It's a free-for-all, and everything you see is up for grabs.
So, Roosevelt and Muir, they sit by the fire, and they hatch a plan to change it. No one knows for sure, but I think there's a really good chance that Muir told Roosevelt about Chief Tenaya's struggle and his nation's long history of living in Yosemite Valley.
That's what made Muir special. Some might call it ingenious. Others might even say it's cunning, but, boy, does that plan work.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: In this captivating tale of preserving the American frontier, Costner retraces the steps of mountaineer John Muir and President Teddy Roosevelt, who took a three-day trip through Yosemite in 1903.
The expedition led Roosevelt to sign legislation that began essentially the national park system, starting with Yosemite National Park. Before leaving office, Roosevelt went on to create 150 national forests, five national parks, and preserve 230 million acres of land.
So, joining me now is Academy Award-winning actor and filmmaker Kevin Costner.
Kevin, really good to see you again, man. How are you?
COSTNER: I'm good. Thank you, Will.
CAIN: Last time I saw you, you were premiering "Horizon." Here we are together again. You have got another story on the frontier talking about Americana, this time, nonfiction, incredible story, John Muir and Teddy Roosevelt and Yosemite.
Why this park and this moment and these men for you, Kevin?
COSTNER: Well, we did -- we did one on Yellowstone itself, the national parks. And while we all enjoy them, very rarely, do we actually understand how they came to be.
And when you think about things in life, it's like, are we ever going to make a difference in our life? I mean, I ask myself that. Everybody does. I mean, there's eight billion of us on this planet now. What do we do?
But it is a story about how men and women can really make a difference through a force of will. And we saw that in Yellowstone, the documentary of Ferdinand Hayden and how this guy just, against all odds, said, wait a second, I'm here to destroy this land. I'm here to find a railroad. I'm here to find more gold.
And he looked at this place and said, no, I can't do that. And I think -- and he looked at the other men around him and said, we can't do that. And he went up against the roughest, toughest people in the century at that point, land barons, copper barons, gold and railroad.
And he said, I don't think we should do this. And somehow, beyond belief, beyond the odds, he was able to convince Congress. And the story goes, obviously, much deeper than that. I'm taking a simple look at it. But he did change things.
And he thought he would do it as a young man. And you could say a young woman, whatever you want to say. But I think we still have to believe in that ourselves. And, sometimes, it takes stories like these that show us that we can make a difference.
And billions of people have now enjoyed these national parks. And when you think about Yosemite, we sometimes get the idea that it's always there, it's always been there. But, no, there's a story behind it. And it's incredible. And it's rough. And it does deal with two men who had an idea that they could make a difference. And they did.
Natural beauty spoke out loud to them.
CAIN: You know, I know we only know so much, Kevin. And you have got an entire series here now on FOX Nation about this. But we only know so much about what was discussed between Muir and Teddy Roosevelt. They spent three days camping together in Yosemite, huge moment that did lead to the national park system.
What do you think happened during those three days? How did they connect? And what happened in this incredible camping trip?
COSTNER: Well, he showed up under the guise of a campaign stop. He was running for office in Central California. And so the politicians were there waiting for him.
But Muir and him shared a letter. John had a feeling about Teddy, Teddy having such a strong feeling about the outdoors, about what it did for his own life. And he said -- he wrote Teddy. And Teddy said, I will come and look at this. But then Teddy added, but I'd like it to just be you and me.
And so, when Teddy finally arrived, there was hundreds of people, politicians lined up to curry favor. And, basically, Teddy Roosevelt did the unthinkable. He took Muir and, with one single park guy who wasn't even called a park guy, they went. They left.
Can you imagine the president of the United States dropping out of view for four days, nobody following them?
CAIN: Right.
COSTNER: So Teddy had the thing where he said, don't follow me. Just you and me, John.
And they were in some tough situations, as taking horses through 14-feet drifts. And they talked, and they had this bond. And then they began to plan. And they knew that what they were trying to do was important. They didn't know how important, but they just felt it in their bones.
And a simple man who chose to look at nature for what it was, a powerful man who had been in war who was president, they came together, and these two men reinforced what the park system would be about. But the important thing for me was, we deal with the story before John Muir shows up, which is, the Native Americans had this whole country. And they had Yosemite.
And what happened to them was a travesty. And that's not very often talked about, but we deal with it in the documentary, not to pound people in the head, but just to educate. But, again, America found a way where land would have a use other than just exploiting it, that the natural beauty could perhaps be turned into a level of commerce, where people would come, and what they saw as a child, their own children would see.
CAIN: Hey, you know, Kevin, during COVID, I took a trip with my family, and we hit the national parks. We hit Zion, and Bryce, and Grand Canyon, and Yellowstone. It was one of the greatest experiences of our lives to go to all these parks.
I didn't go to Yosemite. I'm curious, what are you going to do next? If we do this again at FOX Nation, which park are you going to next?
COSTNER: I don't know. I'm a little bit of a passenger on this.
I decide what I do in my life. I only have so much time. I felt Yellowstone was right. I felt that doing Yosemite was worth my time. I mean, we can replicate this, but I prefer to be moved by the story. Some things -- they're all dramatic in their own way, but if I choose to put my name on something, I want it to somehow make a jump for those who would watch it, that they -- where they kind of go, aha, I didn't know that. I am glad I now know that.
CAIN: When you and I were together last time, we talked about how many movies you have done and how you gravitate to projects that have such Americana.
You joked with me, next time, I'm going to make a movie about apple pie.
You know, again, this weekend at the Super Bowl, you said something about politics and audiences and movies, and they don't need to be together. But the thing about art is, it has values. It has a message, right? Otherwise, it's wallpaper. Art has messages. And you have done that really well.
So, what values in the movies attract you? When you see a script and you see a movie and you see values in the art, what values attract you?
COSTNER: Well, I think the notion of heroism when no one's looking is something so important. The notion of heroism when everything is on the line, and you're not going to be -- and you're not going to come out on top as a result of that, but you're trying to stand for something.
I think, when you're a child and -- or a young man or a young woman and you see that, you realize the heroism of a woman who works three jobs, you see her at 4:00 in the morning, every morning, at a bus stop, and, by the end of the evening, when she gets home so tired and makes a meal for her kids, she's gone to three different places to work.
In movies, we can sometimes depict that, and we lay music to it. And, suddenly, we know who's important. Suddenly, we know who is powerful, who's a hero, a hero in her own family, that she would work that way to make life better for her children.
So, for as phony as movies are in certain instances, the truth is, when we watch them in the dark, and we see people -- we see notions of people just standing up for something when it's not convenient, but they know it to be true or believe it to be true, that says something.
And when I watch it, I think to myself, well, that's who I want to be. I'd like to be that. And I think we can find those things in movies.
CAIN: Kevin, you're a California guy. You're born and raised. I want to check in with you. How's the community after the fires there that inflicted not just the Palisades, but out there in the valley?
COSTNER: You know, I -- we have experienced them up here in Santa Barbara, floods, the thing.
And, basically, I took in four families. I have a couple homes. And so I told my kids there's going to be some families. And one family had some extended family, and they brought their dogs and they brought their stuff. They didn't have clothes in certain instances and they weren't sure they were ever going to see their homes again.
So the four families came and stayed here. I have a pool. It's not a very big pool, but it was filled with children that were meeting and not aware of how much their parents' hearts were on the ground. So, I had a couple in the house next door, another couple, two couples here, with their children, a couple over here in this house.
And then I have a little trailer that nobody was in it, and somebody needed it, so not a very big contribution, but a place to land for people I knew and cared about.
CAIN: I think that's an incredible thing. I think every little bit matters.
I will end with this, Kevin. I was reading in. I'm familiar with John Muir. Not as familiar with Yosemite. Hadn't been there. I was reading in and getting ready for our conversation.
And I guess one of Muir's biographers said this about Muir. They said that he believed that he needed to save the American soul from total surrender to materialism, talking about this connection to land, saving our soul from materialism.
There's something about that really resonated with me. I don't know if that resonated with you about Muir and Yosemite.
COSTNER: Yes, I -- we have -- we have these assets. We have these natural resources. In certain instances, they have so much improved our way of life and for ourself, a lot of people.
If anybody's wondering what I'm doing, I just -- I have enjoyed this interview.
CAIN: I love it.
COSTNER: So I want to make sure I'm -- so I'm hearing your questions properly.
But there's also a moment where we have to say, enough, and we have to move on and preserve certain things. So, what's that balance? Who gets to make that decision? And it's really kind of an emotional thing to look at something and say, can we do without this? Can we do with less?
Because these are something -- this ocean, we just can't keep taking, right? We cannot keep doing that, but we have to take from it. So it's like, we're so smart. We do need to be able to use this intelligence we have to make it work. And if -- the desire to make it work is for everyone, not just a few.
CAIN: Can I just say this, Kevin, really quickly? My currency is authenticity. I don't care that you're holding that speaker up and talking to that speaker and listening to me through that. I just want to have a good conversation with Kevin Costner.
And if the audience sees him holding that speaker, all the better. It's real.
(LAUGHTER)
CAIN: Kevin, I always enjoy...
(LAUGHTER)
CAIN: I always enjoy talking to you, man. Thank you so much.
COSTNER: Thanks, Will.
CAIN: All right, take care.
COSTNER: We will talk to you again.
CAIN: "Yellowstone" -- OK, I hope so.
"Yellowstone to Yosemite With Kevin Costner," it's out now on FOX Nation.
There's something about technological troubles that bring out the authenticity in everyone. And to see someone fight through it, I promise you, it was endearing and real.
And now for a bit of "Will of the People."
In the spirit of authenticity, I'm going to tell you that it was a difficult decision today on whether or not to cut away from President Donald Trump. We do our best to put together a great show for you day in, day out, booking guests, like Secretary of Transportation Sean Duffy, who I neglected every time to call Mr. Secretary, or Kevin Costner.
It's hard to juggle those dominoes day in, day out, and there is the unpredictable element of, will we hear from the president of the United States? No single one person makes that call. And I can promise you, we're not going to make the right call at all times. But that was the call today to try to bring you some of what we had booked and some of the best we could do for you today. We will always put as a priority the president of the United States.
Thanks for joining us, where we get to the heart of the matter from the heart of America.
"The Five."

Load-Date: February 18, 2025


End of Document
