




Fox News YOUR WORLD WITH NEIL CAVUTO 4:46 PM EST
January 30, 2025 Thursday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 743 words
Byline: Will Cain
Guests: Katie Britt
Body


WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: All right, let`s bring in now Alabama Republican Senator Katie Britt.
Senator, I know you. You have young children. I have young children. There`s reports that many of the people on this plane were athletes, young athletes, figure skaters, who were part of the many lost. Every life is important, but I`m sure it`s easy for you, as it is for me and many others, to put ourselves in these situations and think about what was lost.
SEN. KATIE BRITT (R-AL): Will, I mean, you said it. That`s it.
I mean, as a mom, when you see something like this happen, your heart just breaks because you know that there are people`s children on this flight. There are moms on this flight. There were -- there are people that will no longer be able to share their lives with their loved ones as a result of this.
And so our hearts and prayers are with these victims` families. And, obviously, I have full confidence that President Trump, along with Sean Duffy, will work with partners to get to the bottom of this. But, at the end of the day, we know that nothing fills the void that`s left here.
I mean, as I fly in and out of this city every week, and to your point about children, my daughter came and joined me a few weeks ago and flew in on a nighttime flight by herself. And it is truly gut-wrenching and heartbreaking to think about what these families are going through and let them know that we in America firmly stand with them.
And as President Trump said, I believe that these individuals are being embraced by our good lord and savior, Jesus Christ, now.
CAIN: Well, Senator, we heard directly from the president. We also heard from the secretary of defense and the secretary of transportation and the vice president that, after a moment like this, we are going to refocus all of our federal institutions on making sure that we hire the best of the best for every job.
President Trump was just asked about this when he was assigning executive orders. He was asked about, hey, you don`t know if DEI played a role, so why are you bringing up DEI? Watch what just happened in the Oval Office.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Incompetence might have played a role. We will let that. But we want the most competent people. We don`t care what race they are. We want the most competent people, especially in those positions.
And, there, you`re talking about extremely complex things. And if they don`t have a great brain, a great power of the brain, they`re not going to be very good at what they do and bad things will happen.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Senator I would think, while we don`t know if DEI played a role in this incident, we do know that human error did.
And DEI is a policy that exacerbates human error. We need to cut out every policy that allows for anything where we maximize the potential for human error.
BRITT: Yes.
Well, look, we have talked about this over and over again. President Trump is going to keep America safe. He is going to do everything in his power to make sure that our citizens, no matter where they live, no matter where they are, that their safety and security comes first.
And that means making sure that we have the best people in positions to do that. So, whether it`s our courageous law enforcement officers, whether it`s the men and women who are working at the FAA, whether it`s our men and women in uniform, we want to make sure that the people who are set to protect our citizens are the best trained, equipped and ready to do so.
And so that`s what this is about. You will continue to see President Trump fulfill his promises from the campaign trail. Those are the things we`re going to be putting first. We`re going to be putting Americans first. We`re going to get back to commonsense policies, Will, common sense, which makes -- mean that we`re going to take a look at everything across the board and making sure we`re doing what`s best for Americans to succeed.
So I am thrilled with President Trump`s leadership, as you mentioned, J.D. Vance`s leadership...
CAIN: Right.
BRITT: ... and know that it`ll only continue the longer that they`re here in office.
CAIN: And I know you were there today during the confirmation hearings for Kash Patel. So we will keep an eye on all of these Cabinet nominees.
Thank you, Senator Katie Britt, so much for being with us today.
BRITT: Hey, thank you. I appreciate it. We look forward to getting Kash across the finish line.
CAIN: Thank you, Senator.

Load-Date: January 30, 2025


End of Document
