




Fox News FOX AND FRIENDS 6:00 AM EST
February 26, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; International
Length: 1136 words
Byline: Ainsley Earharft, Brian Kilmeade, Steve Doocy
Guests: Marco Rubio
Body


BRIAN KILMEADE, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Well, America's Secretary of State Marco Rubio has a lot to say about our adversaries and our allies as well.
AINSLEY EARHARDT, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: But he also shares a more personal side with Brian in an interview at the State Department.
KILMEADE: Yeah, it feels like just hours ago. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
KILMEADE: So Mr. Secretary, where are we going?
MARCO RUBIO, UNITED STATES SECRETARY OF STATE: This is Jefferson's Room for Secretary of State.
KILMEADE: I know it's been a blur. You got nominated. How surprised were you when you got the call from President Trump that this is the position he had in mind? Or did he tell you, Marco, I win, you're in?
RUBIO: No, you know, we really never talked about it beforehand. He sort of called and said, I want to make you Secretary of State. You don't say no to that. It's an enormous honor to be able to do it.
KILMEADE: Totally surprised?
RUBIO: Pretty much, I mean, in the sense that, I thought maybe he'd think of me for something, I didn't know what role, you know. But I think what's most exciting to me is the time in which I get to do it. I get to work for a president who is committed to making big change. You know, at the end of the Cold War, we sort of lost our way and we have a chance to remake American foreign policy and put the national interest, like what's important to America, first and foremost.
And people say America first. Yes, it's not America only, but it is America first. And bringing it back to that is something I'm excited to be a part of.
KILMEADE: Having known you for a while, I've always used to know you as someone who calls his own shots. It's like, this is what I think, this is how I feel. Now, you're running the State Department, but you're also taking the marching orders from the president. How hard is it to work for somebody?
RUBIO: Not hard at all. I mean, that's the way I work public works (ph).
KILMEADE: You have no experience with that.
RUBIO: No, no, but the Republic -- the Republic, that's how it works. The president was the one who got the electoral votes. The president is the president. He's the one -- nobody voted for me for Secretary of State except for the senators, right?
KILMEADE: Right.
RUBIO: The American people elected him. So, the president of the United States under our system of government --
KILMEADE: Right.
RUBIO: -- sets foreign policy. That's the way the system works. And our job is to provide advice and counsel and -- but at the end of the day, he makes the decisions and our job is to execute.
KILMEADE: Right.
RUBIO: And people need to realize that.
KILMEADE: So when people say, hey, Senator, when you were Senator, you felt this way. Now you're Secretary of State, you feel this way, your answer is?
RUBIO: That they obviously don't understand the American Republic.
KILMEADE: Right. I know you're anti-DEI administration and that's where the country's heading. But it's hard not to acknowledge that you're the highest-ranking Hispanic American in the history of the country and the first to hold this. What does that mean to you?
RUBIO: Well, it means this is a great country because I don't think I'm Secretary of State because I'm Hispanic. I think I'm Secretary of State because it doesn't matter. People want good people in these positions, and that's the point. That's what's wrong with DEI. It divides us on the basis of our ethnicity, our race, our gender, whatever it may be. And in fact, what we should be is a meritocracy where we are rewarding people for competence and performance.
KILMEADE: So do you know in history, the most smoothest running administrations have clashes? You have Jake Sullivan, according to reports, and Antony Blinken were not even speaking by the end of their four-year term. How do you avoid that?
RUBIO: The president has put together a tremendous team of people that have known each other for a long time. First of all, half of us are from Florida, so that's good.
KILMEADE: Right.
RUBIO: I've known Mike Waltz since his entire time in Congress. We've been working together for a long time and we're aligned in our thinking. Steve Witkoff, who's an envoy.
KILMEADE: Right.
RUBIO: Steve lives in Miami. Great guy, phenomenal, very talented person, very smart. I talk to Steve four times a day. Talk about Pam Bondi, I've known her for 15 years. So it's just a team of people that all know each other, have been working together for a long time and get along, and it extends to the president.
KILMEADE: But Mr. Secretary, I do remember, when you were running for president against him and how personal it got, and you guys were slugging it out.
RUBIO: Yeah.
KILMEADE: Do you ever talk about that? That, like, how rugged it got?
RUBIO: Well, I'll never tell you --
KILMEADE: And how tight you are now?
RUBIO: I'll never tell you what we talk about. I can only tell you he picked me to be his secretary of state.
KILMEADE: Right.
RUBIO: Like, I like watching boxing, grew up watching a lot of boxing. My dad was a boxing fan. I've never heard anyone at the end of a boxing match ask him, hey, why did you punch that guy in the face in the third round?
KILMEADE: Right.
RUBIO: You're in a competitive environment. What I can tell you is, the voters picked Donald Trump and I think they were wise to do so.
KILMEADE: You are also a dad.
RUBIO: Yeah.
KILMEADE: And you're also a husband. Your son's playing over at the University of Florida, scored a touchdown, we see that. Is it going to be hard to keep in touch with your family with a job?
RUBIO: Yeah.
KILMEADE: You've already been to 12 different places.
RUBIO: I mean, we have phones, you know, and we have the ability to communicate with them. My kids are a little older now, you know, they're a little -- they have their own lives going on, so they probably don't like to hear from me as much as they used to. And so, that -- look, that'll always be my most important job -- husband, father, and then secretary of state. And I don't think those things are in conflict. My family is -- I wouldn't be able to do this if they weren't supportive.
KILMEADE: Congratulations again, Secretary.
RUBIO: Thank you.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
STEVE DOOCY, FOX NEWS CO-HOST OF "FOX & FRIENDS": And they've got -- the family has got to be all on the same page because that's a job that does not end at six o'clock at night.
KILMEADE: No. And I did ask him at two in the morning, if you got a call that China is invading Taiwan, what do you do? He says, we're going to be strong enough, so that doesn't happen. But that's the ambiguous -- ambiguity with that question. That is going to be the number one thing facing him.
DOOCY: Well, you couldn't wake up Joe Biden at two o'clock.
KILMEADE: Right. No, you couldn't. No, around 10, when they --
DOOCY: It was hard to wake him up at noon.
KILMEADE: Right. So, they have a high pace.

Load-Date: February 26, 2025


End of Document
