




Fox News SUNDAY MORNING FUTURES 10:00 AM EST
February 23, 2025 Sunday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; International
Length: 6594 words
Byline: Mollie Hemingway, Maria Bartiromo
Guests: Glenn Youngkin, Scott Bessent, Lee Zeldin, Mike Waltz
Body


MARIA BARTIROMO; FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Good Sunday morning, everyone. Welcome to "Sunday Morning Futures." Thanks so much for joining us. I'm Maria Bartiromo.
Today: A war of words becomes part of the art of the deal. President Trump moves closer to unlocking Ukraine's rare earth minerals revenue and a potential end to the war after a public fight this week with Ukrainian President Zelenskyy.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: And the only thing he was really good at was playing Joe Biden like a fiddle. He played him like a fiddle. That's an expression we use, yes, sir, to say that he's pretty easy, pretty easy.
A dictator without elections, Zelenskyy better move fast, or he's not going to have a country left.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BARTIROMO: Coming up, my exclusive interview with Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent on a deal with Ukraine and the tariffs planned for others next month.
Plus, the national security impact with National Security Adviser Michael Waltz, also here with a look at Israel and whether any more negotiations with Hamas are even possible after Hamas' atrocious moves.
Then: President Trump's shrinking government and efforts to cut waste. Who is getting DOGED next? EPA Administrator Lee Zeldin on the waste, fraud and abuse being cut out of every agency and the surprise that he found buried in Joe Biden's so-called Inflation Reduction Act.
Plus, he was doing DOGE before it was cool. Virginia Governor Glenn Youngkin on his priorities in Virginia and his meeting with President Trump over the weekend.
Then: The president marks 30 days in the White House. The Federalist's Mollie Hemingway on the lightning speed of getting things done.
It's all right here, right now on "Sunday Morning Futures."
And we begin this Sunday morning with the art of the deal, as President Trump closes in on another major deal with Ukraine expected this upcoming week, as the president pursues payback for America's financial support of Ukraine, while also pursuing tapping into Ukraine's extraction of rare earth minerals.
Here's President Trump yesterday.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: We don't get our money back. We get nothing. So we're getting our money back. We're going to get our money back, because it's not fair. It's just not fair.
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: And we will see. But I think we're pretty close to a deal. And we better be close to a deal, because that has been a horrible situation. It would have never happened if I were president.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BARTIROMO: Ukraine is reportedly home to Europe's largest reserves of titanium used to make alloys for aircraft and naval vessels, as well as lithium, a critical material in batteries.
Trump wants 50 percent of the revenue from resource extraction in Ukraine, plus the right of refusal to purchase any minerals exported before Ukraine can sell them to any other country. Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent traveled to Ukraine last week to get Zelenskyy to agree to a deal, but Zelenskyy initially pushed back, sending Bessent home with no deal.
The negotiations have resumed, but not before a war of words broke out between President Trump and Zelenskyy, with the Ukrainian leader telling reporters President Trump was living in a -- quote -- "Russian disinformation space," triggering President Trump, who then called Zelenskyy a dictator with no elections on TRUTH Social.
All of this as President Trump presses forward to even the playing field with trade partners, threatening tariffs to come this April, as he seeks to end two wars, cut the size of government, and expand America's footprint, with potentially acquiring part or all of the Panama Canal very soon as well.
Joining me now, the man at the center of it all, in this "Sunday Morning Futures" exclusive, Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent.
Secretary, good to see you today. Thanks so much for being with us.
SCOTT BESSENT, U.S. TREASURY SECRETARY: Good morning, Maria. Always good to see you.
BARTIROMO: Can you walk us through the negotiations that you are having right now to tap into not just these rare earth minerals, but also oil in Ukraine? What can you tell us? Where does the deal stand?
BESSENT: So, Maria, as you said earlier, I traveled to Kyiv about 10 days ago and met with President Zelenskyy.
And this deal is part of President Trump's long arc negotiating strategy for peace between Ukraine and Russia and to let the Ukrainians get back to a peaceful existence. So the first part of this is a partnership between Ukraine and the U.S. that involves strategic minerals, energy, and state- owned enterprises where we set up a partnership and we are only looking forward.
We -- it is a win-win. President Trump created this idea himself. It is a win-win. We make money if the Ukrainian people make money. And I believe that, with the United States of America, our know-how, our businesses willing to come in and provide capital, that we can accelerate the Ukrainian growth trajectory and take in substantial monies for the U.S. taxpayers and get the Ukrainian economy on a growth -- great growth trajectory.
BARTIROMO: Does this deal include security, helping to secure Ukraine? And do you expect Zelenskyy to sign it?
BESSENT: I do expect that President Zelenskyy will sign. It does not -- what it does not include is a military guarantee.
But what it does include is an implicit guarantee that, if the United States of America is heavily invested in the economic future -- I call it an economic security guarantee. The more assets that U.S. companies have on the ground, the bigger interest that the U.S. has in the future of the Ukrainian economy doing well, the more security it creates for the Ukrainian people, and the more -- the higher the return for the U.S. taxpayer.
Again, President Trump has structured this win-win deal, and it's unfortunate that, after my meeting with President Zelenskyy and then his meeting in Munich with Vice President Vance, Secretary of State Rubio, the idea here of my trip to Ukraine and then the meeting in Munich, we want to intertwine the U.S. and Ukrainian economies for the benefit of both.
And, unfortunately, President Zelenskyy seems to have put a bit of daylight between us. But I am sure in the long run or in the short run, there is no daylight, the deal will be signed, and this will give President Trump a lever, and it will be a strong signal to Russian leadership that the U.S. is in a serious partnership with the Ukrainian people.
BARTIROMO: President Zelenskyy is speaking right now, saying today that he was willing to give up his position if it meant peace in Ukraine, quipping that he could exchange his departure for Ukraine's entry into NATO.
Zelenskyy also says he wanted to see Donald Trump as a partner to Ukraine and more than simply a mediator between Kyiv and Moscow. "I want it to be more than just mediation. That's not enough," he told a press conference just moments ago.
Your reaction. Is this also suggesting that there could be a change in leadership in Ukraine?
BESSENT: Maria, I try to stay in my economics and finance lane.
BARTIROMO: OK.
BESSENT: So, what President -- this is the first that I have heard about it.
BARTIROMO: No problem. OK.
BESSENT: But, at some point, Ukrainian people, it's a democracy. They're going to have an election, and they will democratically elect a leader.
President Zelenskyy has been a wartime president, and we have seen in the history of this, Winston Churchill was a fantastic wartime leader, and then the British people decided to move on after he'd done a great job during World War II.
BARTIROMO: Secretary, I know that the prime minister of the U.K. will be at the White House Thursday, and the president is meeting with French President Macron on Monday to discuss their ideas for a resolution to this war.
And one of the ideas, according to The Wall Street Journal, is that the U.S. would have a backstop in terms of potential military. Has the president considered this?
BESSENT: Maria, my understanding -- and, again, I try to stay in the econ and finance lane.
BARTIROMO: Sure.
BESSENT: But my understanding here is that it will be a European military solution, not a NATO solution, and that we will go from there. So I believe that is why Prime Minister Starmer, the -- President Macron are in town.
And then I believe what we can do is fortify the existing boundaries of NATO. We could have fortress Baltics, fortress Poland, without the U.S. having any involvement on the ground in Ukraine going forward.
BARTIROMO: Well, this is very exciting, Secretary, what you're working on in terms of this deal in Ukraine.
Do you expect a deal to be announced this week in terms of those rare earth minerals and energy?
BESSENT: I'm quite hopeful, Maria.
And the other thing I would say here too is, common to a lot of misperceptions, the Russians hate this deal, that the morning that I arrived in Ukraine, to get into Kyiv, you take a -- you fly to Poland, you take a 10-hour night train in.
The Russians, unfortunately, bombed Kyiv. It was a missile barrage four hours before I got there. It was the first time that such a barrage had taken place since November. So, I think that was a strong signal from Russian leadership that they don't like this deal, because it gives President Trump more negotiating leverage.
So, if the Russians don't like it, my view is, Ukrainians should.
BARTIROMO: Well, let me move on to tariffs, sir, because you have been tasked, you and Howard Lutnick, the commerce secretary, have been tasked with studying the impact of reciprocal tariffs, and you're supposed to be giving the president a report at the end of March.
Are tariffs coming, reciprocal tariffs? And how expansive might they be? We have talked in the past, it doesn't just include trade, but it could cover currency manipulation, digital fees that Europe puts on our companies, the VAT tax that the Europeans charge, as well as lawsuits on technology companies of American origin.
BESSENT: Yes.
So, Maria, commerce and USTR are going to produce a report on April 1. And we're going to take a look at -- you just did an excellent job. We're going to look at the actual tariffs, non-tariff barriers underlying the currency manipulation, and then whether there are any other factors, sort of as China does with unfair financing of their corporates.
And a fifth portion has come to our attention with these lawsuits that the E.U. launches against our great tech companies. So we're going to take that in the aggregate. And I can't tell you what's going to happen, because it's path-dependent.
The nature of reciprocal tariffs is that we are -- if we start matching, whether it's the E.U., that -- any other country in the world, with reciprocal tariffs, we're just doing what they're doing and then adding in these other factors. If they remediate those, which is path-dependent on their reaction function, if they do that, then their -- you know, tariffs could drop.
If they want to be recalcitrant, if they want to continue these unfair trade practices, then the tariff wall will go up until they are willing to negotiate.
BARTIROMO: So there's a tariff law from the 1930s that allows a president to charge up to 50 percent tariff. Has President Trump talked about that kind of tariff on Europe, given the VAT tax, as well as all of these other issues we just mentioned?
BESSENT: Yes, I think we should wait until April 1...
BARTIROMO: OK.
BESSENT: ... and see what it is.
President Trump understands leverage better than anyone. So, like, I'm not going to jump in front of him. And I'm sure that he is willing to do whatever it takes to get the free, but fair trade for the American people.
BARTIROMO: Secretary, as we wrap up, I have got to point out this Lindsey report. The Lindsey Group came out with a report, can DOGE induce a recession?
As we see so many government jobs getting cut right now, do you worry that that cuts into the job creation numbers and the overall macro story, as you also recently reached -- the country has reached its statutory debt limit, prompting the Treasury to implement extraordinary measures to prevent default? You're dealing with so much, and DOGE is cutting jobs.
Does that cut into growth?
BESSENT: Look, Maria, I think that, if we have a bloated government and if that gets cut down, then government spending will go down. Many times on your show in the past 10 months, I have talked about reprivatizing the economy.
And that's what we're going to have to do. We have seen what I would call this orgiastic government spending with the past administration. We're running 6.7, 6.9 percent deficit to GDP, which we never had when we're not in a recession, not in a war. And we're going to bring that down.
And so as the government employee employment comes down, private sector will not be crowded out anymore. All the jobs created by the Biden, not all, but the 70, 85 percent of the jobs created by the Biden administration were government jobs, government-adjacent. They crowded out the private sector. The government interest rates spiked.
BARTIROMO: Sure.
BESSENT: I would just point out, interest rates are down five weeks in a row on the 10-year since President Trump took office.
BARTIROMO: Yes.
BESSENT: And mortgage rates are down. We're going to get that down.
I was sitting next to -- I notice you're going to have Governor Youngkin later. I was sitting next to him on Friday. And I said: "Governor, how do you feel about these layoffs in Northern Virginia?"
BARTIROMO: Right.
BESSENT: And he said: "Scott, I think there's -- I think he told me there's something like 350,000 private sector job openings in Virginia."
BARTIROMO: Yes.
BESSENT: The State of Virginia has a portal, so there are plenty of private sector jobs, and those are good-paying, and we're going to reprivatize this economy, like President Trump promised.
BARTIROMO: Great point all around.
Secretary, it's wonderful to have you this morning. Thank you, sir. We will be watching your work.
BESSENT: Good to see you.
BARTIROMO: Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent, thank you.
And now this:
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
STEVE WITKOFF, U.S. SPECIAL ENVOY TO THE MIDDLE EAST: The beginning here is trust-building. It's getting everybody to understand that this war does not belong continuing, that it should end. That's what the president has directed us to do, to negotiate a proper ending of this war.
No more death. There's been too much already. That's what he said. And that's the direction, and that's what we're going to do.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BARTIROMO: And that's White House special envoy Steve Witkoff with me here last Sunday ahead of his trip to Saudi Arabia for talks with Russia over how to end the war on Ukraine that is now approaching a third year tomorrow, and just days after his trip to Israel to pressure Hamas to release more hostages, as the administration is trying to simultaneously end the war on Israel as well.
Joining me now with the very latest on this two-front debacle is the national security adviser of the United States, Michael Waltz.
Sir, great to see you, Michael. Thanks very much for being here today.
MIKE WALTZ, U.S. NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER: Yes, thanks, Maria.
And just to build on both Secretary Bessent and Ambassador Witkoff's comments there, what you're seeing under President Trump's leadership in just under a month is bringing multiple wars to an end. He is a president of peace.
And on the Ukraine-Russia side, you're seeing, number one, a reformulation of how the United States provides aid, a partnership with Ukraine economically in their critical minerals, and really reformulating that so that the American people can see a return on this massive investment they have made. That's one.
Number two, we go to a cease-fire. Number three, we reformulate how the United States deals with Russia. We saw that first step with President Trump talking to both Putin and Zelenskyy and then the further engagement and Riyadh, and then, number four, engagement with our European allies, as you see the president of France and the prime minister of the United Kingdom coming to Washington this week.
And we welcome their ideas for security guarantees and European leadership to take care of Europe's security going forward. All of that is happening at the same time that we're getting our hostages out of the Middle East, Steve Witkoff leading that effort.
And, by the way, we must see the destruction of Hamas and Iran staying on its back foot, for which all options are on the table, one month, Maria, under President Trump's leadership. And I haven't even gotten to the border, the cartels, deportation and everything else that's going on.
BARTIROMO: You're right. You're doing an incredible job, the administration handling so much at one time.
I want to go back to Israel in a moment. But you mentioned European leaders. And I know that many of them were also unnerved by President Trump calling Zelenskyy a dictator. The Wall Street Journal this morning writes, "a U.S. president's pivot to Russia."
We all can agree that nobody wants to see a bully win and win more territory. Can you acknowledge that Russia is the aggressor here?
WALTZ: Well, you know what? Who would you rather having go toe to toe with the lights of Vladimir Putin, Kim Jong-un, Xi, or whom -- anyone else, Joe Biden or Donald Trump?
He's the dealmaker in chief. He's the commander in chief. And it's only because his -- of his strength that we're even in this position. And President Trump's own words have been that Russia invaded a neighbor under Bush, under Obama, under Biden, but not him.
BARTIROMO: Right.
WALTZ: It didn't happen his first term, and he's going to bring it to an end his second term. And I just laid out the framework to do that, that we are all -- he has a great team around him that everybody is moving out on simultaneously from our secretary of Treasury to our secretary of state to our secretary of defense and, of course, our special envoy.
And that's what's going on. And people are welcome to bring better ideas, but all I have heard is, perpetuate more war. And that is -- no one should be surprised that that's not what President Trump campaigned on or intends to do.
BARTIROMO: Well, look, let me move on to the conflict on Israel.
And, of course, we have been watching this week these atrocious moves by Hamas celebrating dead hostages. We have got to get your take on this, because, at some point, doesn't the civilized world say, enough is enough, we cannot go on like this, with three hostages released here, three hostages dead released here? We don't know whose body it is.
Are you expecting to enter what is called phase two in this negotiation? Can you even continue to negotiate with Hamas if you're supportive of Israel?
WALTZ: Well, I will tell you, number one, we are working with our partners, both the Egyptians and the Qataris, to get the rest of the hostages out.
President Trump is committed and determined to do that. He's also horrified by these scenes, by this despicable behavior. And just remember, just six months ago, you had college campuses and administrators and progressives celebrating this group, Hamas, that is no different than ISIS, Al Qaeda or any of the other worst terrorist organizations in the world.
I wouldn't -- look, this behavior over this last week on -- with these children, with how these people have been released, this propaganda, absolutely is affecting the prospects of negotiations. We will see how that unfolds this coming week.
There may be some type of continued extension of what we're doing right now. Hamas needs to change, and change to -- yesterday in how it's conducting this. It's unacceptable, not just to the Israelis, but the entire world.
And I will tell you, the end goal of Hamas cannot and will not be allowed to rule Gaza going forward and ever do this again is absolutely also in play.
BARTIROMO: Should Israel destroy Iran's nuclear buildup?
WALTZ: Well, Maria, all options are on the table there.
BARTIROMO: OK.
WALTZ: Look, I wouldn't -- if Iran -- if Iran stepped forward tomorrow and gave the entire thing up, which they absolutely should, we would certainly entertain that.
But, at the same time, they cannot have a nuke, and all options are on the table to make sure that doesn't happen.
BARTIROMO: I know Egypt is hosting this emergency Arab summit on March 4. They're going to have their own ideas. Do you have any expectations there in their discussions over Gaza, real quick?
WALTZ: If you don't like President Trump's ideas, which are practical and commonsense, come forward with your own. And that's what we're seeing happen because of his leadership.
BARTIROMO: National Security Adviser Michael Waltz, thank you so much for being here. We so appreciate it.
WALTZ: Thank you.
BARTIROMO: We will be watching.
We will be right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BARTIROMO: Welcome back.
More fraud and abuse exposed, as the Environmental Protection Agency reveals President Biden awarded $2 billion buried in the so-called Inflation Reduction Act to a climate group tied to one of his most loyal supporters and friends, former Georgia gubernatorial candidate Stacey Abrams.
The EPA now trying to claw that money back, which is part of a larger $20 billion held at an outside financial institution, the money distributed as part of the $739 billion Inflation Reduction Act that was passed by congressional Democrats and signed into law by President Biden in 2022.
Joining me now is the EPA administrator, Lee Zeldin.
EPA Administrator Zeldin, great to have you this morning. Thank you for being here.
I want to get your take on what you have been doing this weekend. So let me get to the Stacey Abrams money in a moment. Tell us what you have been able to do just in the last two days.
LEE ZELDIN, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY ADMINISTRATOR: Working with DOGE, we just cut another 21 grants heading towards DEI and environmental justice, saving the American taxpayers another $67 million.
This is in our first round of cuts to find these efficiencies. So this partnership with DOGE has been outstanding. We want the EPA to be operating as efficiently as possible and exceptionally accomplishing our mission. We're on track.
BARTIROMO: Well, let's talk about this outrageous finding that you have had in terms of $2 billion stashed away in the Inflation Reduction Act and sent to Stacey Abrams-linked climate group.
Tell me about it.
ZELDIN: Maria, this group in 2023 only received $100. This isn't even like it's a longtime group that has reputation of handling large budgets.
They received $2 billion in 2024. On page one of the grant agreement, it tells them that they have 21 days to distribute all $2 billion. And on page seven of the grant agreement, it is giving them 90 days to complete a training called how to develop a budget.
I would say that any entity that needs training on how to develop a budget shouldn't be actually distributing money before they take that training. And they certainly shouldn't be receiving $2 billion to be distributing that rapidly.
What we have seen is a lot of self-dealing, a lot of conflicts of interest. And instead of spending tens of billions of dollars wisely and maintaining accountability and having oversight, instead, they were rushing to just, as they said in a December video that was leaked by a Biden EPA political appointee, they were throwing gold bars off the Titanic.
We found the gold bars. We want them back.
BARTIROMO: Unbelievable.
The money is being held at, what, Citigroup? Why can't you get your hands on that money and claw it back?
ZELDIN: The -- this is something that the Justice Department's been working with Citibank on. There's a financial agent agreement with Treasury, an account control agreement with EPA and the primary recipients in the bank.
But this is something that the Justice Department has been asking a lot of questions of us. I appreciate their diligence on behalf of the American taxpayer and working with our agency to ensure that we can reestablish that accountability and oversight over these funds.
I had a great conversation last night with the president on the topic, again, with Russ Vought, our new head of the Office of Management and Budget. Multiple agencies working to ensure that this funding is not wasted. We're going to go through a process. Unfortunately, Citibank is cooperating with the Justice Department.
BARTIROMO: So was there criminality here?
ZELDIN: That's a question for the Justice Department to answer. I would say that it's a clear-cut case of waste and abuse. The entire scheme, in my opinion, is criminal.
I will give you one other example. There was -- there are only eight primary recipients that received all $20 billion. I told you, we're just discussing the Stacey Abrams link, one that got $2 billion. The director of the Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund gave $5 billion to his former employer.
So he leaves one of these funds, becomes the director of the Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund, and then gives $5 billion to his former employer. I wish I could tell you that this was the end of it. We're talking about pass- throughs, giving to other entities. Many -- many respects of those are pass-throughs, and the EPA in writing tying our hands behind our back to ensure that we would have as little oversight as possible.
BARTIROMO: Wow.
And you have got tons of rules and regulations that were put into effect under the Biden administration as it hid all of its regulations behind the whole cloud of environmental issues, right? I mean, at the EPA, how much cutting are you doing in terms of rules and regulations, throughout government, by the way, not just the EPA?
ZELDIN: President Trump campaigned on this. The American public spoke loudly and clearly. And the Supreme Court has weighed into with the Loper Bright case. They don't want and agencies should not be coming up with their own interpretations of what law is.
We should be following our obligations under the law and we should be respecting the rule of law. We should be advancing cooperative federalism. It's time to go back to the basics to ensure we are delivering clean air, land and water, but we're also unleashing energy dominance in this country and we're powering the great American comeback.
That's the priority at the EPA under President Trump.
BARTIROMO: All right, Lee Zeldin, we're watching your work.
EPA Administrator, thanks very much for being here. We so appreciate it.
ZELDIN: Thanks, Maria.
BARTIROMO: Governor Glenn Youngkin is next.
We will be right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: So, paper ballots. And paper is very sophisticated today. A paper - - it's called watermark. It's impossible to copy, impossible to cheat.
If you went to paper ballots and same-day voting, and if you went to voter I.D., and also one other thing, you want a proof of citizenship, those four things, proof of citizenship, voter I.D., paper ballots, one-day voting.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BARTIROMO: That's President Trump on Friday speaking to the nation's governors at the National Governors Association, as the president looked ahead to the midterms and beyond, marking his first 30 days in the Oval Office, recommending the governors move to paper ballots and same-day voting, then, later, along with the first lady, Melania, hosted the governors for dinner at the White House.
Joining me now with more on the meeting and the impact of the president's agenda is Virginia Governor Glenn Youngkin.
Governor, it's good to have you this morning. Thanks so much for joining us.
GOV. GLENN YOUNGKIN (R-VA): Great to be with you.
And what a -- what a few days it was with the president, who is keeping his promises and moving at a pace nobody has ever seen before.
BARTIROMO: What was the reaction to the paper ballots and same-day voting on Election Days? And what else were your takeaways from your meeting with the president?
YOUNGKIN: Well, Maria, personally, from a Virginia governor, of course, we have paper ballots.
And the Biden administration sued me when I tried to make sure that everybody who was on our voter rolls was a citizen. And we had to go all the way to the Supreme Court and win that to make sure that we could remove people who had self-declared as noncitizens off the voting rolls.
So my big takeaway is, welcome, Mr. President. Thank you for having our back on the things that we know are common sense, so that we can drive forward and deliver on all the promises that you have made that everyone knows is just common sense.
BARTIROMO: And part of those promises is shrinking the size of the federal government. This is a national security issue.
You have been working with the Department of Government Efficiency, DOGE. Tell us how that's going and where specifically you have seen the most cuts. Earlier, the Treasury secretary mentioned that there's an impact in Northern Virginia of all of these government jobs going away.
YOUNGKIN: Well, first, there's a reality that we have a country with $37 trillion of debt that's been running a $2-trillion-a-year annual deficit.
And any CEO who steps into a position is going to stop and grab the money first and say, where is it going? And this unprecedented level of transparency and accountability is so needed. I mean, we have had elected official after elected official promise to get at waste, fraud and abuse, and here we have a president with promises made and promises kept.
We have got to get this spending under control. And you just heard, of course, one great example of that from Lee Zeldin. Of course, what we recognize is that there will be disruption in the federal work force. And, in Virginia, where we have a very large portion of federal workers, I am immediately moving to make sure they understand that we have an extraordinary number of jobs.
Virginia has been soaring over the last three years. We have had nearly $100 billion of companies saying we're investing in Virginia. We have 250,000 open positions. And I want to make sure that those disrupted federal workers transition into the private work force.
And so we're going to work to make sure that this work force finds a new job in Virginia. But I will tell you, the bottom line is that we have a president who is delivering on promises made. We have got to bring down the overall federal spending and the deficit.
I do believe that can be coupled with extraordinary growth. And that is the coupling here, which is, let's bring down spending and let's grow and drive an economy. And that's exactly what we have seen in Virginia the last three years, is that you can in fact balance the budget every year, you can reduce tax burdens, and it will be somewhere around $9 billion in Virginia, and yet we can have record growth, $100 billion of corporate investments.
We have 265,000 more people working today than we did just three years ago, 10,000 new start-ups. And, listen, CNBC named us the top state in America for business for a reason, because I believe we are.
BARTIROMO: Yes.
YOUNGKIN: And that is the kind of opportunity that lays in front of not just Virginia, but America.
BARTIROMO: That is great, and also wonderful to hear that you're preparing aid packages for Virginians losing their job in all of this and that the job opportunities are certainly many.
I want to get your take on how the governors reacted to what President Trump said about whether it's paper ballots and same-day voting or the deportation of criminals. I mean, we have been watching the fight with the governor of Maine, who does not want to work with the deportation plans and does not want to work with Tom Homan.
YOUNGKIN: First of all, Americans spoke loudly on November the 5th, and it's time to usher in a golden age of America that is propelled by common sense.
And when it comes to keeping America safe, President Trump is delivering. Listen, the border is now secure. We have had a drop in 93,000 -- 93 percent of illegal crossings.
BARTIROMO: Yes. Yes.
YOUNGKIN: And that impacts every state.
And he's now directed his secretaries to collaborate with the states in order to now work together in order to remove these violent illegal immigrants who have come in and have literally unleashed terror on so many folks.
BARTIROMO: Right.
YOUNGKIN: Virginia is a border state. We are taking care of that collaboration. But it goes well beyond that, Maria.
BARTIROMO: Yes.
YOUNGKIN: We now have a secure border. We see America now presenting itself as the economic powerhouse in the world. We're going to establish energy dominance, and we're going to take back all of the opportunity we have to have low-cost energy, bring inflation down.
We are moving hard on education to return the education responsibility to states.
BARTIROMO: Right.
YOUNGKIN: And then, finally, Maria, we have a president in the White House that understands what it means for the states to take on responsibility.
One of the big things I have been talking to them about is, let us take the lead on emergency response. We're good at it in Virginia. We were devastated by Hurricane Helene. We have had massive declarations of emergencies over the course of this winter. And yet we have reacted quickly.
BARTIROMO: Yes, you have.
YOUNGKIN: We have delivered for our citizens. Let us take that on.
BARTIROMO: And...
YOUNGKIN: So this is a moment for a big shift from the federal government to states, and I am looking forward to it.
BARTIROMO: And that's basically what President Trump is hoping to do, no doubt, getting even more information from you and your work in terms of education.
Are you comfortable with the president's comments that he would like to dismantle the Department of Education altogether? Because that would mean he's sending it back to the states.
YOUNGKIN: Yes, and I think it's really important that everyone understands that he wants to continue federal funding. He just wants to shift the responsibility to states, because we are the ones ultimately responsible for educating our children.
And when I came into office in 2022, we had seen many, many years of reducing standards. They had abandoned excellence in education. They were driving a whole agenda to teach children what to think, as opposed to how to think. And we had to go to work immediately. And we have used, I think, intensive tutoring, and we have raised standards in the classroom.
We are holding the school systems accountable. We have had record investment in Virginia because our economy is thriving, and we have been able to reduce tax burdens and increase investment. We can do this. And I'm looking forward to the tailwinds coming out of the federal government to let us do it.
BARTIROMO: And it's another reason why you have such support from families and certainly parents out there. They see what you're doing.
Governor, it's great to have you this morning. Thanks so much.
YOUNGKIN: Great. God bless you. Thank you.
BARTIROMO: And to you, Governor Glenn Youngkin.
We will be right back. Stay with us.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BARTIROMO: Welcome back.
Well, one month into President Trump's second term in the Oval Office, and he is moving his agenda at lightning speed. Among the notable accomplishments, securing the southern border, cutting billions in wasteful spending of taxpayer money, reasserting America's standing as a global superpower on the world stage, while moving to help end two wars and expand America's footprint, as sources tell me he is also closing in on taking back the Panama Canal.
This in contrast to President Biden's administration, which saw the 46th president take a modern day record 577 vacation days during his four-year term, according to The New York Post.
Joining me now is The Federalist's editor in chief, Mollie Hemingway.
Mollie, great to have you. Welcome.
How would you assess President Trump's 30 days in office so far?
MOLLIE HEMINGWAY, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Good morning, Maria.
And I thought, this week, we saw something interesting with a press conference where Stephen Miller, Kevin Hassett and Mike Waltz, three top advisers to President Trump, came out and gave an update on what was being done.
The level of candor and transparency is helpful when you're seeing so much, some of which you alluded to, but the dismantling of the illegal and racist and sexist DEI policies, the DOGE efficiencies, trying to restore peace and security to a world that has gotten very dangerous in the four years under President Biden, and even emphasizing that the top economic goal of this administration is to rein in inflation and how they're doing it.
It's been breathtaking for a lot of people to see just how much has been accomplished in a month and a few days. But in order to get the country back on track, the Trump administration clearly feels that this type of drastic action needs to be taken.
BARTIROMO: I want to get your take on this most recent fight over Russia and Ukraine.
Let's slip in a short break and get your take when we come right back.
We're talking with the editor in chief of The Federalist, Mollie Hemingway. Stay with us.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BARTIROMO: And I'm back with Mollie Hemingway, editor in chief of The Federalist.
And, Mollie, I want to get your take on the most recent brush between President Trump and Zelenskyy. The media is back to its Russia, Russia, Russia hysteria. We don't know why Trump says what he says and whether or not it's part of his dealmaking. Your reaction?
HEMINGWAY: Well, President Trump campaigned on a pledge to end the war in Ukraine as quickly as possible, so it's not surprising to see that he's working to a negotiated peaceful settlement there.
We had a lot of people who claimed to be adults in the room who were willing to have a million casualties in this war, hundreds of billions of our taxpayer dollars spent on this, without Europe doing much to support their own defense or weighing in at the level that they should.
And so I think Trump is negotiating this seriously and is explaining that, with all this money, this being a proxy war that we are engaged in, that we do have quite a bit of say on wanting to end this and end this on as good and favorable terms as possible.
BARTIROMO: Right. And those terms could include Putin getting more territory. Nobody wants to see a bully win. So what's your take in terms of who's getting the upper hand here?
HEMINGWAY: Well, this is a very complicated situation.
And unfortunately for the world, Russia is a nuclear power. It has 6,000 nuclear warheads. They will never have to accept conventional defeat. And the way that we have litigated this war has driven them closer to China, which is not in our national security interests. We do not want to see Russia and China having any stronger bond than they do now, and we'd like to pull that away.
There -- this just is not something that we should be devoting so many resources to at a time when there's conflict throughout the rest of the globe, particularly in Asia, which is where we need to pivot and focus our attention in terms of looming global threats.
BARTIROMO: And I love the White House's latest executive order called America's First Investment Policy.
And this basically limits what China can buy in America. It feel -- it seems that this administration understands who the number one adversary is.
HEMINGWAY: Maria, it's incredible how much China has bought land, farmland in states throughout the country, including Maine.
BARTIROMO: Correct. Yes.
HEMINGWAY: It's a threat to our security. And it has to stop.
BARTIROMO: Mollie, great to see you. Thank you, Mollie Hemingway.
HEMINGWAY: Thanks.
BARTIROMO: Thank you for joining us. I will see you tomorrow on "Mornings With Maria" on FOX Business.
Have a great rest of your Sunday, everybody. Thanks for being here.

Load-Date: February 23, 2025


End of Document
