




Fox News THE WILL CAIN SHOW 4:00 PM EST
January 29, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; International
Length: 7824 words
Byline: Bryan Llenas, Will Cain
Guests: Pete Hegseth, Christopher Walker, Chip Roy, Chad Pergram, Kristi Noem, Nicole Shanahan
Body


WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Live from the heartland, welcome to "The Will Cain Show."
And we start here, fighting through politics to make America healthy again.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ROBERT F. KENNEDY JR., HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES SECRETARY NOMINEE: You shouldn't be giving 60 percent of the kids in school processed food that is making them sick.
I don't want to take food away from anybody. If you like a cheese -- a McDonald's cheeseburger, a Diet Coke, which my boss loves...
(LAUGHTER)
KENNEDY: ... I -- you should be able to get them. But you should know what the impacts are on your family and on your health.
(SHOUTING)
KENNEDY: I was a heroin addict for 14 years. I have been 42 years in recovery. And I hear the many stories about denial or the barriers to access to care. And we need to improve that.
SEN. SHELDON WHITEHOUSE (D-RI): We have just had a measles case in Rhode Island, the first since 2013. And, frankly, you frighten people.
SEN. RON JOHNSON (R-WI): I think I know the personal and political price you paid for this decision. I just -- I want to say publicly I thank you for that. I truly appreciate what you're doing here.
(APPLAUSE)
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Robert F. Kennedy Jr. makes his case to lead the Department of Health and Human Services with some support and a lot of criticism.
You know what's bipartisan? There's pretty much a uniform opinion that the United States of America's health care system is bad, it's not serving Americans. So it's quite shocking to see some stand there today defend the status quo and destroy, attempt to destroy a reformer.
Let's look into it with our "Big Three."
First, number one, Robert F. Kennedy Jr. says clearly for everyone in attendance and everyone watching on television that he believes in a role for vaccines and he has laid out his goals for HHS.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KENNEDY: A healthy person has 1,000 dreams. A sick person has only one. Reports have claimed that I am anti-vaccine or anti-industry. I am neither. I am pro-safety.
(SHOUTING)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We will have an order. Please proceed, Mr. Kennedy.
KENNEDY: I am pro-safety. I worked for years to raise awareness about the mercury and toxic chemicals in fish, and nobody called me anti-fish.
The first thing I have done every morning for the past 20 years is to get on my knees and pray to God that he would put me in a position to end the chronic disease epidemic and to help America's children.
Should I be so privileged as to be confirmed, we will make sure our tax dollars support healthy foods.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: So what are his goals at HHS?
They are as follows, to ban high fructose corn syrup, to remove fluoride from water, to ban food dyes, and to support sustainable farming, reduce chemical usage and study the causes of sickness. Say what you will about Robert F. Kennedy Jr. Do you agree? Do you disagree? Do you have to agree or wholly disagree?
We can't let the perfect be the enemy of the good. I have questioned Robert F. Kennedy Jr. about how he feels about climate change or guns, but there is no doubt this man believes in his praying to God that he has the opportunity to help Americans when it comes to their health.
He was questioned by both the left and the right, and that brings us to number two. Here's an example. This is from Senator Thom Tillis of North Carolina. He asked RFK Jr. if he's a conspiracy theorist.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. THOM TILLIS (R-NC): I got a real quick question for you. Are you a conspiracy theorist?
(LAUGHTER)
KENNEDY: That is a pejorative senator that's applied to me, mainly to keep me from asking difficult questions of powerful interests.
I was told that I was a conspiracy theorist. That label was applied to me because I said that the vaccines, the COVID vaccine, didn't prevent transmission and it wouldn't prevent infection, when the government was telling people, Americans, that it would.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: He went on to point out that he was called a conspiracy theorist to say red dye causes cancer. Now that's been adopted by the FDA.
He said he could go on for a week, as many of us could. Conspiracy theorist is becoming almost a badge of honor. It means you're on the right track.
But RFK points out, the reason we need reformation at HHS is because of number three. We're the fattest, sickest, most expensive health care country in the world. We simply need to get our act together. And he had that conversation about what's needed with Senator Cortez Masto.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. CATHERINE CORTEZ MASTO (D-NV): Let me ask you this then, because you keep citing the Trump administration and you're just going to follow what they say. Is that what you're doing? You're just a rubber stamp for them in this position?
KENNEDY: President Trump has asked me and the chronic disease epidemic and make America healthy again.
(APPLAUSE)
KENNEDY: And if we don't solve that problem, Senator, all of the other disputes we have about who's paying and whether it's insurance companies, whether it's providers, whether it's HMOs, whether it's patients or families, all of those are moving deck chairs around on the Titanic. Our ship is sinking.
Our 60 percent increase in Medicaid over the past four years is the biggest budget line now, and it's growing faster than any other. And no other nation in the world has what we have here. No other nation has chronic disease. We have the highest chronic disease burden of any country in the world.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: In fact, 90 percent of our health care expenditures are due to mental health issues or some extension of chronic disease.
Take a look at this, 945,000 heart disease and stroke deaths per year. You have got 1.7 million cancer diagnoses, 600,000 cancer deaths per year, 38 million Americans with diabetes. And take a look at obesity, 20 percent of children and 42 percent of adults obese.
Robert F. Kennedy Jr. understands you have to get to the core issue. And if we need reformation, you might need someone who's willing to be radical about how we address our health. You don't have to let the perfect be the enemy of the good. You don't have to agree with him about everything.
But we might not continue down the same path of status quo that we have been on for half-a-century or we will continue to be broke, fat and sick.
Our next guest has a pretty simple message to senators from both parties if they oppose RFK Jr.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
NICOLE SHANAHAN, FORMER VICE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: While Bobby may be willing to play nice, I won't. If you vote against him, I will personally fund challengers to primary you in your next election and I will enlist hundreds of thousands to join me.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: You recall Nicole Shanahan was RFK Jr.'s running mate in his run for the presidency when he ran as an independent. She was his vice presidential running mate. And she joins me now.
Nicole, great to see you today.
What did you think of the hearing? What did you think of the performance by both the senators and RFK?
SHANAHAN: RFK did a great job.
And I just want everybody to know that the MAHA-MAGA unity movement is very, very strong in the United States right now. Arguably, it is the largest movement in the world. And it is what catapulted President Trump back into the White House, and it is fully behind RFK Jr.'s confirmation.
And so watching the senators at work today, I just have to say thank you to Senator Ron Johnson. He -- I got many text messages from moms across America who were in tears to hear his earnest support of RFK Jr.'s confirmation.
CAIN: Well...
SHANAHAN: And I do also want to make it clear that, yes, we are watching every one of these votes, every senator's actions, every word that came out of their mouths.
And there are hundreds of thousands that are mobilized to take action during primary season.
CAIN: Well, the opinion that you shared is backed up by the stats that the unification between MAHA and MAGA is backed up by this FOX poll; 48 percent of voters would vote for RFK Jr. for his HHS secretary. That's the highest, by the way, of any of the Trump nominees to Cabinet positions.
SHANAHAN: Yes.
CAIN: So it's clear, as you point out, that RFK's supporters helped win Donald Trump the presidency. But I'm not sure that's going to be heard or listened to by every Republican senator.
You -- in your video, you named names and you said you would be dropping money to primary those senators.
SHANAHAN: That's correct.
I listed 13, but, really, we're watching all of these seats. We're at a point now, we're at a breaking point in America. You're either still working on behalf of big ag, big pharma and big business or you are working on behalf of the people.
And there is a contract that each of these senators has with the people, not with these corporations, but with the people. And we are watching who is going against that contract, who is breaching it. The people will not stand for this any longer and we want change.
We want a leader. Bobby is that leader. He went out there. He took those slings and arrows for all of us today. And we're very grateful and we stand behind him.
CAIN: Nicole, I want to put up his resume, all the things that RFK Jr. has done throughout his career. He's 71 years old. He's founded Waterkeeper Alliance. He founded Children's Health Defense Fund, which came up today in the hearing.
At one point, he was named TIME magazine's hero for the planet. You elected to join him in his race for the presidency, and here you are with me right now talking about this moment, where he could take over as HHS. Why? Why are you so passionate about RFK?
SHANAHAN: Well, I, like millions of Americans, want healthy food, healthy medicine and a healthy planet.
I want to watch my child grow up healthy. I don't want what -- these numbers of parents that are burying their own children is far too high. That number increases year after year. There's no greater tragedy than watching your child suffer, than having to bury your own child.
I have heard from hundreds of thousands of these parents across America. It has to stop. That's why I care.
CAIN: Well, you put it out in your video. I can hear your passion. I can hear it in your voice.
SHANAHAN: Yes.
CAIN: I really can, Nicole.
I think you have also backed it up with your pocketbook, as you pointed out in your video. In 2020, you and I might have been on opposite sides of several outcomes in politics. You helped fund Jon Ossoff and Raphael Warnock, get those two seats in Georgia. Now today, in that video, you're saying you will do the opposite if they vote against RFK Jr.
You will dedicate that same passion, money to primarying all of those senators.
Nicole, it's a real pleasure to have you and to hear that real genuine passion from you today.
SHANAHAN: Thank you.
CAIN: Thank you, Nicole.
SHANAHAN: Thank you, Will.
CAIN: All right.
All right, we have other high-profile confirmation hearings this week. Tomorrow, FBI director nominee Kash Patel and DNI nominee Tulsi Gabbard will go before senators.
Chad Pergram is here to set the stage on Capitol Hill -- Chad.
CHAD PERGRAM, FOX NEWS CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Will, good afternoon.
Democrats believe both nominees are radioactive. Patel stands a better chance of confirmation than Gabbard. Bipartisan senators have deep-seated concerns about whether Gabbard can guard the nation's secrets and if our allies trust Gabbard.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): If confirmed, Ms. Gabbard would be a walking liability to our intelligence community and our national security. She has a long and troubled history of spreading falsities and sympathizing with the likes of Vladimir Putin and Assad.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERGRAM: It's believed that at least six Republicans could oppose Gabbard. She may struggle to get support on the Intelligence Committee.
One senior Senate GOP source conceded it will be tough to confirm her. But Gabbard has GOP allies.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. ERIC SCHMITT (R-MO): I don't know that. No one said publicly that they're not going to support her. I do think that it's important for her to continue to work the conference and make sure she's got the votes. The Democrats are probably unlikely to support her. But I support her. Again, I think she's a patriot.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERGRAM: The Senate Judiciary Committee sent the nomination of Pam Bondi to serve as attorney general to the floor today. Some Republicans believe Democrats are doubling down on certain nominees.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TILLIS: I was in a Judiciary Committee hearing this morning where I saw people who refer to themselves as friends of Pam Bondi vote against her. This is a shirts and skins game, so I don't take anything that they're saying right now seriously.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERGRAM: The Senate continues plowing through nominees. Senators right now are voting to confirm Lee Zeldin to lead the EPA.
If he's confirmed, six of the seven nominees approved by the Senate received bipartisan support. Next in the queue for the floor, Doug Burgum. He's up for secretary of the interior -- Will.
CAIN: So, Chad, I treat betting markets like looking out the window and deciding whether or not it's currently raining. It just tells me what's happening right now. It doesn't tell me what's going to happen tomorrow, what the weather may be later this week.
The betting markets right now focus on the three individuals you have talked about, Kash Patel, Tulsi Gabbard and RFK Jr. Everyone else is well over 95 percent. Tulsi Gabbard's about 56 percent. RFK went up today, Chad, after his hearings to 86 percent. In your conversations on the Hill talking to senators, is that what you have heard as well, senators feel more confident now about RFK?
PERGRAM: Well, if you talk to senators on the Republican side, they all said, some of them who had reservations, indicated that they wanted to see how he would perform in the hearing. I suspect you will probably get some statements of support now, people who were waiting to see how this went.
Maybe wait to see when the vote comes out of committee if he in fact gets out of committee. And there's another pressure point being applied right now. In the past hour, J.D. Vance, the vice president, has put out a statement, and he says that Tulsi Gabbard and RFK Jr. represent a new coalition in the Republican Party. And Vance says to reject them would be an insult to those voters.
So that's the pressure now on those Republican senators.
CAIN: That's a fascinating note. Thanks for sharing that with us, Chad.
And it is. It is a message from the voters through Donald Trump and now directly to the United States Senate.
Recently sworn-in Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem joins "The Will Cain Show" with an exclusive announcement when it comes to money going to illegal immigrants. We're going to dive into NGOs.
And my fellow Texan Chip Roy joins us next, as President Trump explores holding illegal immigrants, criminal illegal immigrants at Guantanamo Bay.
It's been a roller-coaster week, by the way, on Wall Street, and it's continued, all three major stock averages lower today after a nice rally on Tuesday.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: Welcome back to "The Will Cain Show."
Joining me now, a fellow Texan. He's Republican Congressman Chip Roy.
And although I said, Congressman, that Chip likes country music, I didn't qualify that he likes red dirt Texas country music. So they gave you Tim McGraw. Nobody complains about Tim McGraw. But I know you would have preferred Whiskey Myers.
REP. CHIP ROY (R-TX): Yes, you read my mind brother. I was saying, hey, what are you going to do? You got to bring the Texas country music in, give us a little Flatland. Get us some Robert Earl Keen. Give us something.
CAIN: Well, I will take care of you. And we did take care of a shot there, not far outside your district of Fredericksburg, Texas, right there, to bring...
ROY: Amen.
CAIN: ... you in to talk about a lot going on today. Let's start with this. This happened just an hour ago.
At the signing for the Laken Riley bill, Donald Trump announced that he wants the DOD to prepare Guantanamo Bay to facilitate I think they said up to 30,000 beds for criminal illegal immigrants. Here's what Donald Trump said about an hour ago, Congressman.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: So, signing an executive order to instruct the Departments of Defense and Homeland Security to begin preparing the 30,000-person migrant facility at Guantanamo. Most people don't even know about it.
We have 30,000 beds in Guantanamo to detain the worst criminal illegal aliens threatening the American people. Some of them are so bad, we don't even trust the countries to hold them because we don't want them coming back, so we're going to send them out to Guantanamo. This will double our capacity immediately, right? And tough. That's a tough -- that's a tough place to get out of.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Creative, innovative. Donald Trump is thinking of new solutions.
Congressman, you're an independent thinker. There have been times you have disagreed with Donald Trump. What do you think about Guantanamo for criminal illegal immigrants?
ROY: Yes, well, my disagreements with the president are few and far between. We are completely aligned on this and most issues.
The president is 100 percent correct to use Guantanamo. We have had some dangerous offenders that are released on our streets. At the bill signing today, notably, Laken Riley lost her life. Her family were there. And I want to congratulate Mike Collins and the authors of that legislation. I was a co-author.
I introduced the SUE Act with Dan Bishop to make it to where A.G.s can sue federal government when it's not doing its job. That bill is now signed into law. It's a great first bill to kick off this president's term with the support of the Congress.
But, importantly, Alexis Nungaray was there. She lost her daughter last summer to the hands of Tren de Aragua, the dangerous Venezuelan gangs. So we want these dangerous individuals to be kept somewhere not on our streets.
The president is right. Let's put them in Guantanamo. Let's tell the world that they're going to take the planes back, but we have some place to put them when we're having to house them and deal with it when we're in transit. And congratulations to Tom Homan for now starting to continue to get these people out of our country now with, I think, 7,000 removals and growing 1,800 a day.
I saw the order from ICE just yesterday.
CAIN: Yes, it's -- the numbers are encouraging.
Mike Lee, Senator Mike Lee, had an innovative, encouraging, creative idea yesterday, and it actually inspired you.
ROY: Yes, I liked it.
CAIN: We saw that you contributed on social media.
Yes, and you told us here at the show that you like the idea as well. It is that, the idea that, I think it's also not just Congress, but the secretary of state, can issue letters of marque and reprisal. It's been done, James Madison, Thomas Jefferson.
ROY: Yes.
CAIN: But it hasn't been done for 100 years. It allows private citizens, essentially, in this case, to combat the drug cartels, smuggling routes, whatever, human trafficking here in the United States.
It's certainly creative from the senator, but it's something I hear that you like, Congressman.
ROY: Yes. No, that's right.
I mean, this is something that was done in our past history that we should reprise. Importantly, the president has rightfully issued an executive order recognizing cartels as effectively foreign terrorist organizations. That will increase the tools that we can use to go after them and recognize how dangerous they are to our people and, frankly, to the people that we're seeing flood here into our country.
And here's the thing. If we now can unleash private actors to be able to go after these terrorist organizations, that will help us immensely. So I think it's a great, creative solution.
But now what we need is for Congress to do its job as well, to provide the resources necessary for Tom Homan, for the president, et cetera, to be able to exercise removals from our country, to be able to do things like paying these individuals to go after the cartels.
But we need those resources. And Congress needs to get that done quickly through the reconciliation process. I'm worried that we're getting bogged down in typical congressional malaise. And I think we need to get a quick bill. That's why I believe in the two-bill solution. Let's get a bill, boom, boom.
Let's get defense funded, border funded. Let's get it out the door, increase the debt ceiling, and then cut back some of Biden's worst policies, and then figure out our tax-and-spend issues. But Mike's idea is creative. We need to act quickly to go after these cartels and keep removing these people from our country.
CAIN: OK, that brings me to my last topic, which I do want to talk to you about.
You and I have so much in common. We both went to University of Texas Law School. We're Texans. We like the same kind of music. I talked about this. I didn't mention you the other day, Congressman, but you were on my mind. Much of the Republican Conference went to Florida for a retreat to sort of try to get on the same page here when we move Trump's agenda to the legislative side of the aisle.
But with one vote right now, a one-member advantage for Mike Johnson, it's going to be a real trick pulling off everybody on the same page. I know how important the deficit is to you.
ROY: Yes.
CAIN: I know you put this statement out as to why you didn't go to the retreat.
You said it was a waste of time. You didn't want to spend the money and you thought you would be back here with your family and friends and serving Texans in Washington, D.C.
So the question is, Congressman, are you going to be a part of the team and whatever comes out of legislation with the Republican Conference?
ROY: Well, unity without purpose is not going to be helpful. We need unity with purpose.
So what happened down in Florida, let's be clear. This was a preset retreat to a resort,OK? This wasn't about the president or the vice president. This was Republicans. And what I asked the speaker and Republican leadership is, like, what are we going to do there? Are we going to sit down and make a determination that we're going to actually reduce deficits?
Or is it going to be more of the same stuff that I have been hearing for months, that we're going to be saying wink, wink, nod, nod, don't worry, taxes, we will get the tax cuts done, but we're not going to cut spending to make sure deficits go down?
That's actually what's happening. I was getting real-time updates from my colleagues. I needed to be home with my family, my wife, my kids. We had a frozen well pump. We had things that I have to come deal with. No apologies, Will. I'm in Texas, where I serve.
If they want to be back in D.C., I will go back and go vote on a bill that will cut spending. But I got word this morning from the meetings. They put forward solutions that are not going to reduce the deficits. That is a nonstarter for me.
I'm on the team, but I'm on team Trump, team getting the solutions done to deliver, spending restraint, so that Scott Bessent can actually get deficits down, as he said in his 3-3-3 plan. And as the president said in his own inauguration speech, we have got to get inflation under control. That means ending the tax of inflation.
That means cutting spending.
CAIN: All right. No one would ever begrudge you of being with your family or certainly spending time in Texas.
It sounds like they have some work to do, though, to bring you over...
ROY: They do.
CAIN: ... that it's going to be focused on deficits. OK, that's what I hear.
ROY: That's right.
CAIN: Focused on deficits.
OK, Congressman Chip Roy, thanks for being with us today.
ROY: See you, Will. God bless.
CAIN: OK. Take care.
All right, from gold bars to behind bars, disgraced former Senator Bob Menendez sentenced to 11 years in prison.
A live report outside the courthouse -- next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: Big news from Lower Manhattan in the last hour, former New Jersey Democratic Senator Bob Menendez sentenced to 11 years in prison on corruption charges.
Let's go to Bryan Llenas outside the courthouse with the very latest.
Hey, Bryan.
BRYAN LLENAS, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Will. Good afternoon.
Well, this 11-year prison sentence is the longest ever imposed against a U.S. senator in our nation's history. Judge Sidney Stein saying -- quote -- "Somewhere along the way," to Senator Bob Menendez, "I'm sorry to say you became a corrupt politician."
The 71-year-old will now also have to forfeit over hundreds of thousands of dollars in gold bars and cash that were found in his home and any other benefits he received through bribery and fraud. Now, Menendez's co- conspirators, two New Jersey businessmen, were also sentenced today to seven and eight years in prison and ordered to pay nearly $2 million in fines.
Now, prosecutors recommended a 15-year prison sentence, noting that he's the first senator ever convicted of acting as a foreign agent. Now, in court today, Menendez cried as he begged the judge for mercy, a lesser sentence of no more than eight years. He spoke in front of his son, his sister, and his daughter.
He said that every day he is awake is punishment. He said he was far from a perfect man, but, in his 50 years of public service, he's done more good than bad.
Then after court, Menendez maintained his innocence. And then, amid reports that he's seeking clemency from President Trump, he said this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
FMR. SEN. ROBERT MENENDEZ (D-NJ): Trump is right. This process is political and it's corrupted to the core. I hope President Trump cleans up the cesspool and restores the integrity to the system.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
LLENAS: A jury last July convicted Menendez of 16 federal charges, including bribery, and acting as a foreign agent on behalf of the government of Egypt.
Menendez was found guilty of selling his influence to the three New Jersey businessmen and attempting to interfere in at least two criminal cases on their behalf and, like I said, influencing or working on behalf of Egypt's government.
And, in exchange, he received those gold bars and hundreds of thousands of dollars in cash that were found in his New Jersey home. Now, Menendez has maintained his innocence, as you heard. And, ultimately, we expect, Will, that he will appeal this case. But history was made here today -- will.
CAIN: It sure was, 11 years for a senator. Thank you, Bryan.
All right, I just got a phone call during our last commercial break. It was from new Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth. Turns out he's going to be joining me in just moments for an exclusive, his first interview since being confirmed as the secretary of defense.
We're going to talk about that new directive from President Trump to prepare Guantanamo Bay for criminal illegal immigrants.
But before we get to Pete, his colleague DHS Secretary Kristi Noem is here with some exclusive news. And that's next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: President Trump is taking on schools that aren't making the grade, the president set to sign an executive order today that will stop funding K-12 schools that teach Critical Race Theory or radical gender ideology.
Now, let's take a step back and look at what Critical Race Theory, how it becomes a breeding ground for ultimately DEI, diversity, equity and inclusion. President Trump signed an order to end DEI programs in the government, including in the military.
And that was music to the ears of our next guest, who was a senior adviser to the DEI office for the Air Force. His name is Christopher Walker. He's a retired Air Force Brigadier General. And he says he was picked to be on this DEI board because he's black. And, therefore, they assumed he's in favor of DEI, but not so much.
For nearly two years, he became a mole in that office. And he says he witnessed leaders he respected bow to DEI pressures. He's now relieved we have a new president and defense secretary.
Brigadier General Christopher Walker joins me now.
Thank you so much for being with us. Let's start with how this started.
So you get appointed to this at the Air Force, and you think it's they assumed you're black, you must like DEI.
BRIG. GEN. CHRISTOPHER WALKER (RET.), U.S. AIR FORCE: So I want to give you a little bit more inside baseball.
We still had at that time some of President Trump's first-term appointees in high places. And that's how I got in, because the wink-wink implication was that I was supposed to be in there to at least monitor and stop the crazy.
CAIN: Got it. And, OK, so you knew from the beginning what your role might be.
WALKER: Oh, yes.
CAIN: But everyone in the room, everyone else in the room, did they assume because you're black you were supportive of DEI?
WALKER: Holy smokes.
Yes, if they just did just a little bit of background check on me, the thousands of people in the military who know me know I have been a conservative for 30-something years. I grew up in New York City as a liberal, but then I saw the light back in 1986-'87.
But, nevertheless, if they had just asked a few questions, they would have learned, but they didn't because they assumed.
CAIN: Yes, that's what the whole -- it seems to be the purpose of the whole enterprise. Assume your thoughts and your character and everything based upon your superficial characteristics.
(LAUGHTER)
CAIN: OK, so what did you see? Now you're a mole behind the scenes. What did you see? What did they reveal in front of you?
WALKER: OK, so there are some things that they were trying to do that I would put in the category of just leadership. But then, but the whole DEI thing started taking crazy turns and started getting things where you're trying to look for excuses to convince the American people that drag shows on military bases were OK.
There was this course that Georgetown University, that they gave us for the senior members of the Air Force and these -- the Senior Executive Service and the general officers by Georgetown University trying to convince us that they are -- that all whites are oppressors. And we weren't buying it, but some people were.
But I saw all of that and I said, OK, enough is enough.
CAIN: So you saw insanity and you saw weakness. You saw other leaders fold to the insanity because it was what's required to be popular.
WALKER: Yes.
CAIN: Now, Brigadier General, I appreciate you sharing your story with me today. I hope you will forgive me. We're scrambling here, but your new secretary of defense is going to be joining us in...
WALKER: Oh, yes. I know.
(LAUGHTER)
CAIN: And he's going to be joining us in just moments. And we're trying to shuffle the decks a little bit, but your story is incredible, and we appreciate you sharing it.
WALKER: Oh, believe me, I understand how that goes.
CAIN: OK. And I know you're supportive.
WALKER: I look forward to talking with you again more in depth.
CAIN: I thank you. I look forward to that as well.
OK, so now let's turn back to the border quickly.
Now joining me is the Department of Homeland Security secretary, Kristi Noem, who has an exclusive announcement on more action her department is taking.
Secretary, thanks for being with us here today.
I understand you have something to share with us that we haven't heard yet about what you're going to be doing at DHS.
KRISTI NOEM, U.S. HOMELAND SECURITY SECRETARY: Yes, well, thank you, Will, for inviting me to be with you.
Today, we are announcing that we have stopped all grant funding that's being abused by NGOs to facilitate illegal immigration into this country. So it's amazing to me the hundreds of millions of dollars that have been spent by the federal government that has been sent to NGOs to facilitate this invasion of our country.
So I have taken action to stop that -- those funds, to reevaluate them and to make sure that we're actually using the taxpayer dollars in a way that strengthens this country, that keeps us safe.
So I think people are curious when we look at grants that are given out by federal agencies at how they're utilized, and that evaluation needs to be done. We're not spending another dime to help the destruction of this country. We're going to make sure that we follow through on what President Trump has promised, and that's to make sure that we're securing our border, departing those who are here illegally, and committing criminal actions, and that our taxpayer dollars aren't spending -- aren't spent to help it.
CAIN: And, Madam Secretary, I don't think people fully understand the role that NGOs play, many NGOs play, in facilitating illegal immigration.
I just want to share these numbers with everybody up on the screen. We spend over $380 million, did in 2024, for sheltering and service programs for illegal immigration -- illegal immigrants. But the vast network of NGOs that help facilitate it through Panama, through Mexico, and make it a landing spot here in the United States is a massive contributor here to illegal immigration.
So what you're telling us today is, that now stops? At least the federal funding of that, stops?
NOEM: Yes, through the Department of Homeland Security, we have stopped spending those dollars to fund those NGOs.
And, Will, what's been so revealing is that many of these NGOs actually have infrastructure and operations set up in Mexico on the -- on that side of the border that are telling those illegal immigrants to come to them and they will get them across the border. So they're not just operating in the United States. They're operating outside of the United States to help make it easier for those who want to break our laws.
CAIN: Right.
NOEM: And, Will, I was one of those Americans that, years ago, when somebody said NGO to me, I thought, oh, that's amazing. That's a nonprofit that's out there telling somebody about Jesus or spreading faith and salvation or doing good work and charitable work, helping people that are less fortunate.
And then I realized over the years, it's been perverted into this shadow government. And NGO is sometimes an operation that does things that the government cannot do, can't legally do. So they create an entity to use government dollars, taxpayer dollars, to do something that the federal government isn't allowed to do...
CAIN: Right.
NOEM: ... to do a shadow government operation that really has been used recently to undermine our country's national security.
CAIN: Yes.
And they often have -- and they are religious organizations and they have very nice names, and they do great work in a lot of situations. But this is another thing that they are doing is facilitating illegal immigration.
NOEM: Correct.
CAIN: Madam Secretary, your department as well, we're going to be getting into this now, but you're tasked with this, this was for DOD and DHS, according to President Trump, to begin preparing Guantanamo Bay to house some 30,000 criminal illegal immigrants.
What can you tell us about this program and your role at DHS?
NOEM: Well, Guantanamo Bay is already being utilized in this manner. There is already facilities there that are housing illegal immigrants and it's the worst of the worst that are kept there.
Many times, those who are sent there are gang members, people that have created terrorist activities in the United States of America and have been a real danger and threat to our people.
So, what we will be doing is utilizing our resources to expand the capacity there and to make sure that, as we continue to do what President Trump has talked about, and in deporting people who are here illegally and are making our streets much more dangerous, is that we're going to utilize Guantanamo Bay to a more expansive purpose and that we will -- going and putting resources there to make sure we have the space to getting people out of this country right away that will -- that will make sure our face -- our country much more safe.
CAIN: All right, Secretary of DHS Kristi Noem, thank you so much for unveiling that new information about NGOs and Guantanamo Bay right here with us on "The Will Cain Show."
Thank you.
NOEM: Thank you, Will. We will talk soon.
CAIN: OK.
All right, now to the leader of the other department involved in this, the new defense secretary. It says in the prompter "my friend." I think I can say my friend.
Pete Hegseth joins us for his very first interview since being confirmed.
Mr. Secretary, great to see you here today.
PETE HEGSETH, U.S. DEFENSE SECRETARY: Great to see you too, the host of "The Will Cain Show." Up and out, man. Congratulations on a fantastic show. Love watching it. Great to see you. Nothing but blue sky ahead.
CAIN: My plan was to score this very first interview with the secretary of defense, promote it, and build up to an hour-long sit-down.
Instead, it was a phone call in the middle of a commercial break, because you want to talk to us and everyone watching America about this new order from President Trump to house some 30,000 criminal illegal immigrants at Guantanamo Bay.
HEGSETH: Yes.
To piggyback on what Secretary Noem said, first of all, DOD and DHS are in complete partnership behind President Trump's mission to secure the southern border. Everyone watching your show understands that that responsibility was completely abdicated for four years under the Biden administration.
We have seen an invasion of criminal gangs, of human trafficking, of drug trafficking that's completely unacceptable. And so you saw on day one from President Trump executive orders reestablishing the military, the military specifically, commitment to protecting the territorial sovereignty of the southern border, which is a shift.
The military has been in support of DHS, and rightfully -- and, in many ways, rightfully so, for a long time. We have allowed an invasion. That needs to stop. The president declares an emergency. We're committed to that.
So we have sent troops, both National Guard and Reserve, but also active- duty, to the southern border, Marines to the southern border, both to assist in CBP and DHS in interdictions, but also to help fortify the border wall that President -- President Biden allowed to become more dilapidated with gaps and others. We're filling those gaps.
Ultimately, we're also providing, for the first time ever, Will, ever, gray tails, as we call them, military aircraft to support mass deportations. As CBP finds criminal aspects and others who are here illegally, DOD is there to support exporting those folks to other countries.
Now, in some cases, that's taken some time. And President Trump has been very clear with those countries that, if you aren't willing to take your criminals back, your illegals back, then we will hold you accountable, and things have shifted quickly. In other cases, we want somewhere else to hold them safely in the interim, criminal illegals.
Guantanamo Bay, Will, is a perfect place. I served there from 2004 to 2005. Americans think of Gitmo as the images you see on your screen, right, the detention facilities with folks from the Taliban and Al Qaeda. Those are the people I guarded in Camp 5 and Camp 5 and Camp X-Ray. That's one part of Guantanamo Bay.
The other part of Guantanamo Bay, Will, is a Naval station, where it has long been for decades a mission of that Naval station to provide for migrants and refugees and resettlement. So, there are places -- this is not the camps.
CAIN: Right.
HEGSETH: You're not putting criminals in camps where ISIS and other criminals -- there's a -- this is a temporary transit, which is already the mission of Naval Station Guantanamo Bay, where we can plus up thousands and tens of thousands, if necessary, to humanely move illegals out of our country, where they do not belong, back to the countries where they came from in proper process.
CAIN: So, I want to make sure I understand this, the way you have described it.
Of course, the image is going to be evoked by many people, when you say Guantanamo Bay, is going to be the prison side of Guantanamo Bay.
HEGSETH: Right.
CAIN: And the question is, are you treating illegal immigrants the same way you treated Khalid Sheikh Mohammed?
What you're telling us is, and I know this to be true, Guantanamo has been used for illegal immigrants dating back, I think it's 30 years. Bill Clinton used it for something very similarly back in the 1990s. So you're going to be using it as a way station, in essence, where criminal illegal immigrants are not yet accepted by their home country?
Describe -- is -- do I have that correctly? And if that's the case, describe for me the kind of illegal immigrant that will be sent to Guantanamo.
HEGSETH: More or less, you're right.
It's folks who maybe are in transit to their home country or a safe third harbor country, and it's taking a little time to move with that processing of the paperwork. Better they be held at a safe location, like Guantanamo Bay, which is meant and built for migrants, meant and built to sustain that, away from the American people as they are processed properly to where they came from.
And one -- I mean, I could break down for you the locations at Gitmo, because I -- it's burned in my brain. I spent so much time there.
CAIN: Right.
HEGSETH: They're built for it. One of them is the golf course on the Naval station, which can be expanded to provide an additional 6,000 places where migrants or illegals could go.
So this is a plan in movement, but not in movement because we're behind, but because we're ramping up for the possibility to expand mass deportations, because President Trump is dead serious about getting illegal criminals out of our country. And the DOD is not only willing to, is proud to partner with DHS to defend the sovereignty of our southern border and advance that mission.
CAIN: I want to ask you about General Mark Milley.
His photo, his portrait was taken down at the Pentagon. He has -- I think there is currently a commission being put together to explore whether or not he should be demoted. His security clearances have been taken away.
Tell me the thought process both there at the Pentagon at the White House with Mark Milley.
HEGSETH: Accountability is back, Will.
It's the understanding that, if you actively undermined the chain of command, as General Milley did under the previous Trump administration, we're going to review those actions administratively inside the Defense Department. Mark Milley got a pardon. That's something President Biden was in his purview to do, just like, in our purview at the Defense Department, we have the opportunity to review things he may have done inside the chain of command while President Trump was president that undermined those authorities.
So, security clearance in the interim is revoked. There will be a review of his -- of his -- the rank he will retain upon retirement, and he will have that process. But this is a demonstration that, inside President Trump's Defense Department, we're going to hold not just -- not just junior levels, the mid-level, the highest levels possible accountable for actions.
And that's what -- the signal this is meant to send.
CAIN: Well, I know you have been busy. I haven't got many return texts. I certainly had my phone calls go straight to voice-mail.
You have been busy. And one of the things you have been busy with is addressing DEI right off the bat. We just had, by the way, Mr. Secretary, an interview with an Air Force brigadier general that talked about what he encountered with DEI over his time essentially as a mole inside the Air Force and what they tried to do.
It was one of the first thing you did. You wrote -- you wrote, it looked like on a notepad: "DOD does not equal DEI."
What's being done right now to cut out DEI in the military?
HEGSETH: Well, President Trump put out the executive order on it. We have got our directive coming out today. It might out -- even be out already.
And I think President Trump said it perfect in his inaugural address, which is what we're reinforcing in our directive as well. DOD will be colorblind and merit-based, colorblind, as it has been, and merit-based, as it should be, because, as you know better than anybody, DEI sends the opposite signals. It's picking winners and losers. It's pitting people against each other based on their color, their background or their gender.
The Defense Department is in the business of fighting and winning wars, the highest of possible stakes. We want the best people, regardless of backgrounds, competing for those positions, ready to fight, accountable to their senior leaders. DEI does not do that.
Not only does it not do it. It undermines it. So, everyone's going to be treated equally, based on merit. And we're making sure across the Army and the Navy and the Marine Corps and the Space Force that's happening. There's no hedging here, Will. We're not joking around.
There's no changing of names or softly manipulating something. DEI is gone. We're ripping it out root and branch, and we're getting back to the basics with high standards. And guess what? The force is responding, because that's what they want. They want to be war fighters.
CAIN: OK, I told you just a moment ago, this doesn't count. This little interview we just did for 10 minutes together, I'm super honored that I'm your first interview as secretary of defense, but this doesn't count.
We're going to have a sit-down together. We're going to figure it out.
But I'm going to ask you one of my questions right now. I watched you on Saturday.
HEGSETH: Right.
CAIN: I watched your wife, Jen. I watched all of those kids, and you gave a hug to them right after you were confirmed.
I wish I could have been there. I would have asked you that day, man, how do you feel? How did that moment feel, to be confirmed, hug your family, kiss your wife as secretary of defense?
HEGSETH: Well, thank you for the question, Will.
What an honor. And I said it then, and I will say it today. All glory to God. His will be done in this process. I couldn't have done it without my lord and savior, Jesus Christ, and without my wife. You know her, Will, who she is, how strong she is. Jenny has been behind my side this entire time.
And what an absolute humbling honor to have a chance to represent the fighting men and women of this country. So, it was a sigh of relief that one process was over, Will, hug my family and say, we're in this together.
And I know you wanted to be there, brother. So I -- you will get that interview. I will salute as a sign that that's going to happen.
(LAUGHTER)
HEGSETH: And I look forward to it.
CAIN: All right, thank you so much.
I know. I knew and I know you had to get straight to work, and we appreciate the work that you're doing for America.
Your new secretary of defense, Pete Hegseth.
HEGSETH: Thanks, Will.
CAIN: Thank you.
All right, there you have it. There's your first exclusive interview. Didn't know it was going to happen today, or we would have promoted it a little bit. But I promise you, we will be giving more interviews, getting more interviews, and giving them to you here from the heart of America, getting to the heart of what matters here on "The Will Cain Show."
Next up, "The Five."

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
