




Fox News YOUR WORLD WITH NEIL CAVUTO 4:22 PM EST
January 23, 2025 Thursday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 720 words
Byline: Will Cain
Guests: Tommy Tuberville
Body


WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: But back to Capitol Hill, two moderate Republicans have said they will not support Pete Hegseth`s nomination for secretary of defense. Alaska Senator Lisa Murkowski, Maine Senator Susan Collins say they`re not going to vote for Pete Hegseth.
How`s that going over with other Republicans?
Let`s ask Alabama Senator Tommy Tuberville.
Coach is a friend of "The Will Cain Show." He has told me to call him Coach. But I -- in all decorum here, it is the FOX News Channel, and I must call you Senator.
Senator Tuberville, thanks for being here.
What do you think about these holdouts among the GOP when it comes to Pete Hegseth?
SEN. TOMMY TUBERVILLE (R-AL): Well, first of all, Will, look at the big picture. He got 51 votes. That pushed him to a vote tomorrow night at 9:00. So less than 30 hours from now, we will have a new secretary of defense once he gets sworn in at the White House.
People are going to vote the way they want to up here, especially on the Republican side. I have dealt with it for four years. But at the end of the day, it was chaos on the Senate floor before the vote. You had Democrats going over to Republicans. They even came to me. Coach, you`re going to be disappointed in this guy. He`s going to let us all down.
They`re scrambling. The new world order socialists, globalists lost. And they understand that this is the area that they really can`t lose. When you lose your military, your national defense agency, basically, and they don`t have control of it anymore, we`re going to do away with social justice DEI. We`re going to have great recruiting. We`re going to put discipline back in the military.
That is exactly opposite what the Democrats want. So thank God, Pete Will, get confirmed some time this weekend and we`re off to the races.
CAIN: Perfect. I couldn`t think of it to be more poetic that Pete Hegseth is confirmed on the weekend, of course, former weekend host of "FOX & Friends." I`m really glad to hear as well that your colleagues call you Coach. Makes me feel like I`m not totally out over my skis or out of bounds.
I do -- you brought up, by the way, the new world order. You talked about the globalist mind-set. Pretty remarkable, by the way, senator, to hear Donald Trump today then speaking to those at Davos. This is some of what he had to say.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Three days ago, I took the oath of office and we began the golden age of America. What the world has witnessed in the past 72 hours is nothing less than a revolution of common sense.
Our country will soon be stronger, wealthier and more united than ever before. And the entire planet will be more peaceful and prosperous as a result of this incredible momentum and what we`re doing and going to do. My message to every business in the world is very simple. Come make your product in America and we will give you among the lowest taxes of any nation earth.
If you don`t make your product in America, which is your prerogative, then, very simply, you will have to pay a tariff. Under the Trump administration, there will be no better place on Earth to create jobs, build factories or grow a company than right here in the good old USA.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: You know, Senator, it seems a pretty simple message. Hey, America`s the best place in the world to do business. And if you choose to do so in America, we will incentivize it and make it the best for you. If you choose to do it somewhere else, it`s not going to be so easy. There will be tariffs.
TUBERVILLE: Exactly.
The inauguration speech, Will, he called out the Bidens, the Clintons, the Obamas right to their face. And he did the same thing to the people at Davos, all these woke climate change hoax people, that they live for themselves. They don`t live for the world. They don`t live for anything other than making themselves richer.
President Trump basically said, get on the ship or get off, folks, because we are changing the order of which we`re doing business. And if you want to do business with America, you better move here and make it, because, if you don`t make it in America, we`re going to tax the hell out of you.
CAIN: All right, Senator, Coach Tommy Tuberville, always great to see you. Thanks for being on "The Will Cain Show."
TUBERVILLE: Thank you, Will.
CAIN: All right.

Load-Date: January 23, 2025


End of Document
