




Fox News SUNDAY MORNING FUTURES 10:00 AM EST
February 2, 2025 Sunday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; International
Length: 7717 words
Byline: Maria Bartiromo
Guests: Lee Zeldin, J.D. Vance, Tom Homan, John Barrasso
Body


MARIA BARTIROMO, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Good Sunday morning, everyone. Welcome to "Sunday Morning Futures," I'm Maria Bartiromo. Thanks so much for being with us.
Today: disruption and the tariffs scare. President Trump keeps his promise and slaps tariffs on Canada, Mexico and China, sparking promises of retaliation dollar for dollar from Canada and Mexico.
In just a moment, Vice President J.D. Vance on tariffs Trump's, Cabinet nominees and what's gone wrong at the FAA.
Plus, newly confirmed EPA Administrator Lee Zeldin is here on cutting red tape and reversing Biden's climate change agenda.
And border czar Tom Homan on the criminal deportations under way right now in America, as the Senate majority gears up to execute the rest of President Trump's agenda.
Majority Whip and Wyoming Senator John Barrasso on the months and the year ahead.
It's all right here, right now on "Sunday Morning Futures."
And we begin this Sunday morning with America's safety and security amidst new questions surrounding the U.S.' air safety, the FAA and the air traffic control after two (AUDIO GAP) three days.
On Friday, a plane crashed into a Philadelphia suburb carrying six people after takeoff into a Philadelphia intersection near a mall. There were no survivors, just two days after the deadliest crash in decades on Wednesday, when a commercial jet and a military Black Hawk helicopter collided, killing all 67 on both aircraft.
Now investigators are probing what went wrong and whether an antiquated air traffic control system and a Biden era culture of hiring based on diversity, equity and inclusion, instead of merit, played a role.
I spoke to Vice President J.D. Vance in this exclusive about the tragedies and the state of America's air safety, as well as President Trump's agenda, one day before the president instituted tariffs on Canada, Mexico and China.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
J.D. VANCE, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Our hearts go out to everybody who was affected by it.
I have actually made a couple of phone calls to the relatives of the deceased, to the people who lost their lives, and it's just incredibly heartbreaking. I mean, you have got moms who are mothers to very young children. You have got a dad who had a 1-year-old baby on the Army helicopter.
And just we have to remember the human tragedy of this, because, when Americans have tragedy, I think we can all come together, Democrat, Republican or independent, and just say, we love those folks, we're going to do right by them, and we're going to support them through what is, I think, the unspeakable tragedy of the last couple of days.
But I do think that we also have to do a better job at the policy, so that we make sure that aviation is as safe as it possibly can. Now, we haven't had an aviation accident like this in about 15, 20 years. We want to make sure that we try to never have an aviation accident like this again, or at least make them as minimal as possible.
And that does, I think, mean that we have to talk about the DEI policies. Now, here's the specific way in which I think the DEI policies of the last administration and the Obama administration contributed to where we are.
We have a massive shortage of air traffic controllers. And, in fact, there have been a number of lawsuits from people who would like to become air traffic controllers against the Obama and Biden administration who are -- basically said, we were told not even to apply because of the color of our skin, because they were white people who wanted to be air traffic controllers, and under the DEI regime of the Biden administration, they weren't welcome.
Well, what does that mean? Number one, it means that we don't have the best and the brightest sometimes in these positions. But, even more importantly than that, even when we do get really good people, they're going to be way overstressed because they're working long hours, because air traffic controllers are short-staffed.
And we have known going back years -- I was on the Commerce secretary -- or the Commerce. Sorry. I was on the Commerce Committee in the Senate. We knew for years that we had a shortage at air traffic control. Well, part of the reason why we had a shortage at air traffic control is because we were telling our air traffic controllers not to hire people because of the color of their skin.
That is a scandal, and it is a scandal, thankfully, that has stopped under the leadership of President Trump. It's why I'm actually optimistic about aviation safety, but it's also why we have had way too many near misses and unfortunately a fatal crash just a couple days ago.
BARTIROMO: So, I mean, do you have any evidence that any of those hires that were there at the control Wednesday night were DEI hires?
VANCE: No, the president's been very clear about this. This is not saying that the person who was at the controls is a DEI hire.
But let's just say, first of all, we should investigate everything. But let's just say the person at the controls didn't have enough staffing around him or her because we were turning people away because of DEI reasons. There is a very direct connection between the policies of the last administration and short-staffed air traffic controllers.
That has to stop. And, by the way, it's so funny to me. The media has picked up on this, not you, of course, Maria, but others have picked up on this. The president made very clear that he wasn't blaming anybody, but he was being very explicit about the fact that DEI policies have led our air traffic controllers to be short-staffed.
That is a scandal. Thankfully, it's a scandal that the president has stopped.
BARTIROMO: Well, I mean, what can you do about it? Because you said we haven't had an accident like this in a long time. True.
VANCE: Sure.
BARTIROMO: But we have had a lot of near misses.
VANCE: Yes, we have.
BARTIROMO: Right? We have had almost 1,000 near misses just recently. We're talking about 20-year-old traffic management systems and they're responsible for detecting and managing landings at airports.
Meanwhile, you have got companies like Lockheed Martin and Raytheon that have very sophisticated systems and our allies are using those systems like in the U.K.
VANCE: That's right. That's right.
So, there are two big issues here. Number one, most importantly, again, you have got to have the right people at air traffic control. Air traffic control is short-staffed. And I think the elimination of DEI hires and DEI policies will allow us actually to hire the air traffic controllers that we need.
The software point is really important, though, because we know, if you look at these old, antiquated air traffic control systems, it really does look like a video game that's 30 years old. We have got better software. We need a federal government that's more responsive to the technology that's out there.
And I really do think that, with President Trump's leadership, we're going to have those near misses and those almost terrible tragedies, those are going to come down, which means our aviation system is going to be much safer.
BARTIROMO: Let me get into the Cabinet nominations. You were the deciding vote on Pete Hegseth...
VANCE: And was proud to be, yes.
BARTIROMO: ... to confirm him for defense secretary.
What can you tell us about these confirmation hearings? It certainly feels like, even though the Republicans are in the majority, 53 Republicans, 47 Democrats, the Democrats are running the table. They're able to slow things down and obstruct. Is that right?
VANCE: Well, they have been able to obstruct.
I do think that Senator Thune deserves some credit for actually forcing the Senate to work on weekends and force some of these nominations through.
BARTIROMO: Yes.
VANCE: Look, it's disappointing that Democrats are behaving like this, but we knew they were going to behave like this. We knew they were going to obstruct at every single opportunity that they could get.
But, so far, the president has a 100 batting average on these nominations. Some of them, the margins are a little bit closer. Some of them, the margins are a little bit better. But I feel very confident that we're going to be able to get the president's Cabinet confirmed very quickly, frankly, much more quickly than it happened in the first administration, because the president's really pushing on this.
I think we have some better allies in the Senate than maybe the president had eight years ago. So, yes, it's not always perfect, but I think the president's confirmation hearings are going much better than they were eight years ago.
BARTIROMO: Do you expect to be the deciding vote on Tulsi Gabbard, on Kash Patel, on Bobby Kennedy Jr.?
VANCE: Do I expect to? No, but I think there's a chance, right? And you have to be ready for it, and that's, of course, part of the job of vice president.
Obviously, if Tulsi, Bobby or Kash need my vote as the tiebreaker, they will have it. I joked with Pete when I walked into the Senate chamber. I looked up at Pete's family and I looked at some of my Senate colleagues on the Republican side and said, what do you think about this Pete Hegseth guy?
But, obviously, we're going to provide those votes if we need them. We're going to do everything that we can to make sure that my tiebreaking vote isn't necessary. And, Maria, I think there's such an important message to my fellow Republicans here.
Look, you don't have to agree with everything Bobby Kennedy has ever said. You don't have to agree with everything that Tulsi Gabbard has ever said. You are meant to ask, do they have the qualifications and the character to do this job? The person who decides whether they should be nominated in the first place, he was the guy elected by the American people. That's President Trump.
And he deserves some deference in surrounding himself with the people he thinks he needs to do the job.
BARTIROMO: I don't know if you're going to get it. We saw the minority leader, Hakeem Jeffries, already go out and tell his constituents, his friends, you have to fight like heck in the street to stop President Trump's agenda.
VANCE: Yes, these people remind me sometimes of the folks that were still fighting World War II in an isolated island like 30 years later.
The American people have spoken. They are sick of the ridiculous performative politics. They want Americans, their leadership, Democrats and Republicans, to come together and actually get some things done. You don't have to agree with this on everything. Of course, if you're a Democrat, I'm sure you're going to vote a lot against what we're -- what we're trying to do.
But for Hakeem Jeffries to go out and say that you need to fight in the streets, it's dangerous. It's disgraceful rhetoric. And it's not at all with the American people ask.
I think, if you went to Hakeem Jeffries' district and took the people that voted against President Trump, not even the people who voted for him, the people who voted against President Trump, do you want a congressional Democratic leadership that fights in the streets or that makes your life better, most people think the government exists to make their life better, not show up on TV, criticize the president and not actually get anything done.
BARTIROMO: Absolutely.
Once we get through the hearings for the confirmation process, you will begin the work executing your agenda, President Trump's agenda. What role will you have specifically in that?
VANCE: I play the role that the president needs me to play, right, whether it's casting the tiebreaking vote or maybe talking to some of my old Senate colleagues about the importance of voting on this nomination, meeting with the speaker of the House about some of the details of the legislation.
I sort of see my job as an all-around player. You know, when I played peewee football, you would sometimes get a trophy, Mr. All-Around, for the kids who played offense and defense. I just have to serve the role that the president needs me to serve in order to facilitate his agenda.
The thing that I always remind people, both the White House staff, the congressional leadership, is, the president's success is the country's success. And to the extent that we can help the president implement his agenda, that's going to mean more jobs, that's going to mean higher take- home pay, that's going to mean more people able to raise a family in a stable home, in a secure neighborhood.
Like, the agenda is clear. We just have to go get it done. I'm going to play whatever role the president needs me to play.
BARTIROMO: Well, the president said these tariffs will go into effect tomorrow...
VANCE: Yes.
BARTIROMO: ... 25 percent on Canada and Mexico, 10 percent on China. Are you expecting retaliation?
VANCE: We will see what happens.
But I think, unfortunately, the retaliation has already happened. The problem with this whole idea that they're going to retaliate is, they have already been taking advantage of America for decades. The retaliation is Donald Trump saying no more. We're not going to be taken advantage of anymore.
And I think it's important the president is doing what he's doing. Now, look, it looks different ways and comes in different forms, whether you're talking about Canada or China or Mexico. We know that Mexico has allowed the facilitation of the illegal drug trade and illegal sex trafficking for years and has done nothing about it.
If they want to be a better partner to us, the time starts now. We know the Chinese, of course, have stolen American manufacturing jobs for 30, 40 years, and also that they have facilitated the trafficking of illegal fentanyl into Mexico, where the drug cartels then bring it into our country.
We are sick of being taken advantage of. We still have, thank God, the biggest economy in the entire world, the best people and the best workers. But the message from President Trump to the entire world is very clear. We are done being taken advantage of. And we have a president who looks out for the interests of American citizens.
Thank God we do, and we're going to try to do it the best we can.
BARTIROMO: I'm glad you mentioned China, because it seems like Silicon Valley is just over the moon over China's DeepSeek A.I. program.
VANCE: Sure.
BARTIROMO: Do you believe it really cost $5.5 million to develop, or are those fake numbers? And do you believe they stole intellectual property to actually get to the advanced place they are in this?
VANCE: Well, we know they steal intellectual property all the time. That's a given.
Now, whether they spent $5.5 million to actually train the model, Maria, I'm very skeptical of this. I'm by no means an A.I. expert, though I do know the tech sector pretty well. The smartest people that I know in artificial intelligence actually think that they probably spent hundreds of millions, maybe even billions of dollars to train the model, and the model that they have is still actually not as good as some of the best American technology.
But what it should serve, Maria, is as a wakeup call. The Chinese are going to spend the money. They're going to try to do as much as they can to catch up to us. This is why we need presidential leadership from President Trump to unleash America's innovators.
We have never had the most populous country in the world. We have never had the biggest country in the world. What has made America so powerful is that we have had the best workers and the best technology anywhere in the world.
We have to stay ahead of the curve or we're going to lose our power on the world stage. That's something the president is very committed to not letting happen.
BARTIROMO: So what can the administration do about pushing back on communist China? I mean, the president made a remark the other day that, look, it's not just TikTok. You have got surveillance in your own phone if it's made in China. You have got surveillance everywhere.
I mean, we have got spy balloons from China, surveillance, propaganda undermining the United States at every turn. What are you going to do about it?
VANCE: Well, first, we're going to impose some tariffs. I think the president's been very clear about that.
The tariffs are in some ways a penalty for the Chinese taking advantage of America's economy, for sending drugs into our country. They have to actually face some consequences for doing what they have done now for 20, 30, 40 years to our country, Maria.
And part of what the tariffs do is, they allow the president to have a negotiation with the Communist Chinese Party about actually having a little bit more of a balanced relationship. Whereas we used to have one where the Chinese stole our jobs, took advantage of us, stole our intellectual property and sent a lot of crap into our country like illegal drugs, we now actually want to have a much more balanced relationship with the Chinese.
But that's going to require, I think, the Chinese to face some consequences. So there are ways to fight back. We're starting to do that now and we're going to keep on doing it over the next four years.
BARTIROMO: Well, you have got lofty goals in the agenda, obviously from the border, to defense spending, to the economic part of it as well.
This week, the House of Representatives had their annual meeting in Florida. They went there with the goal of finding $2.5 trillion to $3 trillion in spending cuts, offsets to this incredible agenda.
VANCE: Sure.
BARTIROMO: They could not even come up with $300 billion in offsets. How will you pay for all of this?
VANCE: Well, first of all, we have got Elon Musk and our friends at DOGE who are working very hard to find a lot of waste, fraud and abuse in government.
Think about this math, Maria. In 2019, the U.S. government spent $4.4 trillion. In 2024, it spent $6.5 trillion. There is a lot of waste and a lot of fraud and that additional $2.1 trillion of spending. We are committed to getting America back on a sustainable fiscal pathway.
Part of that, we really think, the president believes, is the tariff equation. Part of that is cutting spending significantly, especially the wasteful bureaucrats, and part of that is growing the economy, because we have had anemic growth under Joe Biden.
If we grow the economy at a bigger rate under President Trump's leadership, and I believe that we will, that is how you solve the debt problem in the United States of America. We have got to do all three of them, and we're committed to doing it.
BARTIROMO: Do you think you can get back to pre-COVID level spending? I mean, is it time to start cutting into the mandatory spending?
VANCE: So, first of all, the mandatory spending number includes, of course, Social Security and Medicare, which the president has committed that he's going to protect for our seniors.
It also includes some programs that have nothing to do with Social Security and Medicare. And, certainly, we're going to look at all of these programs, protect people's benefits, but make sure that we're being a good steward of America's tax money. That's an important part of our job.
But if you talk about just the COVID trend line of 2019, that $2 trillion increase, that was not mostly mandatory spending. That was, frankly, Congress and the Biden administration not doing their job. There's a lot that we can do with just commonsense fiscal reform, empowering our friends to find the cuts that they need, and growth.
That's what we're going to focus on over the next few years.
BARTIROMO: So you can cut into mandatory spending, because it's not actually mandatory spending?
VANCE: Well, it's funny. People hear mandatory spending, and they assume it's Social Security and Medicare.
Again, the president wants to protect Social Security and Medicare. There's a lot of waste across our government, and it's something that we're certainly trying to look into.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
BARTIROMO: Coming up, newly confirmed EPA Administrator Lee Zeldin is here.
But, first, President Trump's bold ideas on Greenland and the Panama Canal, as Secretary of State Marco Rubio takes his first international trip to Panama this weekend.
Vice President J.D. Vance on foreign policy and whether the V.P. is planning to follow in Trump's footsteps and run for president in four years. That's next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
BARTIROMO: The president has so many bold ideas, from the possibility of acquiring Greenland, putting up this Iron Dome in America, taking back the Panama Canal, renaming the Gulf to the Gulf of America.
Do you expect the U.S. to acquire Greenland?
VANCE: I think it's possible, Maria.
So here's the thing that I think a lot of folks don't appreciate about Greenland. It's really important to our national security. There are sea lanes there that the Chinese use, that the Russians use, that, frankly, Denmark, which controls Greenland, it's not doing its job and it's not being a good ally.
So you have to ask yourself, how are we going to solve that problem, solve our own national security? If that means that we need to take more territorial interest in Greenland, that is what President Trump is going to do, because he doesn't care about what the Europeans scream at us. He cares about putting the interests of America's citizens first.
There's another angle to this whole Greenland thing, Maria, that people don't realize. You have got probably 55,000 people living on Greenland who are not actually happy with Danish government. They have got great natural resources there. They have got an incredibly bountiful country that the Danes aren't letting them develop and explore.
Of course, Donald Trump would take a different approach if he was the leader of Greenland.
BARTIROMO: And the odds of the Panama Canal?
VANCE: Well, look, the Panama Canal, they have violated a core tenet of the agreement.
Remember, when we gave over -- and I think it was a mistake, but when we gave over the Panama Canal to the country of Panama, what we said is, you have to make sure that this canal respects American sovereignty and that you don't give special benefits to the Chinese that you don't give to the United States of America.
I think they have failed to meet there end of the bargain, and we're very serious about making sure they do meet their end of the bargain.
BARTIROMO: You're one of the youngest vice presidents that we have ever seen in the history of our country. Are you expecting to run for president in 3.5 years?
(LAUGHTER)
VANCE: Oh, Maria, you're the first person who's asked me that. And I'd say that we have not thought a lot about politics in the last six months. We have thought about getting the American people's business done.
We will see what happens come 2028. But the way that I think about this is, the best thing for my future is actually the best thing for the American people, which is that we do a really good job over the next 3.5 years. So, we will cross the political bridge when we come to it.
I'm not thinking about running for president. I'm thinking about doing a good job for the American people. And I think the best way to do that is to make sure that President Trump is a success.
BARTIROMO: And how important is it to bring young people into the political conversation?
VANCE: Huge, so huge, so important.
And I think that's certainly one of the things, one of the responsibilities that I take seriously. I have got a 7-year-old, an almost-5-year-old and a 3-year-old kid at home. I do think I view America's political problems from the perspective of a young father, because that's exactly what I am.
So I definitely try to bring that perspective into the Oval Office and meetings on Capitol Hill. That's an important role for me to play, and I will keep on playing it.
BARTIROMO: And I love that. You're a family man.
And one of the first executive orders that President Trump signed in was school choice.
VANCE: Yes.
BARTIROMO: And so we talk about education. Do you have a vision there in terms of how things should look for your children as they grow up? You're talking about killing or shutting down the Education Department to save costs.
So what does the education look like?
VANCE: Well, I think we could save costs and actually give American children a better education.
We spend way more per pupil on American education -- or on education than almost any country in the world. And we have gotten worse and worse outcomes. I think the president's exactly right that, if you give parents more choice and more capacity to choose what's in the best interest of their kids, then we're going to make education better for all American children.
It's really weird to me, actually, that so many politicians, they send their kids to private schools, but then they want to deny that opportunity to the families of poor children or middle-class children. My attitude is, anything that's good enough for my kids, I want to give all Americans those opportunities.
And that's exactly what the president's school choice policy aims to do.
BARTIROMO: Mr. V.P., are you going to Ohio on Monday? Can you tell us about your trip? You're going to be with Lee Zeldin?
VANCE: Yes, the plan is -- so, Lee Zeldin, our great new EPA administrator and just a dear friend -- I really love Lee, so we will have a good time.
But we're actually going to go and visit the East Palestine train derailment. And it matters a lot to me personally, because my first month as a United States senator, you had this terrible train disaster. I will be going back a couple years later as the vice president of the United States and really just to check in on how the cleanup is going.
The big question that I had as a senator is, people always ask, is the water clean to drink, is the air clean to breathe? And, luckily, we now have a great EPA administrator who I think can answer those questions and fix the problems on the ground.
We're just going to go do a little fact-finding, talk to people and see what's happened.
BARTIROMO: That was incredible. When you put the stick in the water when you were a senator...
VANCE: Yes.
BARTIROMO: ... and you showed us exactly what had occurred, I was grateful that you did that. Thank you for that and telling the country really what had taken place.
Look, I know it's only been 11 days, 12, 13 days, as you as that -- vice president, but can you give us some observations? What's it like? How are you doing?
(LAUGHTER)
VANCE: Look, I'm doing great. It's the coolest job I have ever had. And it's an honor to serve.
It's hard not to pinch yourself when you walk into the Oval Office. I was raised by a woman who didn't graduate from high school, much less from college. And here I am going to the Oval Office with the president of the United States. My kids are really happy that the family has adjusted to this very well.
And, look, I'm learning a lot actually about the president's leadership, about the way that he takes input and opinions from many different people. It's making me, I think, a better leader myself. And it's just something that I try to remind myself it's a blessing to have this job. I got to do as good of a job by the American people as I possibly can.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
BARTIROMO: My thanks to Vice President J.D. Vance.
We will have more of my exclusive interview tomorrow morning with the vice president. Join me on "Mornings With Maria" on FOX Business. I asked him if he would support Chinese stocks getting yanked from U.S. exchanges. That will be up tomorrow in an exclusive.
Up next: He sailed through the confirmation hearings last week and now he will get to work. New EPA Administrator Lee Zeldin is here on cutting through the bureaucratic red tape and unleashing economic growth.
Plus, U.S. border czar Tom Homan with an update on securing the nation's border.
That's next. Stay with us.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BARTIROMO: Welcome back.
Breaking news this morning from Vice President J.D. Vance on his plan to travel to East Palestine, Ohio, tomorrow to mark two years since the disastrous train derailment which released highly toxic chemicals into the air, soil and groundwater.
Joining me now in his first television interview since being confirmed as the new EPA administrator is Lee Zeldin. He will be joining the vice president on the ground in Ohio tomorrow.
EPA Administrator, congratulations. Thank you so much for being here, Lee Zeldin.
LEE ZELDIN, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY ADMINISTRATOR: Thanks a lot, Maria. Great to be with you.
BARTIROMO: Before I get into your trip with the vice president tomorrow, President Trump told me that your role is one of the most important roles in the entire administration.
Can you tell us what your priorities are?
ZELDIN: Well, so much of the president's economic agenda and his desire to make sure that the federal government is not just being good stewards of tax dollars, but being responsive in making our country more energy- dominant, making America the A.I. capital world, bringing back American auto jobs, we have an important role to play working with other agencies to provide that American prosperity that the president campaigned on.
The American people, many of them had never voted for a Republican in the past. They wanted to vote for President Trump because they believe in his leadership after seeing the last four years contrasted with the president's first term four years earlier.
And they want America to be restored to greatness. And President Trump's the man. I'm excited to be working with him and our new vice president. We have a lot to do for the American people, and I'm excited to get to work.
BARTIROMO: Well, you sure do, Lee. And I'm going to zero in right there, where you said the economic agenda, because the economic agenda so far has been tariffs.
And this is unnerving markets, I believe, already. I'm looking at some research reports this morning, Piper Sandler, "the greatest show on earth." TD -- TD -- TD from Canada, "The largest free trade zone in the world, USMCA, signed into law by Trump in 2020, appears to be no more," with tariffs of 25 percent on Canada and Mexico sparking both of our neighbors to the north and south to promise retaliation.
And we're going to hear that retaliation Monday. I suspect markets will react. Your reaction to these tariffs and the impact.
ZELDIN: President Trump has done this once, and it worked, will do it again. President Trump has thought this through.
We saw it with the USMCA from President Trump's first term, which was a huge success, replacing NAFTA. And there is that moment where maybe it feels like friction and uncertainty, but President Trump's leadership and the strength and power of the American economy, we have talented people who are working alongside of President Trump to implement this agenda.
And I'm confident that we will achieve the outcome and the vision that President Trump has. He is not going into this blind. He's done it once. It worked. He will do it again. It'll work this time too.
BARTIROMO: Well, that's what President Trump said to me on Friday. I saw him in the Oval Office. And he said to me, look, there may be some disturbance. There may be some disruption, but, at the end of the day, we're done getting taken advantage of and we are going to institute these tariffs.
But I want to know, as the EPA leader, where specifically you will be working and where your involvement is. How does this impact your portfolio?
ZELDIN: Well, listen, the EPA's mission is to protect human health and the environment.
In executing that mission, we can't turn a blind eye to the economy. We have to make sure that any regulation that is out there is a -- is a regulation that is taking into account the economic impacts. In the name of climate change, you can't be bankrupting a country and bankrupting people who are struggling to make ends meet.
So, all across America, it is important for us to do our job executing our mission and in a way that makes this country stronger, not weaker, and being good stewards of the tax dollars, not tossing gold bars off the Titanic, as the Biden political appointee of the EPA said in recent weeks.
We can't be wasting tax dollars. And we also have to be responsive to natural disaster. And whether it is in L.A. with the wildfires, Western North Carolina in the hurricane response, or tomorrow's visit with our great vice president to East Palestine, Ohio, EPA has important work to do on the ground to fight for the American people.
BARTIROMO: Oh, so you will be going with the vice president tomorrow to Ohio. You will go to L.A. to look at the wildfires later in the week and perhaps to North Carolina as well.
Is your main goal here, Lee, to roll back the regulations that so strangled businesses and stopped their progression of growth?
ZELDIN: We have to follow our obligations under the law and to make sure that we are following proper -- common sense. What is pragmatic? What is what the American people would be charging us for?
And what's going on in L.A. right now is the largest wildfire response in the history of the EPA helping to remove hazardous material. In East Palestine, Ohio, as you pointed out, we're talking about contamination of land, soil and air.
This was the first example that we saw of our great vice president as an elected official proving that he has the leadership, ability and talent, because he went straight there on the ground. As soon as disaster struck, he was the first one in a very high-profile manner.
And then we saw President Trump 19 days after the derailment, unlike President Biden, who took a whole year to get to East Palestine, Ohio. So, being present on the ground is an important leadership trait. And I want to make sure that I, as EPA administrator, that I'm doing my part, and that the American people can be proud of the EPA.
BARTIROMO: Yes.
ZELDIN: That is our charge. And that's something I'm committed to, I'm excited about, and I'm motivated to tackle.
BARTIROMO: Lee, we are excited to follow your work. We appreciate your time this morning. Thank you for your leadership on energy in particular.
EPA Administrator Lee Zeldin, we will be watching. Thank you, sir.
ZELDIN: Thanks, Maria.
BARTIROMO: Meanwhile, President Trump says Venezuela has agreed to take back tens of thousands of Venezuelans who have committed crimes and are living in America illegally, including the dangerous gang Tren de Aragua, as Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem and ICE and border officials continue to arrest and deport dangerous illegal criminals, migrants from the country.
Joining me in this "Sunday Morning Futures" exclusive is the U.S. border czar, Tom Homan.
Tom Homan is in an undisclosed location right now as he begins another operation.
Thanks very much for being here, Tom.
Can you assess your work so far?
TOM HOMAN, WHITE HOUSE BORDER CZAR: Well, look, I was looking at the numbers this morning, Maria. The crossings on the border down 93 percent, 93 percent.
BARTIROMO: Wow.
HOMAN: That's a bigger decrease than under the first Trump administration.
So, look, I said it. President Trump is a game changer. No one has had the success he's had on securing the border. He clearly understands we can't have strong national security if we don't have border security. We need to know who's coming in, what's coming in, where it's coming in, why it's coming in.
And we have achieved a success on the border already. We have got more work to do. And on top of that, we -- as far as the deportation operation, we're just shy of -- I think we have 5,000 already arrested the first week, and the majority of them being criminals. The non-criminals -- and the media is talking about, huh, who are these non-criminals?
The non-criminals are rested in sanctuary cities because you forced us into the community, rather than arresting the bad guy in a jail. And when we find that criminal, he's most likely with others, and they're going to go too.
So, if you want to be a sanctuary city, you're going to get exactly what you don't want, more agents in the community and more non-criminals arrested.
BARTIROMO: Tom, I know that you met with Canadian officials on Friday as the tariffs were looming. The tariffs have in fact been announced and took effect yesterday.
President Trump is expected to have a real effect on Tuesday of this upcoming week. Did you get a sense of what Canada's going to do to retaliate?
HOMAN: No, I didn't. I'm not going to get ahead of the president on that. I will brief him on the meeting I had, but that's the president's decision. I don't want to get ahead of him on that, but I will brief him on what I heard, and so he knows what they have done, what they said they will do.
But I will leave that after a discussion with the president this week.
BARTIROMO: Tom, you have also said that you're going to start moving migrants, illegals in this country to Guantanamo Bay, hopefully within 30 days.
What's the plan? Are they going to stay there until you can get them back to their home country?
HOMAN: Absolutely.
Look, the worst of the worst need to go to Guantanamo Bay. And for those folks that don't know, we have had a migrant processing there -- center there for decades. We don't use it an awful lot. Usually, it's the Coast Guard holding people from Haiti and Cuba that were arrested -- or entered the country through the maritime.
So we got a facility there. We're going to expand it a lot and hold the worst of the worst over there. I mean, it's the right thing to do. And the beds are much cheaper over there. So, look, President Trump is about efficiency. He's about getting the bad guys out. This is one of many ideas we have, and we're going to put it in place.
BARTIROMO: Tom, you said that the crossings are down 93 percent. This is incredible. President Trump put these tariffs in place because of the flow of fentanyl.
What can you tell us about that? Because the president has ordered 25 percent tariffs on Canadian and Mexican imports and 10 percent on goods from China because of their inability or unwillingness to stop the fentanyl from flowing into our country, killing 100,000 Americans every year.
HOMAN: Which is exactly why President Trump has designated the criminal cartels in Mexico as terrorist organizations.
I have said -- from the RNC Convention to the present, I said that these terrorist organizations -- these cartels have killed more Americans than every terrorist organization in the world combined. So, President Trump took the right step. Look, these cartels, they have killed thousands of journalists, thousands of politicians, hundreds of judges, legislators.
They run the country of Mexico. So President Trump's making the right move by, number one, declaring them a terrorist organization so the whole of government can attack them, not just in Mexico, but in 42 countries. At least the cartel is in 42 countries around the world now. They're in every major city in this country. They have set up shop.
So, President Trump's going to hold Mexico accountable. They haven't taken enough action against these cartels. They have been operating for decades in Mexico. They're operating freely. We know that.
And, look, I'm not going to say every official Mexico is corrupt, but many are. And we just -- we simply know that. So he's going to hold Mexico accountable. They got to take action on these cartels and stem the flow of fentanyl. And not only that. They're sex trafficking women and children across our border.
It is illegal in the country of Mexico to sex traffic women and children, but they're not stopping it. It's illegal for anybody from around the world to transit through Mexico without a transit visa. But they're allowing it. So, President Trump's exactly right on doing this.
BARTIROMO: Have you been able to bust into human trafficking operations that are operating in America right now?
Because I know that the drug lords got people across, but then they created all these new businesses, drug trafficking and human trafficking businesses, and they have got headquarters in America.
HOMAN: I got to be careful. We're involved. Let me just leave it at that.
A lot of this is law enforcement-sensitive, but we're aware of a lot of it. We're in the middle of some of it. And you're going to see some things happening in the near future on that.
BARTIROMO: OK. And you are in an undisclosed location right now beginning another operation.
Tom, we're watching your work, and we appreciate your time. Thank you, sir.
HOMAN: Thank you, Maria.
BARTIROMO: Border czar Tom Homan this morning.
Quick break, and then: all the president's Cabinet. Pam Bondi and Howard Lutnick expected to be confirmed next week, as Kash Patel gets high marks after his hearing. Will Tulsi Gabbard and Robert F. Kennedy Jr. sail through as well?
Senate Majority Whip Wyoming Senator John Barrasso is here on the president's Cabinet and his agenda next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BARTIROMO: Welcome back.
The Senate returns to Capitol Hill tomorrow to continue confirmation hearings for President Trump's Cabinet nominees, including voting for cloture for Pam Bondi as U.S. attorney general expected some time in the afternoon. Then, next Friday, Republican senators are headed to Mar-a-Lago, invited by President Trump to hash out next steps on executing his bold agenda.
Joining me now is Senate Majority Whip Wyoming Senator John Barrasso.
Senator, thanks so much for joining us this morning.
SEN. JOHN BARRASSO (R-WY): Thank you, Maria.
BARTIROMO: Let's get right to it.
You are on the Senate Finance Committee that will vote on Robert F. Kennedy Jr. on Tuesday. Do you believe Kennedy has the votes to get confirmed as HHS secretary?
BARRASSO: Well, we're working very hard to make sure that happens on Tuesday.
But, first Maria, we are just two weeks into the Trump administration, and Washington does not know what hit it. The president has moved with such speed and urgency. I think that these first two weeks have been so consequential, probably more consequential than the first two weeks for any president in my lifetime.
Look, he's already signed hundreds of executive orders. He's made sure that we have removed from this country thousands of illegal immigrant criminals. And we have been able to confirm many more nominees to his Cabinet, twice as many as Biden did by this time four years ago.
Plus, he's signed into law the Laken Riley Act, which is an immigration enforcement law, first time in a long, long time.
BARTIROMO: Yes, sure.
BARRASSO: But the key work now in the Senate are the confirmation hearings, and this is the one that's coming up this week with Kennedy. We have gotten eight confirmed already. We will do five more this week, as you just mentioned, with Pam Bondi for attorney general and others.
BARTIROMO: Yes.
BARRASSO: So, with regard to Robert Kennedy, I know you have been broadcasting the hearings on him.
BARTIROMO: Yes.
BARRASSO: You can hear the hostility in the voices of the Democrats who are asking him questions, considering him a traitor.
Robert Kennedy wants to make America healthy again. I'm a doctor. I support his nomination. I thought he did wonderfully at the two days of hearings. He had to go to two different hearings for this. We need to make America healthy again. We spend a quarter -- almost a quarter of the money of this country on health care.
And what happens? We have chronic problems, epidemics of obesity, diabetes, chronic disease. We need to do much, much more. I think Robert Kennedy is the right person. I'm working hard to make sure he gets confirmed.
BARTIROMO: So, we heard rumors that Senator Cassidy is not there yet. Do you believe you will need J.D. Vance for the tiebreaker for Kennedy?
BARRASSO: Well, we had J.D. Vance come in and make sure that Pete Hegseth got confirmed as the secretary of defense, and that was very successful as a result of his hearings.
We're going to do everything we can to make sure the president gets all of his team in place. The president, I believe, should have who he wants surrounding him, people that he trusts, people that he believes in, people he wants to work with. And, in terms of Health and Human Services, that's Robert F. Kennedy.
We have got to get him through the committee and then to the floor of the United States Senate for passage.
BARTIROMO: What about Kash Patel? Does he have the support you need?
BARRASSO: Well, I thought he did a magnificent job with his hearing. He was very strong. I think he's going to be great at the FBI.
When you take a look at Kash Patel's hearings, people know that the FBI has been weaponized. He's the guy that's going to come in and clean up the FBI.
BARTIROMO: Yes.
BARRASSO: We need somebody to do that. People don't have a lot of faith in the FBI right now.
BARTIROMO: Yes, you're right.
All right, we will take a break and come right back. I'm talking with Senator...
BARRASSO: And what we see with Kash Patel is somebody...
BARTIROMO: Sorry about that, Senator.
We will be right back with more.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BARTIROMO: Welcome back. I'm back with Senate Majority Whip Senator John Barrasso.
Senator, I want to ask you about tariffs, because we are expecting Canada and Mexico to retaliate dollar for dollar. Are you worried that this tariff plan of President Trump is going to undermine the other policies that are very positive out of this administration?
BARRASSO: No, I don't, Maria, because the president has such a pro-growth group of policies, in terms of cutting government spending and government waste and the bureaucratic bloat that we have in our federal government right now, in terms of keeping taxes low, in terms of also getting rid of regulations, unleashing American energy.
All of these things are pro-growth, going to help the economy. So I'm not concerned with the tariff component of that today. Look, in Wyoming -- and I'm in Wyoming now -- our number one trading partner is Canada. So people are clearly looking at that. We're keeping a close eye on it.
BARTIROMO: Yes, exactly. So do you expect that they're going to retaliate tomorrow?
BARRASSO: Well, I would expect so.
But the president has every right to hold others accountable who do not treat us fairly, properly. I support what the president is doing. We need to get rid of the fentanyl.
BARTIROMO: OK.
BARRASSO: We need to tell China, as well as Mexico, as well as Canada, to get the fentanyl out of our country.
BARTIROMO: Got it.
Senator, thank you so much for being here. I so appreciate it.
That will do it for us on "Sunday Morning Futures." And I will see you tomorrow morning on FOX Business on "Mornings With Maria."
Have a good Sunday.

Load-Date: February 2, 2025


End of Document
