




Fox News THE WILL CAIN SHOW 4:00 PM EST
January 23, 2025 Thursday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; International
Length: 7119 words
Byline: Aishah Hasnie, Jonathan Hunt, Dan Springer, Peter Doocy, Kerri Urbahn, Will Cain
Guests: Jay Leno, Tom Homan, Tommy Tuberville
Body


DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Well, I'd rather not say that, but very high-level people. But, hopefully that can be worked out.
Look, Iran hopefully, we will be -- make a deal. And if they don't make a deal, I guess that's OK too.
QUESTION: And, Mr. President, just to follow up, you said you think the Fed should listen to you. Can you elaborate on why you think it should?
TRUMP: With regard to interest rates?
QUESTION: Correct, yes.
TRUMP: Because I think I know interest rates much better than they do. And I think I know it certainly much better than the one who's primarily in charge of making that decision.
But, no, I'm guided by them very much. But if I disagree, I will let it be known.
QUESTION: Sir, your tariff plans for China and Mexico are much tougher -- the ones for Canada and Mexico are much tougher than the ones for China. Why is it softer for China?
TRUMP: Well, China is already paying a lot of tariffs because of me. And when you add them up, I would say they're paying a lot. They have paid hundreds of billions of dollars. They never paid 10 cents until I came along.
When I came along, they pay hundreds -- they have paid hundreds of billions of dollars. Never paid anything. And so they have already started at a higher base.
(CROSSTALK)
QUESTION: Is February 1 the date for the Chinese tariffs as well, sir, February 1? Or was that just Mexico and Canada?
TRUMP: It's Mexico and Canada, but we will -- we're talking about China too.
Look, China is sending us tremendous amounts of bad drugs, fentanyl, really bad stuff. Most of it comes through Mexico. And we're losing, I think, 300,000 lives a year because of that. People say 150, 100, 120. I think 300,000 lives a year. Those are old numbers. The other -- the lower number is a low number.
And we can't have that. They have got to stop sending it. I had a deal with President Xi, but it was a deal that wasn't followed up by Biden, of course, where they were going to issue the death penalty to people that make fentanyl, and that would have stopped it. But we will have to stop it with tariffs.
TRUMP: Thank you very much, everybody.
(CROSSTALK)
WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Transparent, accessible, freewheeling, refreshing from the White House.
You just saw President Donald Trump signing more executive orders and talking to the press on a whole host of issues, as he keeps up the momentum 72 hours into his new presidency. He signed orders on cryptocurrency, declassifying JFK files, and pardons for pro-life protesters.
We will get to all of that, more in just a moment.
But, first, we have more breaking news to kick off this hour of "The Will Cain Show."
This afternoon, a federal judge temporarily blocking President Trump's executive order on birthright citizenship, calling it blatantly unconstitutional. Those leading the challenge against the order say more than 150,000 newborn children would be denied citizenship every year if this order stands.
President Trump saying the battle isn't over yet.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
QUESTION: Mr. President, a U.S. judge temporarily blocked the birthright citizenship order. Do you have any reaction?
TRUMP: No. Obviously, we will appeal it. They put it before a certain judge in Seattle, I guess, right? And there's no surprises with that Judge.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: There's a lot of hysteria around the birthright citizenship executive order, but the idea behind President Trump's order is nothing new, at least around the world.
Allow me to explain. Some context might help put in perspective the hysteria. First, number one, birthright citizenship is not the norm around the world. Only about 30 countries, mostly in the Western Hemisphere, recognize the idea that, if you're born on their soil, you have as your birthright citizenship.
No, instead, most of the world, Europe, Asia, Africa, work like Australia. This is how it works in Australia. In Australia, if a child is born to a permanent resident or a citizen of one of the parents of that child of Australia, then they are a citizen, or, in alternative, if that child resides in Australia for a decade after birth, they can apply for citizenship.
Now, as I mentioned, very few countries around the world recognize birthright citizenship, and some that previously have, have repealed the concept.
I will give you Dominican Republic and Ireland. Ireland in 2004 became the last European country to recognize birthright citizenship. They repealed that measure in 2004 with a 79 percent referendum. The Dominican Republic repealed birthright citizenship in 2013 as they were flooded with illegal immigrants from Haiti, some 200,000 children from Haiti born in the D.R.
Those numbers reflect some of the numbers we're now being told would be the number of children born here that would not have citizenship if we repeal birthright citizenship.
Now, let's go to some background on the Supreme Court case that helped establish the concept of birthright citizenship. It goes back to 1898. The case was the U.S. versus Wong Kim Ark. Wong Kim Ark was a 21-year-old Chinese immigrant who was born here in the United States. He left at the age of 21 to go visit relatives in China.
When he came back to the United States, he was denied reentry. The Supreme Court eventually heard the case of Wong Kim Ark. And the question was, what does the language of the 14th Amendment mean for birthright citizenship?
I want to, if I may, read for you the language of the 14th Amendment. It reads simply as follows; "All persons born or naturalized in the United States and subject to the jurisdiction thereof are citizens of the United States and of the state wherein they reside."
But the key phrase for legal scholars that want to see this fight go to the Supreme Court is what is meant by "subject to the jurisdiction thereof"? If someone is born to parents of another country, are they not subject to the jurisdiction of, say, Mexico?
Let's bring in FOX News legal editor, Kerri Urbahn, on all of this.
Kerri, great to have you right now.
Let's start with the strategy behind the executive order and now this federal judge that has said that the executive order doing the birthright citizenship is blatantly unconstitutional. Is this setting us up for a fight at the Supreme Court?
KERRI URBAHN, FOX NEWS LEGAL EDITOR: Yes, I certainly think so.
Now, of course, we know the Supreme Court doesn't have to take it up if it eventually makes its way there, but that seems to be the strategy. And I think it's a good one, because this is a fascinating legal question that, Will, has been debated, as you were pointing out, I mean, for a very long time now.
Scholars on both sides of the aisles have been debating the meaning of that clause that you just laid out. And the judge in issuing and signing this TRO today, when he said something like, I have never heard such an argument made and I thought to myself, well, how can you say that? Have you not been reading the debates that have gone on around this for so long, including from the retired Seventh Circuit Judge Richard Posner, who he thought this was unconstitutional?
And it happened to be a former colleague of mine from DOJ, Brett Shumate, who's a very good constitutional law attorney who's arguing that case. So we will -- they will go and argue the merits of this in just a couple of weeks from now. But it's certainly a very interesting question.
CAIN: We should inform the audience, as we started to right there, that this has been somewhat settled precedent since 1898, that the Supreme Court has read the concept of birthright citizenship to mean born on this soil.
Now, the current Supreme Court is full of justices who could be described as originalists. That means they look back to the original interpretation or intention of the people that framed the Constitution. The 14th Amendment, that would be in the 1800s.
Do you think therefore that the Supreme Court justices would actually go back and uphold the idea that if you're born here on this soil you have birthright?
URBAHN: Well, they would certainly go back to the intent behind the 14th Amendment. And the intent behind it was very clear. It was to undo the grave harm that occurred because of the terrible Supreme Court Dred Scott decision...
CAIN: Right.
URBAHN: ... which said that African-Americans, Africans who had been here for hundreds of years, enslaved people, were not citizens.
And so that amendment was enacted directly to undo that wrong. And, Will, what I don't think most people know is, there was a senator from Michigan who wrote the clause that phrase subject to the jurisdiction thereof.
CAIN: Yes.
URBAHN: He specifically gave speeches at the time that said that means it excludes aliens. So that was the understanding for many years until the Supreme Court handed down their decision in 1898, the case you were just talking about.
CAIN: Right.
URBAHN: And even there, when they interpreted it a different way, they did emphasize that the parents of that Chinese national had been -- quote -- "permanently domiciled" in the United States for a very long time.
And if you remember the history around that time, the context, it was almost impossible for Chinese nationals to even become citizens.
CAIN: Right.
URBAHN: So the facts, the times, the zeitgeist, it was very different than, say, now, when people are using it as a technical loophole to embark on birth tourism.
CAIN: Right.
I'm glad you pointed out the 14th Amendment was couched in doing away with that terrible Dred Scott decision. Of course, the African slaves here in the United States weren't subject to any other jurisdiction, giving them citizenship.
URBAHN: Right.
CAIN: But just to put some color on what you had to say, Senator Jacob Howard, who helped draft that amendment, the 14th Amendment said: "This will not, of course, include persons born in the United States who are foreigners or aliens or belong to the subject of another jurisdiction."
That seems original intent. This seems to be a fascinating fight potentially at the Supreme Court.
Kerri Urbahn, thank you so much for being with us.
URBAHN: Thank you.
CAIN: All right.
All right, now to another FOX News Alert. On Capitol Hill, moderate Republicans Lisa Murkowski and Susan Collins say they will oppose Pete Hegseth's nomination for secretary of defense.
Now to FOX's Aishah Hasnie on where that vote breakdown stands right now -- Aishah.
AISHAH HASNIE, FOX NEWS SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hey there, Will.
Well, you know that you just need a simple majority to get through confirmation. That's 51 votes. Republicans have a 53-majority, so they can actually lose three Republicans. Losing Senators Murkowski and Collins will not hurt Pete Hegseth. He actually cleared his initial vote, cloture vote, which is overcoming the filibuster, earlier this afternoon.
That is a big deal. He got 51 votes, including Mitch McConnell, who we were also watching and waiting to see how he would vote. So that means that he is now headed to his final confirmation vote, again, lost Lisa Murkowski and Susan Collins. Both of them say, Will, that they could not vote for him because of the past allegations and they just didn't feel like he was prepared to lead such a large department like the Pentagon.
Now, if Democrats and Republicans do not come to a time agreement, which we're not sure about that just yet -- we're waiting to find out -- then Hegseth wouldn't see a confirmation vote until at least Friday night some time around 9:00 p.m.
John Ratcliffe just got confirmed this afternoon for CIA director. That was also delayed because of the same reason, and that is that Democrats are jamming up the Senate right now. They're forcing Republicans to debate for 30 hours on really all of Trump's nominees.
And, as Chuck Schumer told me this morning will, that includes nominees who actually have bipartisan support watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
HASNIE: On the nominees that do have Democratic support, bipartisan support, because there are some, like John Ratcliffe, do you support Chris Murphy slowing this confirmation process down and do you think that's going to happen with other bipartisan...
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): I have some doubts about Mr. Ratcliffe, so I think it's -- for a day or two or a few hours to examine these nominees who have such power thoroughly, absolutely.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HASNIE: So, Will, at this point, the headline is that Pete Hegseth, it looks like, will sail to confirmation and he won't need Vice President J.D. Vance to come here to the Senate to break a tie. It looks like he's going to get those 51 Republicans on his own -- back to you.
CAIN: Well, that is very good news. Thank you, Aishah.
If I might quickly, for Senator Collins and Senator Murkowski, I read the statement put out by Senator Murkowski. It appears to me as though she's accepted anonymous allegations, unverified reports, both professionally and personally, about Pete Hegseth that have been magnified by a corrupted media.
She's taken that over the direct testimony of, say, someone like me, who has sat next to Pete Hegseth for five years. She wrote, by the way, in her statement that, above all, she values character.
What I would suggest is, you might look into the character of the man who volunteered twice to go to war. You might listen to the war fighters who vouch for Pete Hegseth's character. You might read any of the books he's written that make him a subject matter expert on the Department of Defense.
And you might listen to the direct testimony of people that have known Pete Hegseth for over a decade. If you cannot, and if you lean back on anonymous reports, perhaps it is not Pete Hegseth's judgment and character that are in question, but those of some who sit in the United States Senate.
How are other Republican senators reacting to their colleagues' decision?
We're going to ask Senator Tommy Tuberville about that and President Trump's big return to the world stage next.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: Three days ago, I took the oath of office, and we began the golden age of America.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: Back to the White House now, President Trump adding to his flurry of executive orders moments ago.
Peter Doocy on that wide-ranging signing -- Peter.
PETER DOOCY, FOX NEWS SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Yes, and the newest kind of thing that he was doing was establishing a crypto advisory council.
Basically, he's going to have some advisers here at the White House work with Congress on legislation to rule the -- to kind of create rules of the road for crypto that don't exist right now.
When it comes to more traditional monetary policy, though, he said something that we never would have heard from the previous president, whose approach was to leave the Fed alone. He said, Mr. Trump, that he is going to start pressuring the Federal Reserve to lower interest rates, but he seems to think that they might come down on their own.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: It just economically works that way. When the oil comes down, it'll bring down prices. Then you won't have inflation, and then the interest rates will come down.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
DOOCY: And he does see lower energy prices tied intrinsically to lower inflation. He said he's going to ask the Saudis to lower the price of oil. He's also going to ask the Saudis to increase the $600 billion pledge for investment in the United States up to $1 trillion.
Something we saw on Tuesday, some CEOs here pledging $500 billion to build new A.I. data centers. And a feud has erupted on social media between Elon Musk, one of Trump's closest advisers, and Sam Altman, who you see screen right. He is in charge of OpenAI. He used to be a big Trump critic.
And Musk came out and said not to believe Sam Altman, that if Altman's here at the White House promising hundreds of billions of dollars, that he should not be taken seriously. However, the president just explained why that's not necessarily the case.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: Well, I spoke with Elon, but I -- spoken to all of them, actually.
No, no, people in the deal are very, very smart people. But Elon, one of the people he happens to hate, but I have certain hatreds of people too.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
DOOCY: That's a fact-check true.
And something that probably has ears perking up of people that don't follow monetary policy or Elon Musk versus Sam Altman feuds, the Kennedy, the JFK, and RFK, and MLK assassination files are all going to be released.
CAIN: Yes.
DOOCY: We just don't know when yet or where they're going to come from. So we have lines out to the intelligence agencies and to the National Archives to see who exactly has to go get that file and post it on their X account - - Will.
CAIN: That's what I was going to ask you, Peter. So we will just wait. We will hold our breath. We will sit on pins and needles as we await when those files will be released.
Thank you so much, Peter Doocy.
We will also keep our eye, by the way, on John Ratcliffe waiting to be sworn in as the next director of the CIA, I'm sure not untied to when we might see some of those files when it comes to JFK.
But back to Capitol Hill, two moderate Republicans have said they will not support Pete Hegseth's nomination for secretary of defense. Alaska Senator Lisa Murkowski, Maine Senator Susan Collins say they're not going to vote for Pete Hegseth.
How's that going over with other Republicans?
Let's ask Alabama Senator Tommy Tuberville.
Coach is a friend of "The Will Cain Show." He has told me to call him Coach. But I -- in all decorum here, it is the FOX News Channel, and I must call you Senator.
Senator Tuberville, thanks for being here.
What do you think about these holdouts among the GOP when it comes to Pete Hegseth?
SEN. TOMMY TUBERVILLE (R-AL): Well, first of all, Will, look at the big picture. He got 51 votes. That pushed him to a vote tomorrow night at 9:00. So less than 30 hours from now, we will have a new secretary of defense once he gets sworn in at the White House.
People are going to vote the way they want to up here, especially on the Republican side. I have dealt with it for four years. But at the end of the day, it was chaos on the Senate floor before the vote. You had Democrats going over to Republicans. They even came to me. Coach, you're going to be disappointed in this guy. He's going to let us all down.
They're scrambling. The new world order socialists, globalists lost. And they understand that this is the area that they really can't lose. When you lose your military, your national defense agency, basically, and they don't have control of it anymore, we're going to do away with social justice DEI. We're going to have great recruiting. We're going to put discipline back in the military.
That is exactly opposite what the Democrats want. So thank God, Pete Will, get confirmed some time this weekend and we're off to the races.
CAIN: Perfect. I couldn't think of it to be more poetic that Pete Hegseth is confirmed on the weekend, of course, former weekend host of "FOX & Friends." I'm really glad to hear as well that your colleagues call you Coach. Makes me feel like I'm not totally out over my skis or out of bounds.
I do -- you brought up, by the way, the new world order. You talked about the globalist mind-set. Pretty remarkable, by the way, senator, to hear Donald Trump today then speaking to those at Davos. This is some of what he had to say.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Three days ago, I took the oath of office and we began the golden age of America. What the world has witnessed in the past 72 hours is nothing less than a revolution of common sense.
Our country will soon be stronger, wealthier and more united than ever before. And the entire planet will be more peaceful and prosperous as a result of this incredible momentum and what we're doing and going to do. My message to every business in the world is very simple. Come make your product in America and we will give you among the lowest taxes of any nation earth.
If you don't make your product in America, which is your prerogative, then, very simply, you will have to pay a tariff. Under the Trump administration, there will be no better place on Earth to create jobs, build factories or grow a company than right here in the good old USA.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: You know, Senator, it seems a pretty simple message. Hey, America's the best place in the world to do business. And if you choose to do so in America, we will incentivize it and make it the best for you. If you choose to do it somewhere else, it's not going to be so easy. There will be tariffs.
TUBERVILLE: Exactly.
The inauguration speech, Will, he called out the Bidens, the Clintons, the Obamas right to their face. And he did the same thing to the people at Davos, all these woke climate change hoax people, that they live for themselves. They don't live for the world. They don't live for anything other than making themselves richer.
President Trump basically said, get on the ship or get off, folks, because we are changing the order of which we're doing business. And if you want to do business with America, you better move here and make it, because, if you don't make it in America, we're going to tax the hell out of you.
CAIN: All right, Senator, Coach Tommy Tuberville, always great to see you. Thanks for being on "The Will Cain Show."
TUBERVILLE: Thank you, Will.
CAIN: All right.
A hearing today for the man accused of murdering four University of Idaho students. His defense team is asking the judge to throw out all of the evidence.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: Let's go to Idaho and a crucial pretrial hearing for Bryan Kohberger, the man accused of murdering four students at the University of Idaho.
FOX's Dan Springer is in Boise, Idaho, with the latest -- Dan.
DAN SPRINGER, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Yes.
And, Will, even though this trial is not scheduled until August, this is a critical day in the case against Bryan Kohberger, because, if his lawyers are successful, virtually all of the evidence against him will be tossed and the case will fall apart.
Now, that is very unlikely to happen, but the legal issues being raised today are relatively new, as they involve a tool only in use widespread by police since about 2018. It's called investigative genetic genealogy. DNA found at the crime scene, in this case discovered on a knife sheath left next to two of the victims' bodies, is matched to a huge database of DNA profiles given freely to genealogy Web sites.
From there, a family tree of the suspect is established, but is it a legal search?
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
EDWINA ELCOX, DEFENSE ATTORNEY: We always hope that the gatekeepers, judges, law enforcement are dotting their I's and crossing T's. But I can't imagine in a case of this magnitude that there wouldn't have been an extra level of scrutiny.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
SPRINGER: Legal experts don't think the 12 motions to suppress will be granted, but it's impossible to know the strength of Kohberger's argument because all the discussion around IGG has been sealed by the court.
The four victims were all students at the University of Idaho. The parents of Kaylee Goncalves are here today. They're just outside the court, frustrated by so much of the hearing being closed and anxious for this critical issue to be resolved. We did some research, Will, and we could only find two cases where IGG has been attacked by a defendant as being an illegal search. And in both of those cases, the defense did not -- they were not successful.
Those defendants were found guilty. All of that evidence was allowed. That's expected in this case, but we will have to see what this judge rules. Should come out in a couple of weeks -- Will.
CAIN: I'm trying to make sure I understand, Dan. It's pretty fascinating. So they collect evidence at the crime scene. They trace it back through publicly available DNA evidence through just, for example, Ancestry.com, and find a genetic link to Kohberger.
So for him to say that's an illegal search, I guess he would have to say all that public information is private or in some way needs a search warrant to access. That would be a hard argument, I would think, to make for Kohberger.
SPRINGER: And that's why these other two cases, one in Ohio and one in Washington state, were unsuccessful.
The judge has ruled, and just exactly as you said, that these are voluntarily given DNA samples to make a profile by some of his relatives...
CAIN: Right.
SPRINGER: ... to build this family tree.
It does get in the weeds a little bit, because it's very complicated how these profiles are established, and you have to have a good sample from the knife sheath in this case. The quality of the work being done by the labs is also important. So we will have to see exactly what the judge rules, but, on the surface, you're right. It seems like DNA found at the crime scene voluntarily given by him and also voluntarily given DNA samples by his relatives.
So we will see what the judge says.
CAIN: That's -- and I just want to say, that's another great point. It's not even his information that they're out there using through these databases. It's his relatives. How does he assert a right to privacy when it's not even his?
Anyway, it's all very fascinating, Dan. We will be watching. Thank you so much, Dan Springer.
SPRINGER: Yes.
CAIN: It's not taking long for President Trump to crack down at the southern border.
So we're going to talk to America's border czar, Tom Homan, next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: Four hundred and sixty, that's the number of arrests from ICE agents in the first day of the Trump administration.
FOX's Bill Melugin got exclusive embed look with ICE agents in Boston. I want you to take a look at part of something Bill was reporting on and the dangerous people your agents are now rounding up.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'm not going back to Haiti.
BILL MELUGIN, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: One of those threats is this illegal alien from Haiti. He says he's a gang member with 17 criminal convictions in recent years.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (EXPLETIVE DELETED) Trump. You feel me? Yo, Biden forever, bro. Thank Obama for everything that he did for me, bro.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Thank Obama for everything that he did for me. Go, Biden.
Let's talk to America's borders are, who might not share those same sentiments, Tom Homan on all of this.
First, Tom, when you see that video, I'm curious, what do you think?
TOM HOMAN, WHITE HOUSE BORDER CZAR: Well, he's wrong. He's going back to Haiti. I can tell you that.
And, look, I have said it on this network for four years. Joe Biden opened these borders on purpose. There wasn't a mismanagement. It wasn't incompetence. He knew exactly what he was doing. He created the promises while he was running for president and he kept those promises.
At least you got to give him credit for that. Well, yes, they have opened this border up and President Trump's going to secure the border to the highest level ever. You thought we had a secure border before? Watch what happens now. It will be the tightest border in the history of this nation.
And ICE officers are finally getting handcuffs taken off of them and they're going to put them on the bad guys throughout the country.
CAIN: Speaking of the border, Tom, if I flew over the border right now, if we had drone footage that we could put up of the border right now, and I have spoken to people who have been down there, by the way, in the past week, how different would it look than how it looked one week ago under Joe Biden?
HOMAN: You're going to see a border wall being under construction. You're going to see a lot of soldiers down there on the impediment progress and putting up concertina wire up, border barriers. You're going to see DOD there.
You're going to see ICE agents assigned down there for trafficking investigations. And you're going to see Border Patrol agents, rather than making sandwiches, changing diapers, making baby formula, they're going to be doing their national security duty and securing that border. They're going to be on the line.
CAIN: And I would assume, by extension, I would not see the types of thousands coming across that border that I have seen over the past four years.
Yesterday, Tom, President Trump passed, along with the House and the Senate, the Laken Riley bill. This is going to allow you to deport anyone who has been charged or convicted of a crime, which would have rolled up someone like Jose Ibarra before he ever got a chance to kill Laken Riley.
But, on the other hand, Tom, in order to enforce this bill or any other ICE or Border Patrol measures, you're going to have to deal with sanctuary cities, cities like Chicago. What are you going to do with sanctuary cities?
HOMAN: Well, look, President Trump's going to take action on them, and like he did in the last administration.
We got to remove federal funding from them. Why are we giving them SCAP funding and other law enforcement funding, when they're not performing the law enforcement duties with ICE? You know, it's about public safety. And you're right. Laken Riley's killer, he was arrested in New York on a child endangerment charge.
If we had -- if New York City was not a sanctuary city, ICE would have took him into custody. He would have been gone. So, what I'm going to do with sanctuary cities, well, President -- I will let President Trump take action on them through the Department of Justice.
But we're going to go to sanctuary cities. We're at sanctuary city jails right now. But what sanctuary cities -- sanctuary city jurisdictions are causing is an officer safety crisis, right? And instead of ICE officers arresting the bad guy in the safety and security of a jail, where we know they don't have weapons, now these sanctuary cities release that public safety threat back in the community, which, again, is a public safety threat, because you're putting the bad guy back in the community.
So the public's at greater risk of crime. My agent is at greater risk of harm, and the alien's at greater risk. A resident alien in a jail is safe. Everything's controlled. But anything can happen on the street. So it's even safer for the alien to be put in custody of ICE in a jail.
Sanctuary cities make it less efficient and more dangerous, but it's not going to stop us. We're going -- we're hitting every sanctuary city right now.
CAIN: Right now, you're hitting cities like Chicago?
HOMAN: Right now.
CAIN: All right.
Part of that, by the way, that you're using, apparently, you have been offered the assistance of the United States military for airlift support as part of this program. The United States Air Force is going to supply four aircraft to remove up to 5,000 aliens that are already, I believe, being detained by CBP.
How is this going to help you? Is this a necessary -- or is -- do you find this necessary or this is just icing on the cake of getting these illegal immigrants out of the United States?
HOMAN: Absolutely necessary. We have limited funding right now, so anything DOD can step in and do this is a force multiplier.
Whatever DOD does, whether it's building infrastructures, whether it's flying planes, doing transportation, that means an ICE badge and gun is not stuck with those type of duties. They can actually be on the streets looking for the bad guy. So we're going to try to contract a lot of this work out, have DOD do some -- the stuff that doesn't require immigration authority, have them do that job to release the immigration officers out on the street to arrest the criminal aliens.
So, yes, this has been in plans for a while. We made this happen in a matter of three days. So, yes, they're welcome. They're welcome, a force multiplier for us, and it's going to help us a great deal, especially on removal flights.
CAIN: Really quickly, Tom, we saw that video of that Haitian illegal immigrant ranting and raving. I'm curious. If you're an illegal immigrant in the United States right now, who are the people that should understand you are coming for them? What class of illegal immigrant is the one that is at the top of the list to be deported?
HOMAN: If you're in the country illegally and you committed a crime against the citizens of this country, you got a criminal history, we're looking for you. You're our priority.
Our top priority is criminal aliens and those that are public safety threats and national security threats. If you're a member of Tren de Aragua, we're coming for you. If you're member of MS-13, you're a priority. We're coming for you.
And what I'd like to say, those who are in the United States illegally that have not been formally deported by an immigration judge, go home, because if we go through the process of having to actually putting you in court and ordering a deportation order on you, that's going to put a bar on you from five...
(CROSSTALK)
CAIN: Looks like we had a problem there.
(CROSSTALK)
HOMAN: ... still hear me? The lights -- the lights -- can you hear me? The lights are out, but can you hear me?
(LAUGHTER)
CAIN: I can hear you, Tom, but I can't see you. You're talking in the dark, at least right now here on "The Will Cain Show." I don't think you're speaking in the darkness when it comes to the United States of America.
We appreciate Tom Homan. We had some technical difficulties there, as you can see, with his shot, but we appreciate his time here on "The Will Cain Show."
California is grappling with three new fires. We will talk to someone who's been lending a helping hand to the first responders. And his name is Jay Leno next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: Fires are still raging in Southern California 17 days in, red flag warnings making it tough for first responders to put them out.
FOX's Jonathan Hunt has the latest from Castaic, California -- Jonathan.
JONATHAN HUNT, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Will.
These dangerous Santa Ana winds blowing, as you can plainly see, pretty strongly once again today. The great fear is, is that they will spark new flames that will do this kind of damage you see on the shores of Lake Castaic here.
All day today, we have watched some fascinating video we can show you now, as pilots flying the Super Scooper planes have come in onto the surface of Lake Castaic, picked up hundreds, thousands of gallons of water again and again, flying then to drop that water on the spot fires that have been popping up all over this particular region.
It's an ongoing fight and a difficult one. We have also had our crews witness hotshot crews up on the ridgelines again looking for spot fires, tamping them out wherever they can. We had yet another fire breakout late last night here, the Sepulveda Fire. That was near the famous Getty Center, also threatened a lot of homes in the Bel Air area.
They have been fighting that they have stopped the forward progress of it, but this is an ongoing battle, Will, and we expect these winds to continue well into Friday morning here. So these exhausted firefighters who've now been battling these blazes for more than two weeks in Southern California have to keep going a little while longer before the rains are due to arrive this weekend -- Will.
CAIN: Incredible footage. Incredible report. Thank you so much, Jonathan Hunt, from California.
By the way, President Trump is set to visit California tomorrow. Last night, he talked to our Sean Hannity about the wildfires.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: Los Angeles, that's like a nuclear weapon went off what's happened to Los Angeles. And that thing went for four or five days. Nobody was even fighting it because they didn't have any water. Their fire departments aren't funded properly and the firefighters, who are brave as hell, they were fighting without water.
I mean, they turn on a fire hydrant, there's no water that comes out. And they're sitting -- and the fires are rushing at them at 30, 40 miles an hour. Those firefighters, who are brave, what happened to that state is incredible.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: You heard Jonathan Hunt talk about firefighters who've been on the job for over two weeks.
So, we thought we'd talk to someone who's been showing up to help those impacted and helping those who are responding. He just happens to also be a TV legend.
Former host of "The Tonight Show" Jay Leno joins us now.
First of all, Jay, it's an honor to have you here on the first week of "The Will Cain Show." Thank you.
JAY LENO, ENTERTAINER: Well, thank you. Thank you for having me on. I appreciate it.
Yes, it's been great. We -- it's -- this is what I love about America. People complain about -- we went out there to give the guys some hot meals, you know? I happen to say on camera most of the guys are eating box lunches, and it's just a sandwich, and it's freezing and it's getting cold water. Why don't you give them some hot food?
I got, dear, Mr. Leno, you're attacking the box lunch industry. Well, it just made me laugh. I just...
(LAUGHTER)
LENO: I'm looking at the box lunches. I was just saying, we gave them some hot food. And let me tell you something. These guys can eat. They all look like the guy in the Brawny paper towel ad. You know what I mean, these big, beefy guys.
And we went in there with 700 pounds of ribs and 400 pounds of chicken. We're -- uh-oh, we're running out of food. I mean, it was -- but it was a great five days.
And you know a great thing about it? No blame game. These are -- these are fire men and women.
CAIN: Right.
LENO: How can we put this out? What do we need to do? Even talking off the record, nobody blamed this person or that person. It was all about, how do we fight this fire?
And the morale was good. And it was literally like -- I did a bunch of USO shows. I was at Bagram Air Force Base. It reminded me of that, airplanes coordinating with guys on the ground. Guys on the ground got big maps laid out where they think the fire is going to go. But you hand them a rib, they eat the rib, they point to it, and they're talking to the helicopter.
I mean, it's really a military operation. It's...
CAIN: Right.
LENO: I really believe it's the best fire department in the world.
CAIN: You know, Jay, we don't know each other. In fact, this is the first time we have ever spoken, but a little over a year ago, I was pretty involved in the fires that afflicted Maui, Hawaii.
And I know exactly how you feel that, when you're in the fight, you don't want to get tripped up by pointing fingers. You don't want to get tripped up by the blame game.
LENO: That's right.
CAIN: But, at the same time, there does have to be an accountability. There does have to be a look into what allowed this to either metastasize or be created in the first place.
LENO: But you know something? That's not my job.
CAIN: Right.
LENO: I'm an entertainer. I'm a comedian. The thing I can do best is tell a joke to the guys, give them some food, make them feel comfortable.
And that's what I like to do. I don't get involved in politics when I'm doing it. Like, when I go overseas and I perform overseas, I don't do jokes about the president of the United States, regardless of who it is, because I feel I'm giving comfort to the enemy, you know what I mean?
CAIN: Right.
LENO: When I'm in the United -- I can make fun of my brother. You can't make fun of my brother. That's my answer.
(LAUGHTER)
LENO: So, when I'm in the United States, I will do all Bush and Trump and Obama and everybody. When I go overseas, I don't.
And the same thing, it's something -- like this kind of thing, they're there. Here's a guy bringing us food in kind of a cool fire, old antique fire engine just to cheer him up a little bit. Like, I thought maybe having that fire engine might look like I'm showing off a little bit.
But one of the chiefs said, oh, this is such a great morale booster to see this almost-100-year-old fire engine roll in.
CAIN: Right.
LENO: And it's all bright and shining in the midst of all this dirt and all this gray.
So it turned out to be a win-win all the way around. It was just a wonderful experience for me. I just enjoyed it so much.
CAIN: Well, it's very appreciated. And, by the way, I respect also your desire to stay out of this political side or the blame. Leave that to me, Jay. I have got that.
LENO: Oh, you got it.
CAIN: I will take care of that, along with the president of United -- yes.
By the way, here we are. You're a legend, Jay. I'm a brand-new solo host here at FOX News. Any advice for me? I'm not coming to you, Jay, with advice of how to avoid falling down hills, unfortunately, or avoiding...
LENO: No, no.
(CROSSTALK)
CAIN: ... what seems to be habitual tragic accidents.
(CROSSTALK)
LENO: Well, that was my...
(LAUGHTER)
LENO: Yes.
(LAUGHTER)
CAIN: Yes. But TV advice.
LENO: Oh, TV advice? I'm not sure what the -- my advice was, when I did "The Tonight Show" -- now, you will hate this advice.
But I never asked for raise. If I just did a good job, good things will come to me. And that's the thing about show business. Even the worst performer in show business makes more than the greatest teacher, which seems incredibly unfair. So I am a huge believer in low self-esteem.
If you don't think you're the smartest person in the room, you will shut up and you listen. And that's what I do. When I go to something like this, these firemen are telling me how to fight it, what they do.
CAIN: Right.
LENO: And I listen. I don't give an opinion because I don't know what I'm talking about. If I'm telling them jokes, that's one thing.
So the best advice I could give is, listen to the people around you.
CAIN: Low self-esteem.
LENO: They kind of know what they're doing.
CAIN: Yes.
LENO: Yes, yes. Yes, low self-esteem, that's the key.
(LAUGHTER)
CAIN: I will take that.
LENO: There you go.
CAIN: I will take low self-esteem. One of my mottoes is, I don't take myself seriously, but I take what I say seriously. And I'd like to think I'm a good listener.
LENO: Right.
CAIN: I'm listening to you today, Jay. I appreciate you being with us here on "The Will Cain Show."
LENO: Will, thanks a lot. I really appreciate it. And God bless our firemen.
CAIN: That's right.
And God bless you for everything you're doing for those first responders, Jay Leno, an absolute television legend.
Speaking of listening and listening to smarter people than me, how about you, the people? Let's do a little bit of "Will of the People."
Christopher on X saying: "I think you deserve a solid B-plus, but you did a lot better than Texas did in the playoffs, for sure."
Christopher, I'm going to take the B-plus. I'm not going to take the shot at my Texas Longhorns.
Lisa says, once a week, you should have a Pete Hegseth and Rachel Campos- Duffy segment at the same time, just to recapture the vibe of "FOX & Friends" weekend.
Rachel's available, I don't think Pete is.
And, finally, another user says they love the show and the format, including the graphics package, despite what is said by Jesse Watters.
Speaking of...

Load-Date: January 23, 2025


End of Document
