




Fox News THE WILL CAIN SHOW 4:00 PM EST
January 30, 2025 Thursday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; International
Length: 7875 words
Byline: Mark Meredith, Griff Jenkins, Will Cain
Guests: Calley Means, Erik Prince, Katie Britt, Devin Nunes, Jeff Edwards
Body


(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: And it's the case with respect to circling for hours on end. Planes circle a lot, and they circle because the people bringing them down, these people that have to be very, very smart, and it's not based on anything other than the brain.
We need the smartest people. We need both psychologically smart and just brilliant, period. And we are going to have them in our control towers. We are going to have -- we are going to have the most competent people in the country in our control towers, not people that are there for any other reason.
(CROSSTALK)
QUESTION: You said that you envision sending the 80-something thousand IRS agents hired than Biden to the border. What role do you see them playing?
TRUMP: Well, we will see. I mean, I may do that or I may use different people. But we're going to send more. We're going to give the Border Patrol some help, although now, if you look, they have taken in the lowest number since my administration.
The numbers are very low. And at that level, we don't need so much help. People know not to come, because, if they come, they're not going to make it in and they're going to be shipped out.
(CROSSTALK)
QUESTION: Egypt's president and the king of Jordan have both said that they won't take in displaced people from Gaza like you suggested.
Is there anything you can do to make them do that? I mean, tariffs against those countries, for example?
TRUMP: They will do it. They will do it.
QUESTION: What makes you say that?
TRUMP: They're going to do it, OK? We do a lot for them, and they're going to do it.
QUESTION: Mr. President, you have offered over two million federal workers the option to resign immediately.
TRUMP: Right.
QUESTION: There are 50,000 FAA employees. Does this tragedy give you reason to reconsider that option of resignations because of concerns about staffing issues on air and safety?
TRUMP: No. If people aren't coming to work, if they're not going to come into the office and report, as per the date that you know what it is, everybody knows what the date is, it's been very well-documented, then they're going to be terminated.
QUESTION: You're not going to be -- you're not concerned, though, that if many people take that offer, there could be shortages that could...
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: Then they will be replaced with very competent people. We have a lot of competent people in this country.
QUESTION: Have you spoken to any of the families of the victims of the plane crash?
TRUMP: I don't want to comment on that.
QUESTION: Do you have a plan to go visit the site or meet with any of the first responders?
TRUMP: I have a plan to visit not the site, because what did -- you tell me, what's the site, the water? Want me to go swimming?
QUESTION: Or to meet the first responders down there.
TRUMP: I don't have a plan to do that. But I will be meeting with some people that were very, very badly hurt, with their family member, obviously, but I will be meeting with some of the families, yes.
(CROSSTALK)
QUESTION: On birthright citizenship, sir, do you believe that there are five votes on the Supreme Court that would uphold your position?
TRUMP: On what?
QUESTION: Five votes on the Supreme Court...
TRUMP: What position?
QUESTION: ... on birthright citizenship?
TRUMP: I think so, yes.
Look, birthright citizenship was, if you look back when this was passed and made, that was meant for the children of slaves. This was not meant for the whole world to come in and pile into the United States of America, everybody coming in and totally unqualified people with perhaps unqualified children.
This wasn't meant for that. This was meant when it was originally done for the children of slaves. And that was a very good and noble thing to do, and I'm in favor of that 100 percent. But it wasn't meant for the entire world to occupy the United States.
QUESTION: So you don't see it requiring of constitutional amendment that would be...
TRUMP: I just think that we will end up winning that court in the Supreme Court. I think we're going to win that case. And I look forward to winning it. This has been going on. We're -- at that level, we're the only country in the world that does this. There's no other country at this level. There's no other country in the world that does it. It's crazy.
QUESTION: Mr. President, you have 64 people lost their lives last night.
If you aren't confident that DEI had any role, why bring it up?
TRUMP: Well, all I'm talking about is competence. And we want in the -- in that particular position, we have to have the most competent people in our country because we're talking about lives.
Now, it may or may not have had to do, but I don't like the fact that the helicopter was at the exact same level as the airplane. The helicopter should have been 1,000 feet or 500 feet above it or something below it.
The plane was at 300 to 400 feet, or the plane should have been stopped, because the helicopter could have stopped. The plane can't be stopped, but the plane was on a schedule that was -- it was along a track. They call it a track.
And it's the same track that every other plane's used for many years. It was going down and landing. And the helicopter got in its way. And if the helicopter was higher or lower or stopped or turning left or turning right at a quicker time -- I mean, it turned, but it turned when it was too late, a tragic -- a tragic story.
So, I don't know. Do you blame it on the air traffic controller too, in addition to the pilots? Maybe the pilots' fault? They should have seen it. I would have thought they should have seen it, because it was a plane that was loaded up with lights. And everybody -- you can see it from Kennedy Center. You can see it very easily.
So all I want is the most competent people in our country to be air traffic controllers. It's a very important position, and other positions too, by the way. We're not only talking about that. We're talking -- but air traffic controllers maybe in particular. They have to be brilliant with computers, brilliant with graphics.
They have to be psychologically really, really smart. And there are a lot of people that wouldn't be able to do that.
(CROSSTALK)
QUESTION: When you talk about tariffs on Canada and Mexico, 25 percent, that's coming on Saturday?
TRUMP: That's coming on the 1st, Saturday.
QUESTION: OK, but no oil tariffs, no oil tariffs?
TRUMP: No, I don't -- well, I didn't say that. You said that. No.
QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)
TRUMP: No, we may or may not. We're going to make that determination probably tonight on oil, yes, because they send us oil. We will see. It depends on what the price is. If the oil is properly priced, if they treat us properly, we'd say no.
Look, Mexico and Canada have never been good to us on trade. They have treated us very unfairly on trade. And we will be able to make that up very quickly, because we don't need the products that they have. We have all the oil you need. We have all the trees you need, meaning the lumber. We have more than almost anybody in those two categories.
In oil, we have more than anybody. And we don't need anybody's trees. We have to free up some of the tree areas that we have. We have great lumber in this country. We have to free them up environmentally, which I can do very quickly. But we don't need what they have.
And for us to be subsidizing Canada to the tune of $175 billion a year and subsidizing Mexico to the tune of $250 billion, $300 billion a year -- and Mexico is a method of China sending in its product. And with China, I'm also thinking about something, because they're sending fentanyl into our country.
And because of that, they're causing us hundreds of thousands of deaths. So China is going to end up paying a tariff also for that. And we're in the process of doing that. We will make that determination of what it's going to be. But China has to stop sending fentanyl into our country and killing our people.
(CROSSTALK)
QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)
TRUMP: I don't know who said that. I mean, I don't know who said that, but we will make a determination on that. We're not going to -- we're not involved in Syria. Syria is its own mess. They have got enough messes over there. They don't need us involved in every one.
QUESTION: Mr. President, was there a shortage of staff at the control tower at DCA last night that you're aware of?
TRUMP: Well, that's part of competence right there. They shouldn't have that happen. Right there is what I'm talking about. Competence would be you're not going to have a shortage. But if you had the right people, you wouldn't need as many people either.
QUESTION: Do you know if there was a shortage last night or not?
TRUMP: I don't know. No, I don't know. You're telling me something.
QUESTION: Mr. President, you said earlier today that you had not spoken to Putin about this. When was the last time you spoke with him? And has President Xi responded to your ask to help put pressure to end the war in Ukraine?
TRUMP: I won't comment on either of them, but we're doing very well with regard to both.
QUESTION: There are some reports that Xi might ask of you in order to give that help pressure to disavow potential Taiwan independence. Is that something that you would ever do?
TRUMP: No, we never discussed it.
QUESTION: You had said earlier that we would get more details about the victims on the plane. Can you give more on that now?
TRUMP: Yes, we have -- I have a lot of details, but it's something that will be released to you also at the appropriate time. No, I have the full details.
QUESTION: There were a lot of young people potentially?
TRUMP: Young people, great people, great athletes, great skaters, a very sad situation from numerous countries.
Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: You just watched President Trump answer questions, wide-ranging, unscripted questions from the press, while signing more executive orders.
He also discussed in that conversation with the press the border, fentanyl, tariffs on Mexico and Canada, and a range of other issues. He also addressed the tragic plane crash in D.C. Right now, recovery efforts continue as America faces its first major airline disaster in 15 years, a military helicopter colliding with a commercial aircraft over D.C. last night.
Everyone is presumed dead. We're going to show you video from the moment of impact. A warning, it can be tough to watch.
You see the explosion as the Black Hawk helicopter hits the American Flight 5342.
President Trump addressing the American people earlier today.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: This was a dark and excruciating night in our nation's capital and in our nation's history, and a tragedy of terrible proportions.
As one nation, we grieve for every precious soul that has been taken from us so suddenly, and we are a country of -- really, we are in mourning.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: We will have a live update in a minute.
But amid the breaking news, we have also been watching three very important confirmation hearings this afternoon, FBI director nominee Kash Patel, director of national intelligence nominee Tulsi Gabbard, and day two for HHS nominee Robert F. Kennedy Jr.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. RICHARD DURBIN (D-IL): Do you think America is safer because President Trump issued these pardons to 1,600 of these criminal defendants, many of whom violently assaulted our police in the Capitol?
KASH PATEL, FBI DIRECTOR NOMINEE: America will be safe when we don't have 200,000 drug overdoses in two years.
SEN. RON WYDEN (D-OR): If President Trump orders you to withhold appropriated funds from the inspector general, will you refuse that illegal order?
FMR. REP. TULSI GABBARD (HI): I don't believe for a second President Trump would ask me to do something that would break the law.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (I-VT): If confirmed, in terms of making America healthy again, will you stand up to the White House and say, no, we cannot throw millions of children off of health care, millions of elderly people out of nursing homes, we cannot cut Medicaid to give tax breaks to billionaires?
ROBERT F. KENNEDY JR., HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES SECRETARY NOMINEE: President Trump has made no indication to me that he intends to throw millions of people out of nursing homes or deprive people of their health care, Senator. We have a health care system that's broken. It's not working.
You have been working on it your entire career as Americans less and less healthier.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Absurd questions, but reasonable answers.
We're going to have more from those hearings coming up.
But, first, we start with the investigation into the tragic plane crash in D.C.
Griff Jenkins joins us from Reagan National Airport -- Griff.
GRIFF JENKINS, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Will, this has moved entirely into a recovery mission and the worst air crash really in a generation, 67 lives total to be lost.
And, Will, standing here at the airport at Reagan, where flights have resumed, we can stare out of a window at the end of Runway 53, and it's chilling to see planes taking off and looking at the site where this tragedy happened just before 9:00.
Let's take a look. We have got an animated map for our viewers to understand. You saw just before 9:00 that American Airlines Flight 5342, a regional jet approaching from the south just moments before landing finally at Runway 33 that I mentioned there, and then coming out of the north heading south, the Army Black Hawk helicopter, colliding there over the Potomac, just outside the window where we are staring.
Now, the NTSB held a press conference here a little bit and they're going to talk more as we get updates. One of the things they talked about, though, Will, is the unique environment that we have with these helicopters and military operating around commercial airlines
And Defense Secretary Hegseth talking about the DOD's investigation into this as well. Listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PETE HEGSETH, U.S. DEFENSE SECRETARY: There was some sort of an elevation issue that we have immediately begun investigating at the DOD and Army level. Army CID is on the ground investigating. Top-tier aviation assets inside the DOD are investigating, sir, to get to the bottom of it so that it does not happen again, because it's absolutely unacceptable.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
JENKINS: And, Will, Secretary Hegseth says this crew three members were very experienced and doing a routine mission, although, obviously, what the NTSB wants most right now are those flight data recorders, or black boxes, and it appears they haven't been found yet. Listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JENNIFER HOMENDY, CHAIR, NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD: We have not recovered the flight data recorders yet. We know they're there. They are underwater. This is not unusual for the NTSB. We have many times recovered flight data recorders in water.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
JENKINS: And what's really going to be interesting, you just heard moments ago President Trump talking, Will, about the altitude, the height that the helicopter and the regional jet were traveling and why perhaps the helicopter didn't see the jet.
A lot of questions here, the NTSB saying that they're going to -- quote -- "take as long as it takes" to get to the answers to find out what happened, why it happened and how they can make sure it never happens again.
We're also finally, I will just mention, learning a lot of the tragic personal details of the crew aboard that helicopter and on that jet, the mother of two, a father of two, and 14 members of the U.S. skating team, to include also two Russian skating coaches of which were participating in the Olympics.
A lot of questions right now. We will bring you more as we get it, Will.
CAIN: All right, no surprise, excellent coverage, Griff Jenkins.
On that note, absolutely phenomenal coverage here on the FOX Network from journalists like Trace Gallagher, John Roberts, Jon Scott, many others.
And I want to pick up on where they have left off on many of their questions starting last night and today.
Let's bring in Dr. Jeff Edwards. He's a former U.S. Navy A-6 navigator and he's an aircraft accident investigator for over 25 years.
Thank you so much for being with us.
I want to pick up right there from what we heard from Secretary Hegseth, an elevation issue. From what I have understood, this is an extremely busy corridor right there along the Potomac in front of Reagan National Airport. But the helicopter, from what I understood, should have been flying somewhere under 200 feet, and then they could have observed with visual flight rules at that point.
And they would have been looking for something, perhaps the inbound American flight. But if there's an elevation issue, does that mean they were somewhere north of that ceiling, 300, 400 feet?
DR. JEFF EDWARDS, AIRCRAFT ACCIDENT INVESTIGATOR: Yes, will, that's correct.
The VFR corridor specifies at or below 200 feet. And it also shows on the chart that they should have been closer to the riverbank on the Maryland side.
CAIN: OK, so they were already outside of the zone where they were under VFR, visual flight restriction, rules. They were higher, higher elevated than that ceiling.
And then there's talk about night-vision goggles. I don't think we know yet with certainty whether or not the pilots of the helicopter were wearing night-vision goggles. But everyone has suggested that would have restricted their ability to see everything around them, at least their peripheral vision.
EDWARDS: Right.
So the night-vision goggles, they don't know yet, but night-vision goggles have two issues here. They restrict the field of view, i.e., the arc in which the pilots can see left and right. And, also, they tend to bloom, because you have a lot of background lighting from the various towers and lights on the ground, et cetera.
So it really doesn't work well in that situation.
CAIN: OK, I want to ask you one more thing about using vision as a way of spotting potential aircraft collisions.
From what I understand, I don't know that it's a directly head-on collision, but the two aircraft, the American flight and the Black Hawk helicopters, seemed to be heading toward one another, which, even in daylight, from what I have been led to understand, is difficult.
It's hard to see something. You need context. You need something crossing the visual plane. Is that correct as well? So you have got the night problem. You have got night-vision goggle problems. Now you have also got the problem of something stationary in front of you headed straight towards you.
EDWARDS: Correct.
You know, it's called -- the term is relative motion. So human eye is really good at picking up an object that crosses in front of you, OK? It's not really good at identifying an object that is fixed right in front of you that is moving.
We see this in everyday life. We just don't understand it really well. The pilots understand it better because they're trying to find a moving object out there and separate it from a stationary object. In this case, not only do you have that phenomena, but you have all the background lighting that confuses the pilots as to the question of whether or not that's an airplane or that's just a blinking light on a tower or a building.
CAIN: Now, really quickly, Dr. Edwards, one last question then. There's also this question of whether or not a third plane played a factor into what the helicopter pilots may have been looking at.
Air traffic control suggested, do you see the regional flight? But there was one taking off as well from Reagan. Do you see anything to that, that they might have been looking at a flight taking off, instead of a flight inbound landing at Reagan?
EDWARDS: Yes, that's not uncommon.
It happened to me, misidentifying an aircraft that has been pointed out to you, and you see another one that's in the close proximity, and you think that the one that you have been instructed to follow is actually not the one you're looking at. So, that becomes a problem.
The big problem here for the agencies and the administration is, what are we going to do going forward to prevent this from happening again? Because we have already put in place regulations and technology to prevent this, but, of course, those failed.
CAIN: Right. That will be a tough question for many of my friends and now people helping to ensure this doesn't happen well into the future, Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth, Secretary of Transportation Sean Duffy, just one day on the job.
Dr. Jeff Edwards, thank you so much for being with us today.
EDWARDS: Thanks, Will. Take care.
CAIN: All right, this absolute disaster -- you bet -- shows the serious need for President Trump's Cabinet picks to be confirmed quickly.
Coming up, we're going to take you inside three of the big hearings today for Kash Patel, Tulsi Gabbard and RFK Jr.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: President Trump's pick for FBI director, Kash Patel, front and center on Capitol Hill today. He's backed by most Republicans, who expect he will come in and make major changes. He said he would.
And Democrats, they're not happy about that.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. AMY KLOBUCHAR (D-MN): Could he just answer the question if he said that the FBI headquarters, where they investigate cybercrime and terrorism, should be shut down and open as a deep state, a museum?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Mr. Chair...
KLOBUCHAR: Did he say that the headquarters should be shut down?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Mr. Chair.
KLOBUCHAR: I deserve an answer to that question.
PATEL: If the best attacks on me are going to be false accusations and grotesque mischaracterizations, the only thing this body is doing is defeating the credibility of the men and women at the FBI. I stood with them here in this country. In every theater of war we have, I was on the ground in service of this nation.
And any accusations leveled against me that I would somehow put political bias before the Constitution are grotesquely unfair. And I will have you reminded that I have been endorsed by over 300,000 law enforcement officers to become the next director of the FBI. Let's ask them.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Patel also detailing threats he has personally faced since his January 6 testimony.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. LINDSEY GRAHAM (R-SC): Have you ever been subject to racism as an individual?
PATEL: Unfortunately, Senator, yes. I don't want to get into those details with my family here.
GRAHAM: Oh, let's get into a few of them.
(LAUGHTER)
GRAHAM: Tell me about it.
PATEL: Well, if you look at the record from January 6, where I testified before that committee, because of my personal information being released by Congress, I was subjected to a direct and significant threat on my life.
And I put that information in the record. I had to move. But that's nothing compared to what the men and women in law enforcement face every day. And that's why they have my support.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: My next guest is someone who knows Kash Patel very well. He's former Congressman Devin Nunes.
Kash was his lead staff investigator for the House Intelligence Committee in what ultimately became the Russia collusion hoax. And Devin Nunes joins me now.
Devin, thanks for being with us.
What did you think about not just the way Kash testified today, but what you heard from the United States senators?
FMR. REP. DEVIN NUNES (R-CA): Well, it depends which one. I thought that Chairman Grassley did a great job. I thought that Kash Patel took tough questions, which the Senate has a right to ask those tough questions. And the American people got to see and learn a lot about Kash and his background.
Everybody that's worked with him closely knows that he does an excellent job. He's an excellent job at investigating, which, by the way, that's what the FBI needs to get back to doing, is actually investigating and going after criminals.
I would say, Will, that Adam Schiff, the American people lost him in the United States House of Representatives. That was a gain for the House of Representatives. But I think the Democratic senators are now realizing that the circus has come to them.
And I thought Adam Schiff was an embarrassment, like he normally is. He clearly has an axe to grind with Kash Patel because it was Kash and our team that made a mockery of this guy year after year after year for lying to the American people and the audacity that he has to go down additional conspiracy theory routes to tarnish Kash's reputation, after he already participated -- as Kash said there in his testimony, he was the one responsible for leaking Kash's information out that -- where Kash became a target.
CAIN: Well, let's do this. Let's share with the audience perhaps an illustration of what you're talking about when it comes to Senator Adam Schiff. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. ADAM SCHIFF (D-CA): So you're being considered for director of the FBI. And here you did no diligence to find out whether people you were associating with now the president of the United States in song were convicted of attacking police officers.
Is that who we want running the FBI? I want you to turn around. There are Capitol Police officers behind you. They're guarding us. Take a look at them right now. Turn around.
PATEL: I'm looking at you. You're talking to me.
SCHIFF: No, no, look at them. I want you to look at them if you can, if you have the courage to look them in the eye, Mr. Patel, and tell them you're proud of what you did. Tell them you're proud that you raised money off of people that assaulted their colleagues, that pepper-sprayed them, that beat them with poles. Tell them you're proud of what you did, Mr. Patel.
They're right there. They're guarding you today. Tell them how proud you are.
PATEL: That's an abject lie. And you know it.
SCHIFF: How proud you are.
PATEL: I have never, never, ever accepted violence against law enforcement.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: I'm looking at you. You're looking at me.
Kash, who I have met and you know well, is intense. There was a question -- believe it or not, Devin, there was a question buried in that rant by Adam Schiff. And the question is, is that who we want running the FBI?
I will ask you, who -- what qualities and what goals and purposes need to be executed in who we want to run the FBI?
NUNES: Well, it definitely needs to take a change in a different direction from where it's been. I mean, I think it was stated many times the FBI is at an all-time low today in terms of the American people's confidence level in them.
So I think Kash brings a level of understanding, both being on the prosecution side, where he prosecuted terrorists. He served in the House of Representatives as a lead investigator for us, but also then went on and served in the administration.
But people forget, early in his career, he actually was on the other side and he defended criminals. So he knew what it was like when the FBI or DOJ or others overstepped their bounds.
And I think what you saw today with -- the example I was saying and what a circus that Adam Schiff brings to the United States Senate, and there was another example of it, where he himself is sitting there lying about Kash Patel, when he knows the reason he doesn't like Kash Patel is because, for years, Kash uncovered Adam Schiff's lies and now he was exposing him there today, where -- I mean, just the fact that with Schiff to be able to say that Kash was making money...
CAIN: Right.
NUNES: ... I mean, that's outrageous.
Kash Patel was -- had a nonprofit that was generating money to help people in need, including people in uniform. So Schiff knows that this is a lie. Look, I think that it won't take long before the United States Senate, the Democrat senators included, you could see it there today, that they're going to get sick of Adam Schiff and they're going to be sad that he entered the U.S. Senate.
And I think it was on display today.
CAIN: Well, you mentioned the lack of trust in the FBI, that it's an all- time low. We have that number actually. It was brought up today by Kash Patel. It's 41 percent. That's the number of American people that today have faith, confidence in the FBI.
Hopefully, that can be restored with Kash Patel.
Devin Nunes, thank you so much for being with us today.
NUNES: Thanks, Will. Great to be with you.
One hour, that's about it, one hour, maybe two, Sean Duffy was on the job before that tragic accident last night in D.C., 2.5 days for Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth, highlighting the necessity to get President Trump's Cabinet picks confirmed immediately.
So, in that vein, Kash Patel was not the only big hearing today.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GABBARD: You may hear lies and smears in this hearing that will challenge my loyalty to and my love for our country. Those who oppose my nomination imply that I am loyal to something or someone other than God, my own conscience, and the Constitution of the United States.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: That was President Trump's pick for director of national intelligence, Tulsi Gabbard, in her opening statements, defending that she is loyal, as evidenced by her service to her country.
Senators say they have concerns surrounding her views on Edward Snowden, FISA, or her meeting with Bashar al-Assad. Take a listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. SUSAN COLLINS (R-ME): As you know, there has been speculation in the press that you met with Hezbollah, a terrorist organization affiliated with Iran.
Have you ever knowingly met with any members, leaders, or affiliates of Hezbollah?
GABBARD: No, and it is an absurd accusation. I shed no tears for the fall of the Assad regime, but today we have an Islamist extremist who is now in charge of Syria, as I said, who danced on the streets to celebrate the 9/11 attack.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Her hearing moved to a closed, classified setting after a public hearing earlier.
My next guest is a former Navy SEAL and one of the members from the intelligence community who signed a letter urging senators to confirm Tulsi.
Erik Prince joins me now.
Erik, let's start, I think, with a bit of defense, but I don't think it's the right place to have this conversation. Still, we will lay down the runway. Tulsi's patriotism seemed to be questioned by United States senators after I believe it's 22 years of service. They have questions about her allegiance to the United States of America.
ERIK PRINCE, FORMER U.S. NAVY SEAL: Look, these are the same people who have never lifted a finger to serve their country or to go to a difficult, dangerous place and put their neck on the line.
The most dangerous thing they do is walk down the halls of the Senate office building. It's ridiculous. Tulsi is to be lauded for questioning the nonsense of the deep state, and that's why the deep state pushes back in every way it can, including with its paid-and-bought-for spokespeople here in the Senate to try to block her.
There needs to be accountability of our intelligence community. It HAS run amuck. And the incompetence, graft and corruption has been hiding behind classification for too long. And Tulsi needs to be confirmed.
CAIN: And I have seen those -- I have seen others point out, Erik, that Tulsi's personal experience with the intelligence community makes her the perfect candidate. She knows the power of intelligence through her military service.
And she also knows the power of intelligence when it can be used in a weaponized manner, because it's been used against her. She's been placed on a no-fly list and so forth. So having someone who has experienced both sides of that adds for a really unique perspective at DNI.
PRINCE: Well, Pete Hegseth will make a great SecDef because he's had to live with the bad decisions made by armchair generals and politicians back in Washington.
Tulsi Gabbard will make a great DNI because she has to live with bad intelligence and bloated bureaucracy making wrong decisions, including putting her on a no-fly list. It's insane that these people are throwing stones at her. They're all living in a very big glass house.
CAIN: Last question for you, Erik.
You're part of a group of people who've been a member of what we would call the intelligence community who support Tulsi Gabbard for DNI. There are others, like some of those on the 51 intelligence community members list who've now had their classified status revoked by President Trump who famously said that Hunter Biden's laptop was Russian disinformation.
They do not seem to support Tulsi Gabbard. What's the difference between you and people like you that support her and those people of the intelligence community?
PRINCE: People like me are sick of the incompetence and the nonsense that's become the hallmark of our intelligence community, of the politicization and overreach.
And for people to call Tulsi Gabbard unqualified, they really should look at Avril Haines, who was Obama and Biden's DNI person. The only thing she was qualified for, she was a lawyer and she used to have a coffee house in Baltimore with erotic poetry night on Tuesdays. I mean, that's literally the level of nonsense that the Democrats put forward to these kind of positions of key national security.
Putting Tulsi forward as a veteran who understands intelligence, the need to clean up the analysis and the nonsense that's become what it is, she must be confirmed, absolutely, in every way.
CAIN: Well, not unlike the confirmation hearing for Pete Hegseth, I did notice today over her right shoulder Tulsi Gabbard had Navy SEALs in support of her in that gallery today.
And here's another one, Erik Prince, someone who might know, a member of the intelligence community, founder of Blackwater, friend of "The Will Cain Show."
Thank you so much, Erik.
PRINCE: Thanks for having me, Will.
CAIN: All right.
Let's go back to that tragic plane collision in D.C., where recovery efforts are under way, as we learn more about the victims.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: It's a sad day for our country. We're learning more about recovery efforts and the victims killed in the tragic collision in D.C.
In fact, Mark Meredith joins me now from the scene.
Hey, Mark.
MARK MEREDITH, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Will, good evening to you.
As you can imagine, investigators have a very long night ahead of them, as they will continue to piece together exactly what happened. But all of Washington has been reacting in real time ever since this crash occurred around 8:47 last night.
We have heard from President Trump multiple times today, including within the last hour, as he was in the Oval Office announcing his -- making it official he will have his acting head at the FAA, as well as a new executive order focused on aviation safety.
But it was interesting. The president was talking about what he thinks of the crash investigation so far. And given some of the comments he made, it seemed to indicate he believes that the military chopper involved, that Sikorsky, may be more to blame with what happened in that midair collision. That's what President Trump had to say moments ago.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: The helicopter should have been 1,000 feet or 500 feet above it or something below it.
The plane was at 300 to 400 feet, or the plane should have been stopped, because the helicopter could have stopped. The plane can't be stopped.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MEREDITH: The NTSB was asked about this today, whether or not they have any indication early on at least who would be responsible. And they said it's simply too early to know for certain and that they will have to wait for a preliminary report to come out, which will still take about a month or so, and that they are also still in the process of trying to recover the black boxes of both the CRJ, as well as the helicopter involved.
We know that the military offering its full resources as well. And officials today are stressing they don't want to jump to any conclusions, because there's been rumblings about whether or not the air traffic controllers who were staffing the Reagan tower last night were at the adequate levels or not.
But, again, the NTSB is saying on camera that they believe it is way too early to jump to any of those conclusions.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TODD INMAN, NTSB BOARD MEMBER: We have not reviewed any specific reports about the controllers at this time, at least from the leadership team. Our investigators are continuing to pull all that information, their personnel records or files, where they were at, whether they were fatigued.
All that information will be part of that investigative process.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MEREDITH: And we know that this is still a recovery operation under way.
While we don't see necessarily the same amount of emergency vehicles that we did last night, we know that this is going to be something that's going to take several days. And we also know that Reagan Airport has been adapting, with more than 500 flights canceled just today. There's certainly a backlog of people that have been trying to get in and out.
Air traffic resumed around 11:00 a.m. and it's likely we will see more traffic pick up tomorrow. But we are also learning in real time, Will, just the human tragedy of this disaster, including a victim, Wendy Jo Shaffer. She was a mother of two. She's got two boys, ages 3 and 1.
Her husband is friends with one of my colleagues, Bill Melugin, our reporter based in L.A. and he sent some of these photos. And you just show just how heartbreaking it is for this one family. And there are many stories like that.
There were, of course, the 64 people on the American Airlines regional jet and three U.S. service members. This is just one snapshot of one family that is currently grieving. Will, we're going to continue to learn more about the victims as, of course, we learn about the investigation -- Will.
CAIN: Yes, Mark, I saw Bill post that. Thank you for sharing that, just one of the, unfortunately, many sad stories we're learning out of that plane crash in D.C.
All right, let's bring in now Alabama Republican Senator Katie Britt.
Senator, I know you. You have young children. I have young children. There's reports that many of the people on this plane were athletes, young athletes, figure skaters, who were part of the many lost. Every life is important, but I'm sure it's easy for you, as it is for me and many others, to put ourselves in these situations and think about what was lost.
SEN. KATIE BRITT (R-AL): Will, I mean, you said it. That's it.
I mean, as a mom, when you see something like this happen, your heart just breaks because you know that there are people's children on this flight. There are moms on this flight. There were -- there are people that will no longer be able to share their lives with their loved ones as a result of this.
And so our hearts and prayers are with these victims' families. And, obviously, I have full confidence that President Trump, along with Sean Duffy, will work with partners to get to the bottom of this. But, at the end of the day, we know that nothing fills the void that's left here.
I mean, as I fly in and out of this city every week, and to your point about children, my daughter came and joined me a few weeks ago and flew in on a nighttime flight by herself. And it is truly gut-wrenching and heartbreaking to think about what these families are going through and let them know that we in America firmly stand with them.
And as President Trump said, I believe that these individuals are being embraced by our good lord and savior, Jesus Christ, now.
CAIN: Well, Senator, we heard directly from the president. We also heard from the secretary of defense and the secretary of transportation and the vice president that, after a moment like this, we are going to refocus all of our federal institutions on making sure that we hire the best of the best for every job.
President Trump was just asked about this when he was assigning executive orders. He was asked about, hey, you don't know if DEI played a role, so why are you bringing up DEI? Watch what just happened in the Oval Office.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Incompetence might have played a role. We will let that. But we want the most competent people. We don't care what race they are. We want the most competent people, especially in those positions.
And, there, you're talking about extremely complex things. And if they don't have a great brain, a great power of the brain, they're not going to be very good at what they do and bad things will happen.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Senator I would think, while we don't know if DEI played a role in this incident, we do know that human error did.
And DEI is a policy that exacerbates human error. We need to cut out every policy that allows for anything where we maximize the potential for human error.
BRITT: Yes.
Well, look, we have talked about this over and over again. President Trump is going to keep America safe. He is going to do everything in his power to make sure that our citizens, no matter where they live, no matter where they are, that their safety and security comes first.
And that means making sure that we have the best people in positions to do that. So, whether it's our courageous law enforcement officers, whether it's the men and women who are working at the FAA, whether it's our men and women in uniform, we want to make sure that the people who are set to protect our citizens are the best trained, equipped and ready to do so.
And so that's what this is about. You will continue to see President Trump fulfill his promises from the campaign trail. Those are the things we're going to be putting first. We're going to be putting Americans first. We're going to get back to commonsense policies, Will, common sense, which makes -- mean that we're going to take a look at everything across the board and making sure we're doing what's best for Americans to succeed.
So I am thrilled with President Trump's leadership, as you mentioned, J.D. Vance's leadership...
CAIN: Right.
BRITT: ... and know that it'll only continue the longer that they're here in office.
CAIN: And I know you were there today during the confirmation hearings for Kash Patel. So we will keep an eye on all of these Cabinet nominees.
Thank you, Senator Katie Britt, so much for being with us today.
BRITT: Hey, thank you. I appreciate it. We look forward to getting Kash across the finish line.
CAIN: Thank you, Senator.
All right, RFK Jr., speaking of these nominees, he was back in the hot seat for a second day, and one senator he needs says he's not so sure right now.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KENNEDY: When I was a 10-year-old boy, my uncle was in the White House. The chronic disease among American children was 2 percent. Today, it's 66 percent. The cost of chronic disease to our country when my uncle was president was zero.
There were not even treatments for chronic disease at that time. Today, the cost is $4.3 -- 4.4 -- $4.5 trillion. It's bankrupting our country.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: President Trump's pick to run the Health and Human Services Department, Robert F. Kennedy Jr., testifying for the second straight day. But he doesn't appear to have the support that he needs completely yet.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. BILL CASSIDY (R-LA): A worthy movement called MAHA to improve the health of Americans or to undermine it, always asking for more evidence and never accepting the evidence that is there.
I looked at the article from Dr. Mawson, and it seems to be -- have some issues. I will just put that to the side. And that is why I have been struggling with your nomination.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Calley Means co-founded Truemed, which aims to make health care simple, accessible and affordable. And he strongly supports RFK Jr.
And he joins me now.
Calley, you just heard that from Republican Senator Bill Cassidy. He's not sure if he supports RFK.
CALLEY MEANS, CO-FOUNDER, TRUEMED: Let's just cut to the chase. There's a real fork in the road for American health right now and that road goes through Senator Cassidy.
He's going to be a crucial vote here. And I know Senator Cassidy. He wants the best for American patients. He's a doctor and he cares about trust in public health institutions.
And, Will, I want to just speak directly to him. I have been with Bobby Kennedy, close by his side. Bobby Kennedy is not coming into HHS to assert his opinion into the science. That's what's gotten us to the lack of trust in science. He is hell-bent on getting trust back into scientific authorities.
Right now, the American Academy of Pediatrics, the science says that Ozempic should be the first line defense for obese 12-year-olds. The CDC is saying that the COVID vaccine should be for every single 6-month-old. We have the FDA saying that artificial food colors that are banned in every other country are safe.
We have time after time after time co-opted science, where the pharmaceutical industry is the largest funder of scientific research. They're the largest funder of politicians. They're the largest funder of regulatory agencies.
Bobby Kennedy is not responsible for the lack of trust in science. And the MAHA movement is a movement that can work with the Senate, can work with Senator Cassidy, with the singular goal of fulfilling President Trump's mandate, which Bobby Kennedy is so viscerally committed to, to get conflicts of interest out of our scientific agencies, out of our science, and to return the NIH to Gold Star academic research, so the American people and senators can make informed decisions about the best public health initiatives for our country.
CAIN: Right.
MEANS: And, Will, as we know, there's a disaster right now happening in American health.
CAIN: Well, Calley, I was listening to RFK today. He brought up Ozempic. You just brought up Ozempic.
I found this moment fascinating where he talked about its potential. It's so popular. It's so expensive. And if it were covered under Medicare and Medicaid, it could bankrupt those two programs. And I was fascinated by that because I have also read how expensive it is in America versus other countries. Take a look at this.
Ozempic is almost $1,000 a month in America, where per month out of costs - - out-of-pocket costs, say, in Germany, it's $59. It makes you really wonder about this company, how they're making money off the backs of Americans, the role that plays in our politics.
And it makes me wonder what someone like you has to say to Bill Cassidy to say, RFK is our opportunity to do something different. I'm down to one minute, Calley.
MEANS: Yes. Bill, what I'd say to Senator Cassidy is that we have an obesity crisis in America. Fifty percent of teens are overweight or obese. It's 3 percent of Japan, and that's not because of an Ozempic deficiency.
The fact that right now there's a Medicare ruling from Biden that Ozempic should be the first line defense, not food or exercise, is the result of corruption. The American Medical Association, which makes medical codes, right now says gender-affirming care is appropriate for 2-year-olds.
CAIN: Right.
MEANS: We have co-opted scientific institutions. We have lost trust. And Bobby Kennedy is not here to put his opinions. He is here to assert trust for the American people on science.
CAIN: We will be watching, as I know you will be, to see if these senators hear your words.
Calley Means, thank you so much.
All right, that's going to do it for us today. Thanks for getting with us, where we get to the heart of the matter from the heart of America.
Up next, "The Five."

Load-Date: January 30, 2025


End of Document
