




Fox News THE WILL CAIN SHOW 4:00 PM EST
January 24, 2025 Friday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; International
Length: 7108 words
Byline: Craig Carton, Chad Pergram, Alexis McAdams, Steve Hilton, Jeff Paul, Will Cain
Guests: Tom Bevan, Curtis A. Wright, John Rich, Amber Wright
Body


(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: FEMA has really let us down, let the country down. And I don't know if that's Biden's fault or who's fault it is, but we're going to take over and we're going to do a good job.
We're putting America first. We're putting, in this case, North Carolina and California. We're going to do a good job in California.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: A commander in chief who puts America first.
This is "The Will Cain Show," live from the heartland.
Right now, President Trump is on his way to Los Angeles, where fires are still burning, this after visiting victims of Hurricane Helene in North Carolina.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There was about eight bodies in our area that first two weeks located. And we were lucky we weren't one of them and blessed, but, like other people, no insurance on flood insurance. So we had to depend on FEMA. They did what they could do.
And, of course, it's not enough.
CURTIS A. WRIGHT, NORTH CAROLINA RESIDENT: It took away his business. It took away all of our tools and tractors and everything needed to keep the farm going. But since we had proper insurance, FEMA's not been able to assist us with a whole lot of things.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I have been fighting with FEMA since day one. Our community, there's like 32 homes. We don't have a road and a bridge. Can't get money from FEMA until I fix the road and bridge and send in my proof that it's fixed and everything.
It's just -- it's been a nightmare. And I totally feel like that we have been forgotten.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: These are Americans. These are voices that you would hear, not just in North Carolina, but in East Palestine, Ohio, in Maui, Hawaii, and now in Southern California.
And you can hear the pain. You can hear the demand for something more from their government.
That brings me to my "Big Three."
Number one, Americans have a right to expect the minimum from their government. Politico puts it this way. When it comes to accountability and keeping politicians accountable for what they do or do not do for Americans, Republicans keep mining the forest management vein because they have a point.
Academic commissions convened by both the Newsom and Biden administrations agree that a century of aggressively beating back fires that can keep vegetation in check, the forests healthy, including eliminating indigenous controlled burns, has led to a tinderbox in California, and across the West.
This is about planning for what is an inevitable disaster. It burns every three to four years in Southern California, as has been famously pointed out by Adam Carolla. If you know a crisis is coming, you should be able to prepare for the crisis, but not if your priorities are placed somewhere else, like, as President Trump ingeniously pointed out, the delta smelt.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: It's to protect the delta smelt. It's a fish that's doing poorly anyway. But I said, how are you protecting the delta smelt by not giving it water? It's a fish. It needs water.
Nobody can answer that question.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: It's an incredible question. And I don't know how much it costs to protect the delta smelt, at least not in dollars. I think we do not know what it costs in the loss to humanity.
But Adam Carolla, a Southern California resident and comedian and podcaster, has pointed out he knows the cost of a few other things. He knows the cost of the damage in Los Angeles. And he knows the cost of building a pointless train.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ADAM CAROLLA, HOST, "THE ADAM CAROLLA SHOW": I decided to go look and see what the estimated cost of the train line between Bakersfield and Merced was estimated to cost, $130 billion, $130 billion to either rebuild all of Malibu, Palisades, Santa Monica, Altadena, Pasadena, Agoura, or you could have a 150-mile stretch of desert train going nowhere that none of us will ever ride.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: And this brings me to point number two. It's a matter of priorities. Everyone has a finite capability to vote energy and attention to certain things, including your government.
And if your government is spending money and time on things like this, a trillion dollars to climate change spending over the past four years under the Biden administration, a billion dollars in DEI in schools, $16 billion Medicaid for illegal immigrants, if your government's priorities are focused on these types of ideologically-driven enterprises, then they can't afford to give you the time and energy or the money to the basic minimum functions of government.
And that is to answer your call when there is a crisis. And as long as we're here with our pen and paper out and taking account, Joe Rogan has paid attention to where money is going and how much it would have taken to help, say, the people of Maui.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOE ROGAN, HOST, "THE JOE ROGAN EXPERIENCE": For $5 billion, everyone could have got their home back and everything could have been settled. And, no, nothing's been done. But yet we keep sending money to these other countries.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: We have not forgotten about the people of Maui, nor the people of East Palestine, as today we focus on the people of North Carolina and the people of California.
A few years ago, less than two years ago, I went to Maui. I went there several times in the wake of those fires in Lahaina. I got to see firsthand the devastation. I saw it from the air. I saw it from the water. I saw it in the burn zone. And I saw the pain in people's faces.
But you know what else I saw? I saw Americans helping Americans. And I know this happened in North Carolina, because I know of some very honorable private groups, including veterans, who flew helicopters into the mountains of North Carolina, where the government failed.
And that brings me to number three. FEMA and the United States government can, at a minimum, not get in the way of the American spirit. In Maui, I saw people running boats from Molokai to Maui to bring supplies. I saw also them being blocked by government administrators on helping their fellow Americans.
I know that private helicopters were grounded in North Carolina. I know that Americans always step up for other Americans. They can rely on one another. The question is, can they rely on their government? And can the government get out of the way of Americans helping Americans?
Donald Trump is so exasperated, he's ready to revisit FEMA.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: I will also be signing an executive order to begin the process of fundamentally reforming and overhauling FEMA or maybe getting rid of FEMA.
I think, frankly, FEMA is not good. I think when you have a problem like this, I think you want to go, and whether it's a Democrat or Republican governor, you want to use your state to fix it and not waste time calling FEMA.
And then FEMA gets here and they don't know the area. They have never been to the area and they want to give you rules that you have never heard about. They want to bring people that aren't as good as the people you already have. And FEMA's turned out to be a disaster.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Yesterday here on "The Will Cain Show," I had a conversation with Jay Leno. And Jay is helping the first responders in California.
He pointed out that he doesn't want to dive into the blame game. And that's honorable. And that's not his job, as he pointed out. But it is my job and it is all of our job to hold politicians to account to ensure that they are serving Americans first.
Let's get to Jeff Paul in Pacific Palisades. President Trump will be landing in L.A. soon, and we expect Governor Newsom may be waiting for him, Jeff.
Jeff, will that be a welcome from Governor Newsom? Will it be a welcomed greeting from President Trump?
JEFF PAUL, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Well, yes, well, we are expecting President Trump to arrive at LAX a little later this afternoon. The time's a little in flux as he travels from North Carolina.
But, yes, once he is on the ground, we're expecting for California Governor Gavin Newsom to welcome the president. And, according to the governor, the two haven't spoken to each other since 2020. But once Trump is wheels down, he's going to be touring some of the hardest-hit areas devastated by the recent deadly wildfires here in Southern California.
What makes this trip just a little bit different is the fact that the president has been very critical of the state for both its response and for its management of water resources. He says California -- quote -- "didn't let the water flow" and has even threatened to withhold federal disaster relief.
President Trump seemingly setting conditions for aim -- for aid, saying today he wants to see two things in Los Angeles, voter I.D. so people have a chance to vote, and he wants to see water be released and come down into Los Angeles.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: We're going to do a good job in California. That is a disaster like I don't know if we have ever seen anything like it, frankly, they say the biggest in the history of California. I think has anything bigger than that happened in the whole country ever?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PAUL: Now, Trump's visit comes at a very tough and uncertain time for the areas burned by the fire.
Rain is in the forecast this weekend. And with that, it means the potential for landslides at areas that were burned where the ground is extremely loose. We're also getting late word, Will, that the president is expected to sign an executive order that could be the first steps towards reshaping or getting rid of FEMA altogether.
The president has been very critical of FEMA when it comes to the natural disasters recently in North Carolina and, of course, here in Southern California. And the president has even said that -- quote -- "FEMA has really let us down" -- Will.
CAIN: All right. Well, that will be a fascinating moment if Governor Newsom meets President Trump on that tarmac. I know you will bring it to us Jeff when and if that happens. Thank you so much.
Let's bring in Steve Hilton now, who's been living in California for the past 12 years. Steve is a familiar voice and face to everyone here on FOX News, and he's had a firsthand look at what's been going on now in Southern California.
What is everybody feeling and thinking here with the arrival of President Trump?
STEVE HILTON, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Well, first of all, I just want to say congratulations to you. It's great to be with you in your first week. I was thrilled to hear about your new gig and it's an honor to be with you.
CAIN: Thank you. HILTON: Look, the really interesting thing of the mood, the feelings, the way people are looking at this is this combination of terrible anxiety, people who've lost everything, people who've been displaced, they don't know what's going to happen, they don't know what's going on with their insurance, all these questions.
But, at the same time, it's mixed with incredible anger at the failures that led up to this. And now everyone can see that. It's not partisan at all. In Los Angeles, everyone is pointing to the incompetence, but it's not just incompetence.
A lot of it is deliberate, ideologically, policy-driven failure,for example, the refusal to clear brush, not just incompetence that they didn't clear the brush. When people tried to clear the brush on those hills that just burned in L.A., you had the environmental regulators stopping them, telling them not to do it because it was threatening endangered species or air quality if it's a controlled burn.
These things are deliberate. The same with the water. President Trump is 100 percent correct on the water. I see the journalists mocking him when he talks about the giant faucet that can control the water. Let me just lay it out. Most of the water for California comes from the north,the Sierra Nevada Mountain, the snowpack that melts, collects in reservoirs.
There are two channels that send it down to where the people mostly live in Southern California, one, the Delta-Mendota Canal. That is federal. The California Aqueduct, the other one, that is state-owned and run. When he was president last time, President Trump ordered more water to be sent through the federal system.
And, yes, there are two giant pumping stations near the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta, close to where I am, that control the water flow. President Trump increased the federal supply. The California supply in retaliation was reduced in order to send more water into the Delta. And, yes, it was to protect the delta smelt, which, by the way, practically was extinct in 2020, was barely being revived by scientists at U.C. Davis.
He is correct about this, and it's high time California had commonsense policies. We have all the water we could possibly want. It's just not collected and stored and sent to the right place.
CAIN: Whether or not it's incompetence, as you point out, Steve, or it's ideologically driven, as you point out, or it's just a matter of placing your priorities in the wrong place, thinking of these ideological goals such as focusing on climate change, instead of the needs of Americans, there just has to be accountability.
And, ultimately, that can only come from the voters there in California. I lived there for four years, Steve. I evacuated twice for fires. You have been there for a dozen years. I'm sure you have had to do the same. This is not unpredictable. It can be prepared for with the proper leadership.
Steve, I always love hearing from you. I hope to have you back more. Thanks for being with us today on "The Will Cain Show."
HILTON: Good to see you, Will. Thank you.
CAIN: All right.
President Trump meeting with the people of North Carolina still suffering from Hurricane Helene. One of those residents who met with the president today is going to join us next.
And as President Trump makes his way through his first week, the stock market is moving on up, all three major stock averages higher this week.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
C. WRIGHT: The waters got so high that it actually lifted.
Between that and the tornado that came through, our microburst is what they have been calling them, and lifted his home and the house that I grew up in and crashed it into our barn, it took away his business. It took away all of our tools and tractors and everything needed to keep the farm going.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Residents in North Carolina still suffering from Hurricane Helene.
And, today, President Trump was there to hear them out. The man you just heard there, Curtis A. Wright, and his wife, Amber, they joined me now on "The Will Cain Show."
Curtis, thanks for being with us. We heard from you a little bit earlier today. Welcome to you as well, Amber.
Curtis, we heard you earlier today there with President Trump. Tell me what it felt like today. We will start with today and then we will work ourselves backwards.
But what was it like today to speak to President Trump?
C. WRIGHT: It was a lot of relief. People keep saying, how are you guys doing in Asheville? And we feel like you have been forgotten.
And I don't think we have been forgotten. I think we have been ignored. So for him to come and see us today, that was a big relief. We previously had J.D. Vance come out to our house with Samaritan's Purse and some of the Grahams.
And he told us that they were coming, and we were glad to see them.
CAIN: Amber, tell me what it's been like since the flood and, as your husband, Curtis, described today, the microburst, the tornado that helped destroy, I'm sure, not just your home but your town.
What has life been like in the months since? Where are you living? What are the circumstances?
AMBER WRIGHT, NORTH CAROLINA RESIDENT: I would say it's a true nightmare. We just live day by day, one day at a time, trying to clean up, trying to see what our next steps are, if we're going to be able to rebuild, if we're not going to be able to rebuild, waiting on insurance or whatever it may be.
So it's been a struggle. It really has.
CAIN: And literally, Amber, if you could help us all understand, where have you been able to live? I know there was some FEMA transitional assistance to stay in hotels for many people, but what's that been like? Is that where you are? Are you in a hotel? Are you with friends or family?
A. WRIGHT: No, we are in an Airbnb just right up the street from our House that his family owns. So we have been able to stay here, but we live now with his dad and his mom. So it's been real interesting.
CAIN: I can only imagine.
C. WRIGHT: Yes, we were never offered a ton of vouchers.
CAIN: Is that right, Curtis?
C. WRIGHT: No, I was saying FEMA never approached us about vouchers or anything for a hotel. So we're fortunate that we have this place to stay.
But that's also another source of income that's taken away from what we make to help pay property taxes and maintain our farm.
CAIN: And just to be clear, help everyone understand, what did you lose in the flood, in the hurricane?
A. WRIGHT: Everything, all of our vehicles, except for mine, all of the farm equipment, all of...
C. WRIGHT: Welders, hand tools, power tools.
(CROSSTALK)
A. WRIGHT: Yes, literally everything we own.
(CROSSTALK)
C. WRIGHT: ... our clothes on our back.
CAIN: You know, I'm so sorry to hear that. Yes, so, basically, the way you make a living and the place that you live.
I'm so sorry that that's what you have been dealing with, not just on one horrible day, but in the months that follow, your life that follows. You saw President Trump. You told me you also spoke to J.D. Vance. I have been in some of these disaster zones, so I know how hard it is to rebuild.
What do you need? What do you need and hope for from the government of the United States?
C. WRIGHT: What we're needing right now is a fair evaluation from our insurance company in a timely manner to pay out.
Samaritan's Purse has been a blessing to us. They are willing to fill all the gaps that FEMA and our insurance company has not. We actually have the ability to build on higher ground on another piece of property that connects to our current farm. And that's what our hopes are, to get fair payout and just to tear down the home that we have, because it's beyond 50 percent repairable, and then start over in a fresh place, where my wife feels comfortable and I for our family.
A. WRIGHT: Yes, I am absolutely terrified to live there again. I mean, who's to say this isn't going to happen again?
And I know now -- I mean, we're on higher ground now, and I still worry when the wind blows or when it rains or whatever it may be. It's just -- it's scary.
CAIN: Right. Right.
Well, listen, thank you both for sharing your story with us. I think your story -- and we want to focus here on the stories from the heartland of America, from America outside of New York and Washington, D.C., but it resonates because there are people all across this country, not to suggest your situation isn't unique, but whether or not they're in California or Ohio or Hawaii, who have dealt with something similar.
And we hope that those people like Samaritan's Purse will be there and also the United States government to help you out when you're in this time of need.
Thanks for sharing your story here on "The Will Cain Show."
A. WRIGHT: OK. Thank you.
C. WRIGHT: Thank you, guys.
CAIN: OK.
President Trump following through on his promise to secure the border, starting deportations out of our country. ICE has arrested 538 immigrants so far. There's a daily tracker up that you can follow that shows that daily deportations. And that number just continues to rise.
We will dive in next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: Welcome back to "The Will Cain Show."
One Catholic leader is bashing President Trump's immigration policies. Now, this is El Paso Bishop Mark Seitz, and he's airing his grievances.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BISHOP MARK SEITZ, U.S. BISHOPS COMMITTEE ON MIGRATION: Have to speak to many of these policies which we see as going against some of the basic tenants of our faith. I can't say what Pope Francis' plans might be, but he certainly is paying attention. He expressed a great deal of concern about some of the proposals.
Mercy has to be -- has to temper the way that justice is practiced.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Well, far be it from me to criticize a man of the cloth or to debate -- to debate a man of the cloth, but I do think I can share a little more information with you, I think pertinent information.
What the bishop did leave out is that his organization received $120 million in government contracts to facilitate illegal immigration in 2023 alone. It's just one of the many nongovernmental organizations who are facilitating the path of illegal immigration into the United States.
Now, there are plenty of people thrilled to have president -- a president who cares about secure borders. And, today, his press secretary said the deportation flights have begun.
Alexis McAdams has been on the story all day, and she joins us from New York.
Hey, Alexis.
ALEXIS MCADAMS, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Will.
So we have been talking about this in the campaign trail. President Trump had promised he was going to do this. And just in one day, more than 500 migrants who officials say were in the country illegally in the first place or taken into custody, sources telling FOX some of these guys committed heinous crimes like rape and attempted murder.
Now, other migrants, Will, are heading back to Mexico, warning others not to crosswalk. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): Everyone is getting caught. I don't recommend to cross because there is a lot of migra.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MCADAMS: OK, so that's the warning they're saying.
Right now, Marines are at our southern border, check this out, working to secure the area and stop illegal crossings. They're sending them out there hoping this will help. This week, ICE raids started. Our cameras were rolling out in Boston as ICE arrested about eight migrants in that area who they say are wanted for a wide range of crimes.
Here in New York, ICE arrested a man who they say is a known or suspected terrorist, so people at home wondering about what he was doing here. Officials say he's from Turkey and he entered the country illegally. Hey, out in Chicago, police arrested a man who had been convicted of attempted murder. He was sentenced to 17 years, but he served some time behind bars and then was let out on the streets.
Why? Because ICE lodged a detainer for him and it wasn't honored, so they didn't even know where he was for years. This morning, the White House press secretary sharing photos of a plane that officials say was heading to Guatemala, taking 80 Guatemalan nationals back home after officials say they crossed into our country illegally.
So what happens next? Well, a senior administration official tells me these raids are going to continue across the country. They're targeting criminals who are here illegally. And you heard from voters too, Will, they don't want them here in the first place, so they're going to send them home.
CAIN: All right, all right, Alexis, we expect to see more of you here on "The Will Cain Show" in the coming weeks.
MCADAMS: I hope so. Congrats.
CAIN: I got a nice note from you. Thank you, Alexis.
MCADAMS: That's right. Thank you.
CAIN: Thank you so much.
By the way, let's pull that picture up real quick, if we might. That Karoline Leavitt tweet was fascinating. You see the plane. We heard yesterday here on "The Will Cain Show" from Tom Homan that they would be using air force planes to deport illegal immigrants right there, as Alexis just told us. That's 80 Guatemalan illegal immigrants being loaded into an Air Force plane headed back home.
It's a visual to back up what we heard what happened right here yesterday on "The Will Cain Show."
Now, the Senate is set to vote on Pete Hegseth for defense secretary. That's coming soon. We're going to take you to Capitol Hill.
And the Pelosis just seem to keep getting richer thanks to more ingenious stock trades.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: Tonight, we expect the Senate to vote on Pete Hegseth's confirmation as secretary of defense.
Chad Pergram is on Capitol Hill with where things stand today -- Chad.
CHAD PERGRAM, FOX NEWS CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Will, good afternoon.
Barring a time agreement, the vote should come just before 9:00 tonight. FOX is told that there are -- quote -- "still a few issues with members" -- that's plural -- toward confirming Hegseth. Republicans Lisa Murkowski and Susan Collins are opposed.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. TIM KAINE (D-VA): We were gratified to get two Republican votes yesterday, and particularly the Murkowski statement really walked through the numerous reasons why he is not suitable to be secretary of defense. Not over until the last vote is taken.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERGRAM: Democrats are bleeding hours off the clock after Republicans broke a filibuster yesterday. The vote is on the edge. It's about the math. Hegseth can only lose three GOP votes and still receive confirmation.
FOX is told to keep an eye on former Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell. A no-vote from McConnell could force Vice President Vance to break the tie. Republicans are happy to watch Democrats drain the clock.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. JOHN BARRASSO (R-WY): Senate Democrats seem to be back to their old, tired habits of obstructing and opposing. We will be in the Senate voting as long as it takes. How long it takes in the Senate is up to the Democrats to decide.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERGRAM: Now, Republicans are showing they're willing to fight for the president's nominees.
Most Democrats spoke on the floor against Hegseth, but Cory Booker of New Jersey used the time to read poetry written by Senate pages.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. CORY BOOKER (D-NJ): "Aching heels and curved backs, we feel our composure starting to crack. People of power laugh and joke as we watch and realize they're just common folk. Against the walls, we silently hear colleagues and officials, but most of all friends dear."
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERGRAM: Now, reading poetry is just a way to chew up time. FOX is also told the senators could arrive late tonight, so they could keep the vote open.
And right after Hegseth, the Senate will vote to break a filibuster on the nomination of Kristi Noem to lead DHS -- Will.
CAIN: Chad, a quick question Hegseth.
As you point out, even if Mitch McConnell joins Collins and Murkowski, J.D. Vance could break the tie, forwarding Hegseth's confirmation. Is there any other Republican senator at all in doubt besides those three?
PERGRAM: We keep hearing some rattlings, and we have tried to pin that down. We just don't know. And keep in mind, if Vance breaks that tie, this is only the second time that that's happened on a Cabinet nomination. It was Vice President Pence who did the same thing to confirm Betsy DeVos as the education secretary in 2017.
CAIN: OK, thank you so much for that report, Chad Pergram.
I think I have to share with you on a personal note, it's so surreal, it really is surreal, to see your friend soon to be confirmed as the secretary of defense, not because he is in any way unqualified. He's one of the most qualified individuals that I could ever imagine to serve as the secretary of defense.
And I don't know how you feel. Actually, I think I do know how you feel, because so many of you have told me. It feels empowering, because Washington, D.C., has always felt so far away, a stuffed suit, a prototypical bureaucrat.
But, with Pete Hegseth, we see one of us with the right values, the right experience, and the right wisdom can help lead America.
Now to this. The first rule about Hunter Biden's laptop, don't talk about it. Ex-Politico reporters now revealing their editors quashed negative stories about Joe Biden, including the Hunter Biden laptop story.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MARC CAPUTO, FORMER POLITICO REPORTER: Hey, we need to write about the Hunter Biden laptop. And I was told this came from on high at Politico. Don't write about the laptop. Don't talk about the laptop. And don't tweet about the laptop. And the only thing Politico wound up writing was that piece that called it disinformation, which charitably could be called misinformation, at the least.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Joining me now on the media bias, RealClearPolitics co-founder Tom Bevan.
Tom, this is incredible. Don't talk about the laptop. Don't write about the laptop. Don't tweet about it, and then slow-played it, told other reporters at Politico slow-play the story.
TOM BEVAN, CO-FOUNDER AND EXECUTIVE EDITOR, REALCLEARPOLITICS.COM: Yes, I mean, finally a confession. Four years after the fact, we know -- look, we know there was a concerted effort to suppress that story, obviously by social media, by the elements of the government that were putting pressure on those social media companies.
And anybody who's been alive, Will, and who reads the newspapers knows that there were certain outlets, most of them -- actually, all the mainstream media outlets did not cover that story. And they used all these ridiculous, oh, we can't verify. Remember the exchange with Trump and Lesley Stahl at "60 Minutes"? Oh, we can't verify that.
CAIN: Right. Right.
BEVAN: Well two years later, they end up, of course, they could verify it and they did. They weren't putting any resources to it.
And, in fact, they were telling their reporters, don't write about it.
CAIN: Yes, I remember that moment with Lesley Stahl, "60 Minutes," and Donald Trump.
Now to this, Tom. This is fascinating. And many people that watch the 4:00 hour Eastern time, I know, pay attention to the stock market. They might as well pay attention to Nancy Pelosi's stock record. You could follow Nancy and you can make a lot of money, because her husband made $38 million work of stock trades in the weeks leading up to Donald Trump's inauguration.
But that's just the latest, right, Tom, in a long history of uncanny stock trades from the Pelosis.
BEVAN: Yes, there's actually a Twitter account called Nancy Pelosi stock tracker. And if you just follow that, and some people have, and just they announced the trades that she and her husband have made.
And if you just follow her and do what she does, you will outpace the market by a good amount. So, look, there's been a recent push for a ban of stock trading in Congress. And it's -- there's some bipartisan support for it. Joe Biden actually mentioned it on his way out the door in late December, giving support to that.
The questions is, will that be something that Republicans end up getting done now that they're in charge?
CAIN: In the meantime, follow Nancy Pelosi for your best stock tips.
And follow Tom Bevan, by the way, as well at RealClearPolitics.
Always enjoy talking to you, Tom. Thanks for being on "The Will Cain Show."
BEVAN: Thanks, Will.
CAIN: All right.
It was the diss heard around the world.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: Bank of America, this conservative -- they don't take conservative business.
And I don't know if the regulators mandated that because of Biden or what, but you and Jamie and everybody, I hope you're going to open your banks to conservatives.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Country music star John Rich co-founded the Old Glory Bank designed for patriots. Here's your alternative, Old Glory.
John Rich is next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: Speaking of you -- and you have done a fantastic job, but I hope you start opening your bank to conservatives, because many conservatives complain that the banks are not allowing them to do business within the bank. And that included a place called Bank of America, this conservative - - they don't take conservative business.
And I don't know if the regulators mandated that because of Biden or what, but you and Jamie and everybody, I hope you're going to open your banks to conservatives, because what you're doing is wrong.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Well, first President Trump criticized Joe Biden and Barack Obama to their face during his inauguration at the Rotunda. Now he blasts the Bank of America CEO, Brian Moynihan, accusing the financial giant of debanking conservatives right there to his face in Davos.
My next guest co-founded a bank, Old Glory Bank, to fight what he called the woke banking industry. He is country music star John Rich, and he joins me now.
Hey John.
JOHN RICH, COUNTRY MUSIC STAR: Hey, man. Congrats on the new show, bro. I'm so proud for you. And we're so happy to have you on.
CAIN: Thank you man. Thank you so much. You and I together hopefully representing a part of America that's not always represented.
President Trump criticizing some of these banks now for not representing all of America. Bank of America pushed back, John. They put out a tweet. Here's what they put up. They said: "Bank of America serves 70 million clients. We welcome conservatives. We'd never close accounts for political reasons and don't have a political litmus test."
Now, we should point out together, John, that was community noted. First, they turned off the comments on X. Then it was community noted. And then you heard it from a bunch of people like Erik Prince, former Navy SEAL Erik Prince, the founder of Blackwater, who's like, well, that's not true. You debanked me at Bank of America.
RICH: Yes, congratulations. Bank of America loves you so much that they turn off their comments because they don't want to hear from you. Just keep doing your banking there. They just want to keep your money.
That's a real classy, guys.
So, Old Glory Bank is an option that has been built. Myself, Dr. Ben Carson, Larry Elder and some real patriots from the banking industry who stepped away from that woke nonsense, we all got together a few years ago and said we have got to have an option to these big woke banks, because what's going to stop them from turning off all of our accounts, like Justin Trudeau did back when he when he broke up the trucker strike?
He killed their accounts. That's how he did it. And so we founded Old Glory Bank. It takes about eight minutes to sign-up at OldGloryBank.com. We welcome our first responders and veterans. We actually have a $100,000 life insurance policy that costs nothing if you are -- if you're a veteran or active-duty service member or first responder.
I mean, this is a whole different attitude of a bank. And it's needed.
CAIN: Right.
RICH: Listen, I mean, Trump did it. He called it out,thank God. I'm glad he was paying attention to this point. It's been going on for a very long time and it's time we end it.
CAIN: But I'm glad you, by the way, pointed out what happened in Canada. That was a key part of breaking up that trucker protest in Canada was making sure they couldn't access their funds.
But the reason I think it's pertinent to talk about Old Glory Bank and what you did is, before even hearing about this from President Trump, what you guys did is saw a market niche. I mean, you saw a market opportunity because there was a market problem. Banks weren't servicing people and here you are. Guess what? We will service you, those who love America.
(LAUGHTER)
RICH: Yes, what a concept.
We love America and so do you. So why don't you stop doing your banking with people who can't stand anything about you? When they turned over all the information on their customers, the bank's customers' shopping records, they wanted to know where they were shopping.
Remember that story? And people don't understand the federal government does not own the banks, OK? When the federal government comes to a bank like Bank of America and says, tell us where your people are shopping, the bank can say, OK, we will turn it over, which is what they do, or they can do what Old Glory Bank would do, which would be, we will see in court. We will see in court.
CAIN: Right.
RICH: I mean, we're not turning over any of that.
CAIN: Right.
RICH: So that is the American attitude that should be behind banks these days. If you want to kick them where it hurts, move your bank accounts out of there, come to Old Glory Bank. We're doing mortgages, small business loans and all of that. We'd love to have you.
CAIN: But you make another great point. A lot of this was done under the pressure of the federal government when it comes to banking.
All right, John, I will make you a deal as soon. As I get my studio built, my full studio built down here in Texas, you come down with your guitar. We will sit down and we will have a little bit of a music session here on "The Will Cain Show." Deal?
RICH: I would absolutely love it, man.
Congrats again on the show. I will be there when you call.
CAIN: All right. All right. Thank you, John Rich.
OK, some of you said, oh, how -- Will, is he going to talk too much sports? And, Will, would you please talk sports?
Well, right now, we have to talk sports because it's a big weekend, OK? It's the championship weekend. In the AFC, you got Josh Allen taking on the Buffalo -- and the Buffalo Bills taking on the Super Bowl champion, Kansas City Chiefs and Patrick Mahomes. Then, over in the NFC, you have got rookie sensation Jayden Daniels and the Washington Commanders taking off -- taking on the Philadelphia Eagles.
OK. So who's got the edge? I have made my picks.
Let's bring in the host of "Breakfast Ball" on FS1, Craig Carton, my friend, who joins us now.
What's up, man? So what do we think here? You want me to just lay it out? Eagles, Chiefs, that's my prediction.
CRAIG CARTON, HOST, "BREAKFAST BALL": Oh.
CAIN: No?
CARTON: I have known you a long time and you never cease to disappoint me with your picks when it comes to football games.
You are the definition of chalk, chalk, chalk, chalk, chalk. I like the Eagles side. I think the best team left, frankly. I thought they were the best team all season. I picked them in August to go to the Super Bowl. Another one right.
So I will take Philly over the sensation that is Jayden Daniels. Obviously, the one concern there is the health of Jalen Hurts. But, man, the Washington Commanders' run defenses isn't all that great. Philly runs the ball better than anybody. So I'm happily with you on the Philadelphia side.
And I don't like Philadelphia. Matter of fact, I have a hate-hate relationship with the city of Philadelphia.
CAIN: Interesting. Hey, neither do I.
CARTON: Yes.
CAIN: Neither do I.
CARTON: They have got best salt pretzels.
(CROSSTALK)
CAIN: But, so, by -- Carton, by process of elimination -- by process of elimination, then, if you're pushing back on me, I guess you're on the Bills in the AFC.
CARTON: Now, people know how you got the job. You deduced that all by yourself. That's awesome.
(LAUGHTER)
CARTON: Look, I just think, like, America -- you know how America needed a change and we got that change because Donald Trump retook the office and a lot of us are really happy about that?
America needs a change from Kansas City, great town, decent barbecue, good, hardworking, blue-collar people, but, damn it, it's enough. It's enough winning. They have got three Super Bowls. This will be their fourth, third in a row, of course, which has never, ever been done. But it's enough.
I want new blood. I used to live in Buffalo for seven months, longest two years of my life, and I want to see Josh Allen and the Bills bring that Lombardi Trophy home, and I think they're evenly matched. I think it will be a really great game.
CAIN: Right.
CARTON: I think it will be the better of the two games, and I'm going to take the Buffalo Bills to go to the Super Bowl to play the Eagles.
CAIN: All right, I don't -- I'm going to have to get my producers on it. I don't remember the last time you made fun of my pick as aggressively as you did today, but I know that, as it turned out, I won. I was right last time you made fun of me on something like this, and you were wrong. So the track record suggests, listen to Will. It will be Chief-Eagles.
I will tell you what, and we will square up in New Orleans. I will see you at the Super Bowl, Craig Carton.
CARTON: Got it.
CAIN: Check him out on FS1 on "Breakfast Ball."
All right, it's been the first week. This is the end of the first week of "The Will Cain Show." So we thought we'd take a look back at some of the highlights and the lowlights.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: We are coming to you live from the heart of America.
You're, go, Big Blue. So that might have been part of why you weren't too excited about the game.
DAVID PORTNOY, FOUNDER, BARSTOOL SPORTS: Well, I don't know about that. I mean, I like -- keep Ohio State, keep the title in the Big Ten. We beat the crap out of them every time I play them.
CAIN: Joining me now are the hosts of "The Five," Judge Jeanine, Jessica Tarlov, Jessica Watters, Dana Perino, and Greg Gutfeld.
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Jessica Watters.
(LAUGHTER)
JESSICA TARLOV, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: I love it.
GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: They laugh.
WATTERS: I was going to say something nice.
(LAUGHTER)
JEANINE PIRRO, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Transgender route.
WATTERS: And now I'm just going to blank all over the show. I'm not going to be misgendered and just take it laying down.
CAIN: Advice?
STEPHEN A. SMITH, ESPN ANALYST: Congratulations to my buddy for having his own afternoon show. Major, major props to you.
Just because you support Trump don't mean you have to look like him. Don't mean you have to dress like him.
(LAUGHTER)
SMITH: That's what you're doing. That's what you're doing right now, Will Cain.
Coach is a friend of "The Will Cain Show." He has told me to call him Coach. But I -- in all decorum here...
SEN. TOMMY TUBERVILLE (R-AL): The inauguration speech, Willy, he called out the Bidens, the Clintons, the Obamas right to their face.
JAY LENO, ENTERTAINER: The best advice I could give is, listen to the people around you.
CAIN: Low self-esteem.
LENO: They kind of know what they're doing.
CAIN: Yes.
LENO: Yes, yes. Yes, low self-esteem, that's the key.
(LAUGHTER)
CAIN: I will take that.
LENO: There you go.
CAIN: I will take low self-esteem.
"I think you deserve a solid B-plus, but you did a lot better than Texas did in the playoffs, for sure."
Christopher, I'm going to take the B-plus. I'm not going to take the shot at my Texas Longhorns.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: So let me get this straight. First of all, Coach Tuberville called me Willy. The man worth $450 million, Jay Leno, told me never to ask for a salary. And I didn't mean to call you Jessica, Jesse.
It's time quickly for "Will of the People."
Lee on Instagram saying: "Love your energy. However, before each and every show, in an act of transparency, can you please remind the public that the Dallas Cowboys are the only team not to play in an NFC Championship game in this entire century?"
Yes, I think you just did.
Finally, "All I ask, Will, is a little Irish dancing for St. Patrick's Day," one of my most infamous moments on "FOX & Friends." How about this?

Load-Date: January 24, 2025


End of Document
