




Fox News YOUR WORLD WITH NEIL CAVUTO 4:00 PM EST
February 12, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 1265 words
Byline: Will Cain
Guests: Eric Burlison, William Timmons
Body


WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Our next guests had to do so in person,the Republican lawmakers who were at that hearing with a very commonsense message most Americans seem to understand, even if it`s not understood by Democrats.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. ERIC BURLISON (R-MO): We`re spending $2 trillion in debt every year. Folks, we`re at the precipice of a debt -- like a debt cycle.
REP. WILLIAM TIMMONS (R-SC): I would just ask my colleagues across the aisle to get out of the way if you don`t want to help. If you don`t want to help right the fiscal ship in this country, get out of the way. Stop filing lawsuit after lawsuit.
We do not have the financial ability to continue down this path. And we`re going to save this country with or without you. You can kick and scream all the way or you can get out of the way.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: South Carolina Republican William Timmons and Missouri Republican Eric Burlison join me now.
Gentlemen, thanks for being with us here today this afternoon. You were in that hearing subcommittee meeting. I`m curious. There`s a concept, I`m sure you`re familiar with it, called straw-manning your opponent, where you offer up their weakest argument and then you attempt to knock it down.
Let`s do the opposite if we might for a moment. Let`s steel-man the Democrats. Let`s put their best argument forward. As you sat in that meeting today, what did they say that made sense?
Congressman Burlison, I will start with you. What was their biggest concern about Elon Musk?
BURLISON: Yes, you`re right. I mean, they`re making an ad hominem attack against Elon Musk. They`re attacking the messenger, as opposed to attack the policies.
We really had -- it was like a desert of discussion from the left about when it came to discussing any policies whatsoever. They really just were trying to throw shade at Musk.
CAIN: It was a personal attack, as you mentioned, an ad hominem attack.
Congressman Timmons, on that note, they brought up potential conflicts of interest for Elon Musk. He does have very big contracts with the DOD and through NASA. He addressed that yesterday. He said, but I`m an open book. If you see a conflict, if you see a problem, point it out and I will address it.
Was there any substance, though, to their attack on the person conducting the government efficiency audit?
TIMMONS: I didn`t hear any. Honestly, it was disappointing that they refused to engage in the actual substance of the purpose of the hearing.
Medicaid fraud is real. And if we just introduced enhanced identity verification and enhanced income verification, we could save $200 billion. Why aren`t they working with us on that? Why are they complaining about the decisions that the president that 77 million Americans elected?
I mean, it really is ridiculous, especially considering that Joe Biden tried to sign an executive order to forgive $250 billion in student loans that was clearly unconstitutional. But, again, if they don`t have double standards, I mean, I don`t even know.
CAIN: Well, Congressman Burlison, you brought up, OK, it`s a personal attack on Elon Musk. It`s an attack on his character, who he is, a person, his potential conflicts of interest. But it didn`t stop at Elon Musk.
Here`s some of what they had to say about the people working within DOGE.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. ROBERT GARCIA (D-CA): Elon Musk is sending his unqualified DOGE staff to carry out this agenda across all these agencies, and, in some cases, actually teenage staffers,no accountability, no experience, and problematic records.
They`re trying to rob you, and they`re probably a minor.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: I believe that was an attempt at comedy. That was a riff off of Kendrick Lamar`s halftime show at the Super Bowl, where he attacked Drake with that line from his song, accused Drake of being a pedophile, and that line being a minor.
Now, he employs it in your subcommittee hearing about DOGE.
BURLISON: Yes, I mean, this is what we have to work with, is people that are doing these things. It was almost -- it`s -- it would be comical if it wasn`t tragic. And we`re really at a very serious situation.
We have got to cut spending. And if we don`t, we`re -- as I said before in the hearing, we`re going to enter a debt spiral. And that`s about 15 years down the road. It`s going to probably happen. There will be members of Congress still in office today that will experience this.
CAIN: Three-hundred-plus-thousands in debt per taxpaying American citizen, $2 trillion a year in deficit, $36 trillion in debt.
And believe it or not, Congressman Timmons, what you just heard in the subcommittee hearing and we played might have been substantive compared to what we heard from some federal workers talking about -- excuse me -- let me correct myself -- singing about Elon Musk. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
(SINGING)
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Congressman Timmons, I think you have arrived at the new Lincoln- Douglas debate.
TIMMONS: You know, it`s really incredible.
These are the same people that are mad that we are not using taxpayer dollars to fund drag shows in Ecuador, that we`re not going to have a version of "Sesame Street" in Iraq. We have hit the end of the road. We have $36 trillion in debt. The American people spoke when they told President Trump to task Elon Musk with righting our fiscal ship.
And that`s exactly what we`re going to do. The Democrats can help or not. It`s up to them.
CAIN: Lastly, I will go quickly to both of you here. This is a fight right now about simply cutting the fat, the waste, the fraud, the abuse, the blank checks, the fraudulent checks going to people who may no longer be alive.
What happens when you have a real debate in Congress about a substantive matter of spending, meaning whether or not that`s entitlement spending or the Defense Department budget? Like, how are we supposed to ever get to a substantive debate about really reducing our debt if this outrage is what you get when you talk about cutting off DEI plays in Ireland, Congressman Burlison?
BURLISON: Yes, I think that this is a political foible on their part. I think that their antics right now about, to your point, these ridiculous spending cuts that you can`t justify, they`re -- the way they`re throwing a tantrum now is going to undermine when we get to other issues.
And so the American people are going to see this. They`re going to say, cry wolf all you want.
CAIN: Finally, Congressman Timmons, much of this, as we pointed out, is focused on Elon Musk and his staffers within DOGE. I heard one of the Democratic congressmen saying, he`s not an auditor. He`s a tech bro.
Is there an auditor they would have accepted who looked for government efficiency?
TIMMONS: They would attack anyone that was tasked with this endeavor. And at the end of the day, 77 million people voted for President Trump because President Trump told them that he would fix this problem.
And he said that Elon Musk would be the person that would help him. President Trump is the one that`s accountable. He is the person that was elected by the people. He has chosen Elon Musk to pursue this endeavor. And Elon Musk is taking time out of his insanely busy schedule to help right the ship and to save this country for another generation.
And I`m very thankful that he`s willing to do that.
CAIN: He`s worth $400 billion. I don`t know what they think he`s trying to pull out of finding a little inefficiency within the federal government.
Congressman Burlison, Congressman Timmons, thanks for being with us today.
TIMMONS: Thank you. Thanks for having us.
BURLISON: Congratulations on your show.
CAIN: You bet. Thank you so much.

Load-Date: February 12, 2025


End of Document
