




Fox News FOX SPECIAL REPORT WITH BRET BAIER 6:00 PM EST
January 31, 2025 Friday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7251 words
Byline: Bret Baier, Alexandria Hoff, Griff Jenkins, David Spunt, Lydia Hu, Rich Edson, Brooke Taylor, Steve Harrigan
Guests: Keith Kellogg
Body


JEANINE PIRRO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Anyway, thank you for joining us today. Hopefully, we'll be getting more information over the weekend about what exactly caused this crash and why.
Thanks for joining us.
BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Good evening. I'm Bret Baier.
Multiple sources tell Fox News, FBI agents and employees across the country are being fired tonight, told to retire or quit as the major purge at the bureau hits an inflection point.
A watershed moment, over the fight for control of the Panama Canal, as Secretary of State Marco Rubio prepares to visit the waterway.
And we will discuss the Trump administration plan to end the war in Ukraine with his special envoy to Russia and Ukraine, retired Lieutenant General Keith Kellogg.
But first, "BREAKING TONIGHT", White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt, says President Trump's intent on increasing staffing at air safety agencies. The statement coming as the president is questioning whether the air traffic controller on duty when the American Airlines regional jet and the Army Black Hawk helicopter collided near Washington was a Diversity Equity and Inclusion hire.
This comes, as officials, as you just heard at the National Transportation Safety Board, say the black box from the Black Hawk helicopter has been recovered. The 64 people aboard the plane and the three soldiers on the helicopter all died.
Multiple other investigations are underway. For the latest, we turn to correspondent Alexandria Hoff, starting us off tonight, live from the North Lawn. Good evening, Alex.
ALEXANDRIA HOFF, FOX NEWS CHANNEL WASHINGTON CORRESPONDENT: Good evening, Bret.
Yes. Today, the president expressed concern over the height that the military Black Hawk was flying over that corridor of the Potomac, saying it was far above the 200 feet allowed.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: The Black Hawk was too high - -
HOFF (voice over): President Trump, joined by Interior Secretary Doug Burgum, signed additional executive action relating to reducing regulation. There, he was pressed on comments he had made about DEI hiring, potentially contributing to Wednesday's deadly air collision.
TRUMP: I like to put it up front.
We have to have the best people, the smartest people, the sharpest people, as control tower experts, and that's what they have to be.
HOFF (voice over): This afternoon, 13 democratic state attorneys general signed a statement, calling the president's claims baseless and an insult to those who are grieving and the individuals serving in the military and air traffic control.
The White House reiterating the president's position.
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: OK. We certainly have seen the deterioration of federal hiring standards at the Federal Aviation Administration. And the president wants to increase those standards, he wants pilots in this country. He have the great responsibility of flying American citizens by the tens of millions every single day.
TRUMP: We're going to the winter White House. We're going to be working all weekend, and we'll see you down there.
HOFF (voice over): Before departing to spend the weekend at Mar-a-Lago, President Trump met with the CEO of advanced computer chip maker, Nvidia.
TRUMP: We had a meeting. It was good meeting.
HOFF (voice over): Stock was rattled by China's A.I. startup, DeepSeek.
TRUMP: Eventually, we're going to put tariffs on chips. We're going to put tariffs on oil and gas. That will happen fairly soon. Think around the 18th of February.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
HOFF (on camera): And President Trump did say that the tariffs he plans to impose on China, Mexico, and Canada tomorrow could have an impact on American consumers, saying that if that is the case, he calls it a temporary, short-term disruption. Bret.
BAIER: Alex, a federal judge granted a temporary restraining order on the federal spending freeze. What more do we know about that?
HOFF: Well, Bret, there are two cases that are happening right now regarding those federal funds. This one pertains to the 22 states that have filed suit over the fact that their claim is that this freeze is harming their residents in those states.
Now, the judge ended up siding with the states because they say, while the White House argued they had rescinded the memo on freezing the funds, that they never actually rescinded it, the judge actually cited an ex-post by White House press secretary, Karoline Leavitt, saying that it was still in full force.
He therefore, granted this temporary restraining order so that they cannot freeze these funds. Now, the big question right now is Bret, if the White House does not honor that order, really, what does that mean in terms of how the federal judge's orders are respected. What does it mean for the Constitution? I mean, a lot of that is in flux right now. Bret.
BAIER: Alexandria Hoff, live at the North Lawn. Alex, thanks.
Police boats are scouring the Potomac River, looking for remains of victims. Tonight, we have new information on recovery efforts and some of those victims. Correspondent Griff Jenkins has the latest from Reagan National Airport. Good evening, Griff.
GRIFF JENKINS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: And good evening, Bret.
Significant news coming out of that NTSB press conference just moments ago, all three black boxes have been found. Two from the CRJ-700 airplane, one from that Sikorsky Black Hawk that may give us more clues. And in TSP, saying that interviews with air traffic control employees have begun, and that will be a significant development.
Meanwhile, as you mentioned, out on the Potomac, in rough conditions, recovery crews have been working.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
JENKINS (voice over): Recovery crews worked aggressively in rain and dense fog, searching for more bodies.
JOHN DONNELLY, CHIEF, D.C. FIRE AND EMS DEPARTMENT: For us to recover the rest of the remains that we are going to need to get the fuselage out of the water. A lot of our operations today are focused on the helicopter.
JENKINS (voice over): D.C.'s fire and EMS chief, also delivering a somber update.
DONNELLY: We have recovered 41 sets of the remains, and 28 of those victims have been positively identified.
JENKINS (voice over): This, as we learn more about the victims. Howard University law professor Kiah Duggins was a civil rights attorney and former Miss Kansas contestant. The university remembered her in a statement, saying, she dedicated her career to fighting against unconstitutional policing and unjust money bail practices.
Asra Hussain was traveling home from a work trip. She texted her husband before the crash, he was waiting at the airport to pick her up.
We're also learning more about the members of the figure skating community that were on the plane.
Cory Haynos was flying home with his parents, Roger and Stephanie.
Everly and Alydia were two sisters who loved to skate. Their dad even set up an ice-skating rink for them in their yard. The sisters were traveling back from the competition with their parents, Donna and Peter.
And the second pilot of the helicopter has been identified as Chief Warrant Officer 2 Andrew Loyd Eaves, 39 years old, from Great Mills, Maryland.
The name of the third soldier is not being released at the request of the family.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
JENKINS (on camera): And Bret, the NTSB said that we should soon see barges arriving from Virginia Beach out in the Potomac to begin salvage operations, which may include pulling the fuselages out of the water, believing there could be some remains contained inside those. Bret.
BAIER: Griff Jenkins at Reagan National. Griff, thank you.
Also "BREAKING TONIGHT", FBI agents and employees across the country were fired, told to retire, or quit over the past few days. More we're told, are in the works. It's setting up what could be a major legal battle for the president.
Correspondent David Spunt shows us tonight. Good evening, David.
DAVID SPUNT, FOX NEWS CHANNEL JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: Bret, good evening.
Multiple sources tell Fox News the top levels of the FBI, down to the agents who work the streets, are being told, as you said, to quit, retire, or be fired. They say they are not being provided with specific reasons. Just told it's time to go.
One source says it could be at least 100 people and possibly more. And this is across the country, not just in Washington.
Fox has told, senior interim leaders at the FBI are compiling a list of agents and others involved in the two federal prosecutions, involving then- former President Trump, the classified documents raid on Mar-a-Lago in August 2022, and the election interference case.
One source said these agents were simply following investigative leads and doing their jobs. The president denied involvement or knowledge about this purge this afternoon, when asked in the Oval Office.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: I wasn't involved in it. I'll have to see what is exactly going on after this is finished. But if they fired, some people over there, that's a good thing, because they were very bad. They were very corrupt people. Very corrupt, and they hurt our country very badly with the weaponization.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
SPUNT: The FBI Agents Association telling Fox News tonight, "Dismissing potentially hundreds of agents would severely weaken the bureau's ability to protect the country from national security and criminal threats, and will ultimately risk, setting up the bureau and its new leadership for failure."
The president's nominee for FBI Director Kash Patel, yesterday, pledged in front of a Senate panel not to retaliate once he's in office, assuming he's confirmed. But if a large purge does happen before he is confirmed, he can come in, live up to his pledge.
Bret, we are also learning, I've just confirmed this via a source, just moments ago, that the justice department, top officials there are actually in the process of firing prosecutors that were going after January 6. People that were involved and charged with crimes involving the January 6 attack on the Capitol.
So, that's coming in across the street from the FBI that senior DOJ officials are firing -- in the process of firing some of those prosecutors who went after those January 6 rioters.
Busy night, Bret.
BAIER: Busy, indeed. David, thanks.
SPUNT: Thanks.
BAIER: A Trump administration official telling Fox News tonight that the administration is putting a pause on most federal government web sites. Those websites were expected to go dark 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time. The official saying, it's intended to clean up DEI content and any anti Trump administration content on those sites.
Stocks were off over the tariff news we talked about earlier. The Dow lost 337. The S&P-500 fell 31. The NASDAQ dropped 54.
For the week, the Dow was up a quarter of a percentage point. The S&P 500 was off one percent, the Nasdaq fell 1-2/3.
Up next, President Trump's special envoy for Ukraine and Russia, retired Army Lieutenant General Keith Kellogg, joins us live on the Trump administration approach to end that war.
First, here is what some of our Fox affiliates around the country are covering tonight.
FOX5 in New York as bankrupt crypto exchange FTX, it resolves a lawsuit against a venture capital firm co-founded by a former aide in Hillary Clinton's office. The settlement with K5 Global paves the way for the parties to collaborate to maximize recoveries for FTX customers and stakeholders.
The crypto exchanges collapse in November of '22 left many customers unable to access their funds.
FOX2 in San Francisco, as a federal appeals court orders the city to rehire two former workers who left due to COVID vaccination requirements. The pair of both Christians who objected to taking the vaccines.
And this is a live look at Kansas City, one of the big stories there tonight from FOX4. Multiple sources telling our affiliate that if the Kansas City Chiefs win the Super Bowl next weekend, there will be no rally for the public.
This comes as after a mass shooting at last year's Super Bowl rally in Kansas City. A parade would still be held. Chiefs will try to make history next Sunday when they take on the Philadelphia Eagles by becoming the first team to win three consecutive Super Bowls. Of course, you can catch the Super Bowl. Super Bowl LIX on Fox.
That's tonight's live look, "OUTSIDE THE BELTWAY" from SPECIAL REPORT. We'll be right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BAIER: President Trump says the 25 percent tariffs on Canada and Mexico and the 10 percent on China will take effect tomorrow, and that they are not a negotiating tactic in his words.
The president suggesting he will try to blunt the impact on oil imports. Let's take a closer look with Fox Business Correspondent Lydia Hu, she joins us tonight from Calgary. Lydia, good evening.
LYDIA HU, FOX BUSINESS NETWORK CORRESPONDENT: Good evening there, Bret. President Trump announced this afternoon that he would likely reduce the amount of the tariff expected on Canadian oil to 10 percent, this would be an exception to the more broad 25 percent tariff expected to go into effect on all products imported from Canada and Mexico.
It's important because Canada is the United States' largest trading partner. Roughly 13 percent of all products imported into the United States come from Canada.
So, think about that, more than one out of 10 imported products are of Canadian origin, and much of that is oil. Oil makes up about one fifth of the Canadian imports. Even though the United States is the world's largest oil producer, we consume 19 million barrels per day, according to the Energy Information Administration, we exceed the 13 million barrels per day we produce, and that's why we import roughly 6.5 million barrels every day, and nearly 3.9 million come from Canada.
We spoke with the CEO of Cenovus Energy, a major oil producer, here in Calgary, about the possibility of the oil tariffs.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JON MCKENZIE, CEO, CENOVUS ENERGY: If you just do the rough math in your head, a 25 percent tariff is kind of $15.00 a barrel. Well, somebody has got to pay for that. It's either got to be the producer, you know, the refiner, or the customer.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HU: A barrel of Canada's oil trades at a discount to American oil today, trading $13.00 less than American oil. This allows the U.S. to buy the Canadian oil at a discount and sell our more expensive American oil on the market. And a tariff would erode that advantage. That's the concern.
Outside of oil, Bret, more than $320 billion worth of Canadian goods could be subject to tariffs starting tomorrow that is everything from cars and auto parts, food and even minerals. Back to you.
BAIER: Lydia Hu in Calgary. Lydia, thank you.
Hamas is set to release three more hostages this weekend as part of its cease fire deal with Israel, that will include American Israeli Keith Siegel and French Israeli citizens Ofer Calderon and Yarden Bibas.
Siegel will be the first American citizen taken captive during Hamas' brutal surprise attacks on October 7th, 2023 to be released by the terror organization.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: Two years is a long time -- two years is a long time. I know you feel it. I've talked to people in your streets who feel it. So, when does it end?
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (voice over): Probably, I think it's not very fair to ask Ukrainians when the war will finish. Let's be frank, the world is not really ready for Putin to be able to lose his power.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: That was February. I was in Ukraine interviewing Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on the anniversary of the war. We're coming up on the third anniversary of the war. President Zelenskyy just talked to Sean Hannity the other night.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ZELENSKYY: President Trump has the will to force Putin to come to peace. He can do it. And if the U.S. considers pressure on Putin, involving other countries, global south and China, I'm sure that an agreement can be made.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: Agreement can be made. The Russia-Ukraine war is ongoing. Today, Russia claimed to have captured another village in the Donetsk region of eastern Ukraine.
Let's discuss with President Trump's Special Envoy for Ukraine and Russia, Retired Army Lieutenant General Keith Kellogg.
LT. GEN. KEITH KELLOGG (RET.), SPECIAL ENVOY FOR UKRAINE AND RUSSIA: General, thanks for the time.
KELLOGG: Thanks, Bret. Thanks for having me.
BAIER: I know you've been talking to the president and the national security team about what they want to do, what they think is possible. Where are you tonight on the possibility of getting both sides to the negotiating table?
KELLOGG: Well, I have a lot of confidence, Bret, in President Trump. You know, he's a deal maker. He's going to make it happen. He's talked about back in September when he had President Zelenskyy in Trump Tower, when he said, it's time to do it. We've had good coordination with the Vice President, Secretary Rubio, Pete Hegseth, National Security Advisor.
You know, everybody's pulling together on this one. And it's important because we realize it's actually in our national security interest to get this war resolved. When you look at that money that United States has provided, which is over $174 billion, when you look at the alliance that is now formed with Russia, with North Korea, with China and Iran, that wasn't there before, it's now together, and they've got either economic or peace treaty signed between both of them out there. Yesterday, you've seen North Korean troops on the battlefield near Kursk in Russia itself, and fighting Ukrainians.
And I think we have a good, solid plan to go forward, to start talking and working it through there.
And you know, one thing I've noticed being with President Trump before is, you know, sort of like on NFL draft day when they say, OK, the Atlantic Falcons, you're on the clock. Well, I like to think I'm on the clock and I'm on the clock for the American people. I'm on the clock for President Trump, and he wants to get it done. He realizes that this is the wolf closest to the sled when it comes to international relations. And I think we're going to head in that direction.
And I feel very, very confident that we can actually make something happen. President Trump will lead this effort and the good thing about it, he's a great deal maker, and he's very confident what he's going to do. And I have great confidence that we can pull this off for the American people and for the world. And I think -- I think they're ready. I think Europe's ready for it as well.
BAIER: General, we put up that map, and the map really hasn't changed. As far as areas being controlled, there have been some counter offensives by the Ukrainians in the blue area there, but the red has really been the same for a year plus for Russian control.
If you look at the headlines, with Trump's return, Ukraine renews a push to seize Russia's frozen billions. North Korean troops no longer seen on the front lines fighting Ukraine. Germany's Budget Committee wants to appoint some three billion euros for Ukraine sources.
A lot of people are wondering whether the Trump administration is going to continue to fund weapons in the short term for Ukraine, or continue to push Vladimir Putin and Russia with additional sanctions to try to put the pinch on them to get them to the table.
KELLOGG: Yes, and Bret, that's going to be up to the president of the United States what he wants to do. That's his call as the leader of our nation.
But look, what we see out there, and what's happened before with the previous administration. You know, when they had a strategy of as long as it takes, as much as it takes, that's really not a strategy as a bumper sticker.
But when you look at this, let's use the sanctions as a great example, the recent sanctions, if you go on a grading of one to 10, 10 being the toughest, one being the easiest. You know, I think when it comes to the sanctions were probably only the sixth, but the enforcement is only about a three.
You know, like, for example, we have sanctioned the ghost fleet, not just by the fleet, but by, actually by the hulls, the ships themselves. And yet, we've really not addressed that, because that's carrying almost 70 percent of the oil, the illicit oil that's going overseas from Russia. That's where they get their money. It's petrodollars. These are the kind of things we're looking at talking about. How do we apply pressures, not only the Russians and incentives as well, but also to the Ukrainians, we're going to give them incentives and pressure points as well. And give the president of the United States leverage to complete that.
And that's what we're doing, and going through the process, talking about it, getting the team on board.
BAIER: So, let me just read between the lines here. It's possible that you're going to enforce the sanctions more that are already in place, or maybe add more. And is it possible that the weapons are still going to flow to Ukraine in the short term?
KELLOGG: I would say that's up to the president of the United States, what he is going to do. That's his call, but if -- but I think most people should be very comfortable in the fact that he knows exactly what he's doing. He knows where to apply pressure, where not to apply pressure.
But more importantly, that he will create leverage, and leverage both with Ukrainians and the Russians. And you can read between the lines on that is how, in fact, you create leverage.
He's a great deal maker. He knows that. He knows how to apply leverage, and that's one of the things we are talking about with him, and giving him the options to do what he wants to do as president.
BAIER: But you've been around the block, General. I mean, do you think this is months? What do you think this is?
KELLOGG: You know, I would like to say it's months, but it's not years. I'm talking about, you know, I'd like to think that we could have something in the short term. What I mean by the short term? I've said this before on one of your programs, on one Fox programs, I'd like to see it count down from a hundred days back and figure out where we're at, either ceasefire or permanent peace. And I think it's all in the art of the doable.
But this is going to be sort of like we saw in Afghanistan, which is four years, it's not a cottage industry. It's got to be something short term for both nations.
But not only just for both nations. It's good for the United States. It's good for the world as well if we can stop this fight, stop the killing, which has been horrific, and stop the destruction of the Ukrainian cities.
Look, when you look at cities in Ukraine, like, Bret, like a miracle, a city the size of Denver and or Atlanta, Atlanta proper. It's a totally destroyed city of 500,000.
When you look at the deaths, when you count the deaths of the Ukraine military, of the Ukrainian in the -- in the Russian and then you add that with the wounded, you're talking over a million soldiers, killer wounded in action. Those are horrific numbers. Those are World War II level numbers.
And I think the president has it right. It's time to stop it. It's time to stop the killing. It's time to come down for peace on both sides. And I think it's going to be important. It's important for the world, it's important for the region, and it's important for us as the United States and our national interests as well.
BAIER: General Kellogg, we appreciate you coming on. We welcome you back with any details as you get them. Thank you.
KELLOGG: Thanks, Bret.
BAIER: What we know and are looking to find out in the military investigation into the air tragedy over Washington.
And then, an exclusive nighttime helicopter ride along as federal agents scout the southern border.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BAIER: A military investigation is underway focusing on the movements of the Army Black Hawk helicopter involved in the midair collision near Washington. Senior national correspondent relationship Rich Edson has the latest from the Pentagon.
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
RICH EDSON, FOX NEWS STATE DEPARTMENT CORRESPONDENT: The Pentagon says its investigation in the Black Hawk helicopter that struck a commercial jet is focused on altitude.
PETE HEGSETH, DEFENSE SECRETARY: Was the Black Hawk too high? Was it on course? Right now we don't quite know.
EDSON: This morning President Trump posted on social media that, quote, "The Black Hawk helicopter was flying too high by a lot. It was far above the 200-foot limit. That's not really too complicated to understand, is it?"
Investigators announced this evening that they had recovered the helicopter's black box which officials say will help them understand what the pilots were saying and who was in control leading up to the crash.
CAPT. ARMEN KURDIAN (RET), SEARCH AND RESCUE EXPERT: Those black boxes are absolute wealth of operation. Were the engines operating normally? Was the GPS operating normally? Was the flight computer on? Were all the displays working? What were the last control inputs that the pilots actually did?
EDSON: The Pentagon described Wednesday's Black Hawk flight as part of routine nighttime training, so the pilots could fly through airspace they'd navigate in their jobs transporting some of the most senior federal officials.
HEGSETH: There are many things that happen in and around the capital that ensure in a contingency, in an emergency, our government is able to continue to operate. You need to rehearse in ways that would reflect a real world scenario.
EDSON: This afternoon the FAA announced that it will, quote, "restrict helicopter traffic in the area over the Potomac River around Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport." The restriction exempts helicopters entering this airspace for live saving medical support, active law enforcement, active air defense, or president transport helicopter missions.
(END VIDEO TAPE)
EDSON (on camera): An FAA database has 30 records of near midair misses at Reagan National Airport since 1987. Of those, 10 involved military aircraft, seven involved military helicopters. Bret?
BAIER: Rich Edson live at the Pentagon. Rich, thanks.
Also breaking tonight, two illegal immigrant suspects are now charged with murder in relation to the death of 63-year-old man whose body was tied up in his home in Chicago late Sunday. An autopsy determined he died of multiple injuries related to that assault. The adult migrants are believed to have crossed into the United States through the Texas border in the summer of 2023.
FOX News on the front lines. Tonight, we take you on an exclusive nighttime helicopter patrol at the southern border as federal agents deploy advanced technology to uncover migrants and smugglers. Correspondent Brooke Taylor shows us from El Paso.
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
BROOKE TAYLOR, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: FOX News gets an exclusive helicopter ride in the El Paso sector above one of the busiest areas known for illegal migrant crossings and got-aways.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We just picked up two more that just crossed the Normandy (ph) barriers that they just put up.
TAYLOR: Agents with the air and marine operations show us how they help Border Patrol agents on the ground catch migrants in the darkest of hours.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They're trying to run, yep.
TAYLOR: Including this one who tried to hide in the brush and make a run for it before being caught.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: That guy is still messing with the fence right there.
TAYLOR: Two migrant groups just made a hole in the border wall. It's dark out, so what they don't realize we're five miles away and can still watch their every move.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He was kind of halfway through the fence there.
TAYLOR: The agents wearing night vision goggles are watching a live camera feed with a mapping software system which allows them to know exactly where the migrants are.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Those two are crawling away.
TAYLOR: The agents also have a laser invisible to the naked eye, using it to guide Border Patrol agents.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Keep coming, keep coming, keep coming.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Keep rolling, keep rolling until your stop. Keep going for another 25 yards.
TAYLOR: Our camera crew on the ground then captured agents apprehending a 19-year-old from Mexico and another man from Guatemala.
HAMID NIKSERESHT, U.S. BORDER PATROL SPECIAL OPS: This is going to be an all night game. This is a 24-hour a day, seven day a week profession.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: That's about as smooth as it can get right there.
TAYLOR: From the air, the agents pointed at Border Patrol and National Guard vehicles stationed in hotspots, something they say is new as of this week. With added resources, they say Border Patrol agents aren't stretched as thin and can do more of this.
(END VIDEO TAPE)
TAYLOR (on camera): And not only are the number of encounters down here in the El Paso sector, but also the number of got-aways. Border Patrol agents tell us on Wednesday, the day before our ride along, they had zero got- aways for the first time in years. Bret?
BAIER: Brooke, thank you.
The village of East Palestine, Ohio, and railroad company Norfolk Southern have settled all claims from the 2023 train derailment that spewed toxic chemicals into the air and ground. The most recent settlement provides $22 million to be used for priorities identified by the village. Vice President, former Ohio senator, J.D. Vance will travel to East Palestine on Monday to mark the second anniversary of that disaster.
Up next, the push to take back control of the Panama Canal. We'll have reaction to President Trump's efforts to try to retake control of that vital waterway.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BAIER: President Trump is looking to make good on his promise to take back the Panama Canal, control of it. Secretary of State Marco Rubio set to make his first international trip there tomorrow. But Panama's president says they will not discuss control of the waterway. Correspondent Steve Harrigan reports tonight from Panama city.
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
STEVE HARRIGAN, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: The Panama Canal is a 51-mile strip begun by the U.S. in 1903. It took 10 years to build, at the time the most expensive construction project ever. Gates or locks are opened like a water elevator. Ships are raised and pulled forward by trains. About 36 ships a day come through around the clock. It takes 10 hours, and the biggest ships pay more than $1 million in fees. The canal saves ships time and money. Instead of 27 days from New York to San Francisco going around south America, it takes just 11 days through the Panama Canal.
The U.S. signed a treaty in 1977 gave the canal to Panama in 1999. For 25 years there was little controversy. Now, fears of Chinese influence over the canal have led to calls from the Trump administration and Republican lawmakers to reassert U.S. control over the canal, by force if necessary. Reaction here in Panama among many of the elites is shock.
CARLOS ERNESTO GONZALEZ, PANAMANIAN BUSINESS EXECUTIVE: So for us this was a surprise. There is no conflict with the United States. And it's not clear why this is happening for us.
HARRIGAN: A different reaction among some ordinary Panamanians who say they never see any of the billions the government earns from the canal.
RAFAEL, ARTISAN (through translator): All the money from the canal goes to the politicians and the rich people. So if you ask me my opinion, will Panamanians fight to defend the canal? They will tell you the same answer I tell you, no.
HARRIGAN: Rubio called Chinese influence at the canal a potential chokepoint. President Trump has gone several steps further, posting that China controls the canal.
(END VIDEO TAPE)
HARRIGAN (on camera): President Trump then added a threat in all capital letters, "Panama will not get away with this." Bret?
BAIER: Steve Harrigan in Panama City. Steve, thanks.
Monday, Rich Edson has an exclusive interview with Secretary Marco Rubio as he makes his first foreign trip as secretary of state.
Tonight, a former senior adviser to the Federal Reserve has been arrested on charges he conspired to steal Fed trade secrets for the benefit of the People's Republic of China. Justice Department officials say John Harold Rogers allegedly shared confidential information with Chinese co- conspirators. He's charged with conspiracy to commit economic espionage.
Back here at home, the final debate among eight candidates vying to chair the Democratic National Committee devolved into chaos today as a wave of leftwing protesters repeatedly interrupted that event. The demonstrators were eventually removed. Jamie Harrison, the DNA chairman for the past four years, declined to seek another term. Harrison told the Associated Press today that he believes Democrats should have stuck with Joe Biden in the 2024 election and they might have won. The DNC will vote for a new chair on Saturday.
Up next, the panel on the politics and investigation into the air disaster over Washington.
First, Beyond our Borders tonight, the tomb housing the remains of a polarizing far right French leader vandalized less than three weeks after he was buried. Jean Marie Le Pen was the founder of France's National Front Party. Police say they are stepping up security at the cemetery. An investigation is underway.
And this is a live look at Japan, one of the big stories there tonight, Japanese police arrest a Canadian national on suspicion of smuggling more than 700 pounds of meth into Japan. Authorities say the drugs were hidden inside large industrial machinery that the suspect had shipped in a container from the United States.
Just some of the other stories Beyond our Borders tonight. We'll be right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BAIER: Breaking tonight, we're getting some word out of northeast Philadelphia of what's believed to be a small plane crashing into a number of houses there. Waiting for some pictures there. I think we have them coming to us from FOX 29 in Philadelphia. Fires burning in multiple spots. If you know that area in northeast Philadelphia, Cottman Avenue and Roosevelt Boulevard. We're being told by FOX 29 that multiple fires are burning. There are pieces of what appears to be this airplane scattered here. That's from Steve Keeley, one of the reporters from FOX 29 on the ground. You can see some of the fires there. Authorities closing off those areas. We're trying to get word of casualties. We don't have any official word from authorities yet.
But let's listen in to FOX 29 as they're reporting this live. It just happened a few minutes ago.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: -- breathing in this area. He smelled jet fuel here. Steve, are you there?
STEVE KEELY, REPORTER: I'm in the middle of the smoke now, Jason. I was trying to go back to get a closer look at the car parts, and the smoke is blowing along the ground. And I see a foot off the gas where a truck just showed up because I'm told that a gas line is in danger. Sometimes meters that are on a house are connected to gas lines. And something might have hilt that.
But I'm walking through the Roosevelt Mall parking lot right now, and I'm going to walk over, and now as I realize my previous path, the parts I saw scattered in the parking lot are very, very far from where I videotaped a bunch of fires. And so Roosevelt Mall is pretty big, an outdoor strip mall for those of you don't know. It goes down Roosevelt Boulevard all the way down Cottman Avenue.
And this is packed. And now I'm hearing saws like dog saws right now in front of the Dunkin' Donuts, which tells you rescues are going on. And that's fire department activity trying to cut through something on Cottman Avenue.
Now, Jason, now the planes are on a house. That's what they are doing. A house is on fire. The corner house. I don't know what side street it is. There is flames shooting up the roof of a house. That was the side street. The corner house at Cottman on the side street right in front of the Roosevelt Mall is on fire now. And I'm looking at flames 10 feet high out of the roof. And now I see firefighter ladders. Firefighters, that was what I was hearing, because the smoke shifted, and now I can see. So that's where more smoke is coming from. This was right where there was a bunch of cars on fire along Cottman. So a house is now on fire. And it's the top of the house. So if the flames started on the first floor from this plane crash, the flames have now gone up to at least two floors. I can't tell if that's a two or three floor house.
But that is now the latest. And these flames are getting worse coming out of this house now, Jason. But there's a -- the fire department is right on the scene. They were right there, and I did not see a house on fire initially. So, there we go. It looks like the flames are down, or at least they are being blocked by smoke right now. But --
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Steve, we're watching. We'll look at some of your video you took earlier. I'm having a hard time understanding what the in world happened, because you are describing a house on fire. I see a Dunkin' Donuts. I see cars on fire, a debris field that may be stretched several city blocks. And I'm trying to really understand what has happened here in northeast Philadelphia with just chaos happening in this parking lot. You have got the mall there, several fast food restaurants, a T-Mobile store, and a home. How many fires are we talking about here?
KEELY: So, Jason, now I'm looking directly across. There is a fire on Cottman Avenue on my side which looks like an SUV or a truck. And it is all gone. But it's still on fire. So I don't know if that's fuel or whatever is burning. And then across Cottman Avenue, directly from where that vehicle is on fire is where that house is on fire. And those flames are shooting out of a second or third story roof right now. So, that's what is going on right there.
This is one -- this is probably four blocks off of Cottman Avenue across the street. I'm looking at firefighters putting spotlights up there. The flames on the street level where that SUV or truck is on fire are a good 10 feet into the air as well. And the flames on the roof are a good 10 feet. And there is very thick smoke. The only positive news is that white smoke now, no longer black smoke. That smoke is coming directly at me. There is a light rain blowing here, too, as well. So rain is falling. There is the wind. And chaos, if you can put it, that's a perfect word for what is going on.
Now it looks like firefighters are trying to douse that vehicle fire across the street as well. And these streets were blocked. When I was coming here, the police were trying to clear Roosevelt Boulevard. The fire vehicles were having trouble cutting through the rush hour traffic on the boulevard and getting to this scene. And so they kept the boulevard open as they were trying to clear the traffic off of it. Here comes some more thick smoke.
I'm sorry. So, what you are hearing is everybody just trying to look out for my own good. All right, so, Jason now it's complete -- I can't even see right now. It's complete black. All I see is a flickering red light or so. And now I can see some more flames on the street. But this is still not under control by any stretch. And like I said, multiple fires. And then it wasn't just vehicles. There was at least one house on fire as well. I'm moving just to see, to get out of this smoke, number one, which will also help me breathe and see a little more. So --
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And Steve, you mentioned when you first got there, you said you saw plane parts.
KEELY: Yes.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Can you tell what size plane by the parts you saw?
KEELY: And these parts were not big. Like I said, I didn't know what they were. I was tripping over things. It's in a parking lot. And then this officer said, hey, these are parts of the airplane. And they began sweeping it off. And you will see some of that in my video as I'm walking through it. You don't want to walk into evidence scenes and debris scenes. And so I got out of there. But in the one video I sent back you will see that. And I had no idea what it was. It just -- it was -- it wasn't anything that you could identify. Let me put it that way. It didn't look like airplane parts. And the biggest part I saw was like two feet by two feet it. So it looked like insulation. It looked like something from a house.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It very well may have been. It looks like, as you mentioned, a house was on fire. Every firefighter in the area, I have got to imagine, is there along with a cop. And, you know, we have no word on any injuries or fatalities. We have no word on what kind of plane this was. And we showed a doorbell video, if you are just joining us, a doorbell video from a half-a-mile away, I'm assuming.
KEELY: All right, Jason.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, go ahead.
KEELY: So to give you an idea.
(INAUDIBLE)
KEELY: All right, so I'm with a worker right across from where the house is on fire. What did you see in here while you were working?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Man, I was just working. I was making a drink and then I just see a big old explosion of light just out of nowhere. I felt the vibrations. It was crazy, man.
KEELY: And did you have any idea what it was?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Man, I don't know. At first I thought it was like a gas leak or a gas truck, you know what I'm saying, collided with a car. But then I hear it's a plane. And I'm like, what, what do you mean a plane?
KEELY: And then you looked out the back door here, you are fairly close. You see a house on fire here. Do you know what street that is right there?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Cottman.
KEELY: But the side street?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Oh, the side? I'm not -- side street?
KEELY: But you saw all the fires.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I saw all the fires, yes. It was crazy, man.
KEELY: And what was the reaction of everybody in the cafe and all around here?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Oh, man, everybody ran, bro. Everyone ran. Who wouldn't leave?
KEELY: How did you finally hear about it being an airplane?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It was crazy, man.
KEELY: You see all the parts in the parking lot next to the cafe here?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Not the parts per se, but I can see fire. Smoke and everything.
KEELY: All right, sir, thank you very much. Glad you're safe.
So there you go, Jason. This worker is about a football field's length from where the house is on fire. So we're behind. And you are pulling up the map and you're wondering where I'm talking to you from, I'm right behind the Cane's chicken store which is front right on Cottman, and the front of the Roosevelt Mall, which is diagonal right across from this house on fire.
So I don't see any more flames on the house. But I see flames initially on the street that have been right in the driveway of the Roosevelt Mall, right next to the store that lists the sign that lists all the stores here. Those flames are now picking up. And I have no idea what is burning. It must be some kind of fuel. And I don't know if that's the gameplan, because now I see a team of --
BAIER: OK, this is live in Philadelphia. This is our FOX affiliate, FOX 29. It appears it is a plane crash. But we haven't confirmed that yet. You are hearing the reporter Steve Keely on the ground with FOX 29. We're going to stay with these pictures and this breaking news out of northeast Philadelphia, very close to the northeast Philadelphia airport. You can see all of the fire trucks and the authorities on the ground. We are going to stay with this and figure out what is happening in Philadelphia.
See you Monday on SPECIAL REPORT.
KEELY: -- the driveway of the Roosevelt sign next to the sign that says Macy's, LA Fitness, Ross for Less, Scraps (ph).

Load-Date: February 1, 2025


End of Document
