




The Times (London)
February 26, 2025 Wednesday
Edition 1, Ireland


Copyright 2025 Times Newspapers Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 29
Length: 309 words
Byline: Louisa Clarence-Smith
Body


Apple shareholders have voted to keep the iPhone maker's diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) policies, despite pressure to drop them from President Trump and conservative activists.
At Apple's annual meeting yesterday, shareholders rejected a proposal by the National Center for Public Policy Research, a conservative think tank, that called on Apple to "cease DEI efforts".
The think tank criticised Apple's "inclusion and diversity" programme, including policies to employ a "VP of Inclusion & Diversity"; to allow employee member groups for those deemed "diverse" but not for others; and the contribution of shareholder money to organisations that advance DEI.
However, investors at the company's annual meeting backed Apple's management, which had opposed efforts to scrap diversity policies.
Proponents of the proposal argued that recent legal changes meant Apple would see an increase in discrimination cases if it continued with DEI policies. Apple said it has a "well-established compliance programme" and the proposal "inappropriately attempts to restrict Apple's ability to manage its own ordinary business operations, people and teams, and business strategies".
Tim Cook, chief executive of Apple, said the company had never had quotas or targets in its diversity programmes. "As the legal landscape around these issues evolves, we may need to make some changes to comply, but our north star of dignity and respect for everyone and our work to that end will never waver," he added.
A conservative backlash to DEI policies has put pressure on companies including Meta Platforms and Alphabet, the parent of Google, to drop DEI initiatives before and following Donald Trump's return to the White House. The president has criticised corporate DEI programmes, suggesting that the US Department of Justice could investigate whether they violate the law.

Load-Date: February 26, 2025


End of Document
