




The Times (London)
February 22, 2025 Saturday
Edition 1, Ireland


Copyright 2025 Times Newspapers Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: FEATURES; Pg. 23
Length: 1172 words
Byline: Fraser Nelson
Body


s Rishi Sunak really English?
I
Until recently I had no idea this was a controversial question, but the debate is fast evolving amid the Trump "vibe shift". The once unthinkable is being said regularly: yesterday's taboos are becoming today's orthodoxies. A new breed of digital discussion programmes are shaping the national conversation. One of the best and longest-running is Triggernometry, which specialises in giving guests questions they don't expect. I was in the chair this week and until this point had never given Sunak's (to me, screamingly obvious) Englishness any thought.
"He's a brown Hindu, how is he English?" asked Konstantin Kisin, the interviewer. By being born and bred here, I replied. Kisin disagreed: he said that he, as a Russian immigrant, could never be English and nor could his English-born son. It was a perfectly fair point (he meant ethnicity) but it blew up online, with four million views. I seemed to have enraged those who believe English is a term of ethnicity, nothing else, so the likes of Sunak will never - can never - become English.
What's striking is how new this reaction is. Humza Yousaf had plenty of enemies when elected SNP leader and first minister but no one questioned his Scottishness. When Sunak lit Diwali candles and put them on his Downing Street steps, no one cared, let alone claimed this was an un-English thing to do. But Trump's election seems to have changed things, as has Elon Musk's regime at X. Once unsayable points are now being loudly proclaimed and actively promoted, often by Musk himself.
Earlier this month, there was a "Make Europe Great Again" rally in Madrid, named after one of Musk's tweets. "Yesterday, we were the heretics," a delighted Viktor Orban told the crowd. "Now we are the mainstream." This reflects a general mood of Europe's populist right: tomorrow, now, belongs to them. We can see this in the rise of the AfD in this weekend's German election, the electoral humiliation of Emmanuel Macron, the popularity of Marine Le Pen, and in Nigel Farage's Reform coming top of every UK opinion poll.
So what might be next? What other verboten topics are now ready to be embraced? Is it time to talk more, erm, directly about Muslims? Discuss whether there can be such a thing as a patriotic British Pakistani? With so many companies abandoning wokery - or Diversity, Equality and Inclusion - might it be acceptable to ask if ethnic minorities were a "DEI hire", promoted on skin colour rather than ability? Perhaps it's safe now for Reform activists to refer to the leader of the opposition as "Olukemi Olufunto Adegoke Badenoch" and ask if she's just there because she's black.
To see the above being casually discussed in a way unthinkable even a year ago is to understand how the pendulum may well be swinging from one deranged fringe to another. The last iteration was critical race theory, portraying whites as the exploiters and non-whites as inherent victims. Keir Starmer fell into this trap being photographed "taking the knee" for Black Lives Matter. But he was far from alone in his attempt to harness what he mistakenly thought was the defining political force of the future.
Now it's the right's turn. We have the mirror image of BLM: people saying the whites are the victims, with their country, identity and culture under siege from criminal immigrant hordes. The Islamist left has its counterpart on the Tommy Robinson right - they agree that a clash of civilisations is indeed under way. With
Musk stirring so much of this on his X account - even Robinson's videos - it raises a big question: is this a time when careers and political fortunes will be made? Is it time to "take the knee" before the Maga gods?
Liz Truss is getting stuck in, calling for a "Trump revolution" in Britain. Our 49-day prime minister had less to say about his abandonment of Ukraine and cosying up to Moscow. Suella Braverman, a former home secretary, has echoed JD Vance's claim that the UK could become a nuclear-armed Islamist state (Vance was joking; Braverman was not). No one has gone further than Farage, who has positioned himself as Trump's loyal disciple and best British friend. He even says Zelensky should lay out a timetable for elections, even though much of Ukraine's electorate is in the trenches, under occupation or in exile.
When the political worm turns, as it tends to, all this Trump-humping will rebound. People may like to see Musk unearthing government waste, lifting bans on plastic straws. But if the Trump mission comes to mean abandoning Europe, allying with Russia and denouncing Zelensky as a dictator? Just 3 per cent of the UK public agree with Trump that Ukraine is responsible for the war. Even among Farage's supporters, it's just 8 per cent.
If Farage follows Trump all the way to Moscow, he'll alienate his target Labour voters who were appalled to see Jeremy Corbyn align with the international bad guys. Two thirds of Brits say a Ukrainian peace deal agreed without Kyiv would be unacceptable. There is a constituency for this in Hungary, Slovakia and the AfD-supporting parts of east Germany, but not, really, in Britain.
Proliferation of digital debate is, of course, unequivocally a good thing. Net zero, lockdown, immigration levels - all could have done with more robust discussion than the narrow political debate allowed at the time. As a Scot, I've always thought the idea of English identity hasn't been discussed enough. My hunch is that no one who talks about "English votes for English laws" would, for a second, be making a point about skin colour, so this debate could be easily settled.
The lesson of BLM was that a change in the digital debate doesn't necessarily reflect a change in public opinion. Joe Biden's Democrats referred to "Latinx" voters, none of whom used this word to describe themselves. We're living in an era of niche media, where any 4 per cent minority can have YouTube shows dedicated to their predilections. Politicians who confuse their social media feeds for the vox populi risk disappearing down a rabbit hole from which they are unlikely to emerge with their dignity intact.
The obvious opportunity is to answer the politics of ethnic or religious sectarianism with the politics of unity, even if this means uncomfortable discussions about what's expected from British citizens. If Starmer attempts to chase the new digital-right fairies, he may find a new left-wing party creeps up on him - just as it has on Olaf Scholz in Germany. If the Tories try to deploy Trumpian black magic, they'll lose any claim to be the party of credible radicalism.
Our debate may become more coarse but our politics is unlikely to become more extreme. The identity politics of the digital left may be replaced by its mirror image on the right, but there won't be many votes in either. Success is likely to go to whichever party can best keep its composure and remember this.
There are those saying whites are victims in a mirror image of BLM What other verboten subjects are ready to be embraced? Muslims?

Graphic

 
When Rishi Sunak lit Diwali candles at No 10, no one said it was "un-English"

Load-Date: February 22, 2025


End of Document
