




Newsweek.com
January 20, 2025 Monday 4:11 AM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 471 words
Byline: Alia Shoaib
Highlight: Reports say that Vivek Ramaswamy is stepping away from the new Department of Government Efficiency following tensions within the team.
Body


Reports are swirling that , who had been chosen to lead President-elect 's Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) with , is expected to step away from the department.
Newsweek reached out to Ramaswamy via email on Monday outside of regular working hours.
Why It Matters
The news that Ramaswamy might be stepping away comes ahead of Trump's inauguration on Monday. While it is not clear if or why Ramaswamy is leaving, the reports hint at rifts and tumult already beginning in Trump's new administration.
What To Know
In November, Trump announced that Ramaswamy, a 2024 GOP presidential contender, and billionaire Musk, one of the president-elect's most prominent supporters, would  which aims to increase government efficiency and reduce spending.
However,  News and Politico have reported that Ramaswamy is due to step down after tensions had grown within the new department, citing sources familiar with the matter.
Musk allies had grown frustrated with Ramaswamy for not participating in the heavy lifting, and as a result had been privately undercutting him for weeks, sources told CBS.
Ramaswamy has also had friction with incoming DOGE staff, the sources said. As a result, he has reportedly been encouraged to quietly exit.
"Vivek has worn out his welcome," one person close to Trump said, per CBS.
The Politico report echoed this sentiment, with an unnamed informal adviser to Trump telling the outlet: "Elon basically runs the show."
Ramaswamy is now  by the end of January, the outlets reported.
His decision to pursue the governorship came after he reportedly met with Ohio's sitting governor, , about his interest in the  seat left vacant by Vice President-elect .
However, DeWine chose his lieutenant governor for the post instead.
Neither Trump, Ramaswamy or Musk have yet publicly commented on the reports about DOGE's potential shake-up.
What People Are Saying
An X, formerly , user referenced Ramaswamy's anti-DEI beliefs while  a GIF of  laughing and writing: "DEI hire Vivek Ramaswamy got fired."
Aaron Rupar, a political commentator on X, compared Ramaswamy's brief tenure to Trump's former White House Communications Director Anthony Scaramucci's: "Vivek's involvement with DOGE lasted negative Scaramuccis."
Scaramucci responded on X: "Since DOGE doesn't exist and isn't formally part of the government it would be unfair to measure his tenure in Scaramucci. Good luck Vivek!!"
What Happens Next
If the reports turn out to be correct, Ramaswamy will likely soon announce that he is stepping down from DOGE and plans to run for Ohio governor. Musk, who has already been taking a leading role in running DOGE, will continue to do so.


Graphic

 
Vivek Ramaswamy
Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images
Vivek Ramaswamy speaks at a campaign rally for Republican presidential nominee, former U.S. President Donald Trump at Mullett Arena on October 24, 2024 in Tempe, Arizona. Reports say he is stepping away from the Department of Government Efficiency.

Load-Date: January 20, 2025


End of Document
