




The Times (London)
February 21, 2025 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition


Copyright 2025 Times Newspapers Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: T2;FEATURES; Pg. 3
Length: 365 words
Byline: Charlie Gowans-Eglinton
Body


D onald Trump is back in the White House but his daughter Ivanka hasn't reclaimed her office in the West Wing. Citing "a darkness" in the political world that "I don't really want to welcome into mine", the first daughter won't be reprising her official role as adviser to the president. But having burnt her bridges with the New York elite of her old life - coincidentally or not, in 2022 Chelsea Clinton said that their friendship ended when Ivanka went "to the dark side" - she is starting from scratch with a new life in Miami.
This week Ivanka, 43, shared a photo of her new squad on Instagram. The group of women posed around the table at the Italian restaurant Forte dei Marmi in Miami Beach, a Birkin's throw from her $24 million home on a secure island known as "millionaire's bunker" (the actual name is Indian Creek).
Only one had less than half a million followers (that was Natasha Gorham, whose account is private but whose husband founded the cult beauty brand Byredo).
The other three are, to understate it, of a type. Early to mid-thirties, very groomed, entrepreneur-philanthropists. Which all sounds quite Waspy, except that they're all Brazilian models with a love of the woo-woo.
Most Instagram-famous is Camila Coelho (10.2 million followers), founder of Elaluz, "where inner light meets outer glow", which translates to tanning drops and bronzers.
Martha Graeff (501,000 followers) sells drinkable wellness - a range of health shots under the brand name Happy Aging - and is part of the children's charity fundraising initiative The Bazaar for Good.
Isabela Rangel Grutman (519,000 followers) adds two more brands named after herself to the count - the first being "fashion that respects the earth" and is "crafted with the planet in mind"; the second being fine jewellery (the priciest item a yellow diamond tennis necklace at £148,877).
It's quite the pivot. But if Ivanka wants to rehabilitate her name, and perhaps her own eponymous brand (taken off the shelves by Nordstrom amid calls to boycott it), she needs to be aspirational again. And rebranding herself as a wellness guru, a Miami Beach Gwyneth Paltrow knock-off, might just get her there.
Charlie Gowans-Eglinton

Graphic

 
Trump and her Miami Beach squad

Load-Date: February 21, 2025


End of Document
