




MailOnline
February 19, 2025 Wednesday 6:03 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: FEMAIL; Version:2
Length: 846 words
Byline: Kirsty McCormack For Dailymail.Com
Body


Ivanka spent time with her female pals at Miami Beach eatery Forte dei Marmi
The First Daughter looked radiant in one photo dressed in a sleeveless lilac top
READ MORE: Ivanka 'exposes' her hair extensions in embarrassing mishap
                     Ivanka Trump unveiled her girl squad on social media on Tuesday evening as she enjoyed a fancy night out with her pals in Miami and tucked into a delicious-looking meal.
The First Daughter took to Instagram and re-shared a story from Martha Graeff's account which showed the group of women sitting around a dinner table scattered with various plates of food and glasses of red wine.
Ivanka, 43, looked radiant sitting in the middle wearing a sleeveless purple top with her blonde hair down straight as she flashed a huge smile for the camera.
The group, which also included Isabela Rangel Grutman, Natasa Gorham, and Camila Coelho, appeared to be tucking into asparagus, potatoes, broccoli, fish and truffle-covered pasta.
In a separate Instagram Story, Camila shared a snap of the tasty-looking desserts they were enjoying after dinner, including a rather elaborate portion of pistachio ice cream. 
She captioned the photo: 'Carnaval diet? Not going so well.' 
Ivanka and her friends were dining at Italian restaurant Forte dei Marmi, which is located on Ocean Drive, Miami Beach, and offers a delicious-looking menu including items such as a whole rack of lamb for $155 and a Bucatini pasta dish costing $59.
When Ivanka shared the group photo, she captioned it, 'Soooooo much fun!' and was clearly enjoying spending some quality time with her friends after quitting her career in politics.
And her pals all appear to have a strong online presence.
Isabela, 33, founded her own jewelry line and clothing brand RANGEL in 2021, crafting it to be 'a spirit of seasonless, timeless and streamlined resort fashion.'
The website itself states the creator Isabela 'invites women to embrace timeless, seasonless pieces that respect the planet, honor the people who made them, and resonate with a sense of purpose.'
Next up is Camila, who is a 36-year-old Brazilian fashion and beauty YouTuber, who founded her own beauty brand Elaluz in August 2020.
Elaluz, which means 'she is light' in Portuguese, started as an idea that Camila dreamed up after creating her YouTube tutorials and lifestyle blog in 2010. 
She also has her own clothing line called Camila Coelho Collection, and her website features fashion, beauty, travel and wellness advice.
Camila is married to Icaro Brenner and in 2022 the couple welcomed a son named Kai. 
Her friend and fellow Brazilian Martha is a philanthropist and the founder of The Bazaar For Good.
She resides in Miami and has entered the wellness industry by launching her brand, Happy Aging, which enhances skin health, boosts cellular detoxification and improves the body's natural defenses while empowering women to embrace every stage of life. 
Natasa Gorham has more of a lowkey presence on social media and chooses to keep her Instagram profile private.
She is married to Ben Gorham, who founded the European luxury brand Byredo, which sells products including fragrance makeup and jewelry.
It's unclear what projects Ivanka is working on at the moment since she made decision to quit her career in politics. 
The mother-of-three served as an adviser to her father Donald in his first term as President from 2017 until 2021, but this time around she just wants to be his emotional support.
'I'm most looking forward to just being able to show up for him as a daughter and be there for him, to take his mind off things and like watch a movie with him or watch a sports game, to know that he can be with me and be himself, and just relax,' she told The Skinny Confidential podcast last month. 
'It's the world's loneliest position, the enormity of the decisions you're making on a daily basis, how transactional everyone is with you. So it's a very lonely perch.' 
She also made it clear she will have no formal role in the second Trump administration, adding: 'I went through years of craziness,' referring to her first tenure in the White House. 
In the two-hour interview, Ivanka discussed the massive changes in her life that took place when she joined the first Trump administration and confessed: 'I hate politics.' 
She went on to say that she couldn't stand the 'darkness' of the political world and explained: 'Unfortunately, the two are not, you know, there is a darkness to that world that I don't really want to welcome into mine.' 
She had an up close view of it four years ago when she had an office in the West Wing from 2017 until Trump left in January 2021. 
She was constant presence in the Oval Office and joined her father in his travels both domestically and internationally. 
However, she was noticeably absent from her father's presidential campaign launch in November 2022.
In a public statement after the launch, she said: 'I love my father very much. This time around, I am choosing to prioritize my children and the private life we are creating as a family. I do not plan to be involved in politics.'

Load-Date: February 20, 2025


End of Document
