




MailOnline
January 20, 2025 Monday 5:36 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:7
Length: 909 words
Byline: James Cirrone For Dailymail.Com
Body


                     Ivanka Trump and incoming Second Lady Usha Vance have inspired some liberals to call for a boycott of Oscar de la Renta, the fashion house that designed the dresses both GOP icons wore to pre-inauguration events this weekend.
President-elect Donald Trump's daughter stunned with her dress, which was described as a custom off-shoulder, crystal-and-pearl, floral-embroidered empire waist gown with a silver stole. 
She wore it Sunday night to a candlelight dinner at the National Building Museum in Washington, D.C., where she was seen rubbing shoulders with Elon Musk and Amazon founder Jeff Bezos. 
At one point, cameras caught the president-elect's daughter hugging Lauren Sanchez, Bezos' fiancée.
Usha, the wife of Vice President-elect JD Vance, was seen at the same Sunday event. Her own custom Oscar de la Renta dress, which she wore to Saturday's Vice President's dinner, sparked backlash from the political left as well.
A picture of Usha wearing the noir velvet gown with asymmetric floral accents and a sweetheart neckline was lightning rod enough for one person on X to call for a boycott of the Oscar de la Renta brand.
Another person wrote: 'Bye Oscar de la Renta. I know you won't be cancelled but you are to me, for having no f***ing morals.'
A self-described Swiftie wrote that she hoped Taylor Swift, who endorsed Vice President Kamala Harris in September, will stop wearing Oscar de la Renta.
The Oscar de la Renta brand, which shares the name of the late Dominican fashion designer who founded the company, has a long history of dressing First Ladies. 
De La Renta, who died in 2014, shot to fame when he dressed Jackie Kennedy. He also made outfits for Hillary Clinton, Laura Bush and Nancy Reagan.
Nonetheless, people flooded the fashion house's Instagram page to bash them for designing evening wear for the ladies closest to Trump and Vance.
Some of the most popular comments on the post showing off Ivanka's dress went so far as to slam the Oscar de la Renta fashion house as supporting 'fascism' and invoked Hitler's regime in their vitriol.
'Fascism - but make it Fashion,' read one of the most popular comments underneath the post.
'Just like it happened during the rise of Nazis, the big brands once again support the evil in the name of higher profits,' another wrote.
'Boot licking is never in season,' a third wrote.
'Always have loved. Sad to be done with [Oscar de la Renta]. I don't support brands that support fascists,' a fourth wrote.
Trump's other female family members got glammed up this weekend in preparation for him taking the oath of office a second time.
Kai Trump, the president-elect's granddaughter, and Tiffany Trump, his youngest daughter, both looked their best for various events held around Washington D.C. 
At Sunday's soiree, Trump took the time to make an addresses from a podium where he revealed how Republican senators had been very understanding about his choices for his Cabinet positions.
He also criticized the Biden administration, summing up his single term in office as a failure.
Trump also said he would be signing close 'close to 100' executive orders on Monday.
'We will not waste a single moment in delivering on our promises to the people,' he said.
One of those is expected to be a decree that will temporarily lift the ban on TikTok so its Chinese owner ByteDance can have more time to divest. 
Specifically, Trump wants an American company or companies to have a 50 percent stake in the app, according to his post on Truth Social.
TikTok went dark on Saturday night for American users after the law banning its existence officially took effect. Service was restored the next day after Trump's public statements promising to not to enforce the law's financial penalties.
Trump is preparing for a whirlwind first day back in office, promising to waste no time delivering on his bold campaign promises.
In a high-energy rally held at the Capital One Arena in Washington D.C., on Sunday night, Trump outlined his ambitious plans to sign an unprecedented 200 executive orders on his very first day. 
These actions, according to Trump, will focus on bolstering border security, reducing energy costs, lowering the cost of living, and dismantling diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) programs across the federal government.
Taking the stage to Lee Greenwood's patriotic anthem God Bless the U.S.A., Trump electrified the crowd with his fiery rhetoric and triumphant tone. 
'We won,' he declared to thunderous applause as he laid out his vision for what he described as the most transformative first days of a presidency in modern history.
Trump made his intentions for immigration policy abundantly clear, warning migrants to stay away from the southern border and promising a record-breaking deportation campaign.
During the campaign, he promised to 'launch the largest deportation program of criminals in the history of America' on day one.
'These are rough people [coming over the border] and they're getting the hell out of our country - they're out,' Trump said Sunday night.
He continued: 'The border security measures I will outline in my inaugural address tomorrow will be the most aggressive, sweeping effort to restore our borders that the world has ever seen.'
'Welcome to MAGAland: Trump's Second 100 Days' is the new politics podcast bringing you the latest news and gossip from Trump insiders. New episodes every Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Follow wherever you get your podcasts now. 

Load-Date: January 20, 2025


End of Document
