




MailOnline
January 20, 2025 Monday 3:16 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:7
Length: 1423 words
Byline: James Gordon For Dailymail.com Katelyn Caralle, Senior U.S. Political Reporter
Body


                     Ivanka Trump looked stunning in a custom Oscar de la Renta gown on Sunday night as her father held a candlelight dinner at the National Building Museum in Washington D.C.
President-elect Donald Trump's eldest daughter could be seen with some of her father's most loyal and wealthy supporters just hours ahead of his inauguration to be the 47th president. 
Ivanka rubbed shoulders with Elon Musk and Amazon founder Jeff Bezos. At one point, cameras caught her hugging Bezos' fiancée, Lauren Sanchez.
The fashion company described Ivanka's custom dress as a custom off-shoulder crystal and pearl floral-embroidered empire waist gown with silver stole. 
Her brother, Donald Trump Jr., was at the soiree with his girlfriend Bettina Anderson. His ex Kimberly Guilfoyle also attended.
Vice President-elect JD Vance was seen alongside his wife Usha Vance, also wearing Oscar de la Renta. Usha wore a custom noir velvet gown with asymmetric floral accents and a sweetheart neckline.
Trump took the time to make an address from a podium where he revealed how Republican senators had been very understanding about his choices for his Cabinet positions.
The president-elect also criticized the Biden administration summing up his term in office as a failure. 
Trump also said he would be signing close 'close to 100' executive orders tomorrow.
'We will not waste a single moment in delivering on our promises to the people,' he said.
Trump is preparing for a whirlwind first day back in office, promising to waste no time delivering on his bold campaign promises.
In a high-energy rally held at the Capital One Arena in Washington, D.C., on Sunday night, the president-elect outlined his ambitious plans to sign an unprecedented 200 executive orders on his very first day. 
These actions, according to Trump, will focus on bolstering border security, reducing energy costs, lowering the cost of living, and dismantling diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) programs across the federal government.
Taking the stage to Lee Greenwood's patriotic anthem God Bless the U.S.A., Trump electrified the crowd with his fiery rhetoric and triumphant tone. 
'We won,' he declared to thunderous applause as he laid out his vision for what he described as the most transformative first days of a presidency in modern history.
Trump made his intentions for immigration policy abundantly clear, warning migrants to stay away from the southern border and promising a record-breaking deportation campaign. 
'These are rough people [coming over the border], and they're getting the hell out of our country - they're out,' he asserted. 
He further revealed that the measures he will outline during his inaugural address will be 'the most aggressive, sweeping effort to restore our borders that the world has ever seen.'
The rally served as a precursor to Trump's historic inauguration, energizing supporters with a glimpse of the decisive action and unapologetic leadership he promised to deliver as he takes the oath of office.
During Sunday's rally, Trump mentioned the aggressive number of executive orders he plans to carry out right away.
'Somebody said yesterday, 'Sir, don't sign so many [executive orders] in one day... let's do it over a period of weeks.' I said, 'Like hell we're going to do it over weeks, we're going to sign them at the beginning.'
'We'll have plenty to sign in the future, don't worry about it. it's not going to stop.'
The Sunday evening rally is his last before being sworn-in for a second time.
And despite rain, sleet and freezing conditions, thousands waited outside all day just for a chance to see Trump in person one more time before becoming he's president again.
Once inside, rally goers were dazzled with a stacked line-up of performers and speakers, including pro-MAGA musician Kid Rock, who opened the night by performing a small set of songs including his 2007 hit All Summer Long before his anti-Democrat anthem We The People, which includes lyrics 'Let's Go Brandon,' code for 'f*** Joe Biden.'
Trump's two oldest sons Don Jr. and Eric, along with his wife Lara, came out on stage with a few of their kids in tow.
Eric and Lara's two young children, Carolina and Luke, wanted to recite the Pledge of Allegiance for the crowd, which Eric says they do every night.
Don Jr., meanwhile, was joined by his oldest kid Kai, 17, after she became much more involved with the campaign over the summer when she spoke at the Republican National Convention.
Billy Ray Cyrus also had a slot on stage along with the Liberty University Choir, which performed a tribute to the rally goer killed in Butler, Pennsylvania during the assassination attempt on Trump.
The Village People closed out the rally with Trump's favorite pump up song Y.M.C.A., as the president-elect stood on stage and broke out his signature low-first-pumping dance moves.
While rehearsing on stage as the audience filtered in, country music and television star Billy Ray Cyrus, 63, played his hit Old Town Road and riffed with crowd members about his time on Hannah Montana with his daughter Miley Cyrus.
'We're picking back up from 2016, how things were supposed to be,' Cyrus said to cheers. 'That's why I keep singing Old Town Road. One more time, President Trump.'
Pre-program Speakers included actor Jon Voight, UFC President Dana White and former Fox News anchor-turned-conservative-podcaster Megyn Kelly.
Voight spoke about his 'friend' and 'hero' Trump as he made his rally stage debut on Sunday.
One of the entertainment industry's most prominent Republicans was tapped alongside Sylvester Stallone and Mel Gibson - two other Trump-aligned celebrities - to serve as 'Special Ambassadors to Hollywood' in the incoming administration.
Stallone was at Trump's rally on Sunday.
Capital One Arena in downtown Washington, D.C. has a capacity of more than 20,000 people - but it was not completely filled. 
Approximately a half to one-third of the upper deck was empty because those waiting in line outside the arena were cut-off by security.
The arena - home to the NHL Washington Capitals and NBA Washington Wizards - will also serve as a viewing location for the official inauguration on Monday after the swearing-in was moved inside the Capitol Rotunda due to dangerous low temperatures.
Trump flew into D.C. on Saturday and attended a fireworks show and welcome ceremony at his golf course in Sterling, Virginia amid a flurry of inaugural balls taking place across Washington, D.C.
Before the rally on Sunday afternoon, Trump, first lady Melania, J.D. Vance and wife Usha Vance attended a wreath laying ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier at Arlington National Cemetery in the ice-rain mixture.
Trump's eldest daughter Ivanka attended the ceremony, and stood off to the side with her children while National Security Advisor-designate Mike Waltz followed alongside Trump and Vance.
Ivanka shared several photos of herself and husband Jared Kushner, along with their three children, Arabella, 13, Joseph, 11, and Theodore, eight.
In one happy snap, the family pose alongside patriarch Trump, who is grinning from ear to ear.
And Trump's 17-year-old granddaughter Kai, who rocketed to stardom in 2024 with appearances at campaign events alongside her family, has shared several key moments on her social media.
The teen golf sensation shared a video in a glittering Sherri Hill dress on Sunday night, singing along to a song by Alessia Cara with the lyrics: 'Ask myself what am I doing here?'
Ivanka shared photos on her Instagram stories of her and her family arrived in Washington DC via private jet.
The family of five walked down the steps of the plane with the two youngest boys in matching tan coats.
They were all smiles upon their return to the capital, after Ivanka, who served as an adviser to Trump in his first term, revealed she won't be quite so involved in politics this time around.
Instead, she hopes to just be her father's emotional support person during this presidential cycle.
'I hate politics,' she confessed. 'I went through years of craziness.'
'It's the world's loneliest position, the enormity of the decisions you're making on a daily basis, how transactional everyone is with you.'
But Ivanka speaks to her father nearly every day and is likely to be an influence behind-the-scenes even without a formal title.
'I'm most looking forward to just being able to show up for him as a daughter and be there for him, to take his mind off things and like watch a movie with him or watch a sports game, to know that he can be with me and be himself, and just relax.'

Load-Date: January 20, 2025


End of Document
