




MailOnline
February 19, 2025 Wednesday 3:11 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:4
Length: 625 words
Byline: Stephen M. Lepore For Dailymail.Com
Body


                     Jack Schlossberg told Elon Musk's Department of Government Efficiency to 'eat s***' after John F. Kennedy's presidential library was abruptly closed. 
The grandson of JFK posted a video of himself delivering a short rant on social media after the library and museum shut down at around 2pm on Tuesday. 
'Due to an Executive Order concerning a 'reduction in force (RIF),' the JFK Library and Museum will be closed to the public until further notice,' read a note taped to the front door of the building.
The library effectively blamed Donald Trump and 'First Buddy' Musk's DOGE, which claims to have cut $55 billion worth of wasted taxpayer-wasted funds. 
Schlossberg, Kennedy's often viral grandson, told DOGE to 'eat s***' and expressed his outrage while tagging Musk, and Trump for allegedly shutting down the library.
'Hey, it's Jack. I'm OK, but our country is not. It's under attack from its own government,' he wrote following concerns he was 'having a breakdown' after briefly disappearing his social media accounts. 
The Kennedy heir accused Trump and Musk of 'using propaganda to steal the past' and his family legacy.
'JFK sent a man to the moon but you'd never know it if the JFK Library wasn't open and no one was allowed to talk about it.'
He continued: 'It's time to speak out and resist what's happening. If you're not doing that, you're not helping.' 
Schlossberg sent out a bleak warning for those who refused to join him in speaking out against Trump and Musk.
'The darkest places in Hell are reserved for those who, in times of great moral crisis, maintain their neutrality,' he said, bizarrely citing Dante's Inferno.
The library opened in August of 1977 to inform people about the president's life and legacy. 
'The sudden dismissal of federal employees at the JFK Library forced the museum to close today,' a statement from the foundation read. 
'As the Foundation that supports the JFK Library, we are devastated by this news and will continue to support our colleagues and the Library.'
However, the National Archives confirmed that the closing was only temporary.
The library 'will be open tomorrow, and the National Archives staff looks forward to welcoming guests, visitors, and researchers,' it said in a statement. 
                     The Department of Government Efficiency revealed Tuesday that President Donald Trump has saved taxpayers a staggering $55 billion in less than a month. 
DOGE claims the savings were found through a combination of detecting and deleting fraud, canceling contracts and leases, and selling assets.
The group - nicknamed the 'nerd army' - also ended grants, fired federal employees, changed some programs, and saved money with regulatory reforms.
'DOGE's total estimated savings are $55 billion,' read a message on the official doge.gov website, citing data since February 17. 
It said users of the website could expect updates twice a week, promising additional information and improvements with time.
The savings were mostly made in the US Agency For International Development (USAID), the Department of Education, the Office of Personnel Management, the Department of Health and Human Services, and the Department of Agriculture. 
Savings listed on the website features millions of dollars in canceled contracts for diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) training as well as ending subscriptions for Politico and other news organizations.
                     Elon Musk and DOGE's efforts to reduce government waste continue to capture the headlines as Democrats and government workers are protesting in the streets about the cuts.
Trump has defended Musk's efforts, telling Fox News host Sean Hannity that they talk frequently about the efforts by Democrats and the media to drive them apart.

Load-Date: February 19, 2025


End of Document
