




The Independent (United Kingdom)
February 3, 2025 Monday 10:20 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Independent Print Ltd  All Rights Reserved


Section: ENTERTAINMENT: LATEST
Length: 522 words
Byline: Amber Raiken
Body


Janelle Monáe blasted  for performing at  last month. 
The 39-year-old rapper criticized Nelly  afterparty in Los Angeles on Sunday, according to a video of the event obtained by TMZ. At the party, she and Anderson .Paak were performing Nelly's song, "Hot in Herre." 
However, Monáe decided to change up the lyrics a bit to insult Nelly for supporting Trump. 
"F*** Nelly!" she shouted, as shown in the video posted by the publication . She went on to rap: "I used to like Nelly, but then he went to perform for ."
Her remark came after the President and the private sector. 
"I care about women. I care about Hispanics," Monáe - who performed during Quincy Jones' tribute event at the  on Sunday - continued. "Nelly, you sold out. I used to think he was cool, but now you look like a motherf***ing fool." 
The "I Like That" singer concluded with: "F*** you, you get a new attitude."
On January 20, Nelly was one of the many famous faces who performed at the Liberty Ball. Two days later, the singer addressed the backlash he faced for agreeing to do this show. 
"We tend to sometimes make a quick... response to something that on the surface may seem f***ed up because we don't agree..." he said during an . "I'm not political. I'm not out here trying to tell anyone who they should vote for. This is not a campaign trail."
He also urged fans to do their own research before jumping to conclusions, adding: "I'm clueless on a lot of things when it gets down to it. So what I tend to say is, yo, do your homework and make your own decisions about it."
 roasted  at a  after-party in L.A. Sunday night, blasting him for recently performing at 's inauguration  Details here:  
- TMZ (@TMZ)

He then encouraged his fans to "respect the office," claiming the election wasn't about "politics" for him since Trump had already won the election. 
"He's the president, he's the commander-in-chief. What I would like to say is that this is the best country in the world," Nelly concluded. 
During the Grammys, Alicia Keys also hit back at Trump's policies, as she defended diversity initiatives. 
"This is not the time to shut down the diversity of voices," she told the crowd, as she took the stage to accept . "We've seen on this stage talented, hardworking people from different backgrounds with different points of view, and it changes the game. DEI is not a threat, it's a gift."
While Trump's orders have been celebrated by some supporters, they have been criticized by advocacy groups who say they might deepen inequities and undo decades of progress made to enshrine civil rights protections for marginalized groups.
However, on Thursday (January 30), Trump

Load-Date: February 4, 2025


End of Document
