




USA Today Online
February 3, 2025 6:00 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Section: ENTERTAINMENT: LATEST
Length: 475 words
Byline: Anna Kaufman, USA TODAY
Body


Separating art from artist? Not on  watch.
During a rendition of "Hot in Herre" by Nelly at a Grammys afterparty with ,  blasted the rapper for performing at 
In an expletive-laced remix of the lyrics,  accused Nelly of having "sold out" and calling him a "fool."
USA TODAY has reached out to reps for both artists for comment.

"I used to like Nelly, but then he went to perform for Donald Trump," the singer free-styled over the "Hot in Herre" beat. 
"I care about women, I care about Hispanics," she continued, "I might be a little tipsy but I know everything I'm (expletive) saying." Monáe, who performed during the  at Sunday night's ceremony, has long been politically outspoken.
The singer appeared , a mass demonstration in support of female liberation that took place after Trump's first inauguration in 2017. At the event, she spoke out against police brutality and state killings of Black men. 
 impromptu diss track took aim at . In January, the rapper was one of several artists featured at an inauguration ball for newly-minted president.
While the choice received plenty of backlash, Nelly maintained that he was not endorsing Trump's politics. 

In with Willie D last month, the 50-year-old rapper  against backlash, saying: "I respect the office. This isn't politics. The politics, for me, it's over. He won. He's the president. He's the commander-in-chief of what I would like to say is the best country in the world."
While many artists have shied away from supporting Trump, Nelly joined a small cadre of performers who accepted invites to sing at various balls following his swearing-in.
Other artists included  and 
"If President Biden would have asked me to perform, I would have performed. If  would have won and asked me to perform, I would have performed," Nelly said of his decision. 
Monáe's afterparty performance followed a politically tinged evening. Amid attacks from the Trump administration against immigrants and transgender Americans, stars  and  spoke out in support of the communities.
In a stirring speech,  celebrated diversity, subtly shading the Trump administration's crackdown on 
"This is not the time to shut down the diversity of voices," Keys said. "We've seen on this stage talented, hardworking people from different backgrounds with different points of view, and it changes the game. DEI is not a threat, it's a gift."
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: February 4, 2025


End of Document
