




MailOnline
January 24, 2025 Friday 1:57 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: SHOWBIZ; Version:5
Length: 777 words
Byline: Geraint Llewellyn For Mailonline
Body


Have YOU got a story? Email 
                     Jessica Alves has revealed she has been forced to cancel all upcoming US TV appearances over 'fears for her own safety' following Donald Trump's inauguration. 
The Brazilian TV star, 41, who is transgender and a British Citizen, said she would not feel comfortable speaking about LBGTQ+ issues in the country's current climate of 'fear and uncertainty'.
Following his inauguration president Trump signed an executive order as he the US would only recognise two sexes - male and female - which are 'not changeable', and demanded officials use the term 'sex' rather than 'gender'.
In an emotional statement shared Instagram Stories Jessica explained the rulings would directly effect many of her friend and colleagues across the pond.
She penned: 'It is with a heavy heart that I have taken the decision to cancel my upcoming television appearances in the United States. I have been closely following events since the inauguration of Donald Trump as President, and I am horrified by the steps that are being taken to marginalise minorities'. 
'The attacks by the new administration on transgender people in particular has a direct effect on so many of my colleagues and friends. 
She continued: 'I would not feel comfortable appearing on television speaking out about LBGTQIA+ issues in a climate of fear and uncertainty. I would fear for my own safety and security, as a visitor'.
'The new immigration and birthright policies are an attack on particularly those from Latin America, such as myself and so many dear friends. I love the United States and the American people, and have always considered the US to be a beacon of hope for those anxious to build a future for themselves and their families'. 
'I am deeply saddened by the emergence of intolerance and bigotry, such as the attacks on diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) programmes, initiatives and the staff involved in them. We are now seeing this mirrored by big corporations such as Amazon who have been given the green light to abandon their own DEI initiatives'.
Before adding: 'I sincerely hope that eventually there will be a re-emergence of tolerance of others that I believe lies in deep in the culture of the United States'.
During his inaugural address, Trump made the official declaration that there are only two genders amid promises to rename the Gulf of Mexico, end 'America's decline' and repel the 'invasion' of migrations at the southern border.
'As of today, it will henceforth be the official policy of the United States government that there are only two genders - male and female,' he said, prompting a standing ovation from within the Capitol Rotunda.
Trump reiterated and expanded on that sentiment in an executive order he signed on Inauguration Day titled: 'Defending Women From Gender Ideology Extremism and Restoring Biological Truth to the Federal Government.'
'It is the policy of the United States to recognize two sexes, male and female. These sexes are not changeable and are grounded in fundamental and incontrovertible reality,' the order read.
It comes after Caitlyn Jenner, one of the most recognisable transgender women in the world, was brutally mocked for supporting Trump even after he signed an executive order recognising only two genders.
Taking to X she wrote: 'Congratulations Mr. President. Thanks be to God!' 
The backlash was swift, with many people calling her 'Bruce', calling her a hypocrite for supporting a man who is so opposed to her community, and replying with pictures of her before she transitioned.
'So Bruce how does it feel now that Trump signed an executive order that there are only two immutable genders, and your gender will need to be reflected accurately,' one person wrote. 'How's it feel to be a guy again?'
'Sure, whatever. He just EO'd you back to Bruce,' another replied with a picture attached of Jenner from the 1990s, years before she underwent her transition in 2015.
'You got about half an hour left as ma'am and it's back to sir for you Bruce,' a third wrote in response.
A fourth simply replied: 'You're a disgrace to your entire community.' 
Jenner also made a series of Instagram posts on Inauguration Day. In one, she declared she was 'happier than ever' supporting Trump. 
That post was similarly full of derisive comments attacking the former Olympian and one-time gold medalist.
She later posted a picture of herself outside the Starlight Inaugural Ball, alongside Attorney General nominee Pam Bondi, Trump lawyer Alina Habba, Jeanine Pirro and longtime friend Sophia Hutchins.
This post had comments restricted, preventing an influx of abuse which she is experiencing on X. 

Load-Date: January 24, 2025


End of Document
