




The Independent (United Kingdom)
February 20, 2025 Thursday 2:55 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Independent Print Ltd  All Rights Reserved


Length: 389 words
Byline: Ariana Baio
Body


Fox News host  implored people to be "a little bit less callous" when speaking about the people facing job cuts at the Department of Government Efficiency as he sympathized with a friend working at the  anticipating being laid off. 
Watters, who previously championed Musk's task of , deviated from his usual rhetoric blindly backing  during  saying, "I finally found one person I knew who got DOGE'd and hit me in the heart."
He asked his colleagues to "be a little bit less callous" when talking "about DOGE-ing people" because he knows someone who may lose their job. 
The Fox News host said a veteran he met last year, named Chris, started working for the Pentagon a few months ago and learned that 
"He texted me and he said, 'Hey Jesse, this isn't good. I'm upset. This is really sad.'" Watters said. 
"This guy's not a [diversity, equity and inclusion] consultant, he's not a climate consultant. This guy is a veteran. So when you're talking about DOGE-ing people, veterans should get priority," Watters added. 
DOGE officials were at the Pentagon Tuesday to receive lists of probationary employees who could be at risk of being let go,  Non-uniformed personnel who are new to their jobs are among those first on the list of being axed. 
Musk and his team seek to make drastic cuts to federal spending and identify what they believe are "waste, fraud and abuse" to make the government more efficient and help direct spending toward President Donald Trump's agenda. 
One method of doing so is going into federal agencies or departments and firing employees who do not align with Trump's agenda - 
  and said he and Trump were "inspiring every American leader to set their standards sky-high."
But after hearing from his Pentagon friend, Watters insinuated people should be more sympathetic when speaking about impacted employees. 
The Fox News host then quickly pivoted back to cheering on DOGE, suggesting the team should make bigger cuts to programs in order to save more money 

Load-Date: February 20, 2025


End of Document
