




MailOnline
February 26, 2025 Wednesday 3:34 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: SHOWBIZ; Version:1
Length: 625 words
Byline: Rebecca Lawrence For Mailonline
Body


                     Jessica Alves ensured she'd turn heads as she showed off her eye-popping curves and her new hair extensions after visiting Neto salon in Marylebone. 
The TV personality, 41, left her glossy blonde locks blow in the wind as she strutted out of the hairdresser in a vibrant all-pink look. 
She showed off her hourglass curves in a skintight catsuit that was worn partially unzipped to showcase her ample cleavage. 
Layering up, Jessica donned a fluffy jacket, while she accessorised with a Balmain handbag worth £1,850. 
She completed her look with patent pink heels and sparkling diamond rings. 
While Jessica may have been glad to get her hair done in her trusted salon, she had planned to be in America. 
However, Jessica revealed that she had been forced to cancel all upcoming US TV appearances over 'fears for her own safety' following Donald Trump's inauguration. 
The Brazilian TV star, 41, who is transgender and a British Citizen, said she would not feel comfortable speaking about LBGTQ+ issues in the country's current climate of 'fear and uncertainty'.
Following his inauguration president Trump signed an executive order as he the US would only recognise two sexes - male and female - which are 'not changeable', and demanded officials use the term 'sex' rather than 'gender'.
In an emotional statement shared Instagram Stories Jessica explained the rulings would directly effect many of her friend and colleagues across the pond.
She penned: 'It is with a heavy heart that I have taken the decision to cancel my upcoming television appearances in the United States. I have been closely following events since the inauguration of Donald Trump as President, and I am horrified by the steps that are being taken to marginalise minorities'. 
'The attacks by the new administration on transgender people in particular has a direct effect on so many of my colleagues and friends. 
She continued: 'I would not feel comfortable appearing on television speaking out about LBGTQIA+ issues in a climate of fear and uncertainty. I would fear for my own safety and security, as a visitor'.
'The new immigration and birthright policies are an attack on particularly those from Latin America, such as myself and so many dear friends. I love the United States and the American people, and have always considered the US to be a beacon of hope for those anxious to build a future for themselves and their families'. 
'I am deeply saddened by the emergence of intolerance and bigotry, such as the attacks on diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) programmes, initiatives and the staff involved in them. We are now seeing this mirrored by big corporations such as Amazon who have been given the green light to abandon their own DEI initiatives'.
Before adding: 'I sincerely hope that eventually there will be a re-emergence of tolerance of others that I believe lies in deep in the culture of the United States'.
During his inaugural address, Trump made the official declaration that there are only two genders amid promises to rename the Gulf of Mexico, end 'America's decline' and repel the 'invasion' of migrations at the southern border.
'As of today, it will henceforth be the official policy of the United States government that there are only two genders - male and female,' he said, prompting a standing ovation from within the Capitol Rotunda.
Trump reiterated and expanded on that sentiment in an executive order he signed on Inauguration Day titled: 'Defending Women From Gender Ideology Extremism and Restoring Biological Truth to the Federal Government.'
'It is the policy of the United States to recognize two sexes, male and female. These sexes are not changeable and are grounded in fundamental and incontrovertible reality,' the order read.

Load-Date: February 26, 2025


End of Document
