




Newsweek.com
February 18, 2025 Tuesday 5:38 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 901 words
Byline: Monica Sager
Highlight: John F. Kennedy Library Foundation posted to its social media pages that it is closing without further explanation.
Body


In a post to social media, the John F. Kennedy Library Foundation, located outside of Boston, announced it would be "closed until further notice," in a move that seemingly relates to President Donald Trump's executive orders.
Newsweek reached out to the John F. Kennedy Library Foundation over phone and email.
Why It Matters
On January 27, the acting director of the OMB, Matthew Vaeth, issued a memo titled "Temporary Pause of Agency, Grant, Loan and Other Financial Assistance Programs," which required federal agencies to temporarily pause "all activities related to obligation or disbursement of all Federal financial assistance, and other relevant agency activities that may be implicated by [President 's] executive orders, including, but not limited to, financial assistance for foreign aid, nongovernmental organizations, DEI, woke gender ideology, and the green new deal."
In 2021, the U.S. government provided nearly $1.3 trillion to state and local governments through federal grants, according to USAFacts.
Trump's administration is also targeting the federal workforce to cut back on costs, and employees within their probationary period may be the first to go. Most people who work at presidential libraries are federal employees.
What To Know
Five employees at the John F. Kennedy Library Foundation were laid off on Tuesday, according to local GBH News.
The Foundation posted to its social media platforms that it is closed "until further notice" without any additional information. People originally commented about "DOGE coming for" the library, but comments have seemingly been deleted once Newsweek returned to the  post later.
Another person posted to X, formerly , that they "just had to leave from the JFK library because of Trump's executive orders. Workers putting up signs as we left."
The signs are not fully visible in the pictures, but a man is seen taping paper to doors and windows.
Trump's Department of Government Efficiency has been looking to slash government spending, offering  to provide eight months of severance pay for voluntary resignations.
As the presidential libraries are part of the National Archives and Records Administration, most people who work at the libraries are federal employees. Some presidential libraries may also have non-federal staff, especially if there is a separate foundation or nonprofit associated with it.
A source told  News that the John F. Kennedy Library Foundation is closed indefinitely due to federal job cuts.
People who , or within the first one or two years of their job, are facing uncertainties around their employment due to the Trump administrative cuts.
Probationary firings have already . last Thursday that it had dismissed more than 1,000 employees, including probationary employees who had worked at the agency for less than two years. On the same day, dozens of probationary workers at the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) were told they would be dismissed, according to the Associated Press.
OPM, though, did suggest that agencies  who are still on probation, as a senior official previously told Newsweek.
Other departments like the Small Business Administration, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention () and the Department of Energy have also seen cuts.
Federal Funding
In addition, the federal grant freeze has affected multiple agencies,  For libraries, the action affects the Institute of Museum and Library Services, which provides funding to the institutions, including the presidential libraries.
The White House did move to withdraw the order after a case wound up in court against the administration, but that still does not halt the intended freezing of money. It does, however, end the federal injunction.
During Trump's first term in office, his administration had proposed a permanent elimination of the Institute of Museum and Library Services from the federal budget.
According to the JFK Library, which is located in Dorchester, the institution receives "an annual federal appropriation for building maintenance and a portion of its personnel costs" from . Majority of the 1979 library's budget comes from admission fees and donations.
What People Are Saying
A source told GBH News: "Without them (the five employees who were laid off), we are unable to stay open. It has been chaotic and we are seeking clarity."
Everylibrary in a statement: "Federal funding for libraries, museums, and archives is guaranteed each year by Congress and authorized under law. The Trump Administration's January 27th "pause" on distributing federal grant funding to authorized recipients will negatively impact those institutions and their communities"
American Library Association President Cindy Hohl in a statement: "If you love libraries, please help the American Library Association protect them."
What Happens Next
It is not immediately clear when the John F. Kennedy Library Foundation will reopen.
The American Library Association launched a new supporter program on February 10 to encourage the public to "join the fight to protect libraries and library professionals at a pivotal moment in our country's history."


Graphic

 
JFK Library
Photo by Darren McCollester/Getty Images
The coffin of U.S. Senator Edward M. Kennedy is carried into the John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum August 27, 2009 in Boston, Massachusetts.

Load-Date: February 18, 2025


End of Document
