




MailOnline
February 11, 2025 Tuesday 3:38 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:3
Length: 1289 words
Byline: Emma Richter For Dailymail.Com
Body


PODCAST: Listen to Welcome to MAGAland - our new podcast revealing all the latest politics news and gossip
                     Joe Rogan claims former President Joe Biden diverted Americans from noticing 'inappropriate spending,' and that the Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) is cracking down. 
The podcaster, 57, sat down with comedian Bridget Phetasy on his show 'The Joe Rogan Experience' on Monday as the pair discussed the 'beach balls' Biden 'tossed around' during his time in office.
                     Since Donald Trump returned to the White House on January 20, Elon Musk, who he appointed as the head of DOGE, has been uncovering and dismantling projects that have been funded by billions of US taxpayers' dollars. 
'It's not just the money being spent, it's what it's being spent for and what's going on, which is an enormous propaganda machine,' Rogan, a Trump ally, said. 
'This is why Trump won the election. People don't really believe in these things. The amount of people that think that transgender biological males should be competing against your daughter in sports is so f**king small, but yet, our own government was propping it up. 
'And why are they propping it up? Because it's a f**king beach ball at a concert, you keep tossing it up in the air and everybody gets distracted,' he explained, referring to social issues like gay marriage, abortion and transgender rights. 
'As long as you can keep a few things going. Here's the things you ought to keep going: Abortion, right? Overturning Roe V. Wade is so good for business because now it's like a battle, the battle grounds, and women's rights and their lives are at stake. 
'Gay marriage - that's a huge one. They're gonna take away gay marriage, oh my God, bounce that f**king beach ball,' Rogan continued as he raised his hands above his head, simulating a ball being thrown in the air. 
Rogan also discussed with the comedian that for the past 'eight to 10 years,' the 'left-wing narrative' has been filled with 'propaganda funded by our own government.' 
'That's right!,' Phetsay said as she laughed. 
He went on to give an example of Biden 'tossing around beach balls every now and again,' in an effort to distract Americans while his administration was 'siphoning billions of dollars.' 
'Zelenskyy just said he's missing $100 billion out of the $177 billion that we supposedly sent there [Ukraine],' he said. 
In a recent interview with the Associated Press, Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, said his country received only some of the money promised to him by Biden as the war continues between Ukraine and Russia. 
'When they say that Ukraine received 200 billion during the war to support the army and so on, this is not true. I do not know where all this money is,' Zelenskyy said. 
Phetsay agreed with Rogan after mentioning the reported missing money sent to Ukraine. 
'It's crazy! Americans give a lot of their hard-earned money because they are actually kind-hearted and want to donate to countries. And then you find out [the money is going to] some trans performance. There is a lot of nonsense,' she said. 
'A lot of nonsense in the tunes of hundreds of millions of dollars,' Rogan responded. 
On Tuesday, DOGE continued its purge of agencies spending loads of money on programs across the country. 
Trump's Department of Homeland Security fired the officials and agents in charge of finances at FEMA after it was revealed that the agency paid $59 million to luxury hotels in New York City to house illegal immigrants.
FEMA's Chief Financial Officer Mary Comans lost her job and three others involved in the disbursement of the funds also lost their jobs, a DHS official disclosed to DailyMail.com.
'Effective immediately, FEMA is terminating the employment of four individuals for circumventing leadership to unilaterally make egregious payments for luxury NYC hotels for migrants,' Assistant DHS Secretary Tricia McLaughlin said in a statement.
'Firings include FEMA's Chief Financial Officer, two program analysts and a grant specialist,' she noted.
Comans and her team are arguably the most powerful group at FEMA as they control its billions in funding.
Musk also terminated a multi-million dollar virtual reality project that taught soldiers how to have 'difficult conversations,' DailyMail.com first reported. 
The Air Force and Space Force were doling out millions for a training program not to better enhance soldiers' fighting capability, but to 'help grow inclusive-minded leaders.'
It was a priority for military officials under former President Joe Biden to address 'unconscious bias' in the military ranks and create a more 'inclusive' force, according to a White House memo.
The Air Force's Air Education and Training Command handed out a staggering $2.3 million contract to create a virtual reality experience where soldiers would deal with an avatar that would help them speak and act in a DEI-friendly way. 
Last week, the Tesla CEO unleashed an army of handpicked baby-faced men with little-to-no government experience to help him dismantle America's foreign aid agency -USAID.
Besides targeting frivolous spending, DOGE also ended life-saving HIV care that's essential to global health and safety. 
The US is by far the world's largest donor of humanitarian aid, with USAID administering billions of dollars in humanitarian, development and security assistance in more than 100 countries.
USAID funding goes to programs on everything from women's health in conflict zones to access to clean water, HIV/AIDS treatments, energy security and anti-corruption work.
At just 19, Edward Coristine is the youngest of the fresh-faced bunch taking on corporate America and longstanding government institutions.
According to WIRED, he's been dubbed an 'expert' in his field, and specifics about his role aren't yet clear.
Akash Bobba, 21, Ethan Shaotran, 22, and Luke Farritor, 23, along with Coristine, have reportedly been granted A-suite level clearance for their work, meaning they can work out of the agency's top floor with access to all physical spaces and IT systems.
Musk's DOGE has been rapidly growing in power and expanding its remit, most recently securing clearance to access to restricted parts of the General Services Administration buildings and IT systems.
These systems store sensitive data including social security numbers, addresses and contact information.
On Saturday, a New York judge temporarily halted DOGE from accessing the US Treasury's payment system.
District Judge Paul A. Engelmayer of the Southern District of New York granted a restraining order against the US Treasury Department and President Donald Trump after 19 states, including New York, who filed the request, demanded it.
The emergency restraining order commanded the immediate halt of giving access to Treasury information outside of those employed with the department.
On Tuesday,US District Judge Jeannette Vargas in Manhattan granted Secretary Scott Bessent access to the US Treasury Department's payment data, but DOGE remains locked out, Bloomberg reported. 
While Musk and his team have been trying to uncover the country's spending habits, Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth was scrutinized on Friday for allegedly spending approximately $50,000 for an 'emergency' paint job on his government- owned home. 
Fox News national security correspondent Jennifer Griffin, 56, posted a letter sent to Hegseth from Democrats on the House Appropriations Committee, which asked the government official to explain why he required more than $130,000 for maintenance work on his government-furnished house.
Hours after the document was posted to X, Hegseth aggressively pushed back on the report saying it was 'fake news,' alongside the claim Griffin 'hates Trump.' 

Load-Date: February 11, 2025


End of Document
