




The Daily Caller
February 21, 2025 Friday 03:52 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: DAILY-CALLER-NEWS-FOUNDATION; media
Length: 580 words
Byline: Nicole Silverio, Media Reporter, 
Body



MSNBC host Joe Scarborough baselessly argued Friday that Republicans did not vote for President Donald Trump to cut wasteful government spending.
The Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) reportedly  $55 billion in federal spending by conducting mass layoffs in federal agencies, dismantling the U.S. Agency of International Development (USAID) for pouring billions into left-wing causes abroad and cutting programs deemed unnecessary. Though Trump campaigned on eliminating government waste, Scarborough claimed Republican voters did not cast their ballots for Trump in order for several agencies to be downsized.
“[T]his idea that Republicans, all Republicans want a guy wielding a chainsaw and just slashing [National Institute of Health] budgets, slashing USAID budgets or some of us who are very proud of what [former President] George W. Bush did with PEPFAR, saving 25 million lives in Africa, slashing [the Federal Aviation Agency], slashing [Transportation Security Administration], I'm sorry I'll just say it, that's not what a lot of Republicans voted for Donald Trump for,” Scarborough said. 
WATCH:
A majority of Republican voters, 58%, expressed support for DOGE in an Associated Press/NORC Center for Public Affairs Research  from Jan. 24. The survey found that 29% of overall Americans supported DOGE, while 11% of Democrats support the newly formed agency.
A CBS/YouGov  from Feb. 9 found that 74% of Republicans believe Elon Musk and DOGE should have influence over government operations and spending, while 69% of Democrats believe otherwise. The survey sampled 2,175 U.S. adults between Feb. 5-7 with a margin of error of 2.5 points.
Trump not only campaigned on eliminating government waste but made it well known that Musk would serve in his administration. He  an executive order on Jan. 20 to establish DOGE, where Musk serves as a top adviser.
DOGE dismantled the USAID on Feb. 3 after it discovered that the agency handed over a $2 million grant to fund sex changes in Guatemala, $70,000 for a “DEI musical” in Ireland and $47,000 for a transgender opera in Colombia,  to the White House. The department also fired four employees with the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) over the $59 million in  on housing illegal migrants in luxury hotels throughout New York City.
In response to Trump's directives, more than  federal workers across more than a dozen agencies have been laid off or fired. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS)  between 120 and 150 probationary employees in Denver, Colorado, in response to Trump's orders to layoff government employees. Around 300 probationary employees at the Federal Aviation Agency (FAA) were also laid off, though the White House has  that no critical safety roles including  were included in the cuts. Dozens of staffers at the Department of Education have also had their roles .
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Graphic

 
MSNBC's Joe Scarborough [Screenshot/MSNBC]

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
