




MailOnline
February 11, 2025 Tuesday 8:30 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 469 words
Byline: Bethan Sexton For Dailymail.Com
Body


Joy Reid has demanded Congress subpoena Elon Musk and his baby-faced staffers at the Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) over the agency's radical spending cuts.
The MSNBC host urged Rep. Robert Garcia (D-CA) to block any new legislation until Musk or his minions appear in court.
The DOGE sparked concern after it took a sledgehammer to the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), and pulled federal funding from several DEI schemes in compliance with President Trump's executive order on the matter.
Last week, a judge temporarily blocked the DOGE from placing around 2,700 USAID employees on leave as part of the cost cutting measures. 
Now Reid has begged Garcia to push for Musk to be subpoenaed along with his DOGE staffers Edward Coristine, 19, otherwise known by the online pseudonym 'Big Balls', and Marko Elez.
Elez, 25, was dramatically fired and then re-hired by Musk after being linked to a racially charged X account last week which posted remarks about 'normalizing' hating Indian people.
Elez is one of two people controversially given access to the Treasury's payment systems, despite concerns over data misuse.
 'Take a deep breath for just a moment and ponder Big Balls and the normalize Indian hate guy also taking control of the Federal Aviation Administration,' Reid fumed.
She then asked Garcia if the Democrat party would use its 'leverage' to ensure the DOGE members end up in court.
'I'm personally not interested in giving Republicans any votes for absolutely anything until we get actual answers and protect the American people's public data and data that people are trusting us to have,' Garcia said.
'I think we've got to continue to do those efforts and continue to shut down their meetings.
'Just a few days ago, we were at the Department of Labor, the DOJ's team was actually on its way to that meeting, but there were so many people there surrounding the building that they canceled their meetings 
'We've got to continue to show up to call it out to protest and commit not to work with Elon Musk, the DOGE committee or any of these Republicans.'
Reid then took aim at Transport Secretary Sean Duffy, of reality TV fame. 
'They control airline safety alongside Sean from the Real World: Boston, our transportation secretary,' Reid said.
'According to The Washington Post, part of the goal of this reorganization is to replace as many federal workers, humans as possible with AI and computers. If you enjoy automated customer service, you're going to absolutely love your new Elonified government. 
'And while Elon is working to make his life even easier, federal employees are being kept from doing their jobs.'
Democrats recently tried and failed to subpoena Musk under a measure brought by Rep. Gerry Connolly (D-VA). The attempt was shut down in committee by Republicans.

Load-Date: February 11, 2025


End of Document
