




telegraph.co.uk
February 26, 2025 Wednesday 4:08 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: US; Version:2
Length: 774 words
Byline: By David Kaufman
Highlight: Her activist ‘journalism’ had become an anachronism, refighting battles the Left lost long ago
Body


Axed former   is quickly becoming the Kamala Harris of nightly news cable. Like the former vice-president, Reid is out of a job – sent packing by the notoriously liberal television channel as it contends with plummeting ratings and a reform-minded new boss. Like Harris, she is clearly unable to understand why.
The cancellation of Reid’s evening program The ReidOut should hardly have come as a surprise. Both Reid and MSNBC have faced a swift and steady decline since .  In early December, Reid’s show averaged around 759,000 nightly viewers, a 47 per cent decline from an average of 1.4 million just before election day. Although that number has recovered somewhat, a recent broadcast of TheReidOut still ranked a dismal 126th on Neilson’s list of the most popular television programs. 
Reid’s tearful rant on a Tuesday podcast explains much of why her time in America’s living rooms each evening reached its expiration date. Like  , posted a few weeks after she lost to Trump, Reid’s check-in was raw and unscripted and messy. It also laid bare the extent of Reid’s identity-obsessed agenda and how neutered it’s become under Trump 2.0.
Self-congratulatory references to her show’s supposed defence of the Constitution and championing of Black Lives Matter defined Reid’s missive. It felt tired and anachronistic. Reid’s remarks about   also lacked original thinking – and the worst sense of timing. “The American people have a right to object to little babies being bombed,” Reid bellowed. No word about the two Jewish babies, Ariel and Kfir Bibas, .  Their funeral was held on Wednesday.
Where was Reid’s outage for them? Or their mother – also murdered. Or their grandparents – killed by Hamas. Or their father, Yarden, home after more than a year in Hamas’s terror tunnels, only to now endure an entirely new kind of captivity.
Of course The ReidOut was Reid’s show to do with as she pleased – it said so right there in the name. But what Reid did for The ReidOut – much like the wokey, preachy and ultimately failed Harris campaign – felt like a relic of a pre-Covid era, where the totems of race and gender were the only things that mattered. But, to put it bluntly, Reid’s identity-obsessed agenda has failed – on numerous fronts.
It failed to end racism, failed to fix economic inequality, failed to defend – let alone encourage – free speech and civilised discourse, and failed (most crucially) to retain viewers. And Reid – along with her virtue-signalling supporters – don’t seem to realise it. No wonder that Reid kept referring to “fascism” as she bemoaned her dismissal. Claims of totalitarianism make the perfect cover for out of touch – and out of ideas – programming.
Reid’s supporters, of course, are blaming racism for her show being cancelled. Rachel Maddow, MSNBC’s sole remaining star, described the dismissal of Reid – along with Miami-based host Katie Phang – as “unnerving”, .  Former MSNBC headliner Keith Olbermann amplified Maddow’s sentiments, calling the dismissal of Reid and other minority talent a “racist purge”. Trouble is that Reid’s replacements – a trio of hosts for her plum 7pm slot, Symone Sanders Townsend, Michael Steele and Alicia Menendez – are all minorities. Townsend and Steele are black, while Menendez is Latina. So much for that racist purge.
The truth is, progressive media has long only had room for certain kinds of minorities – the right kind of minorities – those, like Reid, for whom race and gender, identity and intersectionality form the basis of every story and every broadcast. Such narrow thinking   she might actually have won with more sophisticated strategies and messaging. Now, as networks from MSNBC and CNN to CBS restructure and evolve their programming, legacy media is also contending with the diminishing value of activist anchors like Reid.
Or at least activist anchors on the Left. As MSNBC has haemorrhaged viewers, Fox News has gone from strength to strength since Trump’s re-election. And one of its biggest winners has been Harris Faulkner, whose daily 11am show, The Faulkner Focus, beat ABC’s long-running morning hit The View in January. Indeed her show is pulling in some three times Reid’s audience numbers.
Of course, politically, Faulkner and Reid have very little in common. But they do share some similarities: Faulkner is also a woman and Faulkner is also black.
                     David Christopher Kaufman is a New York Post columnist                   

Load-Date: February 26, 2025


End of Document
