




Fox News FOX SPECIAL REPORT WITH BRET BAIER 6:00 PM EST
January 28, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7492 words
Byline: Bret Baier, Jacqui Heinrich, Chad Pergram, Alexis McAdams, Jennifer Griffin, Nate Foy, Griff Jenkins, William La Jeunesse, Guy Benson
Guests: Amy Klobuchar, Kevin Cramer, Meghan Hays, Josh Holmes
Body


JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: All right. Speaking of doozies, let's throw it over to Bret Baier at SPECIAL REPORT. Hi, Bret.
BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: What an intro. Tune in for the kicker, Jesse. Tune in for the kicker.
All right, good evening, Welcome to Washington. I'm Bret Baier.
President Trump's new Homeland Security chief goes to New York for a new round of illegal immigration raids.
The Senate considers President Trump's contention that regaining control of the Panama Canal is, in fact, vital for national security.
And in our Common Ground segment, the bipartisan effort to get more help for the families of first responders suffering with job related cancers.
But breaking within the last few minutes, a federal judge is now temporarily blocking President Trump's freeze on funding for federal grants and loans. The president issuing the order while programs are being reviewed to make sure they comply with his recent executive actions. The freeze could potentially affect billions of dollars.
But White House officials said today it would not impact Social Security, Medicaid, Medicare, or any direct payments of assistance.
Still, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer calls it lawlessness and chaos.
Senior White House Correspondent Jacqui Heinrich starts us off tonight live from the North Lawn. Good evening, Jacqui.
JACQUI HEINRICH, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Good evening, Bret, the decision blocks the funding freeze from going into effect until at least Monday at 5:00 p.m., there will be a hearing that morning.
The Biden appointed judge, who has been on the D.C. District Court for about a year, cited the possibility of irreparable harm. The Trump administration has until Thursday afternoon to argue the merits of what it is trying to do some of that happened in the briefing today.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: If you are receiving individual assistance from the federal government, you will still continue to receive that.
HEINRICH (voice over): Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt's first White House briefing dominated by questions about the Office of Management and Budget temporarily freezing all federal assistance programs affected by the president's executive orders beginning at 5:00 p.m. today.
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): People are scrambling in all of our states to figure out what it means. I've gotten hundreds of calls from everybody, head start, hospitals, firefighters. What does this mean? What does this mean? People are worried. People are in a panic.
HEINRICH (voice over): The order impacts programs affected by Trump's EOS on ending DEI, unleashing American energy and reevaluating U.S. interest funding foreign aid and nongovernmental programs, plus some others.
And there were stated exceptions for programs like Social Security, Medicare, welfare, small businesses, farms and pell grants. But the Medicaid website portal went down after the announcement, spurring confusion about the goals.
LEAVITT: There was $37 million that was about to go out the door to the World Health Organization. DOGE and OMB also found that there was about to be 50 million taxpayer dollars that went out the door to fund condoms in Gaza. That is a preposterous waste of taxpayer money. So, that's what this pause is focused on, being good stewards of tax dollars.
HEINRICH (voice over): Leavitt said after the briefing, the Medicaid website glitch was unrelated and didn't affect any payments, but a supplemental memo from OMB also went out to clear up confusion. "A pause could be as short as a day. In fact, OMB has worked with agencies and already approved many programs to continue, even before the pause has gone into effect."
ALINA HABBA, WHITE HOUSE COUNSELOR: We are examining everything, taking a look at where money is going, how it is being spent, so that we can be responsible with taxpayer money, something the last administration, frankly, didn't care about.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
HEINRICH (on camera): Meantime, the administration is offering buyouts to federal workers who don't want to return to work in person. They've got until February 6th, just over a week to take that offer or leave it. It allows deferred resignation, so you get to keep your pay and benefits and continue to work from home until September 30th.
The White House expects between five and 10 percent of federal employees will quit, which would potentially save $100 billion in taxpayer funds annually, Bret.
BAIER: Jacqui, in a week, we've seen a flurry of executive orders. We're getting yet another executive order tonight from President Trump regarding transgender surgeries for children. What does that say?
HEINRICH: Yes, this new E.O. aims to protect children from what it calls experimental chemical and surgical mutilation. It orders agencies to use every available means to cut off any government participation in institutions that provide these kinds of surgeries. It also states taxpayers will no longer be funding transition surgeries through any federal employees insurance plans.
The Trump White House says this would put the U.S. more in line with European nations that have found the risks of treatment outweigh the benefits and that four out of five kids outgrow gender dysphoria. That's the latest, Bret.
BAIER: Jacqui Heinrich live in the North Lawn. Jacqui, thank you.
Let's get congressional reaction to the president's funding freeze. Senior Congressional Correspondent Chad Pergram live on Capitol Hill tonight. Good evening, Chad.
CHAD PERGRAM, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Bret, good evening. The pause in federal money rattled Capitol Hill, lawmakers scrambled to find out if the move suspended health programs or transportation projects.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
SEN. PATTY MURRAY (D-WA): One of the calls I got was about the bridge between Oregon and Washington that we have been working on for 25 years. Does that mean all that work stops tomorrow?
PERGRAM (voice over): Republicans argued the halt was customary for a new administration, but privately, GOP sources conceded there was confusion.
PERGRAM: Green New Deal involved major infrastructure.
SEN. JOHN THUNE (R-SD): And they're providing additional clarity and guidance on that, and hopefully they will further clarify what exactly will be impacted by this.
PERGRAM (voice over): Democrats used the memo to protest a non- controversial Trump administration nominee. All Democrats voted to break a filibuster last night on the nomination of Sean Duffy to be transportation secretary, but 22 Democrats suddenly voted no on confirmation.
SEN. BEN RAY LUJAN (D-NM): I don't know how you can be Secretary of Transportation when the president of the United States says you have no money to build anything in America.
PERGRAM: Would you have voted no today, had the OMB memo not come out?
LUJAN: If this was only about Sean Duffy becoming confirmed for Secretary of Transportation, I think there would have been unanimous support for him on the floor today.
PERGRAM (voice over): Three tough hearings loom. Tulsi Gabbard for Director of National Intelligence, Kash Patel to head the FBI, and RFK Jr. to run HHS.
SEN. ROGER MARSHALL (R-KS): We certainly both think there's opportunities in nutrition and decrease the toxins that kids are exposed to in particular.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
PERGRAM (on camera): Kennedy met with GOP North Dakota Senator John Hoeven today. Farm state Republicans worry about Kennedy wanting to cut high fructose corn syrup from food, Bret.
BAIER: Chad, that concern over the president's firing of 18 inspectors general, making for some strange bedfellows there on Capitol Hill.
PERGRAM: That's right, push back from Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley and the top Democrat, Dick Durbin, they've asked the president to explain, "immediately" why Congress was not given a 30 day notice for the removal. They say, "The law must be followed."
Now, this is the first major pushback against the president from a GOP member on any issue since he took office, Bret.
BAIER: Chad Pergram live on Capitol Hill. Chad, thank you.
Newly confirmed Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem in New York today for the next round of immigration raids. Senior officials say ICE agents have removed and returned more than 7,000 illegal immigrants in just one week. Correspondent Alexis McAdams reports tonight from New York.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
KRISTI NOEM, HOMELAND SECURITY SECRETARY: We are getting the dirt banks off the streets.
ALEXIS MCADAMS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): DHS Secretary Kristi Noem on the ground in New York City, leading this early morning ice raid across the Big Apple, looking to remove violent criminals who are not supposed to be in this country in the first place. Noem says she asked President Trump for this job.
NOEM: I said I would like to be the Secretary of Homeland Security, sir, because it's your number one priority.
MCADAMS (voice over): This was a multi-agency effort that ended in several arrests, including this Venezuelan illegal migrant who sources say is part of the South American gang Tren de Aragua, taken in on kidnapping, assault and burglary charges.
DHS says Anderson Zambrano-Pacheco was hiding out in the Bronx and had a warrant out for his arrest. In connection to this takeover at an apartment complex in Aurora, Colorado. Remember this, a group of migrants caught on camera armed with weapons, breaking into units.
And this raid also near Denver, leading the gang and drug arrests this week. Maryland, also a hot spot.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Looking for these guys will never stop.
MCADAMS (voice over): This migrant taken out in cuffs during the latest raid, as agents work to secure the border and the city streets.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If someone's here illegally, there's no protection for people just because they didn't happen to be the target that day.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
MCADAMS (on camera): OK, so as the raids continue, Bret, all across the country, the White House sending another strong message to migrants who might be watching, telling everyone that if they try to cross into the United States illegally, they will be arrested, Bret.
BAIER: Alexis, thank you. Secretary Kristi Noem will be interviewed tonight by Sean Hannity. You can see right here on Fox, 9:00 p.m. Eastern Time. Sean will also travel here to Washington to interview Vice President J.D. Vance, that will air tomorrow night.
Stocks rebounded after yesterday's dive over that Chinese AI news, the Dow gaining 137, the S&P 500 was up 55, the NASDAQ surged 392.
President Trump has signed another executive order, this one to build what is being called the next generation of space based missile defense system for the U.S. President Trump calls it America's Iron Dome, named after Israel's defense system.
Chief National Security Correspondent Jennifer Griffin has details from the Pentagon.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
RONALD REAGAN, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Our only purpose, one all people share, is to search for ways to reduce the danger of nuclear war.
JENNIFER GRIFFIN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT (voice over): In this oval office speech, President Ronald Reagan outlined his plans for a missile defense system, later nicknamed Star Wars.
On Monday, President Trump signed an executive order to build a next generation space based missile defense architecture to protect the U.S. from threats posed by a new generation of hypersonic glide missiles, another indication that space is becoming a war fighting domain.
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We need to immediately begin the construction of a state of the Art Iron Dome missile defense shield, which will be able to protect Americans.
GRIFFIN (voice over): A reference to Israel's short range missile defense system. But the Iron Dome only defends against short range missiles in a country the size of New Jersey.
TOM KARAKO, CENTER FOR STRATEGIC INTERNATIONAL STUDIES: It's a metaphor. What this is about is, I would say, an agenda, a broad agenda, for trying to get after the spectrum of air and missile threats.
GRIFFIN (voice over): China, Russia, North Korea and Iran are racing to develop hypersonic weapons and drones that move so fast and maneuver at low orbit that they can evade current U.S. missile defense. Vice Admiral James Syring was the head of the Pentagon's Missile Defense Agency.
VICE ADM. JAMES SYRING (RET.) FORMER MISSILE DEFENSE AGENCY DIRECTOR: We protect the entire United States today against ICBM attack, against the hypersonic threat. It would be much more difficult without a much more robust sensor network. The big gap, in my mind is the sensing capability, being able to actually see it and track it.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
GRIFFIN (on camera): The Pentagon is already in the late stages of developing interceptors to protect against hypersonic weapons, but the price tag for this multi layered missile and drone defense architecture will be hundreds of billions of dollars, Bret.
BAIER: And Jen, we just learned tonight that Defense Secretary Hegseth plans to remove the security detail guarding former Joint Chiefs Chairman General Mark Milley.
GRIFFIN: That's right. Secretary Hegseth has decided, on his second day to immediately pull General Milley's security detail, though multiple threats on his life remain. Karoline Leavitt was asked today if the president would take responsibility if anything happened to those whose security he's pulled. The president has said former government officials can't have security forever. Hegseth also ordered a second Milley army portrait removed from the army halls, and ordered the new acting inspector general to conduct a review board to potentially strip General Milley of a star in retirement for, "undermining the chain of command during President Donald Trump's first term." All highly unusual actions, Bret.
BAIER: Jennifer Griffin live at the Pentagon. Jennifer, thank you.
President Trump has invited Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to the White House next week. Their meeting is scheduled for February 4th. Prime Minister Netanyahu is the first foreign leader to be invited to the White House in Trump's second term.
Also tonight, the Senate has failed to break a filibuster to proceed with a motion to sanction the International Criminal Court, the ICC, over its arrest warrant of Netanyahu. That vote was 54 to 45, 60 votes were needed.
Up next, senators debate President Trump's idea to take control of the Panama Canal.
And later, what people in Mexico are saying about the president's southern border crackdown.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BAIER: "BREAKING TONIGHT", President Trump's press secretary says the drones flying over much of the Northeast over the past few weeks do not belong to enemy forces.
Karoline Leavitt saying today they were actually authorized by the FAA, raising more questions about previous answers from the previous administration.
Correspondent Nate Foy is in Middletown Township, New Jersey, tonight, with the latest. Good evening, Nate.
NATE FOY, FOX NEWS CHANNEL NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Bret, good evening. So, after more than two months of frustration and concern during the Biden administration, several residents in New Jersey tell Fox News tonight that they are grateful to President Donald Trump for following through on his promise and explaining, at least to some extent, what was going on with the mysterious drones over New Jersey for the past two months.
Take a listen to White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt earlier today.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
KAROLINE LEAVITT, TRUMP 2024 NATIONAL PRESS SECRETARY: The drones that were flying over New Jersey in large numbers were authorized to be flown by the FAA for research and various other reasons.
Many of these drones were also hobbyists, recreational, and private individuals that enjoy flying drones. And meantime, in the -- in time, it got worse due to curiosity. This was not the enemy.
FOY (voice over): Bret, apparent drone sightings impacted a dozen states across the country, launching investigations by local, state, and federal agencies, all while former President Joe Biden and others in his administration would only say the drones posed no public safety threat.
JOE BIDEN, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Nothing nefarious apparently, but they're checking it all out.
We're following this closely. So far, no sense of danger.
FOY (voice over): Today's news from the White House means the FAA granted temporary flight restrictions because of drones that it authorized in the first place.
TONY PERRY, MAYOR OF MIDDLETOWN TOWNSHIP, NEW JERSEY: The FAA on the call was telling us that they had no record, no understanding as to where these drones were coming from.
Now, today, yes, they were authorized by the FAA.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
FOY (on camera): Middletown Mayor Tony Perry tells Fox, the White House has promised more information to local leaders soon. He doesn't know exactly when, quite yet, but there are still questions as to what kind of research was being done with these drones, although there is also comfort knowing that a foreign adversary was not behind it. Bret?
BAIER: We'll keep asking the questions. Nate, thanks.
Microsoft-backed artificial intelligence company OpenA.I. has launched ChatGPT Gov. GPT gov, it is a tailored version of the service designed for the U.S. government. That launch comes hours after CEO Sam Altman said in a post on X that the company will "pull up some releases", essentially bringing products to market faster.
It was the first public statement after the low-cost Chinese A.I. startup, DeepSeek jolted tech stocks on Monday.
Meantime, in politics, Michigan Democratic Senator Gary Peters says he will not run for re-election next year. Peters cites his three terms in the House and two terms in the Senate.
Former Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg is said to be taking a serious look at that opening. Buttigieg now lives in Michigan after serving as mayor of South Bend, Indiana.
Tonight, senators are considering President Trump's contention that the U.S. needs to regain control of the Panama Canal. Lawmakers held a hearing on this issue today.
Correspondent Griff Jenkins shows us tonight.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. TED CRUZ (R-TX): We cannot turn a blind eye if Panama exploits an asset of vital commercial and military importance.
GRIFF JENKINS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Senate Commerce Committee chairman, Ted Cruz accusing Panama of falling short of obligations under a neutrality treaty that governs one of the world's busiest waterways.
CRUZ: This situation, I believe, poses acute risks to U.S. national security.
JENKINS (voice over): It's a pressure campaign first raised by President Trump.
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: China essentially has taken it over, and we're not going to let that happen.
JENKINS (voice over): Now, receiving some bipartisan support.
SEN. MARIA CANTWELL (D-WA): I am concerned about Chinese owned ports in Panama and their proximity to the canal.
JENKINS (voice over): China does not control the canal. The Panamanian government does, under an autonomous authority, but Chinese companies operate ports at either end. And China's influence over critical infrastructure is growing as maritime officials sound the alarm.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: All of us should lose a lot more sleep than we're losing.
JENKINS (voice over): The famous shipping lane, 51 miles long, was built by the U.S., but transferred to Panamanian hands in 1999, under a treaty signed in 1977 during the Carter administration.
It connects the Pacific Ocean to the Caribbean Sea. More than 70 percent of container trade passing through is bound for or originates in America, and it's a critical passage for U.S. warships.
Secretary of State Marco Rubio, who will travel to Panama as part of his first international trip, echoed concerns in his confirmation hearing.
MARCO RUBIO, UNITED STATES SECRETARY OF STATE: A foreign power today possesses the ability to turn the canal into a choke point in a moment of conflict.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
JENKINS (on camera): Panama's president has rejected Trump's push, saying his nation will maintain control of the canal. But under the terms of the existing treaty, he grants the U.S. the right to protect and defend the shipping lane if threatened. Bret?
BAIER: Griff, thanks.
Google Maps will change the name of the Gulf of Mexico to the Gulf of America, once it is officially updated in the U.S. Geographic Names system. The change will be visible in the U.S., but remain the Gulf of Mexico in Mexico.
Google will also change the name of Alaska's Mount Denali back to Mount McKinley, after President William McKinley.
Tonight, we look at the crackdown on the southern border from the other side of the border. National correspondent William La Jeunesse, shows us how people in Mexico are running out of patience with migrants, and why.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
HUGO SANCHEZ, MEXICAN CITIZEN: It's a huge problem in our neighborhood. The noise, the contamination, and the garbage -- the violence.
WILLIAM LA JEUNESSE, FOX NEWS CHANNEL NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Long time Mexico City resident, Hugo Sanchez, whose child has a heart condition, is fed up with illegal immigrants in Mexico.
He's worried the government resources will be diverted to deal with migrants.
They defecate and urinate in public, says neighbor and retiree Leticia Melendez, who hopes President Trump will help Mexico close its southern border.
LETICIA MELENDEZ, MEXICAN CITIZEN: (through translator): He may have some influence with our government, so together they can solve the problem. We can't continue like this.
LA JEUNESSE (voice over): Francisco Rosas Flores, lives near a migrant camp housing mostly Cubans, Haitians, and Venezuelans. He calls the migrant influx an invasion, and worries about the drug and alcohol abuse he sees.
FRANCISCO ROSAS FLORES, MEXICAN CITIZEN: We don't know these people, where they come from, if they have a criminal record. Most are unemployed because they don't do anything.
LA JEUNESSE (voice over): 70 percent of Mexicans call illegal immigration excessive, according to a survey; and 40 percent want to limit or stop illegal immigration altogether.
But Venezuelan Jose Francisco Tamayo says not all migrants are bad. He and many fellow migrants have been stranded for months, waiting for interviews in the U.S.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It's really not good to enter any country illegally.
LA JEUNESSE (voice over): Now, many feel lost, go forward, go back, or wait. Mexico has begun bussing many migrants back to Guatemala, as President Sheinbaum sees public opinion change.
SANCHEZ: We don't know the situation in their countries. Many of these people is dangerous people.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
LA JEUNESSE (on camera): Mexico is building shelters on its border for migrants deported from the U.S., giving Mexican nationals a food card, $100 and free transportation back to their hometowns.
Non-Mexicans are being told, but not forced to return to their country of origin. Bret.
BAIER: William, thanks.
Up next, getting more federal funding for first responders suffering from service-related cancers. Two senators join us here on set. It's our "COMMON GROUND" segment.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
LAURA KAVANAGH, NEW YORK CITY FIRE COMMISSIONER: You will be judged not just on your good days but also on your worst days. You will face losses and tragedies and medical emergency runs that will stick with you forever. You will learn lessons from these days. You will find the strength to move on, even when it seems impossible. In this job, tradition is important, but our success is based on our ability to adapt to whatever challenge is thrown our way.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: In tonight's "Common Ground" segment, we look at the bipartisan effort to secure additional federal funding for the families of first responders who have died or suffered permanent disability from service- related cancers. Joining us, Minnesota Democratic Senator Amy Klobuchar and North Dakota Republican Senator Kevin Cramer. Thank you both for being here.
I want to talk about your bipartisan effort. I want to talk about the breaking news today and reaction to it of the spending freeze. Here's the Senate minority leader and the White House press secretary.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER, (D-NY) SENATE MINORITY LEADER: In an instant, with no precedent, no justification, no legal grounds, Donald Trump has shut off billions, perhaps trillions of dollars that help American families every single day.
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: People who are receiving individual assistance, you will continue to receive that. And President Trump is looking out for you by issuing this pause because he is being a good steward of your taxpayer dollars.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: Senator Cramer, Democrats say this was unneeded chaos and there were a lot of questions from around the country automatically when it happened.
SEN. KEVIN CRAMER (R-ND): Well, we hear that just about every day since Donald Trump became president because every day is a new executive order or a bunch of executive orders. Every day there is a panic. And then the day after everything calms down. This is temporary. He won a mandate and promised that he was going to try to get our fiscal house in order. It only seems responsible to me that a new president in the transition would take a pause. And as we know, of course, a court actually put a hold on that pause today.
BAIER: Yes, it's a pause, a federal judge holding it off until Monday. Senator Klobuchar, Republican Governor Glenn Youngkin from Virginia said in a post it does not impact individual assistance. He has talked to the White House, will not interrupt disaster recovery efforts, school and childcare funding, healthcare for seniors, low income families, funding for our roads, meals and lunches, any other misinformation that has spread, suggesting this is much to do about nothing. How do you respond to that?
SEN. AMY KLOBUCHAR (D-MN): It's chaos, and it is unnecessary. And if the president wants to work with us, the Congress, Article One, the Congress of the Constitution of the United States, instead of having some bureaucrat in the Office of Management and Budget send out a memo saying, hey, all this funding is paused, we'll work with him. But that's not what this is.
And I got a different message than Glenn Youngkin got. I got calls from my constituents. There were portals shut down for Head Start for kids. There were moms calling who had teenagers had their kids in -- teenagers in cancer studies, cancer trials that are federally funded through the National Institutes of Health. You have got firefighters, the subject of our discussion today, and I appreciate our bipartisan work on this, who are the recipients of equipment grants and benefits. That's all happening. And a federal judge had to step in to shut this down. And I think that's not the right way to do it. I don't like chaos. I am happy to talk about government efficiency, but I think this is wrong for the American people.
BAIER: All right, last thing. I do want to talk about your bill, but Senator Cramer, that is a concern, like how it was rolled out. There is a concern about funding and what is going out the door, and they want to get a sense of it all. But there was a lot of worry today.
CRAMER: Welcome to Donald Trump's presidency. I mean, like I said, every day that he has been the president, he has been fulfilling promises. I know that's unusual for a lot of people, my gosh, a president who actually does what he said he was going to do. But, once again, it started out as chaos. It's already calmed down. It will be fine.
BAIER: OK, moving on, Honoring Our Fallen Heroes Act, the bipartisan legislation expanding access to federal support for families of firefighters and other first responders who passed away and become permanently disabled from service-related cancers. A big deal that it needs to be addressed?
KLOBUCHAR: It really does. We have seen firefighters, their number one cause of death, cancer. You might think it's from immediate moments of running into buildings, but it's actually the cancer that lingers, similar to what our troops, what happened to them when they were stationed next to burn pits. We have seen more and more of this. We have started a cancer registry nationally.
But what this is about, just as the 9/11 firefighters got this kind of benefit, is making sure if they get cancer, they and their families get the help they need. For me it's personal. There is a widow named Julie Paidar who came to me and her husband, who had grown up watching the show "Emergency" and imagined those characters, they were his heroes. And then he became one himself. And he died at a very young age leaving a wife and kids behind.
BAIER: The stats, Senator Cramer, it's pretty amazing. Firefighter, occupational cancer is the leading cause of line of duty death in the fire service. In 2023, 72 percent of IAFF member line of duty deaths were due to occupational cancer. Not many people realize this.
CRAMER: I don't think they do either, Bret. But you are seeing the growing awareness of the dangers of this job. And people have been watching southern California burn up, basically, but seeing the incredible work these people do. And then you apply a personal story like Julie Paidar. And you have a real face, and other people relate to that. So, it is clearly line of duty death, and it's clearly should be line of duty benefits, and it makes all the sense in the world.
BAIER: You have differences about what happened today and how it's being dealt with. But you guys do work together on different things.
CRAMER: We like each other a lot.
BAIER: And it does happen.
CRAMER: Yes, it does.
KLOBUCHAR: And I hope, eventually, by the way, Democrats and Republicans in the Senate will join together to make the case that it's our job to get a budget. It's our job to figure out cuts and to work with the administration on this.
But that aside, on this issue, Senator Cramer, on agriculture issues we work together. We have a river that sometimes floods over that goes through our states, the Red River. It doesn't divide us, it brings us together.
CRAMER: It does.
KLOBUCHAR: And this bill is an example of the kind of work we do together.
BAIER: Do you think it will change, Senator Cramer, the dynamic on Capitol Hill?
CRAMER: I think it will. Just as an example, when we did this last year, and then now we followed up at the very beginning of this Congress, so we have time to sell it. But people as conservative as Ted Cruz and Marsha Blackburn and people as liberal as Ed Markey and Elizabeth Warren are on the bill. And that's a pretty wide swathe. I think that speaks to the popularity of the issue.
KLOBUCHAR: And there is also a bipartisan bill in the House led by a Republican who is a firefighter, and a Democrat. So we have growing momentum for this legislation.
BAIER: Well, thank you very much for coming and handling the news of the day. Pass on the word to your colleagues, thanks.
KLOBUCHAR: We'll do that.
CRAMER: Thanks, Bret.
BAIER: You can see all of the "Common Ground" segments on my podcast "Common Ground." Find that and the "All-Star Panel" podcast under the Bret Baier podcasts at FOXNewspodcast.com, Spotify, or wherever you download podcasts. You can also see the discussion on the FOX News YouTube page.
Up next, the panel on President Trump's federal funding freeze.
First, what some of our FOX affiliates around the country are covering tonight. FOX 35 in Orlando as a Florida elementary school principal is accused of hosting a large underage party at her house. Another teacher at the school was arrested on similar charges. An arrest affidavit says about 100 kids were using alcohol and marijuana at the event that led to alcohol fueled fights and at least one student being charged with DUI.
FOX 17 in Nashville where students hold a protest as they return to a high school where one classmate was killed and another injured in a shooting last week. The gunmen also a student. He took his own life. Students are demanding changes to the state's gun laws.
And this is a live look at Greensboro, North Carolina. One of the big stories there tonight from FOX 8, our affiliate, an airplane developed by Greensboro based Boom supersonic successfully breaks the sound barrier. The XB-1 is described as the world's first independently developed supersonic jet. It had previously completed 11 successful test flights in California.
That's tonight's live look outside the beltway from SPECIAL REPORT. We'll be right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: It is a temporary pause and the Office of Management and Budget is reviewing the federal funding that has been going out the door. We have seen the Biden administration spend money like drunken sailors.
SEN. CHRIS MURPHY, (D-CT): This is what a king does. This is not how a democracy works.
SEN. ERIC SCHMITT, (R-MO): A lot of these grants were predicated on divisive, discriminatory, and illegal DEI. I think it's appropriate to take a look at it and make sure there isn't nefarious actions that took place at the end of the Biden administration.
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER, (D-NY) SENATE MINORITY LEADER: The president does not, no matter what he thinks, have the authority to ignore the law and ignore Congress.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: Well, it caused some disruption today. Maybe it's part of the shock and awe, this executive order freezing funding. A federal judge temporarily blocking this freeze, blocking the "freeze on federal grants and loans that could total trillions of dollars. U.S. District Judge Loren AliKhan blocked the action Tuesday afternoon minutes before it was set to go into effect. The administrative stay pauses the freeze until Monday."
Now, the incoming director of Office of Management and Budget up on Capitol Hill was not sugarcoating this, kind of laid it all out that this was all going to happen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. ROGER MARSHALL, (R-KS) SENATE BUDGET COMMITTEE: We make grants on five-year terms typically. But if we would just start looking at those grants, especially the ones going out of the country, what impact would zero-based budgeting have?
RUSSELL VOUGHT, OMB DIRECTOR NOMINEE: The concept of zero-based budgeting is that you get a sense of what are the things that you haven't taken a look at in a long time. And starting from the ground up, and it doesn't mean you are not going to fund that. It just means that you are taking an approach to looking at each agency's spend and where the big dollars are coming from.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: What about all of this? We'll start there with our panel, Guy Benson, political editor at Townhall.com, host of "The Guy Benson Show" on FOX News Radio, Josh Holmes, co-host of "The Ruthless" podcast, former chief of staff to Senator Mitch McConnell, and Democratic strategist Meghan Hays.
All right, Guy, I read that post from Governor Youngkin where it laid it all out, said he talked to the White House. It was very matter of fact. There was a little chaos in the not knowing until the White House briefing today. And the question is, what happens from here?
GUY BENSON, POLITICAL EDITOR, TOWNHALL.COM: And still some not knowing, right? Now we have a temporary freeze that itself is temporarily frozen by this judge's action. So that maybe gives us a little bit more time to breathe and get to the bottom of what the details actually would look like here. Governor Youngkin, I think, is someone who is reliable. He is a thorough person. He wouldn't just put something out there willy-nilly. He clearly spoke to people in the administration and said, contrary to what is being reported in some of the, I think, hyperventilation from some of the Democrats, no, this is not going to stop benefits for, and he listed off that whole laundry roster.
But I think the question will become moving forward, OK, if it's temporary, for how long? And if the goal is just to take a look and recalibrate and maybe peek under the cover a little bit here and see can some of this stuff change in the future, will that have direct, immediate impact on any Americans soon? That's, I think, what most people are at least wondering about.
BAIER: We have state attorneys general, Meghan who have already got together. There's about 12 different states ready to file. But this is how this has been going, I mean this rollout of executive orders. This was an effort to look under the hood at these grants going out the door.
MEGHAN HAYS, DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST: Yes. I don't think that anyone is saying that they shouldn't be looking under the hood or they shouldn't be doing this. I think it was the way that they were doing it and how it came out very late last night. OMB also put out three different memos within 24 hours, which is really unheard of in government to keep clarifying because it was not clear to people what was happening.
But I also think this gave Democrats, it showed people they had a pulse, right? They got to the court. They got a stay, they got a freeze on this to get more clarification until Monday, which I think is what people are looking from Democrats to do, is show some fight in this.
BAIER: Meanwhile, Democrats are saying, because of this, Josh, that maybe the OMB director is just going to have to get delayed. Take a listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. JEFF MERKLEY, (D-OR) SENATE BUDGET COMMITTEE: In the Budget Committee, the Democrats are calling for the vote on Russell Vought's nomination to be postponed until this current crisis is resolved.
SEN. JOHN THUNE, (R-SD) SENATE MAJORITY LEADER: They can do this the hard way or the easy way. If they want to continue to obstruct and delay, we're going to continue to grind and grind and grind. And we'll do that through the weekend if necessary.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: Some people look here and go, how is this possible that this operates like this?
JOSH HOLMES, CO-HOST OF "THE RUTHLESS" PODCAST: Yes. You mean Democrats found an actual way of justifying delaying the confirmation votes of a secretary? I can't believe that, Bret.
No, look, I think one of Donald Trump's great gifts is lifting the fourth wall on the theater production and revealing the absurdity of the argument in and of itself. The idea that we've hit this constitutional crisis because an incoming administration wants to take a look how the taxpayers' money is being spent in all these various agencies is -- I can't believe that's controversial. I can't believe this is a discussion that anyone outside of the beltway would for a moment be concerned about.
Now, clearly they had to issue clarifications about Medicaid, some of the direct impact of things that we're not going to be shut. But all they are doing is reviewing all of this stuff. And what he's done is reveal how angry people get when you just simply shut off the spigot. And that's, frankly, what Americans have been asking for for quite some time.
BAIER: Yes, cabinet nominees up this week. Coming up tomorrow we have Howard Lutnick for Commerce. We have RFK Jr. for HHS. We have Kelly Loeffler for the Small Business Administration. And then Kash Patel and Tulsi Gabbard on Thursday. This is about Tulsi Gabbard, take a listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I think she is somebody that served our country, and she will do the best that she can to make sure she has the right information.
SEN. LINDSEY GRAHAM, (R-SC): I'm inclined to vote for everybody, but I want to hear her thinking about Assad and Snowden, and we'll see.
REP. ELISSA SLOTKIN, (D-MI) SENATE HOMELAND SECURITY COMMITTEE: You want someone of character and of competence, right? And I served with Tulsi Gabbard. She doesn't show the competence, the understanding, the depth.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: A lot of people said that there other nominees that were going to fall down. They didn't. The question is whether the media reporting that this is the ah-ha moment is real.
BENSON: From what I have heard, the Gabbard nomination is the one that might be the shakiest at the moment. We saw the close call with Pete Hegseth, the tie that was broken by the vice president. There were rumors that maybe some people would oppose him, and then there was some reporting, I think today, that some senators who were stoking some of those rumors ended up voting for him anyway. So things can change awfully quickly in this town.
But at least the rumors for the last couple days have been it could get spicy with Tulsi Gabbard, and it's not clear that all of the votes are lined just yet for her. But she could still get confirmed. By no means am I saying otherwise.
BAIER: Yes, and Meghan, Democrats have to be looking at the president's approval ratings. You look at the Real Clear Politics average of his approval, it's right now at 51.3 percent. There was a lot of, you know, good feeling that after the election and inauguration seems to be continuing on here. So how does that play in how they play these cabinet nominations?
HAYS: I think that the most of these people are going to get confirmed. They are going to fight with someone like Tulsi Gabbard who has been widely reported, even in Republican meetings, that she is showing up unprepared and people are less than impressed with her. But I don't think that they have a real way to get these nominations stopped without Republicans' help and support. So I think that they need to be more strategic than they were in the Hegseth hearing of the questions they are asking to make sure that the American people know that they are raising these questions. But Democrats don't have a way to stop these nominations, and the president is going to get his cabinet.
BAIER: Josh, the other thing that's raising some eyebrows is the security detail for some of these folks that have seen threats, namely from Iran, but from others, too. So added list tonight with former chairman of the Joint Chiefs Milley getting his security detail pulled. Mike Pompeo, Brian Hook, John Bolton, Anthony Fauci. Jacqui Heinrich pressed the White House on that today. And they refer to the president's comments. Take a listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
HEINRICH: Would he take any responsibility if anything happened to these people? Would he feel at all that his decision was a factor in that?
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: The president was asked and answered this yesterday. I would refer you --
DONALD TRUMP, (R) U.S. PRESIDENT: They all made a lot of money. They can hire their own security team. All the people you are talking about, they can go out -- I can give them some good numbers of very good security people.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: And his message was, hey, listen, it's not never ending. Tom Cotton on the Sunday show said I have seen the intelligence. Iran is for real.
HOLMES: No, I think -- look, Tom Cotton knows what he is talking about there. There are different categories of these things. And I think for so long there has been an industrial complex that once you are an intelligence analyst, once you have a high profile, intelligence gathering job somewhere in the federal government, that for life you have all of these other things. I think President Trump rightly is putting an end to that. Where I differ here is in the Pompeo case. Maybe the Brian Hook case, in two where we know for a fact Iran has been very active on trying to seek retribution for the Soleimani --
BAIER: Bolton falls under that too.
HOLMES: Bolton may very well fall under that, too. I just think in this case, what I would have loved to have seen is an intelligence reason behind it rather than what appears to be more personal.
BAIER: All right, go ahead, real quick.
BENSON: The Soleimani hit was Trump's own policy.
BAIER: Right. It's busy these days. It really is. It's nonstop.
Up next, a unique special day that will be particularly tough for me.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BAIER: Finally tonight, a special day. Well, it's actually not that special. It's pretty painful. But I needed to pay up. You see, over the inauguration I bet Jesse Watters that my Washington Commanders would beat him Philadelphia Eagles. And instead of a monetary payoff, he suggests wearing the other team's jersey for a segment. They won. So, Jesse, congrats. Your Eagles did fly high this weekend. They were firing on all cylinders. Congratulations, good luck in Super Bowl LIX.
But let me say, even while I'm wearing this jersey, that the Washington Commanders had an unbelievable season. They weren't expected to get anywhere near the NFC championship game. So congrats to the Commanders, all the players, Josh Harris, Mark Ein, the rest of the ownership, because next year, next year we will be back, and Jesse will be wearing our jersey on "THE FIVE."
Thanks for inviting us into your home tonight. That's it for this SPECIAL REPORT, fair, balanced, and still unafraid. It is painful, but it's almost Super Bowl LIX. And it's right here on FOX.
THE INGRAHAM ANGLE is next.

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
