




Forbes.com
February 3, 2025 Monday


Copyright 2025 Forbes LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 857 words
Byline: Molly Bohannon, Forbes Staff
Highlight: U.S. District Judge Loren L. AliKhan granted a temporary restraining order against President Donald Trump s administration s directive to freeze federal spending marking the second halt of the freeze since Friday.
Body


Topline
U.S. District Judge Loren L. AliKhan said the federal government must tell agencies not to implement President Donald Trump s federal funding freeze after AliKhanlast weekgranted a pause at the request of nonprofits suing over the directive, with Monday s move marking the third time a judge has ruled against the freeze.
<figure>
<figcaption>
President Donald Trump arrives with Aleksander Barkov, left, and owner Vincent Viola to speak during a ceremony with the Florida Panthers NHL hockey team to celebrate their 2024 Stanley Cup victory in the East Room of the the White House, Monday, Feb. 3, 2025, in Washington.
Copyright 2025 The Associated Press. All rights reserved
</figcaption></figure>
Key Facts
Theorder, granted Monday afternoon, stated the federal government is prevented from implementing the directives outlined in a memo from the Office of Management and Budget last week, agencies directed to pause funding cannot follow the order and any funding on open awards that was paused must be disbursed.
The ruling is in response to a memo sent by OMB on Jan. 27 that directed federal agencies to  temporarily pause all activities related to [the] obligation or disbursement of all Federal financial assistance,  including but not limited to funds that could be implicated by the executive orders Trump signed against  DEI, woke gender ideology, and the green new deal. 
On Jan. 28, several nonprofit organizations sued the OMB over the directive, alleging it violated the Administrative Procedure Act and that the guidance to pause disbursement of funding would have a  devastating impact  on nonprofits, and AliKhan granted atemporary pauseon the order lasting through Monday, at which point she said there would be another hearing.
AliKhan found the nonprofits met the standard of showing irreparable harm, writing Monday that  each day that the pause continues to ripple across the country is an additional day that Americans are being denied access to programs that heal them, house them, and feed them. 
Get Forbes Breaking News Text Alerts: We re launching text message alerts so you'll always know the biggest stories shaping the day s headlines. Text  Alerts  to  or sign up .
Crucial Quote 
 Plaintiffs allege that OMB s funding freeze lacked any reasonable basis and failed to consider the disastrous effects it would have. Defendants, meanwhile, insist that  there is nothing irrational about a temporary pause in funding  when it is done  to ensure compliance with the President s priorities,   AliKhan wrote in the ruling Monday.  But furthering the President s wishes cannot be a blank check for OMB to do as it pleases. 
Key Background
The acting director of the Office of Management and Budget, Matthew Vaeth,sentthe memo out to federal agencies last Monday night, and it did not specify which grants would and wouldn t get cut off, which led to chaos among federal agencies and nonprofit groups that receive federal funding and were unsure whether they would get the money they need to continue operations. Lawsuits were almost immediately filed in response to the memo, including the one being overseen by AliKhan that is led by the National Council of Nonprofits, and one in Rhode Island filed by 22 states and the District of Columbia. On Tuesday, minutes before the pause was set to take effect, AliKhan granted a brief administrative stay in the lawsuit brought by the nonprofits, which paused the freeze from taking effect until at least Monday. Days later in Rhode Island, Judge John McConnell granted a temporary restraining order preventing the freeze from taking effect. In his ruling, he said the 22 states that sued over the guidance  put forth sufficient evidence at this stage that they will likely suffer severe and irreparable harm if the Court denies their request  to stop Trump from freezing potentially $3 trillion of funds and said the actions in the memo could be found to  violate the Constitution. 
Was The Omb Memo Rescinded?
In both lawsuits, the Trump administration has tried to argue the guidance of the memo is moot because OMB issued another memo rescinding its guidance to pause funding. But AliKhan and McConnell, the Rhode Island judge overseeing the states  case, pointed to apost on X, formerly known as Twitter, from Trump s press secretary that read:  This is NOT a rescission of the federal funding freeze   the President's EO's on federal funding remain in full force and effect, and will be rigorously implemented.  McConnell said in hisFriday judgmentthe statement showed the rescission was  in name-only and may have been issued simply to defeat the jurisdiction of the courts.  Likewise, in AliKhan s Monday ruling shewrotethe rescission seemed to be OMB trying  to overcome a judicially imposed obstacle without actually ceasing the challenged conduct,  adding  The court can think of few things more disingenuous. 
Further Reading 
Trump Pauses Federal Grants Starting Today But Details Are Scarce. Here s What We Know.(Forbes)
Judge Pauses Trump s Plan To Freeze Federal Aid Spending(Forbes)
Judge Halts Trump s Funding Freeze Saying Alleged Rescission Was  In Name Only (Forbes)

Load-Date: February 4, 2025


End of Document
