




Fox News FOX NEWS SUNDAY 9:00 AM EST
February 9, 2025 Sunday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; International
Length: 9451 words
Byline: Shannon Bream, Will Cain, Clay Travis, Garrett Tenney, Lucas Tomlinson
Guests: Mike Johnson, Kristi Noem, Sharon Landry, Jimmy Johnson
Body


SHANNON BREAM, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: I'm Shannon Bream. We're live from the Caesar Superdome in New Orleans ahead of Super Bowl LIX.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
REP. STEVE SCALISE (R-LA): We're going to be focused on delivering on the promises.
BREAM (voice-over): House Republicans divided over promises of a big beautiful bill to advance key parts of President Trump's agenda, as Senate Republicans offer up a plan of their own.
SEN. JOHN CORNYN (R-TX): This is a normal part of the process. It gets a little messy but we -- we don't have any choice but to get there.
BREAM: We're joined by the Speaker of the House Mike Johnson live here in Louisiana.
And the Pentagon deploying more troops to the southern border as the president's immigration enforcement actions ramp up. DHS Secretary Kristi Noem joins us live fresh off her visit to the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay and to discuss the security here in New Orleans, even tighter in the aftermath of the New Year's terror attack that killed on Bourbon Street.
We visited the French Quarter with Louisiana's First Lady Sharon Landry to learn about her efforts to support the victims and their families and the historic steps to secure this iconic event.
Plus --
JIMMY JOHNSON, AMERICAN SPORTS COACH: It's going to be a great football game.
BREAM: It sure is.
JOHNSON: Coaching legend Jimmy Johnson with the inside scoop on today's showdown in the Big Easy.
All, right now, on "FOX News Sunday" live from New Orleans.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
JOHNSON: Hello and welcome to this special edition of "FOX News Sunday", live from New Orleans.
We begin with an exclusive excerpt of FOX News chief political anchor Bret Baier's interview with President Trump ahead of the Super Bowl. Bret asked the president about a wide range of issues, including the work being done by Elon Musk and the Department of Government Efficiency or DOGE, which has been targeting what it calls fraud and abuse across Washington, including the U.S. Agency for International Developments.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I don't know if it's kickbacks or what's going on, but the people -- look, I ran on this and the people want me to find it and I've had a great help with Elon Musk who's been terrific.
BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS CHIEF POLITICAL ANCHOR: Bottom line, you say you trust him?
TRUMP: Trust Elon? Oh, he's not gaining anything. In fact, I wonder how he can devote the time to it. He's so into it. But I told him to do that.
Then I'm going to tell him very soon like maybe in 24 hours to go check the Department of Education. He's going to find the same thing. Then, I'm going to go -- go to the military. Let's check the military. We're going to find billions, hundreds of billions of dollars of fraud and abuse. And, you know, the people elected me on that.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BREAM: Bret's full interview will air on your local FOX station 3:00 p.m. Eastern before the Super Bowl today. Much more to come on that.
Also today, the GOP-led House and Senate are working to get the president's legislative agenda through Congress. In a moment, we'll talk exclusively with the Speaker of the House Mike Johnson about that and much more.
But first, we turn to Lucas Tomlinson at the White House.
Hello, Lucas.
LUCAS TOMLINSON, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Shannon, Elon Musk's team is investigating at least 15 government agencies to look for waste fraud and abuse. And as we just heard from the president, he wants them to keep going.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
TRUMP: Pentagon, Education, just about everything.
TOMLINSON: Not everyone is thrilled with DOGE plugging into U.S. government computers. A federal judge blocked Elon Musk team from tapping into a Treasury Department payment system. The suit was brought by New York Attorney General Letitia James, and 18 other attorneys general.
LETITIA JAMES (D), NEW YORK ATTORNEY GENERAL: This unelected group led by the world's richest man is not authorized to have this information.
TOMLINSON: Elon Musk fired back on X: I was told there are currently over a hundred billion dollar a year of entitlement payments to individuals with no SSN or even a temporary ID number. If accurate, this is extremely suspicious.
The USAID letters were ripped off the Reagan building in Washington. A Trump-appointed federal judge ruled late Friday to hold off putting 2,200 employees on paid leave ahead of the midnight deadline.
Democrats are outraged over the gutting of USAID.
SEN. CORY BOOKER (D-NJ): We will fight their violations of our Constitution of the United States of America!
TOMLINSON: Wednesday, Trump signed an executive order barring men from women's sports, one day after the president offered a new plan for the future of Gaza.
TRUMP: The U.S. will take over the Gaza Strip and we will do a job with it, too. We'll own it.
TOMLINSON: The idea received a positive reception from Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu standing alongside Trump.
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER: You are the greatest friend Israel has ever had in the White House.
TOMLINSON: Democratic Congressman Al Green took to the House floor the next morning to sound a familiar refrain.
REP. AL GREEN (D-TX): I rise to announce that the movement to impeach the president has begun.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
TOMLINSON (on camera): Alongside Japan's prime minister at the White House Friday, President Trump announced that more tariffs are coming this week to match those imposed by other countries -- Shannon.
BREAM: All right. Lucas, thank you very much.
Joining us now is the Speaker of the House Mike Johnson here with us in his home state of Louisiana.
And you've been an excellent host for the Super Bowl.
REP. MIKE JOHNSON (R-LA), SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE: Welcome to Louisiana and the Superdome. It's a great venue.
BREAM: Thank you so much.
It is. It's beautiful and there could be some interesting conversations going on tonight. You and the president will be sharing some space here at the game.
You're working on getting the framework together for a budget, for the vehicle that will get to all kinds of things, the border, may be extending the tax cuts.
In the meantime, your colleagues over on the Senate side, Lindsey Graham among them says it's time to get moving. He's released his own framework.
He says this on X: I have tremendous respect for Speaker Johnson. I hope the House will move forward soon but we cannot allow this moment to pass and we cannot let President Trump's America first agenda stall.
One of the things he cites is Borders Czar Tom Homan and the operations that are going on. He says you're going to run out of money for what's going on at the border. So he's not going to wait for the House. He's moving ahead.
JOHNSON: Yes, Lindsey is a good friend. I have great respect for him as well and understand what they're engaging in. They want to move the agenda and so do we. President Trump got a mandate to deliver that American first agenda.
He's working at breakneck pace as you just saw in the opening of the show to do that with the executive branch, and we're going to do it with legislation.
So it's a very complicated and complex set of things that we are delivering. We're, of course, we're going to secure the border. We're going to make sure that American communities are safe. We're going to get American energy dominance going again in the economy and restore common sense. But to do all that in one big bill takes a little bit of time.
So we're working through that process very productively. We -- we've been building on this for a year, Shannon. And all through last year, we had our committees of jurisdiction working on the ideas to put it together.
Last month, we did that in earnest in January. And as recently as this past week, we spent four and a half hours at the White House on Thursday, and three hours later that evening, working through the final details and we're very, very close.
So I appreciate the Senate zeal. We have it in the House as well. But as I reminded my friend, Lindsey, I have about 170 additional personalities to deal with and he's only got 53 on the Republican side there. We have, you know, a very diverse caucus with lots of interests, but we are going to get this job done.
BREAM: So you mentioned the big meeting you had at the White House last week. This weekend at Mar-a-Lago, the Senate GOP team has been with the president. He's got -- they've got his ear this weekend. You'll have it again maybe in the box tonight.
How do you make the closing message that what you're planning is a better road than the Senate?
JOHNSON: Well, I -- talking to the president and his team about this almost constantly reminding them that we will get the job done, but it has to be the one big bill strategy. And the reason for that is because that gives us the highest probability of success of delivering on all these campaign promises.
We will get it done. The president knows that. He invited me to come with them on Air Force One to the game, but I said, Mr. President, I got to go home to north Louisiana and pick up the family first and I'll meet you at the game.
We'll be in the suite. We'll talk about that. He's getting a lot of wise counsel, a lot of advice. But at the end of the day, the House has to drive this process, and we will. We're going to get everybody together.
BREAM: Okay. When will we see your framework, Monday, Tuesday?
JOHNSON: Well, we were going to do a budget committee markup next week. We might push it a little bit further because the details really matter. Remember that I have the smallest margin in history about a two-vote margin currently.
So I've got to make sure everyone agrees before we bring the project forward, the final product and we've got a few more boxes to check, but we're getting very, very close.
BREAM: So I know one of the president's priorities and yours as well is to the -- extend those tax cuts that were passed in 2017. Here's what "Axios" says. Those -- extending those for 10 years could cost $4.6 trillion under the current law scoring used by the Congressional Budget Office.
So what is more likely? You find enough offsets in spending somewhere to get that number down or this talk now that maybe those cuts only are extended five years?
JOHNSON: Well, we're looking for the offsets and we have to do that. We have to be good financial stewards because the other concern is that we are growing the national debt. We don't want to add to the deficit by doing this.
So it is a very expensive project. And remember, we've got to spend money to secure the border because the Biden administration opened it wide. We've got to make sure defense spending is covered and then no tax on tips and these other big priorities that the people elected the president to do.
So making all that work in the -- in the proper equation is where the math and the hard work comes in. But we're going to make sure that we find the offsets to do this in a responsible manner.
BREAM: So in the meantime, House Democrats say it looks like you're going do it alone. They think this is going to be a party-line vote or at least if you can keep your caucus together, and that you're not actually spending any time negotiating with them.
Here's the House Democratic leader Hakeem Jeffries.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. HAKEEM JEFFRIES (D-NY), HOUSE MINORITY LEADER: Republicans haven't said a single thing to House Democrats about finding common ground to get something done on the budget, on their tax cuts for the wealthy, well-off and well-connected, on their efforts to dramatically end Medicaid as we know it, or on the debt ceiling.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BREAM: So is it worthwhile to get some bipartisan effort? You've done that on some big things that you have gotten across the finish line, but he says you're not even talking.
JOHNSON: Well, listen, Hakeem is a -- is a good colleague and -- but that hyperbole there is not helpful. I mean, we're not dramatically cutting Medicaid and we're not doing all these things they accuse the Republicans of.
We're trying to get the country back on track and restore America's greatness and it takes some real effort to do it. There will be things that we're doing in a bipartisan fashion, but the reconciliation process which we're spending all the time on right now is by design effectively a partisan exercise. They've done it when they had unified government and we're doing it this way.
So there's plenty of time for all the negotiation and we'll get to that and, you know, the Democrats frankly are flailing right now. They don't have an identified party leader. They don't have a real vision for the party and the blitz of all the Trump executive actions have them just at a dizzying pace.
And so, they're flailing right now. I get it. This is politics, but we're going to get the job done.
BREAM: So there is a lot to get done and in the coming weeks and part of that is the fact that we're supposed to run out of government funding on March 14th if something doesn't get done.
Here is what Congressman Chip Roy, he's a Republican, says about what may happen on that front.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. CHIP ROY (R-TX): C.R.s aren't my favorite vehicle, but the idea that we're going to get appros done by March 14th is, you know, pretty low.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BREAM: So he is thinking the odds aren't good for getting those appropriations done. Continuing resolution, the C.R., that band-aid, what are the possibilities that that's part of what you have to do to keep things going?
JOHNSON: Well, look, all options are on the table right now. But our appropriators have been working in earnest to get that top line number negotiated with the Democrat colleagues and there's been lots of posturing back and forth. But I think we can get this job done.
The appropriators can write the bills quickly enough because a lot of the groundwork, the foundational work has already been completed. So just getting everyone to agree to what that final spending number is going to be has been the holdup. But we have time, it's early February and the deadline is March 14th. So there's more -- more to -- more to come on that.
BREAM: So most of what we've seen in the administration so far has been executive action out of the executive branch. So as you work on the legislative branch, let's talk about that because many of the president's earliest actions are already tied up. In court battles, there are some injunctions there.
Erwin Chemerinsky, who's the dean of Berkeley Law School, says this: A stunning number of his executive actions clearly violate the Constitution and federal law. I certainly doubt that any president has done so much lawless so quickly that affects so many people.
Now, ideologically, politically, clearly, you're in sync with President Trump. But I've known you years as a constitutional attorney. Are you worried at all, anything you would voice as concerns, separation of powers, what's going on in the executive branch?
JOHNSON: Look, I'm a lifelong advocate and guardian of Article One. There's a reason that the legislative branch is listed first in the Constitution. The Founders intended for us to be the ones that, you know, drive the agenda.
But the executive branch, the president has a very important role. The Dean is not wrong. President Trump has done more than any president in our memory, probably in the modern era, maybe in the whole history of the country, right out of the gates.
Why? Because he knows exactly what he wants to do, what he needs to do and what the American people gave him a mandate to do.
So I'm not uncomfortable with the pace of this. He's fulfilling all of our campaign promises.
BREAM: What about the substance of it?
JOHNSON: Well, the substance is what the American people demand and deserve. This idea, you know, all the controversy about Elon Musk helping us out. They're going through to find efficiencies. There has been massive fraud, waste and abuse of the American taxpayers' dollars, and this is the best way to do it.
You bring in effectively an outside auditor and that's what Elon and the team are doing, and what they are uncovering is incredible abuses of the public FISC (ph). And so, we applaud that. We're supporting it, and we're going to back it up with legislative action to make sure we codify these changes so that it's more lasting than just one administration.
BREAM: So some of the things that have been uncovered have been specifically links to USAID and a lot of the things that people are hearing about as average taxpayers we think -- well, that's not why I go to work to pay for some of these things. Some of these have been debunked or there's context for them, but there are important things that USAID does as well, with food, with medical care, those kinds of things.
Here's Democrat Senator Chris Murphy talking about the danger of getting rid of all of that funding.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. CHRIS MURPHY (D-CT): The consequences are the people die, babies die. I mean, right now, we are involved in Gaza and in Sudan, in providing food to malnourished babies, literally, there will be dead children, hundreds of thousands of them, and China will very quickly jump into the void.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BREAM: There have been Republicans voicing concerns as well, but there are two different things there. Obviously, in a humanitarian sense where the U.S. can provide, it's the right thing to do.
But do you worry also the goodwill that may be destroyed and the other actors that may move in when we pull out of some of these really critical funding issues?
JOHNSON: Every country around the world recognizes America is the last great superpower. We are the good guys. We are the biggest humanitarians on the planet, the most benevolent nation that has ever been in history and we do some good things and that in USAID.
I'm comforted to know that Marco Rubio, secretary of state, and folks are actually sitting down line by line and going through, eliminating the abuses of taxpayer dollars and defining and protecting the things that are certainly in America's interest and are the right thing to do, as you said.
So we'll get this sorted out, but I think that that effort is long overdue, and when Congress has been requesting oversight of these dollars for years now, it's been hidden from us. The persons who are given the Constitutional responsibility of oversight. So having an independent audit again, having access to the files to dig this stuff out is a good thing for the country, and we support it.
BREAM: I'm guessing you won't give me a prediction for the game tonight?
JOHNSON: I cheer for the Saints all the time, but look, whoever wins today, we're happy to have them in Louisiana. This is a great thing, a great thing for the country and for our state, and we've been delighted to host it.
BREAM: Well, it's been nice to see New Orleans rally in the wake of what's been a really difficult time.
JOHNSON: Yeah.
BREAM: Good luck in the box tonight.
JOHNSON: Thanks so much.
BREAM: We'll see how that conversation goes, too.
JOHNSON: Great to see you.
BREAM: Thank you, Mr. Speaker.
All right, President Trump and Elon Musk's mission to shrink the federal government facing more opposition by the day, both from Democrats and in the courts. Will Kane and Clay Travis join us live on that and more next from the Superdome.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
LAMONICA MCIVER, (D) NEW JERSEY CONGRESSWOMAN: We will not take this (bleep) from Donald Trump and Elon Musk. We will not stand for this. We will fight back. Shut down the Senate. We are at war.
DONALD TRUMP (R), U.S. PRESIDENT: But he's a great -- he's a great guy and he loves the country and he's wanted to do this for a long time.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BREAM: Two very different reactions to Elon Musk and DOGE as it targets bureaucrats across several Washington agencies.
Let's talk about it now with our special Super Bowl Sunday group. Joining me here on the field, Will Cain, host of "The Will Cain Show" on Fox News Channel, weekdays at 4 p.m. Eastern and Outkick Outkick Founder, Clay Travis, who is also a Fox News Contributor.
Welcome, gentlemen.
WILL CAIN, "THE WILL CAIN SHOW" HOST: Good morning.
BREAM: Good to have you here. I mean, if we can't get together for the Super Bowl.
CLAY TRAVIS, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Not a bad spot.
BREAM: This is not bad at all.
TRAVIS: Pretty cool.
BREAM: OK, so let's talk DOGE because there is a real backlash to this. Senator Schumer says this, it's an unelected shadow government conducting a hostile takeover of the federal government. DOGE is not a real government agency. DOGE has no authority to make spending decisions. DOGE has no authority to shut down programs or to ignore federal law. DOGE's conduct cannot be allowed to stand. Congress must take action to restore the rule of law.
Will, it is definitely ruffling feathers, to put it mildly.
CAIN: But I think it's only ruffling feathers within Washington, D.C. I don't think it's ruffling feathers with the American people. For years, for decades, the American people said the federal government spends too much money and it spends it wastefully. That's been proven up. Specifically, it's been proven up with USAID.
So it is weird to see. I think it's really revealing to see Democrats stand on the wall. This is their Alamo to say we are going to defend ridiculous spending in Uganda, in Ireland, DEI plays in Colombia. For them to make this their flag that they're going to plant, I think is incredibly revealing. I think it's out of touch with the American people.
BREAM: Well, Clay, you hear from people on the radio all week long.
TRAVIS: Yes.
BREAM: And how are they reacting?
TRAVIS: Well, a couple things. One, remember Elon Musk voted for Joe Biden in 2020. We're not talking about some far-right wing ideologue. Everyone wants the government to spend less money, Democrat, Republican, Independent. I think this is indicative of how Trump has done such a good job of actually taking what are not particularly partisan issues.
Hey, let's spend taxpayer dollars more efficiently and gotten Democrats to line up on the other side of it reflexively because he's in favor of it.
CAIN: And I would say, Shannon, this line that they're using, and they get these verbal tics, the Democrats, where they repeat a line virally and it becomes a tic. You know, we've heard it from pandemic of the unvaccinated to a threat to democracy. The latest one is a shadow government.
Well, I think a lot of Americans feel like there is a shadow government and that is the bureaucracy of Washington, D.C. that exists permanently, regardless of which party is in power. And this permanent shadow government is the one that is now being threatened.
BREAM: Well, when you pull it, I mean, people are always worried about government spending and the further and further we get into debt. Borrowing money from people who don't have the U.S. best interest at heart so that we can pay other people who also don't like the United States. It's not the greatest equation to most Americans.
TRAVIS: My wife, Lara, who you know well, Shannon, she said, this is crazy to me because if you had maybe the best business person in the history of any of our lives come into your house and look at your family budget and just try to save you money, would anyone complain about that at all? And so, again, I think to Will's point, Democrats are lost, don't have a message. We were talking offset. Who's even the best advocate for their message? They're lost.
BREAM: Well, and at this point, we know that a lot of this stuff is caught in the courts, whether it's the USAID stuff, birthright citizenship, the DOGE, all of it.
"New York Times" reports it this way. They say, "Collectively, the legal actions seek to check what the plaintiffs see as an unlawful effort often helmed by Mr. Musk, an unelected billionaire with no formal position to subvert long-established civil service protections and a grab from Congress. It's constitutionally mandated control of federal spending."
And so, Clay, you hear this language and it's saying that, hey, Congress, Elon Musk is taking your power. Hey, President Trump, Elon Musk is taking your power.
TRAVIS: Well, look, we got three lawyers here who ran from the law as fast as we could, right? But --
BREAM: Got the heck out of DOGE.
TRAVIS: We all know, you know better than anybody, Shannon, ultimately, the Supreme Court's going to have to weigh in on this. And one of the challenges that Trump has had, whether it's birthright citizenship, whether it's USAID, they're going to sue on everything. And there's going to be activists, federal district court judges, who say, you can't do this. There are going to be judges who say Trump can. Ultimately, it's going to go to the Supreme Court level. We're going to spend a year-plus, two years-plus on many of these issues to find out what the law actually is.
BREAM: Yeah, it takes time.
CAIN: It does. You know, I think a great example of this is the birthright citizenship issue. By every historical precedent and by most legal analysts, it's determined to fail, legally, constitutionally.
But I am on the side of President Trump on this and I think there's a very fascinating and legitimate argument that birthright citizenship, the way it's been interpreted, for granted, a century, is not the way it was intended by those that drafted the 14th Amendment. Did the founders of the 14th Amendment in the late 1800s mean anyone and everyone who gets here and who's born on this soil? Or was it for the children of slaves? Was it for making American people who have been here for a while American citizens? Or people subject to foreign jurisdictions who all of a sudden get to be Americans?
BREAM: It'll be fascinating to me if it gets to SCOTUS. It may take a little while, but I'll be there if it does and we'll break it down.
OK, in the meantime, there are warnings from within the Democratic establishment. David Axelrod, Rahm Emanuel, James Carville saying, all of these battles that you're fighting, choose carefully. They say this, "Trump's orbit couldn't be happier,' this is out of "Politico," 'seeing Democratic lawmakers,' to your point, Will, 'lined up on a downtown Washington sidewalk Monday, in their view, wasting political capital defending an agency that they believe the public doesn't give a rip about."
They're so on their heels, I think, with just the flood of what's coming at them. How do they pick and choose these fights?
CAIN: I don't think anyone has the answer and I in that way, I can actually sympathize with them. Which fight do you choose to fight? Which one is actually a potential victory?
And who is going to be, to Clay's point, the person that successfully argues that fight? Right now, to be honest, you know who the most famous person of the Democratic Party is, the rising star? It's Jasmine Crockett.
Congresswoman Jasmine Crockett seems to be the voice. She gets more airtime, makes more arguments than anyone else in the Democratic Party. And my suspicion is that most Republicans couldn't be happier if the voice of the Democratic Party is Jasmine Crockett.
TRAVIS: I think it's the speed with which Trump is moving. The Democrat Party is caught flat-footed. We're here at the Super Bowl. I can't wait for kickoff. They trotted out Chuck Schumer to hold an avocado and a Corona to try to make the argument that Trump was out of touch.
But by the time they actually even stood there, with Schumer awkwardly holding both of those things, the narrative cycle had moved on. I think this is the flood the zone move and why they've been so smart, guys, about just getting everything done. They don't have the ability of the media or the Democrats, who even knows who the leader is, to be able to respond effectively to everything Trump's doing.
BREAM: Well, here's one of their responses. Our buddy Chad Pergram, who owns Capitol Hill, very well for us at Fox News. He says this. "So far Democrats are flailing. They try to challenge President Trump in a second term. They're dusting off some old plays from a tired, dog-eared playbook. It took precisely 16 days before a Democrat threatened to impeach the President."
And listen, guys, last time they did this, I think he could argue long-term it worked in his favor.
TRAVIS: Look, the craziest thing about the first impeachment, now looking back on it retrospectively, Trump got impeached for asking about what Hunter Biden actually did. You know, when you go back in that call with Zelenskyy, he was looking into what Hunter Biden did.
Now, the second one obviously was related to Jan 6. I would say that the Trump people would welcome the third impeachment because it just plays in with the idea of the Democrats being broken and not having new concepts and plans.
BREAM: Third time's the charm?
TRAVIS: I doubt it.
BREAM: For Democrats?
CAIN: I would doubt it because it doesn't read the present or the future. It means it feels stuck, to your point, in the past. The three of us are here in New Orleans. We're at the Super Bowl. I think it is very accurate and real to say there is a vibe shift. The country has moved on.
The playbook from 2016 to '20 is not only going to not work politically, it's not working culturally. And my suspicion is you're going to feel that. You're literally going to see that later today on "Fox" when we are at the Super Bowl, when President Trump makes his appearance at the Superdome.
BREAM: We will see. It's been electric for a lot of places when he showed up at these collegiate games.
CAIN: Yes.
BREAM: This first time we have a sitting president coming to the Super Bowl, so we will all be here for the fun tonight. Will and Clay, thank you both for making time. I appreciate it.
TRAVIS: Thank you so much, Shannon.
BREAM: Good to see you guys.
OK, up next, Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem, fresh off a trip to Guantanamo Bay, where the Trump administration says it's holding the worst of the worst.
Well, Secretary Noem joins us live on that. Plus, what she's doing to keep the Super Bowl safe, right here in New Orleans. Next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BREAM: President Trump will be the first sitting commander in chief to attend the Super Bowl, making security measures for the big game in New Orleans even tighter.
The city's still grieving the loss of 14 people and dozens more injured in the New Year's Day terror attack on Bourbon Street
Garrett Tenney's here with me in the Superdome. You have been getting a look at all of the security measures, and this is the biggest one, DHS says every year.
GARRETT TENNEY, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Yes. And, you know, Shannon, I was here hours after that New Year's attack on Bourbon Street, then and now is just night and day.
Anything and everything that local officials have asked the federal government for, they have gotten. And this week, we got exclusive access to see it all.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
TENNEY (voice-over): From the ground to the water to the air, New Orleans is blanketed by security this week.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: They're everywhere. Their presence is known.
TENNEY: Special Agent in Charge Eric Delaune is coordinating the flood of federal resources that have poured into the Big Easy.
ERIC DELAUNE, NEW ORLEANS HOMELAND SECURITY SPECIAL AGENT: We would be foolish if we didn't learn and use what happened on January 1st to inform how we make changes and inform the security plan for the Super Bowl.
TENNEY: Those changes include new bollards and barriers on Bourbon Street that weren't used on New Year's and a new enhanced security zone in the French Quarter where National Guard troops are checking large bags and enforcing a ban on coolers in ice chests.
On the banks of the Mississippi, CBP's air and marine operations are patrolling the waters for anything suspicious.
MATTHEW VALZANIA, CBP MARINE INTERDICTION AGENT: We're predominantly looking for, you know, any sort of acts of terrorism or anything like that.
TENNEY: In the air, CBP Black Hawks are keeping a close eye on the city. And 10,000 feet higher, we joined at F-15 fighter pilots with the Louisiana Air National Guard.
Enforcing the FAA's 30 nautical mile lockdown of the airspace around the Superdome, where they practice intercepting an unresponsive plane heading towards the stadium.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You have been intercepted for trespassing a flight restriction area.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We train for this all year, just like the teams that are playing.
Rest assured, we're watching the skies so you can watch the game.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
TENNEY: With more than two dozen federal agencies and 2,000 law enforcement officers here, officials say this will be the most secure Super Bowl in history. And fans lucky enough to have tickets to the game will go through multiple layers of security by the time they get to their seats.
BREAM: Got to get patient. I got to say though, your little "Top Gun" stints there.
TENNEY: Oh, man.
BREAM: Not for the fate of heart.
TENNEY: No. My legs are still feeling it.
BREAM: But it looks like they are comprehensive like the one gentleman you talk to. You got to take the lessons from January 1st which was such a shock to this beautiful city which is very much about people being in the streets, people having a party, having a good time.
You were here, she said in the hours afterwards. I mean a real jolt to what New Orleans is all about.
TENNEY: You know, and New Orleans is amazing. They are used to experiencing tragedy, whether that be hurricanes or what we saw on New Year's.
The ability they have to bounce back and the way that they do is just incredible. And we saw that over the last few weeks that really they are now looking to celebrate and rejoice the beauty of their city and not allow what happened then to hold them back.
And the lessons that have been learned, they have implemented every single one that they could in such a short time span.
And Mardi Gras, which is even --
BREAM: Right.
TENNEY: -- bigger than the Super Bowl, is less -- just a month away from now. So those lessons will continue to be in place for Mardi Gras.
BREAM: Yes. It's a beautiful city and the spirit and the vibe is still there for sure.
Thank you for giving us an insight.
TENNEY: Absolutely.
BREAM: Always good to see you.
OK. Joining us now from Washington Homeland Security Secretary, Kristi Noem. Madam Secretary, welcome.
KRISTI NOEM, U.S. SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY: Oh, thank you, Shannon. Thank you for inviting me.
BREAM: So we know that DHS, this is your biggest event every year. How does that change when you have a sitting president? What are the challenges that you worry about, that keep you up at night?
NOEM: Well, keeping the American homeland secure is a big job, but it is so special that the president, the first time in history, is going to the Super Bowl.
So while we have been focused on security operations there for many, many months and have been preparing for this day, to have President Trump be there, just amplifies the message that a great game means that everybody got to go, celebrate, support their team, and leave and get home safely.
BREAM: Well, and, Secretary, when you walked in, obviously, there are always multiple crises that Homeland Security is looking at managing. And, of course, Secret Service is within your purview. We've seen many of them here on the ground doing the hard work.
Are you confident -- now that you've had a chance to get in, it's still early there at the agency though, to take a look at what led up to the events on July 13th, the lapses there with the Secret Service -- you've gotten sufficient answers and that you're moving in the right direction moving forward?
NOEM: We're definitely moving in the right direction. And I'm proud of Secret Service and all the work that they do every day. They make incredible sacrifices to keep people safe. And on the investigative side, have a lot of that training as well.
But for this event, we've deployed many other assets as well. We're obviously working with the local authorities, with the governor, and with his agencies that he has that he's detailed to this, but we have several different agencies under the Department of Homeland Security that have put hundreds of individuals, investigators, military police, folks that are used to these kinds of crowd control and security operations and their other departments that are focused on today, to make sure that this big event is going to be safe and that we're going to make the right decisions and see situations that could arise and get everybody home safely.
BREAM: And, obviously, another one of your top priorities has been the border. There have been these ICE raids, deportation. And what we understand is that ICE, you know, and you can clarify for us if this isn't accurate.
Many of their facilities here are now at or over capacity. And that means that some of the people who've been swept up have been released. I know that was something that President Trump was very critical of in previous administrations.
Can you explain how that's working, how you're tracking those people and what you're doing about ICE capacity?
NOEM: So we have continuous people that are going home to their countries and being repatriated. So we have thousands of beds and detention facilities that are open today.
We'll continue to do ops in the different communities to get these dangerous criminals off of our streets and to get them home. So it's constantly changing number on what we're doing.
And, obviously, when we bring somebody in, we want to keep them detained and to send them back home, just like the president promised during the campaign and that he's following through on every day of his administration.
BREAM: NBC reports this. They say a source familiar with his thinking says the president is getting, quote, angry that more people are not being deported and then the message is being passed along to a number of officials including you.
So you'd be on the receiving end of that message. So I'll let you characterize. What are you hearing from the president about the capacity of people who are being swept up, deported, and whether or not he's angry? Is that accurate?
NOEM: Well, I talk to the president often almost every single day. And what he keeps telling me is to keep going, that we're doing great, that the border is secure. We're having 90 percent less encounters at the border just because of the messaging and how aggressive we've been out on the streets to get these dangerous criminals out of our country. So I'm thankful for that.
We've got three times the amount of ICE detainees that we brought in than the Biden administration. So what the president is doing is incredible. And he wants us to continue to build on that.
So I think what they -- he's concerned about is that, yes, we've had great success in getting rapists and murderers and child pornographers and pedophiles out of our country and away from our children and our families.
But he doesn't want us to relax. He doesn't want us to get comfortable and say, OK, well, we've done a good job. He wants us to, you know, put the pedal down and to go even harder. And we will do that.
BREAM: Well, and you're just back from Guantanamo Bay, which is where some of these folks are being sent. There are, of course, a lot of people who are pushing back on that.
Several immigrants' rights groups have written to you and a number of the other secretaries, under the lead of the ACLU, and they say this. The government cannot attempt to subvert the statutory and constitutional rights afforded to these non-citizens in the U.S. by transferring them to an offshore prison and holding them incommunicado without access to counsel or any means of contact with the outside world.
First of all, can you speak to whether that is an accurate characterization? And what do you say in response to their claims about legal rights for these folks?
NOEM: You know, that's just bull. And I just wish they would grow up and really recognize what we're doing here.
What we're doing is, of course, we're giving due process to migrants. We've done that all the time, following the same procedures we always have been. But where are they advocating for the children that are missing, that Joe Biden lost? Why are they not advocating for these families that have lost children?
Laken Riley's family, Jocelyn's family. Why are they not out there fighting for them and saying, thank you, Mr. President, for making sure that our kids aren't going to continue to be killed by drugs and trafficking and be -- have dangerous criminals robbing small businesses in our hometowns?
I mean, just get your priorities straight. This is about America. So start focusing on them instead of focusing on these dangerous people.
I watched a plane load of people unload at Gitmo that were pedophiles, child pornographers. They were drug dealers in our communities that literally these cartels are partnering with the Chinese to kill our next generation of Americans. That's who we're putting down there at Gitmo. And I'm just so thankful that they're not in our country anymore.
BREAM: So also in that letter, they report -- they point to a report from the International Refugee Assistance Project. And because you were just there, I want you to speak to this. They say, there are problems like no potable water, dilapidated housing, mold, rats, overflowing showers and toilets, spewing sewage, they say inadequate access to medical and healthcare. Can you tell us that you were just there? What are the conditions?
NOEM: It was not like that at all. I don't know what they're talking about. Maybe that was under the Biden administration or previously. But it was not like that at all. And our army is there working hard to stand up the facilities and to meet our standards to make sure that we can use it in a way that it has always been used, but use it properly.
We've had migrants there before. We are doing it again. We're going to use our assets that we have to make America safe again. And those claims are not happening today. I don't know what date they're referring to.
BREAM: All right. We've got to leave it there, Madam Secretary.
NOEM: OK.
BREAM: We know you were in North Carolina yesterday, too. And we know that meant a great deal to folks. You've been on the other side of FEMA as a governor.
NOEM: Yes.
BREAM: And so we know you take that knowledge into this business as well --
NOEM: That's right.
BREAM: -- in your new role. Thank you very much for making time. Always good to see you.
NOEM: Thank you, Shannon. You, too.
BREAM: All right. Kick-off just hours away, right here at the iconic Caesars Superdome. My interview with legendary coach Jimmy Johnson. His thoughts on the big game and the Big Easy, next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BREAM: Two nights. The Kansas City Chiefs and the Philadelphia Eagles go head to head in a second Super Bowl matchup in just three years.
I sat down with former NFL head coach, Jimmy Johnson, to talk keys to the game and why he could be up for an Oscar.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
BREAM: All right. We are so excited to have back the star of the show. Coach, how are you? Good to see you again.
JIMMY JOHNSON, AMERICAN SPORTS COACH: I'm doing great. Yes. Can you believe that just not too awful long ago, we had snow here in the French Quarter? And now it's about 80 degrees.
BREAM: It is. I'll take this over the snow. How about you?
JOHNSON: It's going to be a great football game.
BREAM: It sure is.
JOHNSON: Super Bowl LIX.
BREAM: Listen, you've been in as a winning player, as a winning coach. What do you make of the excitement we're feeling so far? We've got a rematch of when you and I talked in Arizona two years ago. What's the difference?
JOHNSON: Yes. You know, I think with this game, they played two years ago. And it was such a close game, an exciting game like a 38-35 whatever.
BREAM: Yes.
JOHNSON: And I think because both, you know, groups of fans, the Philadelphia Eagles and the Kansas City Chiefs, both of them feel like they're going to win.
BREAM: They do.
JOHNSON: Hey, we'd love to have a close, exciting game.
BREAM: We do. We've talked to a lot of fans today, and I asked them, on a scale of 1 to 10, how good do you feel about your team? And I've got to tell you, the Chief's fans were a little bit more cautious.
JOHNSON: Oh, really?
BREAM: They're going for that three-peat.
JOHNSON: They - they were eight or nine?
BREAM: They - well, I got a seven out of one of them.
JOHNSON: Oh, a seven.
BREAM: But, listen, you know, as a winning Super Bowl coach, there's a lot of pressure going for a three-peat. Is that a pro or a con for these Chiefs players and coaches?
JOHNSON: I don't know that it's pressure on the Kansas City Chiefs for the simple reason they've got so many veterans. They know how to prepare.
Plus, they've got one of the greatest coaches in the NFL with Andy Reid. They're prepared the right way.
Patrick Mahomes, I told him two years ago, you know, when we had him in the Super Bowl, I said, you're the greatest quarterback I've ever seen. And, hey, I love Terry Bradshaw. I love Troy Aikman.
BREAM: You can say that because Terry's not here.
JOHNSON: Yes, yes, Terry's not here. I can say it about -
BREAM: Yes.
JOHNSON: But Patrick Mahomes is just unbelievable. You know, he makes a difference because I think, talent-wise, I think Philadelphia may be a more talented team.
BREAM: Well, let's talk about that because something different from the game than two years ago, when we were talking in Arizona, is Saquon Barkley this time around.
JOHNSON: Oh.
BREAM: So, what kind of difference maker is he for the Eagles?
JOHNSON: Well, you need to - you need to ask Michael Strahan, because he is a giant man.
BREAM: He is.
JOHNSON: And Berkeley, with all the long runs he's made, you know, this year, it's unbelievable. But now he's got a great offensive line, he's got an outstanding offensive line coach, Jeff Stoutland. You know, I think with all of the pieces of the puzzle together, he's having a great, great year.
BREAM: What do you think of sort of this celebrity factor that is now bubbling up at the NFL? You are going to have Taylor Swift supporting Travis Kelce. It's brought a lot of females in different fans, younger fans, who might not have been as into the NFL. And now they're tuning into these games, maybe to get a look at her, but they're learning to love the game too?
JOHNSON: Well, I don't know that I'm going to say I'm a Swiftie. I don't have a bracelet. But I'll tell you what, it's brought a lot more attention to this Super Bowl.
BREAM: It certainly has.
So, OK, as a coach, how do you tackle this? They've been here before with some of the same players. This is a rematch. The Eagles, they want to change the outcome this time around. How do you get your players ready for those?
JOHNSON: Well, I - you - you know, everybody says, the old-time coach that says, hey, it's just another game. You know, don't try to do something that you wouldn't normally do. Prepare the same way.
You know, Philadelphia's won 15 straight, you know, and so they know how to win. Kansas City, they're going for a three-peat. You know, they won the last couple of Super Bowls.
So, I think the main thing, and this is something that I heard many, many years ago, it's not the team that makes the most great plays, it's the team that makes the fewest mistakes. And so you don't want to force the football and try to make a great play. You want to make sure you don't turn it over.
So, if you don't make a lot of mistakes, you're going to score points. And you're not going to give the opponent great field position. So, keep the mistakes to a minimum. Don't try to be the hero.
BREAM: What is it like on game day for the Super Bowl? I mean these guys have played and coached through really high intensity, you know, pressure off the charts. But this is the game. You're here in this party atmosphere and the entire world is watching.
JOHNSON: Well, the excitement and the anticipation is going to be over the top. But once the ball is kicked off, in the game start, you know, the muscle memory starts. You end up - this is what you've got to do. This is how you've got to play. This is the decision that you've got to make.
So, it goes back to the same thing that you've been doing for 30 years. And so, I don't know that the Super Bowl overcomes that muscle memory of just another game. But the main thing, both of these teams are outstanding. I mean they - they've both got great football teams, and that's why I anticipate a great game.
BREAM: Do you have any predictions or things that we should watch that you think will be keys to making it work?
JOHNSON: Now, you know better than that! Well, you've got to watch "FOX NFL SUNDAY" if you want a prediction!
BREAM: All right. Fair enough. And, listen, by the way, the last time we were all together, I learned a lot about you guys. Howie likes to eat ketchup on his steak, right?
JOHNSON: Right.
BREAM: Terry told us that he likes to - and these are his words - to run around "nekkid" on camera and off.
JOHNSON: Oh, don't - don't give me that visual!
BREAM: We - we have evidence of that.
JOHNSON: Don't give me that visual!
BREAM: I got - I got a few more questions. And they're not here to defend themselves, so you can tell me the truth.
JOHNSON: Right.
BREAM: I know you love to fish.
JOHNSON: Yes.
BREAM: You're very competitive. I've seen shots of you and Terry all over the social media out fishing. Who's the better fisherman and who's better at telling the fish stories?
JOHNSON: Well, since I've been fishing a little bit longer, I tell the best fish stories. Terry's a better fisherman on freshwater. I'm the better fisherman on saltwater. In fact, I took him out many years ago, him and his family, and we started going out further and further and further. He said, are we going to go so far that I can't see land?
BREAM: Oh, he - that's where his advantage is. He wants to stay there.
JOHNSON: Yes, he - he fishes in farm ponds. I fish in oceans.
BREAM: OK, so he's not here to defend that, but we're going to take your word for it because I've seen the photos.
Also, Terry and Howie, both of them outside of football, they do some acting. They've been in some movies. Which one of them do you think is closer to winning an Oscar? And who's the bigger ham?
JOHNSON: Well, now, you know you shortchanged me there. I was in "Water Boy" with Adam Sandler!
BREAM: See - so, OK, let's put you in the mix.
JOHNSON: Oh, OK.
BREAM: You can also be in the Oscar mix.
JOHNSON: Well, let's see, Howie was in "Firestorm" and he came out of that water, you know, with the fire going.
BREAM: It's pretty impressive.
JOHNSON: Did a great job.
Terry was in "Failure to Launch," and he was naked in that.
BREAM: He was. And I don't know if they take -
JOHNSON: Oh, that's why you like it! That's why you like it!
BREAM: I - I don't know if that's why they take away or they give Oscars. I don't know.
But what I do know is you've given us a good look inside the game. Coach, we always appreciate our time. Have a great game. Have a great show.
JOHNSON: All right, thank you. It's going to be a great one.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
BREAM: It is. Always good to see the coach. Thank you to him.
All right, you can catch all of Fox's coverage of the Super Bowl beginning at 1:00 p.m. Eastern on your local Fox Channel.
Up next, as New Orleans is still picking up the pieces in the wake of that deadly terror attack in January, Louisiana First Lady Sharon Landry is working to help the families of the 14 people who were lost, along with survivors who are just beginning their road to recovery. Many of you at home are part of these efforts, too. That's next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BREAM: A bit of a foggy day here in New Orleans as we are coming to you live from the Caesar's Superdome. It's going to be a warm day here. And these streets have been full. People are celebrating. They're looking forward to this day after that devastating New Year's Day terror attack here. It's still very much on the minds of everyone this weekend as New Orleans continues to recover at the same time that it is gearing up for this major event. They are the host of the Super Bowl.
Well, earlier I spoke with Louisiana's first lady, Sharon Landry, in the French Quarter to discuss the new initiative that she's spearheading. She's trying to help those who were impacted, as she and Governor Jeff Landry help the Crescent City get to the other side of that tragedy. It is our Sunday special.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
BREAM: Thank you so much for hosting us here in Louisiana. A very important, exciting weekend. But we also want to talk about the work that you've been doing from a much tougher, darker moment. Tell us about Love One Louisiana.
SHARON LANDRY, LOUISIANA'S FIRST LADY: Shannon, first of all, thanks for having me. I'm glad to be here.
Love One Louisiana is the foundation that we started, and we were really - we're going to get it up and running starting January. And after the horrific tragedy January 1, we knew we had to get into action.
BREAM: Can you tell us what it was like for this area, for you all to get that phone call and to see what had happened to your beloved city?
LANDRY: It's just unbelievable. It was a beautiful night. The fireworks over the river. Everyone was watching. And then to go to bed and wake up a few hours later was just devastating.
GOV. JEFF LANDRY (R-LA): Believe me, we care about each one of the lives that were lost in the city event. We will never forget them.
LANDRY: Jeff honored each of the victims, each day. He also called every victim's family and spoke to them directly. I was able to meet with some of them before the vigil that we had a New Orleans at the cathedral. It was just heart-wrenching.
BREAM: Can you talk about how it affected the city and kind of the spirit of the city?
LANDRY: I just think it was somber. They had to help the families, as well as put on the Sugar Bowl the next day. So, it was an eerie feeling in the city. You know, sadness, compassion, you know.
BREAM: It's very heavy.
LANDRY: Heavy.
BREAM: And a time of celebration, to have that.
LANDRY: Yes. Yes.
BREAM: And now the world is back here paying attention to another celebration here in New Orleans with this still very much fresh in people's minds. What are the kinds of things that you've been able to do or that you hope to do in the short term for these families?
LANDRY: We've flown two victims over to Florida to rehab facilities. We've also flown family members and from Israel because they haven't seen their loved one in the hospital. So, we flew them in.
We've had over 1,600 contributions online from people and - with Fox's generous support, we've raised over $600,000. And so, if you want to continue to help and help these families move forward, just go to loveone.la. And hopefully, we can help them in the future.
BREAM: The devastation of losing 14 lives, every one of them precious, but there are those who are struggling now with injuries and - and real-world impacts on their lives, too.
LANDRY: Right. And continued medical bills or rehab, counseling. We want to be there to support them in all their needs.
BREAM: What does it mean to you when you see people step up - I mean there are strangers from really around the world contributing online. They may never know any of these lives that they're touching, but what a beautiful thing.
LANDRY: It is so beautiful. I personally didn't know the victims, but when you talk to friends and families, the connection that you make, you feel like you know them. And you know their stories.
BREAM: There are things that you never plan for, that you never would imagine you're going to experience in a situation like this. But it sounds like Love One Louisiana has been able to kind of meet these families right where they are with just the practical things they need right now.
LANDRY: Right now. And we want to continue our efforts to help them in the long term because this is not going to end for them.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
BREAM: Fox Corporation has made a donation to the Love One Louisiana Foundation in support of those impacted by the terrorist attack here in New Orleans. Your generous contributions have been and will keep helping those families in need.
You can help by donating at go.fox/nola or just scan that QR code on your screen to help.
By the way, don't miss Fox's Super Bowl coverage. It's Super Bowl LIX. Pregame coverage starting at 1:00 p.m. Eastern on your local station.
Then at 3:00 p.m., Bret Baier's exclusive interview with President Trump to discuss the first few weeks of his new administration, and the big battles that are still to come. You will not want to miss it. It's all on your local Fox station.
That is it for today. Thank you for joining us here in New Orleans. Our thanks to the team here on the ground.
I'm Shannon Bream. Enjoy the Super Bowl. Let us know who you're cheering for on social media. And we'll see you next FOX NEWS SUNDAY.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

Load-Date: February 9, 2025


End of Document
