




Forbes.com
January 28, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 Forbes LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 638 words
Byline: Molly Bohannon, Forbes Staff
Highlight: The pause in federal assistance was expected to impact countless programs and nonprofits and is now paused until Monday.
Body


Topline
A U.S. district judge temporarily blocked President Donald Trump s freeze on federal grants and loans that caused nonprofits and Democratic attorneys general tosuehis administration Tuesday.
<figure>
<figcaption>
President Donald Trump arrives to speak at the 2025 House Republican Members Conference Dinner at Trump National Doral Miami in Doral, Fla., Monday, Jan. 27, 2025.
Copyright 2025 The Associated Press. All rights reserved.
</figcaption></figure>
Key Facts
U.S. District Judge Loren L. AliKhan blocked the federal freeze which was designed so Trump s administration could review whether programs aligned with his agenda minutes before it was set to go into effect on Tuesday,multiple outletsreported.
The pause will remain in effect until Monday, when a hearing will take place on the issue, AliKhan ruled.
The judgment only applies to existing programs that stood to have their funding paused, the Associated Press reported.
The freeze in spending wasannouncedMonday night by the acting director of the Office of Management and Budget, who said in a memo agencies had to  temporarily pause all activities related to obligation or disbursement of all Federal financial assistance,  though it reportedly did not apply to Social Security or Medicare and the OMB was able to grant other exceptions.
Get Forbes Breaking News Text Alerts: We re launching text message alerts so you'll always know the biggest stories shaping the day s headlines. Text  Alerts  to  or sign up .
Crucial Quote 
 It seems like the federal government currently doesn t actually know the full extent of the programs that are going to be subject to the pause,  AliKhan said in the judgment to pause the freeze, theAssociated Pressreported.
Key Background
Trump s freeze in federal loans and grants was almost immediately challenged in court, with a number of nonprofits and Democratic state attorneys general filing lawsuits against the administration Tuesday. The memo asked agencies to examine which programs conflict with Trump s recent executive orders to stop spending that could be considered  financial assistance for foreign aid, nongovernmental organizations, DEI, woke gender ideology, and the green new deal.  The National Council of Nonprofits, along with others,arguedthe guidance to pause disbursement of funding would have a  devastating impact  on nonprofits that receive government grants and depend on federal funds  to fulfill their missions, pay their employees, pay their rent and, indeed, improve the day-to-day lives of the many people they work so hard to serve.  The plaintiffs also argued the guidance violated the Administrative Procedure Act, was  arbitrary and capricious  and exceeded the agency s authority.
Contra
Trump s press secretary Karoline Leavitt said in her first media briefing Tuesday there was  no uncertainty in this building  about what the freeze applied to despite the memo causing confusion among a number of agencies and advocacy organizations that reported problems accessing funds,ABC Newsreported. Leavitt added  it is the responsibility of this president and this administration to be good stewards of taxpayer dollars  and said  Social Security benefits, Medicare benefits, food stamps, welfare benefits, assistance that is going directly to individuals will not be impacted by this pause. 
Big Number
More than $3 trillion. That s how much acting OMB Director Matthew Vaeth said in Monday smemothe federal government spent on federal financial assistance like grants and loans last fiscal year.
Further Reading 
States And Nonprofits Suing Trump Over  Catastrophic  Pause In Federal Funding:  Immediate Nationwide Harm (Forbes)
Chaos ripples through country as Trump orders federal funding freeze(Associated Press)
Trump Pauses Federal Grants Starting Today But Details Are Scarce. Here s What We Know.(Forbes)

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
