




USA Today Online
February 17, 2025 1:09 AM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Section: ENTERTAINMENT: LATEST, ENTERTAINMENT: LATEST & BOOK PUBLISHING NEWS
Length: 737 words
Byline: Edward Segarra, USA TODAY
Body


Amid the Trump administration's crackdown on ,  is speaking out on the recent censorship of one of her books.
In a lengthy  Sunday, the Oscar-winning actress and children's book author reacted to the news that her book "Freckleface Strawberry" was reportedly removed from schools within the Department of Defense Education Activity (DoDEA).
"It is a great shock for me to learn that my first book, Freckleface Strawberry, has been banned by the Trump Administration from schools run by the Department of Defense," wrote Moore, whose father is a Vietnam War veteran.
In a Feb. 10 memo, the Department of Defense announced that several books and learning materials had been removed from class curriculums and flagged for review, according to  and . Such titles include Moore's book, as well as  a biography of transgender actress .


DoDEA spokesman Will Griffin told The Washington Post in a statement that the restrictions were in response to a pair of executive orders issued by  targeting discussions of the trans community in schools and the "radical indoctrination" of students via , which often focuses on societal representation of marginalized communities.
"DoDEA is reviewing its current policies and DoDEA-adopted instructional resources to ensure compliance with applicable Executive Orders and Department of Defense guidance," said Griffin, adding that books "potentially related to gender ideology or discriminatory equity ideology" would be placed under staff review.
Operating 161 accredited schools for children of military families, the Department of Defense Education Activity oversees the management of educational programs serving pre-K through 12th grade on behalf of the Department of Defense, according to the .
'The Room Next Door': 
Julianne Moore 'saddened' by DoD book ban
Released in 2007,  is a "semi-autobiographical story" about a 7-year-old girl who struggles to embrace her freckles. The LeUyen Pham-illustrated picture book spawned numerous sequels, most recently 2016's  and a 2010 stage musical.
"It is a book I wrote for my children and for other kids to remind them that we all struggle but are united by our humanity and our community," Moore wrote on Instagram. "I am particularly stunned because I am a proud graduate of Frankfurt American High School a #DOD school that once operated in Frankfurt, Germany."
 star said she was "truly saddened" by the DoD ban, adding that she "never thought I would see this in a country where freedom of speech and expression is a constitutional right."
"It is galling for me to realize that kids like me, growing up with a parent in the service and attending a @dodea_edu school will not have access to a book written by someone whose life experience is so similar to their own," Moore wrote.
Since taking office in January, Trump has taken fierce aim at DEI in measures that include an executive order , ordering executive branch agencies to  and the .
Julianne Moore interview: 
Michelle Pfeiffer, Bella Thorne, more react to 'Freckleface Strawberry' ban
Several of Moore's celebrity pals shared their dismay over the ban of her children's book in the comments section.
"Are you joking??"  wrote.
"Wow this is crazy,"  commented.
"I have that book and I'm grateful for that because it's a beautiful book aimed to make any child who feels different feeling ok, even grateful for that,"  wrote. "This decision is eerie and downright ridiculous."
"This is horrific,"  commented.
"Wow , truly shocked about this ???"  wrote. "Literally why??"
Contributing: Mary Walrath-Holdridge, Phillip M. Bailey, Davis Winkieand Alia Wong, USA TODAY
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: February 17, 2025


End of Document
