




The Associated Press
February 27, 2025 Thursday 1:16 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: WASHINGTON DATELINE; STATE AND REGIONAL
Length: 394 words
Byline: ALANNA DURKIN RICHER, Associated Press
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


WASHINGTON — The Justice Department is abandoning cases that sought to force police and fire departments to end what the Biden administration alleged were discriminatory hiring processes, Attorney General Pam Bondi said Wednesday in the  by the Trump administration to end government support for efforts to increase diversity.
A Justice Department official said the administration is walking away from four cases, including one that led to a settlement agreement resolving an  into discriminatory hiring practices affecting Black and female applicants to the Maryland State Police. It's part of a broader effort by President Donald Trump's administration to roll back initiatives and programs promoting , which Republicans contend threaten .
“American communities deserve firefighters and police officers to be chosen for their skill and dedication to public safety – not to meet DEI quotas,” the attorney general said in an emailed statement.
In the Maryland case, the Biden administration announced in October that it had reached an agreement with state police to  after the department alleged police used a written test that discriminated against Black candidates and a physical fitness test that discriminated against female applicants.
The Biden administration found the tests disqualified Black and female applicants from the hiring process at significantly disproportionate rates, concluding that the tests violated a federal statute that prohibits employment discrimination based on race, sex, color, national origin, and religion.
Bondi's chief of staff, Chad Mizelle, said in a social media post that the Biden administration had sought to punish police and fire departments “for using race-neutral hiring tools," even though he said there is “no evidence that the departments engaged in intentional discrimination.”
Maryland State Police did not immediately respond to a request for comment Wednesday evening.
Other cases were related to fire or police departments in North Carolina, Georgia, and Indiana, Mizelle said.
Trump  on his first day in office directing federal agencies to terminate all “equity-related” grants or contracts. He signed a follow-up order requiring federal contractors to certify that they don’t promote DEI.
___

Load-Date: February 26, 2025


End of Document
