




MailOnline
February 13, 2025 Thursday 3:44 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 1286 words
Byline: Maureen Callahan For DailyMail.Com
Body


The resistance is dead - in less than three weeks.
President Trump signs an executive order to prosecute and deport pro-Hamas, anti-Semitic foreign students to almost no pushback. Mexico's president agrees to send 10,000 troops to the Southern border.
Disney announces the abolishment of 'trigger warnings' put in place post-George Floyd, apologizing for the content of films made over 80 years ago.
Goldman Sachs announces the end of their 'board diversity policy.' Zuckerberg's Meta fires 4,000 employees on Monday, citing his decision to 'raise the bar on performance management' - code for killing DEI.
PBS fired two of their own DEI execs on Monday. And on Wednesday night, 75,000 federal workers, in the crosshairs of Trump and Elon Musk's efforts to cut bloating and waste, took buyouts.
We are, as Trump promised in his inaugural address, entering the 'golden age' of common sense. And there's no going back, not anytime soon. 
Just look at three of the biggest ads during the Super Bowl - an event at which Trump, as the first sitting US president to attend the game, was cheered, while Taylor Swift, who wholeheartedly endorsed Kamala Harris, was booed.
The culture has gone full MAGA.
Brad Pitt starred in a nearly five-minute long ad for FOX Sports and the NFL, extolling national unity and pride. There was no irony, no winks to a liberal agenda or racism or the 'threats' to so-called marginalized communities.
Nope, just a full-on ad for American exceptionalism - a phrase and a concept that hasn't been part of the lexicon since the 1980s.
'Think about it,' Pitt intones. 'When we are bound by a common goal, we've reached heights, authored achievements, pushed progress, not alone, but together.'
Pitt's narration accompanies reenactments of the Wright brothers designing the first airplane, working men building the first skyscrapers, US troops raising the flag at Iwo Jima, footage of Martin Luther King's 'I Have a Dream' speech and Neil Armstrong on the moon.
'The huddle is a metaphor for our history,' Pitt says. 'How did we rise? The only way: Together.'
Nowhere do we see Colin Kaepernick and the bending of the knee, or the BLM riots, or the women's march on Washington or the January 6 riots or trans athletes beating biological women.
It's clear that America has turned the page when even Hollywood gets the message. When the NFL eradicates the slogan 'END RACISM' from the field days before the big game. When Amazon Prime spends $40 million to produce a documentary about Melania Trump.
For all those Dems who insist, still, that they just didn't get their message out this election: You did. America wants nothing to do with it.
We are done with DEI, open borders, and trans madness.
We are done with being told that America is the most racist and hopeless country in the Western world, that whites need to perpetually check their 'privilege' and police their speech, that we all need to state our pronouns, and that women and girls need to admit biological boys and men into their sports and private spaces.
It's over.
A relieved nation, finally, exhales.
Look at the second big Super Bowl spot - a $2 million recruitment ad for the U.S. Secret Service, directed by Michael Bay using the cinematic language of patriotic 1980s blockbusters like 'Top Gun.'
It swells with national pride, valorizing the men and women of the Secret Service in actual footage, saving the lives of Ronald Reagan and Donald Trump from would-be assassins - and the image of Trump is a strong, defiant one, his fist in the air with blood coming down his face.
This is a Hollywood that has joined Silicon Valley in celebrating Trump and a return to traditional American stoicism. The voiceover in Bay's shot, deep and whisky-soaked:
'Our heroes are humble. They have an inner pride . . . Protectors are born. They're not made.'
Cough-cough, DEI warriors.
'America's Secret Service protecting this Super Bowl is asking a few more to step forward.'
Boom.
Tonally on-point for this moment, in which military recruitment is up, while support for Trump's border policies (58%) and deportations (59%) is in the majority.
Schools are abolishing boys in girls' sports and bathrooms to almost zero blowback. Sanctuary cities and the wokest Dem governors, California's Gavin Newsom among them, are happily working with the president.
Trump is brokering peace between Russia and Ukraine and demanding that Hamas release the remaining hostages - no shame about 'colonization,' no prevarications, just a true threat: America, as it has before, will demolish evil.
Yes. This is us, back from the brink.
Not that the left, in its graveyard spiral, will accept it.
Liberal anchors are being fired or cut loose daily. Those who remain make fools of themselves.
Two days after the Super Bowl, CNN's Kaitlan Collins made herself a laughingstock, grimly declaring that Trump has put America 'dangerously close to a constitutional crisis.'
Again, Kaitlan: Check those approval numbers. Then check with a constitutional lawyer.
That same night, Anderson Cooper lost all intellectual and moral high ground when he pushed back, sans evidence, on Elon Musk's DOGE efforts, snapping at pro-Trump panelist and former New Hampshire Chris Sununu: 'Don't be a d**k.'
So much for Michelle Obama and her fatuousness.
'When they go low, we go high,' indeed.
The left, truly, cannot help themselves. Their first bout of Trump Derangement Syndrome has not left them immunized.
For all their screaming about Donald Trump as our greatest 'threat to democracy' and the very reincarnation of Hitler, what are they doing?
Screaming outside the offices of USAID - just revealed, thanks to Trump, to have funded the college tuition, at Colorado State University, for terrorist leader Anwar al-Awlaki - killed by President Obama in a drone strike in 2011.
Oh, how the self-appointed mighty have fallen.
Meanwhile, Kamala Harris and disgraced hubby Doug Emhoff showed up at a Lakers game, in their hometown of L.A., days before the Super Bowl.
Were they greeted like returning warriors, having fought the good fight, proudly seated courtside? Did liberal Angelenos line up for selfies? Were there breathless tweets about 'Mamala-Kamala' in the house?
No, no, and no. No one cared.
Yet Harris hasn't ruled out a run for California governor, or president in 2028. She, too, refuses to accept the message: America has moved on, quite happily, in this second go-round with Trump.
Don't believe me? Ask no less a professional curmudgeon than Harrison Ford, who starred in the third biggest Super Bowl ad - this one for Jeep, but also, unequivocally, for patriotism, old-school masculinity, and freedom.
That is, the freedom to do your thing without treading on others.
An American flag blows on an empty plain before Ford rises from a fireside seat inside a cabin - shades of 'Yellowstone' - and declares:
'Freedom is for everybody.'
Cut to black-and-white newsreel footage of Americans at war.
'But it isn't free. It's earned. There are real heroes in the world, but not the ones in the movies. Real heroes are humble.'
Same sentiment as the Bay ad - humility. Quite the broadside against the self-aggrandizing left, constantly praising themselves for patrolling their micro-aggressions.
Cut to a returning serviceman - true stakes, true sacrifice - hugging his small daughter.
'They're not driven by pride,' Ford continues. 'Pride is a terrible driver. Freedom is the roar of one man's engine... The most sacred thing in life isn't the path. It's the freedom to choose it.'
Amen. If the left wants to rouse itself, they should take these words to heart - because it's the so-called progressives, with their orthodoxy of intolerance, who have failed to recognize freedom.
And to recognize, most crucially, America.

Load-Date: February 13, 2025


End of Document
