



telegraph.co.uk
January 28, 2025 Tuesday 3:24 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: US; Version:1
Length: 928 words
Byline: By David Kaufman
Highlight: Donald Trump’s assault on DEI is a war against mediocrity and programmes that don’t work
Body


As an African-American, I obviously don’t have a problem with listening to black women. My own grandmother was a black woman and I listened to her, often rapturously.
Not because she was black or a woman – but because she worked full time, raised five children, kept an immaculate home and was college educated at a time when my other grandmother – my white, Jewish grandmother – could barely speak English. In other words, my grandmother deserved being listened to because of her achievements and accomplishments, not for waking up each day in a race and gender over which she had zero control.
But over the past few years, that favourite phrase of the identity industry – “listen to black women” – has morphed from a call for common courtesy, or a genuine attempt to tackle racism, into a key example of DEI overreach.
It’s not been used to promote the voices of millions of talented people from minority backgrounds, but to protect from scrutiny or criticism public figures who have clearly failed in their duties. 
People like Karen Bass, elected mayor of Los Angeles in 2022, who ignored obvious warnings and .  Or Kristine Larson, the  , who infamously quipped back in 2019 in response to concerns about firefighter preparedness, “Am I able to carry your husband out of a fire? He got himself in the wrong place if I have to carry him out.”
Laden with arrogance and entitlement, the identity industry has made one of its missions the defence of mediocrity across American society under the cover of achieving “equity” or supporting “diversity”. In Southern California, such mediocrity has allowed the fires to still 
Into this environment comes   – the race-based preference system whose matrix of policies, strategies, quotas and bureaucracy is being unravelled by a series of executive orders. Trump’s decrees have demanded that all federal agencies close their DEI offices as well as end minority preferences that factored race into federal hiring and other labour practices – nullifying programmes dating back to the Johnson administration.
Trump’s moves may currently only impact government-run institutions, but his DEI rollback is already seeping deep into the private sector.   and McDonald’s to Meta and Amazon have scaled back their diversity initiatives, while academic institutions such as Harvard and the University of Michigan are removing many of the DEI-related demands required of new hires.
For many who lean Right – including American Jews who feel  – this rethink is long overdue. America is now – suddenly, yet hardly without warning – at the onset of a racial recalibration mandated by a white leader who secured record minority support last November. Trump made no mystery of his intentions to take on DEI “from day one” of his administration. Once considered almost “too big to fail” by a pliant media and the silenced American masses, DEI must now finally prove itself, both in the court of Washington policy-makers and the court of public opinion.
America remains a nation deeply informed and highly impacted by race and racism. For African-Americans like myself, racial prejudice is still a daily reality. But DEI has failed to do anything about it. If anything, it has made the problem worse.
DEI today is a multi-billion dollar industry with almost zero oversight, zero regulation and zero parameters for determining effectiveness or success. Yet America is constantly told to “believe” in the unassailability of diversity and equity policies, even if there’s scant evidence they actually work. Both companies and colleges, for instance, like to tout their minority admissions or hiring numbers to demonstrate their DEI wins. But how many of those students actually graduate from those colleges? How many minority hires remain at those companies?
One study of college graduates noted that, despite decades of affirmative action and DEI, black students had the lowest graduation rates of any ethnic group at four-year public academic institutions. Not only are the majority of black college kids failing to secure a diploma, they’re often saddled with thousands of dollars of student debt without the career path to pay for it. And thus the cycle of economic inequality continues, without any real attempt to address its root causes. 
This is the logic at the centre of Trump’s DEI assault and the public support behind it. Why is America being held hostage to an ideology that is both ineffective and counter to the ideals of  ? Why are we told to “listen” to certain people simply because of their race or gender or sexual orientation?
President Trump had clearly had enough of “listening”, when he barked orders at Mayor Bass during his visit to Los Angeles on Friday. But he was fed up with Bass not because she is a woman or black, but because she has failed so spectacularly to demonstrate the necessary leadership at a moment of crisis.
California governor Gavin Newsom – a straight white man –   and received a similarly blunt takedown from Trump last week. This is the colour-blind system Trump envisions when he speaks about ending DEI – judging all men and women not on the basis of their immutable characteristics, but because of what they have achieved. 
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper; Web Publication

Journal Code: WEBDTNS

Subject: AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); NEGATIVE NEWS (90%); WOMEN (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (89%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); MINORITY GROUPS (89%); RACE & ETHNICITY (89%); GOVERNMENT BODIES & OFFICES (87%); NEGATIVE SOCIETAL NEWS (78%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (78%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY & INCLUSION (78%); CHILDREN, ADOLESCENTS & TEENS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (72%); GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS & AUTHORITIES (71%); JEWS & JUDAISM (71%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (70%); ELECTIONS & POLITICS (67%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (67%); MAYORS (67%)

Industry: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); EDUCATIONAL SERVICES (76%); MEDIA & TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%)

Person: KAREN BASS (73%)

Geographic: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); UNITED STATES (94%); GHANA (79%)

Load-Date: January 28, 2025


End of Document
