




MailOnline
February 17, 2025 Monday 2:48 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:2
Length: 578 words
Byline: Jon Michael Raasch, U.S. Political Reporter For Dailymail.Com
Body


                     Karoline Leavitt, 27, is trolling Democrats who are afraid of DOGE with a reminder that their party leaders Barack Obama and Joe Biden wanted to cut federal spending in the past.
Liberals have been in a frenzy as they attempt to halt Donald Trump's and Elon Musk's DOGE, which is ruffling feathers in Washington as bureaucrats and longtime government employees fear their jobs could be on the chopping block. 
Top Democrats have protested alongside federal employees outside of government agency headquarters to demand that DOGE and its lieutenants stop their quest to root out waste. 
                     Democrat Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., and others lawmakers have likened DOGE's cost cutting push to a 'constitutional crisis' as courts have sought to litigate the group's actions. 
DOGE has already touted saving billions in U.S. taxpayer dollars by cutting expensive DEI and pro-LGBT initiatives within the government. It is also investigating fraud within the Social Security Administration for reportedly sending checks to dead people.
Leavitt is now brutally pointing out that the same Democrats who have been for cutting government waste in the past have been very vocal in opposition to DOGE.
'To all of the Democrats who are planning to protest this week, here's an explanation on DOGE, from your party's own beloved leaders!' Leavitt posted to X alongside a video of Obama and Biden lauding the same efforts DOGE is now undertaking.
In the video the two former Democratic presidents are shown talking about the importance of reforming the government to reduce frivolous government spending and waste - the exact mission DOGE is undertaking today. 
'Budget reform is not an option, it's a necessity,' Obama says at the onset of the video in a speech given while he was president.
'We can't sustain a system that bleeds billions of taxpayer dollars on programs that have outlived their usefulness or exist solely because of the power of politicians, lobbyists or interest groups,' he continues in another clip.
Another portion of the supercut video shows Obama promising to go through each federal expenditure 'line by line.' 
'We are going to go through our federal budget as I promised during the campaign, page by page, line by line eliminating those programs we don't need and insisting that those that we do need operate in a sensible, cost effective way,' the former president claims. 
However, a Manhattan Institute analysis of government spending during the Obama era found that the 44th president signed off on $5 trillion worth of new legislative costs and drove the federal debt up an additional $4.6 trillion. 
Then another Democratic hero pops on screen. 
'The American people are entitled to transparency,' a younger Joe Biden says in a clip presumably taken from his vice presidency under Obama. 
'They're entitled to be able to figure out where their dollars are going, and they're entitled to accountability to make sure that we're using the dollars for what we said it was for,' the 46th president claims.
'We hope to be instilling an entire new culture that not only our administration, but every succeeding administration will in fact, pursue,' Biden says of his and Obama's cost saving initiatives.
Then the video shoots back to another clip of Obama saying how 'easy' it is to root out government waste. 
'What should be easy is getting rid of the pointless waste and stupid spending that doesn't benefit anybody,' Obama shares. 

Load-Date: February 17, 2025


End of Document
