




Fox News JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME 8:00 PM EST
January 28, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7109 words
Byline: Jesse Watters, Tomi Lahren
Guests: Thomas Homan, Brett Cooper, Tyler Fischer
Body


JIMMY FAILLA, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST "FOX NEWS SATURDAY NIGHT": Spoken like a guy whose wife is going to walk out on him at the age of 40 because he doesn't have anything in the bank.
I mean, that's the problem with being a loser. It trends well on Instagram, but it doesn't end well in life.
LAURA INGRAHAM, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST, "THE INGRAHAM ANGLE": Micro retirement. We're going to micro have to close it out, Jimmy.
FAILLA: Sure.
INGRAHAM: We'll see you next time.
Jesse is next.
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST, "JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME": Welcome to JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME.
Tonight --
STEPHEN MILLER, DEPUTY CHIEF-OF-STAFF OR POLICY AND HOMELAND SECURITY ADVISER: We are going to unapologetically enforce immigration laws. We are going to unleash the power and might of the US government to eradicate the presence of transnational threats on our soil.
WATTERS: The White House gets its swagger back. Time to go to work.
DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We have some bad hombres here and we're going to get them out.
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: DOGE and OMB also found that there was about to be 50 million taxpayer dollars that went out the door to fund condoms in Gaza.
WATTERS: Condoms for Gaza. A PRIMETIME investigation.
("THE 40-YEAR-OLD VIRGIN" (VIDEO CLIP PLAYS))
ANDY STITZER, FICTIONAL CHARACTER: I am Aquaman.
TRUMP: Even CNN is saying this guy is amazing. I couldn't believe it. I said, did CNN really say that? Because nobody watches, so nobody was able to confirm it.
WATTERS: Trump 2.0 and the media.
JIM ACOSTA, CNN ANCHOR: I've decided to move on.
WATTERS: Plus --
("HAPPY DAYS" VIDEO CLIP PLAYS)
FONZIE, FICTIONAL CHARACTER: Ey.
WATTERS: The swagger is back in the White House, and it's not just coming from the Oval. The Briefing Room today felt a little different.
Karoline Leavitt for the first time was behind the podium, and there was not a binder in sight. The press secretary said, my binder is in my head, and right away, she set a new tone.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
LEAVITT: While I vow to provide the truth from this podium, we ask that all of you in this room hold yourselves to that same standard. We know for a fact there have been lies that have been pushed by many legacy media outlets in this country about this president, about his family, and we will not accept that.
We will call you out when we feel that your reporting is wrong or there is misinformation about this White House. So yes, I will hold myself to the truth, and I expect everyone in this room to do the same.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Karoline Leavitt is 27, has a baby, not a binder, has access to the president and can speak English. Oh, and her hair is as golden as the age we're in.
She didn't waste anyone's time with shenanigans. She came right out and announced the drones in Jersey were ours.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
LEAVITT: I do have news directly from the president of the United States that was just shared with me in the Oval Office, from President Trump directly, an update on the New Jersey drones.
After research and study, the drones that were flying over New Jersey in large numbers were authorized to be flown by the FAA for research and various other reasons.
Many of these drones were also hobbyists, recreational and private individuals that enjoy flying drones. In time, it got worse due to curiosity, this was not the enemy.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACDONALD: So Biden lied. The whole administration acted like we were crazy and we were right. We were just testing out some new gadgets over our own territory. It wasn't the Iranians or the Chinese or aliens. It was Joe.
After that revelation, the media wanted to move on, and they blame Trump for inflation.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REPORTER: Egg prices have skyrocketed since President Trump took office, so what specifically is he doing to lower those costs for Americans?
LEAVITT: Really glad you brought this up, because there is a lot of reporting out there that is putting the onus on this White House for the increased cost of eggs. I would like to point out to each and every one of you that in 2024 when Joe Biden was in the Oval Office or upstairs in the residence, sleeping, I'm not so sure, egg prices increased 65 percent in this country.
What's also contributing to that is that the Biden administration and the Department of Agriculture directed the mass killing of more than 100 million chickens, which has led to a lack of chicken supply in this country, therefore a lack of egg supply, which is leading to the shortage.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Reporters kept trying to play games, and it didn't go well.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REPORTER: how many have a criminal record versus those who are just in the country illegally?
LEAVITT: All of them, because they illegally broke our nation's laws, and therefore they are criminals, as far as this administration goes. I know the last administration didn't see it that way. So it's a big culture shift in our nation to view someone who breaks our immigration laws as a criminal, but that's exactly what they are.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: The culture shifting, the law is the law, no more DEI hires, and if you don't want to work, bye-bye.
Trump offering buyouts to bureaucrats who don't want to return to the office five days a week. If you don't want to do a 40-hour work week in person like the rest of us, then these remote rent seekers can resign with severance and benefits until September.
Over at the Department of Justice, they're calling it, "a wholesale demolition." Every lawyer who worked on Jan 6 cases is getting pink slipped. "It feels like a nonviolent war. It's just wild. Everybody is a sitting duck, and these people have no power or control over the situation. People are just in a state of shock and devastated."
This administration wants folks dialed in, hard at work, and up early. Kristi Noem up at the crack of dawn, 2:00 AM, suited up in an ICE vest overseeing the first migrant raids in Manhattan. Less than 48 hours after her confirmation, Noem is out, ICE'ing illegals, taking out the worst first, "getting dirtbags off the streets" is what she calls it. She said she was inspired by her dad.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
NOEM: We were building fence, stretching wires and out there, putting up about a mile-and-a-half of this fence and he turned to me, and he said, "Kristi, where's the post mall?" Which is the post pounder that you post or pound the posts in with. And I turned to him, and I said, "It's in the truck." And he said, "Go get it."
So with my dad, you ran everywhere you went. I turned and ran to the truck, grabbed the post mall, brought it back to him, handed it to him, and as I handed it to him, he said, "You should know what I need before I know what I need." And I remember being a 10-year-old girl thinking, "How am I ever going to know what he needs before he knows what he needs?"
But what he was doing was teaching us to think ahead and to think three steps ahead of what he needed.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: This whole administration is operating three steps ahead. Tom Homan pinched 1,200 migrants yesterday, a lot of them bad hombres.
One, a Dominican who beat his pregnant wife to death in front of their kid. He was popped in Boston. The Trump team is publicizing these raids to good effect. It's like "Cops" migrant edition, running on loop, and it is scaring the caravans into making U-turns.
Border crossings are plummeting. Look at that. In a week, Trump slashed Biden's border crossing numbers by more than half.
The border has gone quiet, and Trump didn't need Congress to fix it. Just another one of those Biden lies. ' Marines are getting their hands dirty, welding the border wall shut. While the military plugs holes, ICE says they can finally do their jobs.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is essentially like an unprecedented whole of government approach that we're experiencing. Some things that have been difficult to coordinate before, because there's so many different agencies, we've been able to get everybody in the same room and get kind of real time updates, real time intelligence and real time advice to make sure that we're doing this the right way.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: It doesn't mean it's going to be easy. Yesterday, cartel gunmen got in a shootout with US Border Patrol while illegals were crossing a river. There hasn't been this much lead flying across the border since the Mexican-American War.
Luckily, no one on our side was hit, but securing the border is a dangerous operation. All the media wants to know is, who's going to pick our crops?
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JAKE TAPPER, CNN ANCHOR: Forty-two percent of crop workers were undocumented immigrants, and in many cases, as you know, these migrants do jobs many Americans do not want to do.
MILLER: Well, I'm sure it's not your position, Jake, you're just asking the question that we should supply America's food with exploitative illegal alien labor. I obviously don't think that's what you're implying.
Only one percent of alien workers in the entire country work in agriculture, those 30,000 illegal aliens that Joe Biden dumped into Springfield --
TAPPER: Yes, I'm talking about the ones that are --
MILLER: No, no, but I'm explaining this. It's important to understand.
TAPPER: No, you're kind of changing the subject. I mean --
MILLER: No, no, I will -- I will go. I will -- give me 30 minutes. I'll go as deep as you want on this.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: While tapper worries whether he'll get his veggies. MSNBC thinks the only country that's ever deported anyone is Germany.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOY REID, MSNBC HOST: Hitler emerged emboldened after being imprisoned for staging a coup. His rage and xenophobia gained followers after the financial ruin of World War One and the Great Depression, and helped get him selected as Chancellor.
Similarities to what happened in Germany and what's happening now in America are just undeniable. History may not repeat verbatim, but it sure does rhyme.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Can you still compare Trump to Hitler every night on TV? Is Comcast cool with that? Trump was almost assassinated twice. By the way, Obama deported more people than any president in American history, over a thousand a day for eight years. The media didn't call him Hitler, they praised him as the deporter-in-chief. Barack gave Tom Homan a medal for deporting illegals. Now, Democrats give medals for bringing them in.
You know, who should really get a medal? This guy on CNN.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MARIA SANTANA, CNN ESPANOL ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT: And that is not only that affects Immigrant family or the people that are getting their family members supported, that affects all of society. I know when kids start asking, why hasn't my best friend come back to school? Why is, you know, my -- why didn't my friend disappear? When businesses start to shutter, when - -
SCOTT JENNINGS, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: By the way, no amount of berating me about this is going to change the fact that the American people literally just voted for this. They want the criminals out. They want the violent people out, and there's really not much about of a controversy about it.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Democrats are going crazy over things in their imagination. There hasn't been a single raid at a school yet, and if Homan pulls an illegal gang banger out of my daughter's school, the correct response is "thank you."
And if my daughter was best friends with an illegal alien gang banger, she's grounded, and she's going to have to find new friends.
While Democrats were focused on drag queens, reading stories to kindergarteners, the rest of the country was like, guys, can you kick out MS-13 and lower the price of gasoline?
Some Democrats are realizing they screwed up. The Ragin' Cajun puts it all in the big guy's lap.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JAMES CARVILLE, DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST: It was a problem because President Biden listened to the idiot left and didn't enforce the border.
Criminality of all kind should be dealt with and dealt with harshly. And if there's anybody in this country illegally, there's a criminal, they've got to be sent back wherever they came from pronto.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Voters want to change, and Trump listened to him. What you're watching is government working. I know we haven't seen this in a long time, and no one is scared of getting canceled for using commonsense.
This is what government of the people, by the people, and for the people looks like. Populism emerges when the establishment gets stuck, corrupt, and stops listening.
The eruption of radical change that we're witnessing is real and it's powerful, and it's why the powers that be tried so hard to stifle the rise of Trump. He was spied on, impeached, shot at, arrested and sabotaged, and now that he's broken through, he's broken them, and nothing is getting in the way.
As POLITICO says, "What we are witnessing is nothing short of a revolution inside the US government."
Border czar, Tom Homan is here.
All right, are you satisfied, Tom Homan with the pace of migrant deportations?
THOMAS HOMAN, US BORDER CZAR: No. We've got to do more. We've got to open that aperture up, which we're going to do. It was a great start. The first week was unprecedented.
I mean, the illegal crossings on the border one day was like 540. I've never seen that and I started Border Patrol in 1984 and we went from 10,000 a day to under 600. So, it's great, it's good, but we're not finished, and we need more deportations, a lot more deportations, and that's what we're working on.
WATTERS: So as you mentioned, it was 10,000 a day for many, many days under Joe Biden, and you guys are basically on pace for just around 10,000 per week.
What's your biggest challenge that's holding you back from capturing and deporting more criminal migrants.
HOMAN: Sanctuary cities -- sanctuary cities are difficult to operate in. You know, we'd much rather arrest -- one agent can arrest one bad guy in the jail in 10 minutes, but when they release him back in the community, we've got to send the whole team to find him, and someone that don't want to be found, and it's unsafe for the community, because you're putting a public safety threat back into the public, that's idiotic to begin with.
It makes the job more dangerous for the agent, more dangerous for the alien, more dangerous for the community. So we've got to spend a lot of time trying to locate this person, write up an operational plan and seek to arrest them. It's not efficient.
And so, not only is it difficult, it's very dangerous. So the officers already have a dangerous job. You've seen the video from -- I was in Chicago, and you know, there's a lot of bad people out there. So that's the problem, sanctuary cities.
But once again, we're not going to let sanctuary cities stop us. You want to release a public safety threat in the community. Fine. We'll go find the guy, but when we find him, he's probably with others, others aren't a criminal priority, but guess what? They're coming, too. So if you want to play that game, game on.
WATTERS: Besides Chicago, what precinct, what mayor, what governor, has given you the most trouble?
HOMAN: Denver, Chicago, Los Angeles, San Diego, New York.
Look, New York, the mayor of New York says he wants to help, but the City Council is stopping him. The commissioner of the NYPD saying they're not going to help. I know the mayor of Chicago says he wants to help, and we're offering to help him to do that. You know he wants to do executive action to get us in Rikers Island.
How dare an ICE agent be at Rikers Island taking custody of public safety threat they're about to release. So Mayor Adams says he wants to help. Action speak louder in words, we'll find out where it goes.
WATTERS: And if any of these local politicians obstruct, aren't they opening themselves up for charges?
HOMAN: Absolutely. They can sit back and watch us protect their community. Any mayor or city councilman, they're number one job is the protection of the communities. We've been clear we're looking for public safety threats.
If you don't help us, just get the hell out of the way and we'll do it. But don't cross that line. Don't actively impede our operation, because that's a felony. Don't knowingly harbor and conceal an illegal alien from us. That is a felony, so there will be consequences. Absolutely.
WATTERS: Well, Tish James, AG here in New York, says it's all a game you're playing. Listen to this.
With the penalty. So it will be consequences, absolutely. Well, Tish, James AG, here in New York says it's all a game you're playing. Listen to this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOY REID, MSNBC HOST: New York City joined the list of cities where these performative raids are taking place.
LETITIA JAMES, NEW YORK ATTORNEY GENERAL: We have a government right now that is reckless.,
REID: Reckless. And also, I mean, as I've said, performative. I mean, I want to show you an image of Kristi Noem, who was just confirmed, the former governor who was confirmed as Department Homeland Security. She's cosplaying.
It's almost a game where she seems to be cosplay because I'm not sure what she thinks that she's portraying here. She might as well be at Comic Con.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: James and Joy say you're reckless and you're just role playing for fun.
HOMAN: She's done running a box of rocks. Bottom line is, let's talk about Chicago for a minute.
The Chicago mayor says that we put fear in the elementary schools because ICE agents went to an elementary school. Totally a false story.
What ICE did in Chicago is save children. What we did in New York today is save children. Just Chicago alone, we arrested all in all, nine sexual predators, most of them child sex predators. We took them off the street.
We took them off the street in New York today. We're protecting the community. We're saving children. We're going to secure that border so less Americans die of fentanyl deaths. We're securing the border so less women and children are sex trafficked, Biden administration with a 600 percent increase in sex trafficking.
We're securing the border so less terrorists and people on terrorist watchlist get into the country. Under Biden, we had a 3,500 percent increase in the people on the terrorist watchlist.
No, we're saving this nation. Will make America safe again. So they need to get out of the way because we're coming. We're going to do it. They're not going to stop us.
WATTERS: All right, well, the polls, even the legacy media polls say the American people support this operation, and they support you.
So good luck. Be safe, and hopefully you don't get too much more trouble out of these people.
Tom Homan, thank you so much. Good luck.
HOMAN: Gotcha.
WATTERS: Taxpayer funded Hamas condom bombs. Right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: Fox News Alert: President Trump just served up a huge win in the fight to protect kids, signing an executive order that pulls all federal funding for sex change operations on minors: "It is the policy of the United States that it will not fund, sponsor, promote, assist, or support the so-called transition of a child from one sex to another, and it will rigorously enforce all laws that prohibit or limit these destructive and life-altering procedures."
The defunded treatments include mutilation surgeries and chemical treatments like puberty blockers and hormone replacement pills.
Trump is trying to pump the brakes on spending, and Democrats are going nuts.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): In an instant, Donald Trump has shut off billions, perhaps trillions of dollars that directly support states, cities, towns, schools, hospitals, small businesses, and most of all American families.
This a dagger at the heart of the average American family in red states, in blue states, in cities, in suburbs, in rural areas. It is just outrageous.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Karoline Leavitt, ready with a factcheck.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
LEAVITT: If you are receiving individual assistance from the federal government, you will still continue to receive that.
So what does this pause mean? It means no more funding for illegal DEI programs. It means no more funding for the green new scam that has cost American taxpayers tens of billions of dollars.
It means no more funding for transgenderism and wokeness across our federal bureaucracy and agencies.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Trump is putting government spending on ice so he can figure out where all this money is going and why. Some Democrat judge today ruled Trump has to keep spending your money, but that doesn't mean the president is going to stop cutting.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
LEAVITT: DOGE and OMB also found that there was about to be 50 million taxpayer dollars that went out the door to fund condoms in Gaza. That is a preposterous waste of taxpayer money.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: We couldn't believe when we heard this. We were about to spend $50 million on condoms for Gaza.
Condoms cost a couple of pennies when you buy them in bulk, at least, according to heartthrob, Stephen Miller. So you can buy 500 million condoms with that much cash. That's enough to give every guy in Gaza a thousand condoms. That's like a decade's supply of safe sex, if you're having sex a couple of times a week every year.
I would have been pretty good at math if these were the equations I had to solve.
So how do you get 500 million condoms into a war zone? Biden spent $230 million building a dock in Gaza that broke. Are we air dropping condoms? Is there a guy from the Red Cross stepping over rubble handing out rubbers?
And is safe sex really the top priority of Palestinians right now? They're dodging missiles and rummaging for food, water and shelter. They're at war, not spring break.
Do you think Hamas wears condoms? No, they make condom bombs. Hamas inflates the condoms, straps on an explosive and floats them into Israel. It's a dual use technology. Looks like a Hamas birthday party.
So we pay for the Hamas condom bombs and Israel's Iron Dome. We're funding both sides of the war, and Democrats get mad when Trump says, let's freeze things and take a second look.
Tomi Lahren is an outkick.com host and host of "100 Days" with Tomi Lahren on Fox Nation.
Tomi, I cannot believe we were spending this much on condoms in Gaza.
TOMI LAHREN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: Well, you know, Jesse, I think somewhere in New York in a jail cell, Diddy got very excited when he heard this story. We know that he has a certain affinity for these types of things, so I'm sure that he is very excited. I, however, am not excited about this.
I have a lot of questions, as I know you did as well, and I can't help but think with the ingenuity to create a bomb out of a condom, can you imagine what the Palestinians and the terrorists -- can you imagine what they can contribute to the world if, instead of using condoms for bombs, they actually put that energy and that genius really into something productive for humanity?
I think maybe that part of the world would be in much better shape, and maybe we wouldn't have to send so much aid, build bridges that collapse and, you know, send $50 million worth of condoms to Gaza. My mind is blown.
WATTERS: Tomi, we knew they were making condom bombs years ago. So Biden knew they were using this not for sex, but they were using him to float the bomb condoms over the border into Israel, and he was still shipping them millions and millions and millions of dollars of condoms.
Does Trojan have the contract? Is Trojan's CEO Hunter's buddy? This is crazy.
LAHREN: Well, Jesse, it's a real Trojan horse. I don't know how they overlooked this in the budget here. I'm not sure who signed off on this, but I've got to be honest with you, Jesse. I don't care if they're using them to create bombs or they're using them for their intended purposes.
I don't see why the American taxpayer who is still struggling to afford groceries, I know it's been a whole week, Trump hasn't brought the prices down just yet, it is on the way, folks, be patient. But when the American people can't afford basic necessities because of Joe Biden and Bidenomics, I don't know why we're sending $50 million of anything, let alone condoms, to Gaza.
I don't care if they're using them for birthday parties, for bombs, for their intended purposes. I don't know why we're sending this in the first place, but under Donald Trump, this ends. There is no more condom parties in Gaza. I'm so sorry, you'll have to find another way to entertain yourselves, and perhaps another way to bomb Israel, though we suggest you don't try that under this president either.
WATTERS: Cancel the condom contract. We're going to bring down prices.
Tomi Lahren, thank you so much.
Breaking news about Jim Acosta.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: It was Karoline Leavitt's first day at the White House as press secretary, and she gave the media more access in one day than Binder did in four years.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
LEAVITT: We're also opening up this Briefing Room to new media voices, who produce news related content, and whose outlet is not already represented by one of the seats in this room.
We welcome independent journalists, podcasters, social media influencers, and content creators to apply for credentials to cover this White House.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: The left's not used to seeing an administration actually get things done, and it's making them uncomfortable.
The late night hosts miss Sleepy Joe.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SETH MEYERS, "LATE NIGHT WITH SETH MEYERS" HOST: Too much stuff is happening, you guys, and when you do a daily show about the stuff that happens, it can be a lot. Say what you want about Joe Biden, but I'm pretty sure by the time we taped at four in the afternoon, he was out cold and that was nice.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Sorry, Seth, the vibe shifted. I know it, you know it, and there's nothing you can do about it.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JON STEWART, "THE DAILY SHOW" HOST: Republicans control the House, the Senate, the Executive and the Judiciary, and just about every move that has been made till this point, we have granted them electorally, it's our (bleep) fault. And the constant -- yes, it is our fault.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Over the last few years, logic and reason were things we were made to feel ashamed of. Borders, genders, jails, basic economics. But that's all changed.
The finger-waggers and the chest puffers have lost their little perch. Our good friend Jim Acosta is being forced out at CNN.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JIM ACOSTA, CNN ANCHOR: I just wanted to end today's show by thanking all of the wonderful people who work behind-the-scenes at this network. You may have seen some reports about me and the show, and after giving all of this some careful consideration and weighing an alternative time slot CNN offered me, I've decided to move on.
I am grateful to CNN for the nearly 18 years I've spent here doing the news.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Where is Jim going? Well, we don't know, but it looks like he's filming himself inside of his apartment. Does this officially mark the new golden age at CNN?
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: They say it was the greatest week, opening week in presidential history. And I think, you know, it could be a hell of a lot better. Even CNN is saying, this guy is amazing. I couldn't believe it. I said, "Did CNN really say that?" Because nobody watches, so nobody was able to confirm it, but it was pretty amazing.
Oh, their camera just went off.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: But there's still some media crocodiles out there with a stinging case of TDS. Here's the cover story in the latest "New York" Magazine, "The Cruel Kids' Table." It's a photo of an Inaugural Ball, just a bunch of kids celebrating Trump's victory, and the media thinks it's a display of cruelty. Why? Because everybody in the photos is White and good looking?
Here's the problem, they cropped out all the Black people and failed to mention that the party's host was Black. I think their cropping was cruel.
This is the author of the article, by the way, presented without comment because we don't want to be cruel. But there's a real vibe shift going on right now in America.
For decades, the left hammered young Americans with white guilt and shamed them for just being themselves. They were taught to hate our history and erase what it meant to be American.
A lot of these young kids, they were treated like oppressors their whole lives when all they wanted was just to be treated like they're normal, but the culture was dominated by a gang of mean-spirited theater geeks drunk on power and DEI. That's all over now, the quarterbacks and prom queens are back in a big way, and that's not cruel, it is kind of natural.
It's cool to work hard. It's cool to build a family, to preserve your culture. It's cool to be proud of your history, and it's really cool to be American.
Host of "The Brett Cooper Show," Brett Cooper joins us now. Were you at that party?
BRETT COOPER, "THE BRETT COOPER SHOW" HOST: I was not actually. I regret not going now. I feel like I really missed out. It was such a phenomenon.
WATTERS: It looked like a good party. Why do you think they want to make a scene out of that?
COOPER: Well, because it is cool. It's super exciting. And for the first time in like 10 years, the culture has shifted in a way, to where young people on the right now are edgy, they're the rebels. And we've been saying that, you know for the last four years, like you think you're the resistance, but actually you have every mainstream organization behind you. You have every huge, you know, Hollywood industry behind you.
You're not actually a rebel. You're just falling in line with the mob and doing what they say, like we're actually the ones that are pushing back and fighting. I think they finally realized that. So, it is really exciting.
WATTERS: So what does it say if you're considered edgy, that you like the country, you like sports, you get dressed up, you have a few drinks.
COOPER: Yes.
WATTERS: You're normal. You like girls.
COOPER: I mean, it makes me think of the American Revolution. I mean, we think about those guys, and they were pretty normal, and they were, you know, wanting freedom, and they were wanting the life that we have built now in this country.
WATTERS: And they were pretty young.
COOPER: They were very young, which I think people often forget. These were, you know, 17 to 22-year-old men who were hungry and huge dreamers and I feel like we're getting back to that, actually, in a very cool way.
WATTERS: What does it mean for the culture that Jim Acosta is stepping down?
COOPER: I had to look up who Jim Acosta is.
WATTERS: No?
COOPER: I think -- I literally did, so I think that tells you where Gen Z's priorities are right now. Like, who is this guy? Why do I care?
WATTERS: No one your age watches Jim Acosta?
COOPER: No, and if we do, it's because we see him on X and people are making fun of him.
WATTERS: More people see Jim Acosta on this show than they see on CNN.
COOPER: Probably. It is unfortunate.
WATTERS: So where are we going now as a media? Are you now the tip of the spear?
COOPER: You know, I think that we are moving more and more independent. You know, I just left "The Daily Wire." I'm starting my new show. I wanted to be independent.
You know, I watched the media landscape change over the last couple of years, but especially leading into this, you know, election and young people are just hungry for independent voices who are authentic and honest with their audiences.
They don't want to hear from traditional pundits 24/7.
WATTERS: So, you're saying, I'm not going to have a job.
COOPER: I don't know. You're going to -- this is great.
WATTERS: Am I fired? How many more years do I have, Brett?
COOPER: No, you're one of my favorites.
WATTERS: Okay.
COOPER: But I think that it's just changing in that there are more opportunities now. And you know, as Elon says, we are the media now.
So it's not just that commentators are popping up and there's all these new podcasters, but it's normal people who finally have a voice and are able to share their opinions, whether it is on a Substack or on a -- you know, a post on X that goes viral, people have a voice in a way that they haven't had ever, basically.
WATTERS: Some people think you're cruel.
COOPER: I know.
WATTERS: They think you're mean, you're a mean girl, you're exclusive, you're not tolerant. What do you say when they say that to you?
COOPER: I don't care, Margaret. I really don't care. But no, on a more serious note, I think it's that you just don't understand what we believe. And my goal is to help you understand that's my goal with my show. It's what has always been my goal with my content, is if I can change your perspective on who we are and what we believe and what we stand for, even if it's not to change your mind or change your vote, but to make you have more respect for your friends who think differently than you, then I've -- you know, I've done what I want to do.
And so I think that it's just trying to reach across the aisle with nuance and empathy. Because I think that people -- things are changing, we saw that in 2024 and so I think there's a lot more progress to be made. There's a lot of room.
WATTERS: It's like Fetterman. We can have a conversation.
COOPER: Exactly. There's a lot of room at the cruel kids' table. I'm welcoming you. I'm happy to have you.
WATTERS: All right, Brett, good to see you. Thank you so much.
COOPER: Yes, thank you for having me.
WATTERS: Her first time on Fox. How did she do? I was so nice.
COOPER: You were very nice. Thanks for having me.
WATTERS: Thank you so much.
A bombshell PRIMETIME investigation, which we've been working on for months. Straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: DEI is dead and the left is devastated. The media's hair is on fire over Trump's so called DEI snitch line, implemented to help root out undercover DEI agents throughout the federal government.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ABBY PHILLIP, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT AND ANCHOR OF "NEWSLIGHT WITH ABBY PHILLIP": There was this memo from the Office of Personnel Management basically telling workers to snitch on each other. Yikes. It is a pretty heavy hand.
CAROL LEONNIG, MSNBC CONTRIBUTOR: It's just a strange sort of scary, totalitarian kind of message to send that Big Brother is watching you essentially, and your colleagues may be checking you out.
AL SHARPTON, MSNBC HOST: What is the message being sent by treating them almost as if they are criminals that need to be rooted out with extreme measures?
ALFONSO DAVID, PRESIDENT AND CEO GLOBAL BLACK ECONOMIC FORUM: Snitches get stitches. Be careful.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Oh, be careful. But Democrats never had a problem with snitching before. In fact, it's their favorite pastime.
One of their biggest offenders, Tim Walz. It turns out Tampon Tim, he's just not a tampon tyrant. He's also a COVID control freak. He set up an actual COVID snitch line back in 2020. A little hotline for people to rat on their friends and local businesses, even maskless kids on the playground.
During the presidential campaign, PRIMETIME FOIA'ed the hotline and we finally got our hands on hundreds of e-mails and phone calls. They don't disappoint.
One woman ratted at her next door neighbor: "I just saw a lady and a child I've never seen before come to that house and hug someone outside before heading inside for a few minutes and then leave."
A hug. I should have called 911.
Someone else reported a church. One parish was giving communion in the parking lot, inspiring someone to write: "Nothing in the Bible says they should risk their lives and the lives of others just to receive an offering."
Hundreds of others just sent in pictures of children playing outside without masks. Here's six kids playing basketball. Super spreader event.
Here's another one. And if you thought the e-mails were bad, get ready for the voice mails. One woman called in to report people jogging without masks.
(BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I rode my bike. I was not wearing a mask past groups of people jogging from CrossFit. They were groups of four and five. They weren't wearing masks. They were not social distancing.
I wasn't wearing a mask on my bike either, but it wasn't riding with people, and I was trying to stay away from people.
(END AUDIO CLIP)
WATTERS: No businesses were safe either.
(BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: My concern is about a grocery store in Mankato. They are wearing a shield, but not a mask.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I'm calling in a couple of different businesses. One would be the Brainerd License Office, an employee wearing a crocheted mask.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I like to voice a complaint about the Blue Line Restaurant in St. Cloud. The owner and the employees all wear the masks on their arms.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The UPS Store in Bemidji, Minnesota. No employee is wearing masks.
This young woman manager said, "Oh, but the rules say if you have a health problem, you don't have to wear a mask." I said, "Are you trying to tell me that you have five employees that have health problems of all different ages?"
(END AUDIO CLIP)
WATTERS: Others demanded businesses be fined.
(BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I walked into the Holiday Station on Fern Brook and 494 in Minneapolis today, and there was a guy that walked in without shoes and shirt, and they told him to leave. Yet there were five people in the store without a mask on. Well, I'm upset. Fine them $150.00.
(END AUDIO CLIP)
WATTERS: Tyler Fischer is a comedian. Check out his latest special. "No Pardon Needed" on Fox Nation. He's also on tour right now.
All right, Tyler, the snitch fish line. I got a kick out of it.
TYLER FISCHER, COMEDIAN: Oh yes, yes. I actually ran into Tim Walz today, and so I just -- sorry I'm in solidarity with Selena Gomez, I just wanted to clean up here a little bit.
But yes, my ex-girlfriend snitched I wasn't wearing a condom. I put on a mask instead, because she donated them to Gaza. Apparently they needed it even more.
WATTERS: They definitely need all the condoms they can get over there.
Did you know this woman was riding a bike with a mask on and on the other side of the street there is a group of joggers. That was what she was scared of.
FISCHER: They all died. They're all dead because a homeless person killed them. A homeless migrant.
WATTERS: That's right. It's a Biden migrant.
If the COVID doesn't kill them, the Biden migrants will.
FISCHER: Yes.
WATTERS: How about it wasn't a real mask, the mask was crochet. They got a call on the snitch line.
FISCHER: It's unbelievable. Yes, I met a girl during COVID, and she had a mask on, and we went on four dates, and she never took it off. My buddies are like, what does she look like? I go, well, she's not Asian. That's literally all the data I have. It is not a racist joke, it is just funny, but more of that in my comedy special, if you like those types of jokes.
WATTERS: You never snitched on anybody. Growing up, it was snitches get stitches, I get that.
FISCHER: I snitched on somebody for DEI. I'm actually suing --
WATTERS: You did?
FISCHER: Yes, I recorded an acting manager who said it's our company policy to not hire White men, and I recorded it, and I'm suing them, but that's illegal. That's different than not wearing a mask.
WATTERS: Right. Right.
FISCHER: It's nothing.
WATTERS: Okay, so you are a DEI snitch. You're just not -- you're not a mask snitch.
FISCHER: Yes, Trump should get them all out. I love it, man. You know, DEI, we love it. Jesse, everything's DEI, right? They said, sir, the government hired the first blind, ambidextrous, mentally retarded person. I'm talking about Joe Biden, of course, the first dead president. He puts the D in dead, doesn't he, right?
WATTERS: I love it. You can say retarded, because that's what Gutfeld says on "The Five" now.
FISCHER: It does, yes, and Greg Gutfeld is a DEI hire. The first height- challenged person on Fox. We have the same pediatrician, actually.
WATTERS: You do?
FISCHER: That's why we didn't get the COVID shot.
WATTERS: But you guys aren't allowed to do any more trans surgeries. That's a new executive order.
FISCHER: Yes.
WATTERS: That's illegal.
FISCHER: Yes, I identify as looking as handsome as you, so I'd like you to respect that, please.
WATTERS: We're all going to watch the comedy special on Fox Nation. Where else can people see you?
FISCHER: You can follow me right here in TylerFischer.com. I'm touring the whole nation doing jokes that people used to tell 10 years ago before we started living in Communist China. You've got to get your booster shots.
WATTERS: All right, thank you very much, Tyler.
Stick around, well, if you want to see a Fox News host embarrass themselves.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: I made a little bet this past Sunday with Bret Baier. He is a big Commanders fan, Red Skins, he was getting a little cocky. Loser had to wear the other team's jersey. A couple of Saquon touchdowns later, and Bret was a man of his word.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CHIEF POLITICAL ANCHOR: I bet Jesse Watters that my Washington Commanders would beat his Philadelphia Eagles, and instead of a monetary payoff, he suggests wearing the other team's jersey for a segment, if they want.
So Jesse, congrats. Your Eagles did fly high this weekend. They were firing on all cylinders.
Congratulations. Good luck in Super Bowl LIX.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: I bet that hurts.
My next bet was Steve Doocey. He's a huge Chiefs fan for some reason, so if the Birds lose, I'll wear Mahomes' jersey, but that's not going to happen, so we'll just ship Bret's Hurts jersey up to New York for Steve.
Let's do some texts.
Matthew from Franklinville, New Jersey: Can we get a score prediction for the big game?
No, I'm not going to be doing that, but I'm in a little pool, and this time, I think I'm feeling lucky.
Karen from Buffalo Grove, Illinois: Brett Cooper is a remarkable young woman who gives me hope for the future.
Desiree from Chattanooga, Tennessee: Thanks for having my brilliant daughter-in-law, Brett on your show tonight. She's a superstar.
Wow. A mom text that's nice. How refreshing.
John from Stewart, Florida: Karoline says her brain is her binder. Let's call her "The Minder."
Jim from Rochester, Michigan: Would you ever consider sending Johnny on an ICE raid?
Yes, we're also considering sending him to one of the briefings with Karoline.
Anywhere else you want to send Johnny, let me know.
Rick from Celina, Texas: Who knew diplomacy came wrapped in latex.
Sarah from Brunswick, Ohio: Is this the snitch line? I'd like to report Greg Gutfeld for some off color jokes. We should fine him.
Renee from Dundee, New York: If they tie your hands, are you still able to talk?
That's all for tonight. DVR the show -- apparently not.
I'm Watters, this is my world.

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
