




Targeted News Service
February 20, 2025 Thursday 9:00 AM  EST


Copyright 2025 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved


Length: 492 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


Small Business Majority issued the following news release:
* * *
Kelly Loeffler Must Defend the Small Business Administration's Non-Partisan Mission and Tradition
Small Business Majority Founder & CEO John Arensmeyer issued the following statement on the confirmation of former Georgia Sen. Kelly Loeffler to lead the U.S. Small Business Administration:
"Kelly Loeffler's opportunity to lead the U.S. Small Business Administration comes at a precarious moment. Although few corners of the federal government have been spared from the Trump administration's horrific, draconian staffing cuts and crippling funding freezes, the Small Business Administration was hit especially hard as approximately 20% of its workforce has already been let go. And given this administration's pathological obsession with cutting almost anything and everything linked to DEI initiatives, we are deeply concerned about the future of the 8(a) Business Development Program, which was specifically designed to support historically disadvantaged entrepreneurs who traditionally struggle to access critical loans to start and grow their businesses.
With these fears in mind, we implore Administrator Loeffler to maintain the SBA's non-partisan, non-ideological tradition, and we urge her in the strongest terms to protect the agency from further reductions in staffing and any drastic changes or limitations to the ways in which funding is disbursed to small businesses. SBA has long had strong bi-partisan support, a reputation well deserved for its consistency in helping small businesses regardless of which administration is in office. SBA as an extension of partisanship, however, would cease to be SBA as we know it. Instead, it would be just another weapon in the arsenal of those who wish to thwart hard-working entrepreneurs who are the bedrock of our economy without regard for the devastating impact that those actions would have on communities across our nation."
About Small Business Majority
Small Business Majority is a national small business organization that empowers America's diverse entrepreneurs to build a thriving and equitable economy. We engage our network of more than 85,000 small businesses and 1,500 business and community organizations to advocate for public policy solutions and deliver resources to entrepreneurs that promote equitable small business growth. Our deep connections with the small business community along with our scientific research enable us to educate the public about key issues impacting America's entrepreneurs, with a special focus on advancing the smallest businesses and those facing systemic inequalities. Learn more about us on our website and follow us on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram.
* * *
Original text here: 
[Category: Business]
Copyright Targeted News Services
MSTRUCK-9063122 MSTRUCK

Load-Date: February 20, 2025


End of Document
