




MailOnline
February 7, 2025 Friday 9:31 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:4
Length: 883 words
Byline: Kennedy for Dailymail.com
Body


Bolting billionaires. Ballooning budgets. A racial discrimination suit from a thwarted subcontractor.
Who needs Jussie Smollett? The Obama Presidential Center (OPC) is turning out to be Chicago's greatest hoax.
Sprouting up on the city's South Side in 2021 like an Egyptian funerary complex, the Taj Barack has already taken nearly twice as long to build as any presidential library in history. And at an estimated cost of $830 million, it's the most expensive... by hundreds of millions.
That's enough to make King Tut's mummy blush, but it's pretty standard when it comes to the modern gods of the Democratic party.
$1.5 million to 'advance DEI in Serbia's workplaces,' $70,000 for an Irish DEI-centric musical, $47,000 for a 'transgender opera' in Colombia and $32,000 on a 'transgender comic book' in Peru is just some of the spending from the now-shuttered US Agency for International Development (or as President Biden called it: The Taxpayer Cash Disposal Department).
Never forget that Biden's White House took a $7.5 billion investment and built a grand total of eight electric vehicle charging stations over two years, which is just a hair-plug shy of his target of 500,000 EV stations by 2030. 
Hold my Chardonnay, said Kamala. She burned through $1.5 billion in 15 weeks on her way to electoral disgrace.
But who needs results when you're playing with someone else's money?
Well, now that Demolition Don is taking a sledgehammer to the federal bureaucracy the gig is up. And not just for taxpayer-funded sex changes in Guatemala.
In the sweetest piece of irony ever, Barack's Chicago Shrine is turning out to be a near-perfect metaphor for the entire Democratic party.
A black-owned concrete subcontractor is suing the structural engineering firm behind the project for $40 million claiming that they were discriminated against. 
Left lawyers have sought injunctions to halt the constructions after they uncovered plans to cut down 1,000 old-growth trees. 
And uncomfortable questions were raised over revelations that ex-White House flunky turned CEO of the Obama Foundation, Valeria Jarrett, raked in a cool $740,000 in a single year, to run the OPC straight into the ground.
For a guy who once branded himself 'No Drama Obama', this has turned into a soap opera. And disillusioned Democrats are rethinking whether to toss more money on this presidential money pyre.
Contributions first started drying up back in 2023 when donations plummeted by 50 percent from the year before - and the evacuation from the USS Obama seems to be accelerating.
'He's arrogant,' one erstwhile backer reportedly said of Obama last week. 'There's no quid pro quo because it's a one-way street.'
Of course! It's the Chicago way... I scratch your back and you scratch mine. It's the American way, in fact.
Is there any real mystery why Bill Clinton's presidential library reportedly raised more than 10 percent of its $165 million cost from foreign sources or why the royal family of Saudi Arabia gave $10 million to George H.W. Bush's library? The private tours can't be that good.
These presidential vanity projects are just vehicles for ex-presidents to keep the party going long after they leave the White House.
It should surprise no one that the money spigot is being turned off as Trump rescues the country from the sinking into the swamps of Washington DC.
Fumblerooski 
Taylor Swift's season ended with a thud after the Kansas City quarterback Patrick Mahomes turned the ball over three times and his Chiefs were blown out in the Super Bowl.
But it was super-tight-end Travis Kelce who had the biggest fumble of the night by failing to put a championship ring on his pop princess.
This is going to be a hard loss to bounce back from.
Just ask Blake Lively.
Tay Tay doesn't like losers.
Serena's fault
Speaking of huge embarrassments... tennis legend Serena Williams is being dragged for her weird cameo during Kendrick Lamar's Super Lame halftime show.
Kendrick fans assumed her appearance had something to do with his bizarre beef with Williams's ex-boyfriend Drake.
They say Serena's not over him.
But Williams's hubby says they've got it all wrong and her dance was a protest against censorious culture.
Sure man, keep telling yourself that.
Bieber's fever
The Matrix is real! Or at least, it is for Justin and Hailey.
The Biebers stepped out in New York City last week dressed like Neo and Trinity - but fans were more shocked by Justin's dead-eyed stare.
Ever since ex-Bieber mentor Sean Combs was thrown behind bars, Justin has seemed to be on a downward spiral.
Take the blue pill, Justin.
Oily Ella
Almost First Step Daughter Ella Emhoff, infamous for her jungle bush armpits, is now hawking a product called 'Fur Oil.' And it's exactly what you fear it is.
Ella's hipster elixir is specifically designed for pubic hair and is used to treat ingrown hairs, irritation and is guaranteed to make your parents disappointed in what you've become.
Princely punishment
Trump-lovers were salivating at the prospect of rabid border czar Tom Homan deporting King Charles's spurned spawn. But the 47th president gave Prince Harry a pass.
'I'll leave him alone,' Trump quipped. 'He's got enough problems with his wife, she's terrible.'
Ouch, but Don's right.
I'd rather be deported to an El Salvadorian prison than spend a night alone in Montecito.

Load-Date: February 11, 2025


End of Document
