




MailOnline
February 2, 2025 Sunday 11:49 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: MONEY; Version:3
Length: 718 words
Byline: Melissa Koenig For Dailymail.Com
Body


Shark Tank star Kevin O'Leary has slammed Costco for its decision to defy President Donald Trump and stand by its diversity, equity and inclusion efforts.
Upon taking office, President Trump issued an executive order directing all federal agencies end their use of such efforts - which he claimed are unfair and distracting - and encouraged private businesses to do the same.
Major retailers like Walmart announced that it would end its DEI efforts and get rid of some of its LGBT-products, while companies like Ford, Harley-Davidson, Loew's and Tractor Supply rolled back their diversity efforts amid backlash from conservatives.
Costco was similarly facing calls from attorneys general in 19 states to ditch its DEI policies and instead hire based on merit.
But at the club's annual meeting late last month, shareholders largely rejected the anti-DEI efforts - a decision which O'Leary, who himself is a Costco shareholder, said was 'nuts.'
'They're nuts if they think I want them fighting the federal government on policy,' the millionaire investor declared on Fox Business' The Big Money Show on Wednesday.
'I don't care who took that poll when there's no way you'd get that result today,' he continued.
'You don't fight the attorney general in multiple states - you got to be out of your mind.' 
He went on to claim that it is 'bad for business' for Costco to continue with its diversity hiring efforts, as he urged the retailer to find a resolution.
'Chop, chop guys. Figure this out,' O'Leary pressed. 'You're breaking the law. Get compliant. I mean, hire for merit and advance people that deserve it.
'You will find every race, color and gender - everybody will come to the fore,' he continued, arguing that merit-based hiring can also create a diverse workforce.
'[If] you just hire on merit as we do, you get tremendous diversity,' he said of the companies he owns under O'Leary Ventures.
The millionaire also argued that companies should really on be focused on how a person is performing at their job.
'We don't care if you're gay or transvestite, or have tattoos or fishhooks in your eyelids. We couldn't give a damn,' he suggested of working at his companies.
'"Can you do the job? Can you execute the mandate?" Those are the people we advance.
'If you can do it, I don't care what planet you came from, you got a job - and that actually solves this whole problem.
'We should have never got ourselves in this place,' he concluded of the DEI efforts, which took off in 2020, following the police-involved killing of George Floyd.
'At the end of the day when you piss off the federal government, you cost shareholders money and that's exactly what happened here.' 
The group that had pressured Costco to roll back its DEI efforts, the National Center for Public Policy Research, similarly argued that a push for diversity can negatively affect stock prices.
It therefore pressured the retailer to produce a report outlining the potential risks of such initiatives.
The 19 attorneys general who wrote to Costco CEO Ron Vachris on Tuesday also accused the company of doubling down on policies they allege violate merit-based principles and federal law. 
The Republican officials, co-led by Texas's Ken Paxton and Iowa's Brenna Bird have given Costco 30 days to repeal its DEI policies or explain why it is keeping them.
Costco's directors have previously argued that DEI policies are an asset, not a liability. 
Executives emphasized that a diverse workforce and supplier base help attract top talent, foster innovation, and enhance the 'treasure hunt' shopping experience that customers value. 
Costco also argued that the conservative National Center for Public Policy Research had ulterior motives for pushing an end to its DEI initiatives, and said its customers enjoy seeing diversity reflected in its workforce.
Following the shareholder vote, Lindsey Stewart, director of stewardship research and policy for Morningstar Sustainalytics, also argued it 'suggests that even if the political environment on inclusion in the workplace is changing, investors' low propensity to support anti-DEI resolutions is thus far unchanged.' 
Costco is now banking on its status as a much-loved store with loyal customers that have helped it stay out of political frays in the past.
DailyMail.com has reached out to Costco for comment. 

Load-Date: February 4, 2025


End of Document
