




USA Today Online
February 15, 2025 4:33 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Section: ENTERTAINMENT: LATEST, ENTERTAINMENT: LATEST, ENTERTAINMENT: LATEST, ENTERTAINMENT: LATEST & SPORTS: NFL NEWS
Length: 769 words
Byline: Jay Stahl, USA TODAY
Body


  was "DEI" for "in the hood Black people," according to 
The country rock rapper appeared on Friday's edition of  and offered his opinion on the  controversial 
"To put it nicely, it wasn’t my cup of tea, but I got to respect it," , who asked for an opinion on the show. "And here’s why: I grew up loving, emulating all things hip-hop, break dancing, deejaying, graffiti, rapping, and so I understand the culture a little bit more than most. And when I say most, of course, I mean white people."

Kid Rock cuts off performance, storms 
Kid Rock added: "Everyone’s like 'that sucks,' this that and the other. I’m like, 'this kid pretty much came out figuratively with both middle fingers in the air, doing what he does for the people who love what he does unapologetically."
Kid Rock, 54, said that he doesn't think Lamar, 37, cares "what anyone thinks about it," adding that "it’s pretty much how I built my whole career. I got to respect it."


 explaining his point of view, crediting former  quarterback , who began sitting and kneeling when the national anthem played  to protest racial injustice in America.
Kid Rock credits ex-NFL QB Colin Kaepernick with Kendrick Lamar halftime show
Kid Rock told Maher that “I’ve heard nobody answer this question: how did he get that gig? " referring to the  agreement with the NFL, 
"What happened there? I think Jay-Z and Kendrick Lamar should both send Colin Kaepernick a Bundt cake and a six-pack of beer and a ‘thank you’ note with a bunch of money in it, because without him kneeling and getting everyone’s panties in a bunch over the anthem, self-included, I don’t think that happens" Kid Rock said.
All the songs in Kendrick Lamar's 
Maher did not have a chance to respond before Kid Rock said Lamar's selection as the halftime show performer "was the epitome of DEI blowing up because the NFL was all this DEI and racism, all this stuff. They got Jay-Z in there booking this, and like Kendrick Lamar goes out there and basically turns DEI into an IED."
An IED (improvised explosive device) is a homemade bomb. The Pulitzer Prize-winning Lamar, considered by some to be the greatest rap artist alive,  Kid Rock 
Lamar, who rose to fame with his standout sophomore album "Good Kid, M.A.A.D City," had a breakout year that catapulted him to mainstream superstardom. Last year,  hit No. 1 on the Billboard Top 100 chart, his first time atop the chart, and , including  for record of the year and song of the year.


During "Real Time," Kid Rock continued explaining his position, leaving Maher briefly speechless in a rare move.
“It’s like all Black people or all people of color speaking to his crowd in the hood, Black people. It was like the most exclusive thing ever," Kid Rock said, adding that he was "like ... that's awesome."
Racial identities of Super Bowl have varied in recent years
The racial identities of main Super Bowl halftime show performers have ranged over the last decade.
From 2015 to 2019, white Super Bowl halftime performers delivered the show: Katy Perry, Coldplay, Lady Gaga, Justin Timberlake and Maroon 5. But since 2020 and Roc Nation's exclusive agreement with the NFL, the halftime performers have predominately been people of color besides Eminem.
Every Super Bowl halftime show since  
In 2020, Shakira and Jennifer Lopez lit up the stage followed by The Weeknd's memorable Super Bowl Sunday show. 2022's halftime show featured Lamar in a group medley alongside Dr. Dre, Snoop Dogg, Eminem and Mary J. Blige in a tribute to the hip-hop genre. Rihanna performed in 2023 while Usher was the Super Bowl 58 halftime show performer.
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: February 17, 2025


End of Document
