




MailOnline
February 15, 2025 Saturday 3:25 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NFL; Version:2
Length: 452 words
Byline: Daniel Matthews
Body


READ MORE: Bill Maher slams Nike 'lie' in controversial Super Bowl commercial
Kid Rock has sensationally claimed that Colin Kaepernick's NFL protest is the real reason why Kendrick Lamar was chosen to perform the Super Bowl halftime show.
The rapper had a controversial 13-minute cameo midway through the Philadelphia Eagles' win over the Kansas City Chiefs last week.
It reportedly drew an average audience of 133.5million viewers - more than any other halftime show in history. But the performance - which featured SZA, Samuel L. Jackson, Serena Williams, and his famous diss track about bitter rival Drake - was criticized by many viewers .
Some fans branded it 'the worst halftime show ever' and now Kid Rock has questioned why the rapper was chosen to perform.
The singer, an ally of Donald Trump, was a guest on Real Time with Bill Maher on Friday night.
He claimed the rapper's show was 'the epitome of DEI' (diversity, equality and inclusion) and offered his theory about Kaepernick.
Back in 2016, the quarterback controversially knelt during the national anthem in protest at racial injustice and police brutality.
'I've heard nobody answer this question: how did he get that gig? Jay-Z. What happened there?' Kid Rock said.
'I think Jay-Z and Kendrick Lamar should both send Colin Kaepernick a Bundt cake and a six-pack of beer and a "thank you" note with a bunch of money in it.
'Because without him kneeling and getting everyone's panties in a bunch over the anthem, (my)self-included, I don't think that happens.'
Kid Rock told Maher that Lamar's performance left him 'laughing my a** off'.
'This was the epitome of DEI, the epitome of DEI blowing up because the NFL is all this DEI, end racism all this stuff... and Kendrick Lamar goes out there and basically turns DEI into an IED,' he said.
'It's all Black people or people of color speaking to his crowd in the hood, Black people. It was like the most exclusive thing ever and I'm like, "F*** yeah, that's awesome!" I'm laughing my a** off.'
The singer said the show wasn't 'his cup of tea' - 'to put it nicely' - but he nevertheless empathized with Lamar, adding: 'Everyone's like that sucks, this that and the other.
'I'm like, this kid pretty much came out figuratively with both middle fingers in the air, doing what he does for the people who love what he does - unapologetically.
'And I don't think he gives a frog's fat a** what anyone thinks about it... it's pretty much how I built my whole career. I gotta respect it.'
Kid Rock performed during the Super Bowl halftime show back in 2004, alongside Janet Jackson, Diddy, Nelly, Justin Timberlake and Jessica Simpson.
The performance sparked huge controversy after Jackson's breast was exposed by Timberlake.

Load-Date: February 15, 2025


End of Document
