




Financial Times (London, England)
February 20, 2025 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition


Copyright 2025 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 10
Length: 482 words
Byline: STEPHEN FOLEY
Body


KPMG US has pulled years of reports on its diversity, equity and inclusion programmes from its website after becoming the latest professional services firm to scrap DEI goals in the wake of Donald Trump's election.
The Big Four accounting and consulting firm deleted the annual "transparency reports" it has published since 2020 that described its effort to increase the representation of women and minorities at all levels of the organisation. The move came after Paul Knopp, KPMG US chief executive, told staff the firm would "bring to a close" its "Accelerate 2025" programme, under which the firm aimed to have half of its partners and managing directors from under-represented groups by this year.
"The legal landscape surrounding diversity, equity and inclusion efforts has been shifting, via executive orders and in the courts," Knopp wrote in an email to his 40,000-strong workforce last week.
"We will continue to uphold the highest ethical standards and fully comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including adherence to the executive orders affecting us as a federal contractor."
President Trump has moved to eliminate diversity efforts from the US government and discourage them in the private sector by promising investigations into corporate DEI programmes.
The day after his inauguration, he ordered that federal contractors pledge they did not have DEI programmes that violated anti-discrimination laws.
A government database shows that KPMG US and its affiliates generate more than $400mn annually from contracts with the federal government, largely the Department of Defense.
Accenture and Deloitte, two of the biggest professional services firms working for the US government, have already scrapped DEI goals in the wake of the orders.
Two of KPMG's Big Four rivals, Deloitte and PwC, have suppressed their own historic transparency reports by removing links from other web pages, although the reports themselves remain on their websites. Deloitte has removed some other DEI-related pages.
A person familiar with KPMG's decision to delete the reports said the firm wanted its website to reflect the most accurate and up to date language on its policies. Pages that hosted the reports now redirect to the firm's homepage.
A data appendix, showing figures on the gender and racial make-up of its workforce, is still available. The last published figures, for September 2023, showed 45.3 per cent of US partners and managing directors came from underrepresented groups such as women, racial minorities and the gay community. That was up from 39.3 per cent when Knopp launched Accelerate 2025 in 2020.
Knopp wrote in his memo last week that "it's time to bring Accelerate 2025 to a close and re-evaluate our associated programming and talent initiatives", including "ensuring that all internship and career programs are open to all who are qualified and interested". See Moral Money

Load-Date: February 19, 2025


End of Document
