




States News Service
February 21, 2025 Friday


Copyright 2025 States News Service
Length: 1075 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: BOISE, ID 
Body


The following information was released by the Office of Attorney General of Idaho:
Dear Friends,
This past month has been a remarkable period in our national history. The new Department of Government Efficiency, known colloquially as DOGE, has uncovered waste, inefficiency and corruption at unprecedented levels and in every agency examined so far.
USAID, the United States Agency for International Development, has been at the center of this first round of audits. From DEI projects in Serbia to transgender operas and comic books in South America, to tourism promotion in Egypt and sex changes in Vietnam, the USAID projects appear to lack both fiscal restraint and accountability. Tens of millions, hundreds of millions, even billions of taxpayer dollars are being carelessly thrown at projects around the globe without consideration for our national security, priorities, or strategic interests. USAID resources have even ended up in the hands of designated terrorist organizations like Hezbollah.
Other upcoming audits include FEMA, which recently sent $59 million to New York City to house illegal immigrants in luxury hotels instead of providing disaster relief in North Carolina. Also being examined is the Pentagon, which failed its seventh straight audit last year. Another essential audit will be the Department of the Treasury, which issues every government check. Following the money is critical in any competent review.
Those reviews recently uncovered that the Environmental Protection Agency recklessly distributed $20 billion to outside financial institutions in the final hours of the Biden Administration, just to get the money off the books. Just this week, it was discovered that two billion of those dollars were given to an organization connected to die-hard Biden supporter and two-time failed Georgia democratic gubernatorial candidate, Stacey Abrams, for "climate change." One Biden-appointed bureaucrat confided that it was, "throwing gold bars off the Titanic."
These audits aren't without controversy for some. Seventy-seven million Americans who voted for President Trump may cheer the well-advertised reckoning that was promised daily in his campaign to root out government fraud and waste. Others have expressed concerns that their private data may be accessed by enthusiastic auditors.
Unsurprisingly, the oversight bureaucracies previously set up to find fraud appear to be disinterested, at best, and complicit, at worst. Instead of investigating the billions of dollars wasted, they repeat the talking points of the coordinated efforts opposing the Trump Administration's in-depth review. They say that unelected and "unvetted" bureaucrats, specifically Elon Musk and the DOGE team, might access their social security and tax data, and that unelected people just aren't accountable.
Having spent four terms in Congress representing Idaho, I can say confidently there are exactly 537 elected people in your entire federal government: 435 Congressmen, 100 Senators, the Vice-President, and the President. That's it! Everyone else is an unelected bureaucrat from the agency heads to the generals, all the way to the accountants who currently have access to your personal data well over two million government workers in total. I have to admit that I am amused by the Left's newfound skepticism of unelected bureaucrats. Welcome to my side. In reality, if these groups are concerned about DOGE, it's because of what Elon Musk and his team are likely to uncover and not the fact they are unelected.
This isn't a partisan issue, or at least it shouldn't be. We as taxpayers have a very vested interest in where our money is going and why. No single political party has a monopoly on improper spending. Waste and corruption have occurred across many administrations, Republican and Democrat alike. Those who have taken advantage of the system to enrich themselves or others need to be held accountable, regardless of any party affiliation. I have confidence that accountability will happen under these audits, and it hints at why there was such unnaturally visceral opposition to President Trump, even before DOGE was a common term.
As your Attorney General, my office is monitoring the situation closely in the interest of Idahoans. While I am confident that no Idaho laws are being broken, I will stand up for the protection of Idahoans' information and privacy. At the same time, I will also stand up against the corruption and waste in our federal government. Those two goals are not in conflict at all. We absolutely can and should do both.
President Trump was very clear about his promise to audit how the federal government spends money, and his appointed team is carrying that promise out. Those weren't just empty words on a campaign stage. People aren't used to politicians keeping promises and it likely shocks some people.
But that shock is something we as a nation must work through. Our Republic is strong enough to ask hard questions and demand hard answers, because that's how we grow, adapt, and improve. Change is uncomfortable, even painful. But the slow decay of disinterest is terminal. We need to see these audits through. America's best years are ahead of us, and we need to push forward to get there.
Alexander Fraser Tytler, a Scottish author and jurist, wrote:
"A Democracy cannot exist as a permanent form of government. It can only exist until the voters discover that they can vote themselves largesse [money] from the public treasury. From that moment on, the majority always votes for the candidate promising the most benefit from the public treasury, with the result that democracy always collapses over a loose fiscal policy, always followed by a dictatorship."
We simply cannot allow the loose fiscal policy Tytler warned against to collapse our country. Our nation must stand strong against the graft and self-interest of bureaucrats and technocrats and reclaim the authority of our national checkbook not to vote ourselves money, but to ensure that money spent is in the very best interests of America and Americans. This will require restraint, vigilance, and discipline.
To avoid the dangers of a direct democracy and the temptation to vote ourselves money from the public treasury, our Founders wisely gifted us with a Constitutional Republic. As your Attorney General, I'll fight with all my might to keep it and will support President Trump's efforts to rein in government fraud, waste and abuse.

Load-Date: February 22, 2025


End of Document
