




MailOnline
February 3, 2025 Monday 10:32 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: SHOWBIZ; Version:2
Length: 676 words
Byline: Sam Lawley
Body


Have YOU got a story? Email 
Fans have reacted furiously Lady Gaga using her acceptance speech to make a political statement in support of the transgender community at Sunday night's Grammy Awards. 
After accepting the Grammy for best pop duo/group performance with Bruno Mars, she declared that trans people were 'not invisible'. 
'Trans people deserve love. The queer community deserves to be lifted up. Music is love,' she said.
After Gaga's speech she dropped a new single 'Abracadabra' which is on the hitmaker's seventh studio album, Mayhem, which is due to be released in coming weeks. 
However, fans were not happy about her politicizing the awards night. 
'The queer community deserves to be lifted up' is an odd meaningless statement. Why do they deserve it? And lift up to where?' Peter Leo said on X. 
Joseph Ohlund, also on X, said: 'Yeah, Hollywood is a cult and we all see it now. America doesn't want these ideas floating around anymore. Stfu and stop telling people what their morals should be. Just dance, monkey.' 
Gaga's new video, previewed during an advertisement break halfway through the glitzy awards show, saw the Poker Face star, 38, cycle through a number of striking outfits while a troupe of dancers wowed with a variety of flexible moves.
In one sequence, Gaga wore a white body-hugging jumpsuit with a wedding dress-style train as the other stars of the video surrounded her, wearing her blonde tresses long.
Throughout the performance, the camera regularly cut to the singer's other character who ominously lurked in the background, reflecting the video's theme of 'dance or die'. 
This figure wore a red outfit adorned with silver nails and screws, completing the creepy look with a statement wide-brimmed red hat with spikes on top. 
Speaking about her upcoming project and new single, Gaga said: 'The album started as me facing my fear of returning to the pop music my earliest fans loved.'
She described the creative process as 'reassembling a shattered mirror: even if you can't put the pieces back together perfectly, you can create something beautiful and whole in its own new way'. 
Abracadabra will feature on the upcoming 14-track album, due for release on March 7, along with well-received singles Disease and Die With a Smile.
The latter, performed with Bruno Mars, scooped the best pop duo/group performance at the 67th Grammys on Sunday and Gaga used her acceptance speech to speak out in support of the transgender community.
'I just want to say tonight, that trans people are not invisible,' the 38-year-old pop diva said onstage at LA's Crypto.com Arena.
'Trans people deserve love. The queer community deserves to be lifted up. Music is love.'
Gaga (born Stefani Germanotta) was referring to some of President Donald Trump's executive orders including one that meant the United States will now only recognize two genders - male and female.
The Kamala Harris supporter - who identifies as bisexual - is widely considered a gay icon having advocated for LGBTQ+ rights since the dawn of her career in 2008.
And Gaga wasn't alone as Shakira thanked her 'immigrant brothers and sisters' after winning Best Latin Pop Album and Alicia Keys declared 'DEI is not a threat, it's a gift' while accepting the Dr. Dre Global Impact Award.
Even Grammys host Trevor Noah joked during his opening monologue: 'I'm going to enjoy tonight because this may be the last time I get to host anything in this country.'
Last week, it was revealed that Gaga's show-stopping black and silver Armani Privé gown from the 2022 Grammy Awards has been immortalised, after Madame Tussauds in London unveiled a brand new wax model of the singer.
The statue lines up alongside the likes Timothee Chalamet, Zendaya, Dwayne Johnson and Harry Styles in the special Awards Party zone.
It recreates her memorable appearance three years ago, with the landmark's remarkable attention to detail on full display as Gaga dons her famous gown, completing the look with dazzling earrings and a statement necklace, as well as eight-inch platform lace-up heels. 

Load-Date: February 3, 2025


End of Document
