




MailOnline
February 3, 2025 Monday 4:46 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: SHOWBIZ; Version:5
Length: 777 words
Byline: Cassie Carpenter For Dailymail.Com
Body


Have YOU got a story? Email 
                     Lady Gaga spoke out in support of the transgender community while accepting the trophy for best pop duo/group performance at the 67th Grammy Awards on Sunday alongside her Die with a Smile duet partner Bruno Mars.
'I just want to say tonight, that trans people are not invisible,' the 38-year-old pop diva said onstage LA's Crypto.com Arena.
'Trans people deserve love. The queer community deserves to be lifted up. Music is love.'
Lady Gaga (born Stefani Germanotta) was referring to President Donald Trump's sweeping anti-trans executive orders including that the United States will now only recognize two genders - male and female.
The Kamala Harris supporter - who identifies as bisexual - is widely considered a gay icon having advocated for LGBTQAI rights since the dawn of her career in 2008.
And Gaga wasn't alone as Shakira thanked her 'immigrant brothers and sisters' after winning best latin pop album and Alicia Keys declared 'DEI is not a threat, it's a gift' while accepting the Dr. Dre Global Impact Award.
Even Grammys host Trevor Noah joked during his opening monologue: 'I'm going to enjoy tonight because this may be the last time I get to host anything in this country.'
The honor marked Mother Monster's 14th Grammy Award and the 39-year-old singer's (born Peter Hernandez) 16th Grammy Award.
Earlier, the talented twosome performed a cover of the Mamas & the Papas' 1965 hit California Dreamin' as part of the star-studded tribute to Los Angeles after the devastation of the tragic wildfires.
Gaga also managed to debut a brand new song - Abracadabra - when the music video aired during a commercial break on the CBS telecast.
Described as 'a dance battle between the light and dark sides of Gaga,' the native New Yorker enlisted 40 dancers and co-directed the video with Parris Goebel and Bethany Vargas.
One of Gaga's many costumes included 'an upcycled white cape crafted from vintage wedding dresses.'
The Oscar-winning songwriter's EDM-infused single was praised on her Instagram account by SNL star Bowen Yang, who gushed: 'This is absolutely!'
RuPaul's Drag Race #6 alum Gia Gunn - who's transgender - commented with three fire emojis.
RuPaul's Drag Race alum #6 Kelly Mantle - who's non-binary - wrote: 'This is soo Gaga-coded.'
RuPaul's Drag Race alum #10 Aquaria commented with six fire emojis.
And RuPaul's Drag Race alum #13 Utica posted a heart emoji.
On Gaga's YouTube account, user @JeffreyChanMusic referenced a certain Oscar-nominated film, writing: 'This is like if Artpop took the Substance and I am so here for this!'
YouTube user @honymn commented: 'No one can do a better dark pop song and visuals than Lady Gaga.'
'The choreography is so iconic, OMG we used to pray for times like this,' YouTube user @maykel.1313 wrote.
And YouTube user @dantedropulich2386 gushed: 'Releases a single in the middle of the Grammys and 20 minutes later wins the Grammy for best pop duo, just Lady Gaga, iconic queen!'
The Harlequin singer's previously released singles Die with a Smile and Disease will also appear on her eighth studio album Mayhem, which drops March 7.
Last Tuesday, Gaga - who gets 117.4M monthly listeners on Spotify - told ELLE that her third fiancé Michael Polansky 'helped write seven' of the 14 songs.
'This album was so much fun to watch her make,' the 41-year-old venture capitalist told the mag.
'She recorded it right down the street from our house, so we could easily walk back and forth from the studio. I spent a lot of time with her, bringing my laptop to work while she was there.
'What surprised me most was how fast she is. I couldn't believe how quickly a song would take shape. Within five minutes, 80 percent of the song would have come from nothing.'
The Joker: Folie à Deux actress - who scored a $12M paycheck to play Harley 'Lee' Quinzel - is next nominated for worst actress at the 45th Golden Raspberry Awards, which will be announced March 1.
Gaga will also headline Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival in April and portray a mystery role in the upcoming second season of Netflix's Addams Family spin-off, Wednesday.
On the fashion front, the Haus Labs founder flaunted substantial cleavage in a black off-the-shoulder ball gown selected by 'hardstyle' duo Peri Rosenzweig + Nick Royal.
Hairstylist Freddie Aspiras fastened a 'sleek baby bang' braided topper on Gaga's natural black mane.
Make-up artist Sarah Tanno brought out the bleach-browed beauty's alabaster complexion with cat eyeliner and a pink pout.
Gaga channeled Victorian goth glamour in a custom gown designed by Samuel Lewis featuring a billowy bustle while posing on the red carpet.

Load-Date: February 3, 2025


End of Document
