




The Post: Ohio University
February 19, 2025 Wednesday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 564 words
Body


On Monday, President's Day had an unusually eerie undertone as Americans considered their feelings toward the current president - or what some are referring to as a monarch. Protests, largely criticizing the actions of President Donald Trump and Elon Musk, broke out in Washington, D.C. and across the U.S. In a timely use of a sacred First Amendment right, protesters highlighted serious wrongdoings of the current administration - and rightfully so. 
50501, a political organization working to uphold the Constitution and end executive overreach, organized 80 protests in 50 states all under the same uniting movement. According to its website, "The protests were covered by every major media outlet, showing the world that the American working class will not sit idly by as plutocrats rip apart their democratic institutions and civil liberties while undermining the rule of law." 
With high support and little criticism - except those who protesters were criticizing - the grassroots movement proved to make a crucial impact regarding the governmental flaws unfolding in front of us. 
Although some protesters held signs concerning Trump's policy actions as it relates to immigration, DEI and the war in Gaza, many took a stance on his overall power approach. In reference to President's Day, signs read "No Kings Day," "Where law ends, tyranny begins" and different references to fascism. 
According to CBS News, "The rallies followed a series of executive orders from Mr. Trump and came just days after job cuts across federal agencies as part of an effort to reduce the government workforce. Many of those administration actions are facing legal challenges." The legal challenges Trump is facing for the job cuts, combined with other legal qualms, seemed to spark the latest uproar regarding his constitutionality and the type of ruler he is. 
President's Day historically celebrates the accomplishments of past presidents and presidents themselves; however, the shift toward criticism under the current administration speaks volumes. Political differences did not seem to take center stage at these protests, and it's probable that many middle-ground individuals either participated or supported the notions. Instead, a larger threat to the democratic system was the main criticism - speaking volumes about the danger Trump poses in office. 
As part of the danger he poses, Trump seems to have a right-hand man - and it's not the vice president. Elon Musk, who leads the Department of Government Efficiency, was the other main target of criticism at the demonstrations. Many signs affirmed nobody voted for Musk, yet he is holding a strange power over Americans. The department appears to benefit from the nuance of the word "efficiency," and use it as a medium to cater to billionaires such as Musk himself in terms of federal funding. 
50501's organization of these protests, the message protesters delivered and the broader implications of criticizing the current administration on President's Day highlight the danger the U.S. and the democratic system is currently in. Resistance to negative change is powerful, and the President's Day protests spoke volumes. 
Layne Rey is a senior studying journalism at Ohio University. Please note that the views and opinions of the columnist do not reflect those of The Post. What are your thoughts? Let Layne know by tweeting her @laynerey12.

Load-Date: February 19, 2025


End of Document
