




The Post: Ohio University
January 21, 2025 Tuesday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 640 words
Body


Monday, President Donald Trump was inaugurated - and he did not waste any time before enacting several executive orders that erased different aspects of the previous administration's progress. In coordination with his campaign talking points, he signed or plans to sign executive orders surrounding immigration, energy and what he refers to as "American values." Although executive orders on day one following a politically-opposite administration is understandable, Trump's are deeply concerning and harmful. 
In a memo sent to Republican congressional offices, Trump outlined his immigration plans in a section titled, "Make America Safe Again." Rather than approaching immigration as a policy or humanitarian issue, Trump immediately enacted a militarization of the issue by vowing to send the National Guard to the border - which will likely only further escalate tensions.  
Among other policies rooted in alienation of immigrants, Trump has long promised mass deportations beginning on day one. According to Reuters, border authorities shut down former President Joe Biden's CBP One entry program following the inauguration. In an innovative approach to migration, the scheduling app allowed migrants to make appointments and enter the U.S. legally. However, according to Reuters, "Existing appointments were canceled, leaving migrants stunned and unsure of what to do."
The second section is called, "Make America Affordable and Energy Dominant Again." According to the Center for American Progress, Biden's climate policy "amounts to more action on climate than any other administration in history." Trump referred to Biden's impressive work on climate as "climate extremism," and outlined his goals to undo regulations surrounding energy production and use. He also listed plans to withdraw from the Paris Climate Agreement, which works to fight the effects of climate change as a globe. 
In the section titled, "Drain the Swamp," Trump outlines counterintuitive policies that are aimed at mitigating corruption in government and the workforce. In his first bullet point, he directly attacks DEI staffers that are essential to workplaces. According to Pew Research Center, the majority of Americans believe that focusing on DEI at work is a "good thing." However, Trump's agenda reads, "He will freeze bureaucrat hiring except in essential areas to end the onslaught of useless and overpaid DEI activists buried into the federal workforce." 
The same section also says, "President Trump is taking swift action to end the weaponization of government against political rivals and ordering all document retention as required by law." Although it was likely summarized for the memo, this policy reads extremely vague and will likely be applied sporadically. However, there is a good chance that this day one order will be used to frame concerns and investigations as partisan attacks rather than legitimate issues. 
The final section called, "Bring Back American Values," is simply a way for Trump to disguise his harmful internal beliefs. One order, which he spoke about during the inauguration, establishes that female and male are the only genders recognized by the federal government. The second says that American landmarks will be named to reflect the nation's history - an interesting way of excusing his desire to name landmarks after individuals on the wrong side of history. 
Trump's day one executive orders were fully expected, but nevertheless daunting. With Republican majorities in both the House and the Senate, the next four years will likely be a never-ending cycle of what might as well be executive orders. 
Layne Rey is a senior studying journalism at Ohio University. Please note that the views and opinions of the columnist do not reflect those of The Post. What are your thoughts? Let Layne know by tweeting her @laynerey12.

Load-Date: January 21, 2025


End of Document
