




Targeted News Service
February 27, 2025 Thursday 8:00 AM  EST


Copyright 2025 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved


Length: 2542 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body


The Hispanic Federation, an organization that supports and strengthens Latino institutions through education, health, immigration, civic engagement, economic empowerment and the environment, issued the following news release in Feb. 26, 2025:
* * *
Latino Leaders Unite on Capitol Hill and Demand Accountability from the Trump Administration
Today, a coalition of national and community leaders from across the Latino community met on Capitol Hill to demand accountability and swift congressional action in response to the Trump administration's harmful policies and government overreach during President Trump's first month in office.
During the press conference, Latino advocates highlighted the personal stories of impacted families. They urged Congress to protect working-class families and communities. They called on all federal policymakers to focus on the U.S. voters' mandate to strengthen the American economy, reducing inflation and increasing wages.
U.S. Representative and Congressional Hispanic Caucus Chair Adriano Espaillat (D-NY-13) mentioned, "The Latino story is the American story. The CHC will defend that. This week, we stand united against the Republican budget that slashes at least $1 trillion from Medicaid, threatening 80 million. This budget also fuels Trump's mass deportation plan, decimating the agricultural workforce by 16%, leading to rising food prices. This is egregious, and we must fight back."
Janet Murguia, president and CEO of UnidosUS, urged the Trump administration to remember that voters overwhelmingly support policies that help those who are struggling economically, but noted that in the last month "there has not been any attempt to address these urgent issues, critical not only to the nation's 65 million Latinos -- one in five of those who live in this country -- but to all Americans." She emphasized that "Instead, we have gotten chaos, cruelty and an unconstitutional abuse of power." Murguia also spoke against the attack on Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI), noting that "qualified people who have devoted years of service to our country are disrespected and dismissed simply because of who they are."
"The economy is the number one concern for voters across the country, but the Trump administration's frenzy of executive actions to freeze federal funding, cancel pipelines for diverse leadership and instill fear in immigrant communities are neglecting voter priorities. The freezing of federal funds may cause significant harm to the economy nationally and would have dire implications for states, such as North Carolina, where more than 40% of the total state revenue comes from federal funding," said Frankie Miranda, president and CEO of Hispanic Federation. "It is vital that the Trump administration reverse course on the executive actions that are demonizing our communities and instead focus his administration's work on addressing people's pocketbook issues."
Juan Proano, chief executive officer of the League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC), stated: "The Latino community is not just a part of America's story -- we are shaping its future. While some in this administration choose division and fear, we choose resilience and progress. Latinos are fueling the U.S. economy, strengthening our democracy, and enriching our nation's cultural fabric. Latino workers make up nearly 20% of the U.S. workforce. They have been responsible for 68% of the new labor force growth since 2020, ensuring key industries remain strong and helping combat inflation by stabilizing supply chains and sustaining consumer demand. Beyond our labor, we are also significant contributors to the nation's finances. In 2019 alone, Latino households contributed over $308 billion in taxes -- funding essential services such as schools, healthcare, infrastructure, and Social Security, which millions of Americans rely on. We will not stand by as policies attempt to erase our contributions or undermine our rights. Today, we demand accountability and action that protects our families, respects our labor, and upholds the values of justice and opportunity that define this country. The time for leadership is now, and we will make our voices heard."
Hector Sanchez Barba, president and CEO of Mi Familia Vota, stated: "This administration does not have the best interest of hardworking families nor to protect or empower them. These anti-immigrant MAGA attacks are leaving countless hardworking people in fear, isolated, and vulnerable. And these actions will affect everyone. Our communities deserve better. Let's be clear: immigrants don't just contribute, they are the foundation of this country. Undocumented workers account for 22% of all U.S. agriculture jobs, 15% of all construction jobs and 8% of all manufacturing jobs. Mass deportations could result in labor shortages, profoundly impacting supply and driving up the cost of specific goods and services in these sectors. His mass deportation plan will scar the soul of our nation and result in a humanitarian and financial crisis. Let's not normalize Trumpism and the extremism that it represents. Immigrants are vital to America's story and future. Together, we must continue fighting for policies that uphold justice, dignity and opportunity for all."
Salvador Ontiveros, president and CEO of the Latino Community Development Agency stated: "Our families are scared and our children confused. They don't understand why their classmates and neighbors might view them with suspicion or hatred. In Oklahoma, recent initiatives to request legal status on public school enrollment forms are making families keep their children at home, choosing isolation over education, simply to feel safe. The dangers of not educating our young people far outweigh any perceived benefit of these measures. We must prioritize compassion, respect, and inclusivity. We must ensure that every child has the opportunity to learn, thrive, and feel safe in their own home and community."
Vanessa Cardenas, executive director of America's Voice, stated: "This administration's anti-immigrant obsessions come at a high cost to Latino families and all Americans. Their push for indiscriminate mass deportations wouldn't advance public safety or fix a broken immigration system -- instead, it threatens to add needless chaos and cruelty, harm our interests and values, and split apart families and communities."
Karina Ayala-Bermejo, president and CEO of Instituto del Progreso Latino stated: "In Chicago, we have seen ICE in predominantly Latino communities, spreading uncertainty and uneasiness among us. This unfair treatment has resulted in fear, which has negatively impacted attendance in our schools, diminished our efforts to combat food insecurity and attempted to create barriers to our citizenship program. This dangerous rhetoric and divisive narrative only increases hate crimes, and creates division in our community and fear for our families. We are the economic fuel that strengthens our nation, and it is time our country acknowledges this."
"Make no mistake, the administration's policies present a clear and present danger to all Americans, but they are particularly harmful to communities of color, including Latinos, working people and the most vulnerable among us," stated Katharine Pichardo, president and CEO of Latino Victory. She added that: "Latinos are not just a number representing almost 20% of the U.S. population. We are the engine of America as the fastest-growing contributors to the US economy with $2.5 trillion in spending power. We have been marginalized and demonized for far too long, and while the administration's policies aim to silence us, we won't be muted. Latinos are not just workers; we are job creators, business owners, and entrepreneurs. And, with age, population and workforce participation in our favor, we will use every tool at our disposal to hold policymakers accountable and ensure that our communities can continue to thrive. Our power is undeniable, our unity unbreakable and our time for action is now."
Founding Executive Director of Aqui: The Accountability movement, Sindy Benavides, stated, "At a moment like this, silence is no longer neutral -- it's complicity. Whether you're a CEO, a worker or a neighbor, if you stand by while the Latino community is targeted for political gain, your silence allows cruelty to thrive. When we look back at this moment, will we be able to tell our children about a time when we stood up for our families and neighbors with courage, or will we have stood by and allowed cruelty to thrive under the disguise of fear? Aqui: The Accountability Movement is here today to demand justice and ensure that silence no longer has a place in the fight for human dignity. We are strongly and unequivocally stating, 'no mas,' 'no more,' to tarnishing the history and contributions of Latinos. We are America."
About UnidosUS
UnidosUS is a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization that serves as the nation's largest Hispanic civil rights and advocacy organization. Since 1968, we have challenged the social, economic, and political barriers that affect Latinos through our unique combination of expert research, advocacy, programs, and an Affiliate Network of more than 300 community-based organizations across the United States and Puerto Rico. We believe in an America where economic, political, and social progress is a reality for all Latinos, and we collaborate across communities to achieve it. For more information on UnidosUS, visit unidosus.org or follow us on Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIn, Threads and X.
About the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC)
The Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) is 43 members strong. The CHC serves as a forum for the Hispanic Members of Congress to coalesce around a collective legislative agenda. The Caucus is dedicated to voicing and advancing, through the legislative process, issues affecting Hispanics in the United States, Puerto Rico, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. For more information, please visit chc.house.gov.
About Hispanic Federation
Hispanic Federation (HF) is a nonprofit membership and advocacy organization, founded in 1990, committed to empowering and advancing the Hispanic community, with a focus on low-income, marginalized, and immigrant Latinos. With programs in 40 states, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and the District of Columbia, HF's focus areas include immigration, economic empowerment, civic engagement, disaster relief, philanthropy, education, health, and the environment. HF also maintains ongoing public education campaigns and meets the organizational development needs of its member agencies through grant-making and capacity-building assistance.
About League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC)
The League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC) is the nation's oldest and largest Latino civil rights organization. Founded in 1929, LULAC is committed to advancing the rights and opportunities of Latino Americans through advocacy, community building, and education. With a growing network of councils nationwide, LULAC remains steadfast in its mission to protect and empower millions of Latinos, contributing daily to America's prosperity. For more information about LULAC and its initiatives, please visit .
About Mi Familia Vota
Mi Familia Vota's mission is to mobilize Latino power, through year-round activation of the electorate, and investment in local infrastructure, to advance our community's policy priorities. Mi Familia Vota is fighting for a future where Latino voices shape and advance policies that promote the health, safety, and prosperity of Latino communities across the country. Fighting for our communities means fighting with our communities. That is why we stand firm in our commitment to organize, educate, and mobilize our people to make an impact.
About America's Voice
The mission of America's Voice (AV) and America's Voice Education Fund (AVEF) is to build the public support and the political will needed to enact policy changes that secure freedom and opportunity for immigrants in America. Priority goal: win reforms that put 11 million undocumented Americans on a path to full citizenship.
Follow Vanessa Cardenas and America's Voice on BlueSky: vcardenas.bsky.social and americasvoice.bsky.social and Twitter: @VCardenasDC and @AmericasVoice
America's Voice - Harnessing the power of American voices and American
values to win common sense immigration reform
The Latino Victory Project is a 501c4 organization that develops a pipeline of Latino leaders and shapes public discourse to reflect the growing influence of the Latino community while also building cross-constituency alliances that can move the country forward.
About Latino Community Development Agency
LCDA is a nonprofit organization that provides essential social services that address the unique needs of Spanish-speaking individuals and families in central Oklahoma. Founded in 1991, LCDA's mission is to improve the quality of life in the Latino community through education, leadership, services and advocacy. Last year, LCDA experienced over 40,000 unduplicated client interactions. For more information go to .
About Instituto del Progreso Latino
Instituto del Progreso Latino (Instituto) is a Chicago-based nonprofit committed to advancing educational, workforce, and economic opportunities for Latino and immigrant communities. For over 47 years, Instituto has empowered individuals through high-quality academic programs, career pathways initiatives, and wraparound support services that promote self-sufficiency and success. Instituto manages two charter high schools, Instituto Health Sciences Career Academy (IHSCA) and Instituto Justice and Leadership Academy (IJLA), as well as Instituto College, which offers associate degrees in nursing. Its Citizenship Department is the largest submitter of immigration applications in the state of Illinois. Instituto's Career Pathways Department provides a range of essential programs and has recently played a crucial role in supporting new arrivals, offering case management and legal assistance to over 3,500 individuals. As a proud affiliate of UNIDOS US, Instituto continues to advocate for policies and initiatives that strengthen Latino families and create pathways to prosperity. For more information on Instituto, please visit .
About Aqui: The Accountability Project
Aqui: The Accountability Movement is a nonpartisan culture-defending and media-monitoring accountability organization advocating for the 60 million Latinos who live, work in, and build the United States. Through high-impact campaigns, strategic partnerships, and harnessing the power of millions of constituents, Aqui holds bad actors accountable by fighting the exclusion and invisibility of Latino people in national narratives and positions of power, demanding fair and accurate portrayals of Latinos as well as greater representation, and defending against harmful attacks, stereotypes, and demagoguery.
* * *
Original text here: 
[Category: Political]
Copyright Targeted News Services
MSTRUCK-9078884 MSTRUCK

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
