



The Times (London)
February 25, 2025 Tuesday
Edition 1, Ireland


Copyright 2025 Times Newspapers Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 24,25
Length: 564 words
Byline: Jonathan Ames
Body


J ulia Roberts turned a single mother into a household name 25 years ago in Erin Brockovich - the tale of a working-class woman at a law firm who brought a US corporation to its knees in the courts (Jonathan Ames writes).
But on both sides of the Atlantic the law historically has been the preserve of the upper middle classes. Now a City firm is bucking convention by aiming to have 20 per cent of its partnership from "lower socio-economic backgrounds" within the next four years.
The move by Simmons & Simmons - one of the 20 wealthiest law firms in the Square Mile - not only flies in the face of years of professional tradition, it also runs contrary to the contemporary political mood. In the wake of Donald Trump's return to the White House, multinational businesses are said to be putting years of equality and diversity schemes on the backburner. They are being encouraged by Robby Starbuck, the 35-year-old activist who has become prominent for going after American companies that he believes are prioritising the agenda for DEI over the conservative values of their customer base.
However, Simmons & Simmons, which has a long list of financial institution clients, has set a target of having a minimum of 20 per cent of its team from lower socio-economic backgrounds by 2029. The firm has confirmed that its target applies to partners as well as associate and junior solicitors and trainees. And for nonqualified roles, the target has been set at 30 per cent.
Yet establishing the definition of the term "lower socio-economic" will potentially be difficult for the firm's management.
Three years ago HR magazine noted that British employers looked at a variety of factors when attempting to determine the socio-economic background of staff, including the qualifications and occupations of parents, schools and eligibility for free school meals.
But the magazine noted that "for employers and employees alike, this has proved confusing" and highlighted that an audit in 2020 of organisations that submitted entries to the social mobility employer index found that "despite the parental occupation measure being the most accurate, only a third of employers were collecting it".
Figures published last month from the Solicitors Regulation Authority - the profession's watchdog - found that the number of lawyers from lower socioeconomic backgrounds had reduced from 21 per cent in 2015 to 18 per in 2023. That research showed that 25 per cent of law firm partners had attended fee-paying schools compared with about 6 per cent of the wider population.
Simmons & Simmons said it would refer to metrics recommended by the profession's regulator and the Social Mobility Commission to measure whether it hits its target.
It said that as of the beginning of this year at its three UK offices, 13 per cent of partners came from lower socio-economic backgrounds. That figure rose to 17 per cent of senior associates and 14 per cent of junior lawyers. According to the firm, 12 per cent of its current trainees come from lower socio-economic backgrounds.
In an attempt to meet its target, the firm said it would invoke "advanced recruitment tools" as well as its own social mobility programmes.
"A career in law should not be determined by background," said Julian Taylor, Simmons & Simmons senior partner, who added that the profession "is one of the least diverse by socioeconomic background".

Graphic

 
Julia Roberts played a legal activist in Erin Brockovich. Simmons & Simmons wants more working-class staff, a reverse of the views of Trump and Robby Starbuck, belowSNAP STILLS/REX/SHUTTERSTOCK
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Journal Code: TIM

Subject: DIVERSITY & INCLUSION (90%); LAW & LEGAL SYSTEM (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); BARRISTERS & SOLICITORS (89%); PROFESSIONAL WORKERS (78%); SINGLE PARENTS (78%); ECONOMICS (75%); CONSERVATISM (74%); LEGAL ETHICS (73%); ACTIVISM (69%); SCHOOL MEAL PROGRAMS (65%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (53%)

Industry: LEGAL SERVICES (90%); BARRISTERS & SOLICITORS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%)

Person: DONALD TRUMP (72%)

Geographic: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); Ireland

Load-Date: February 25, 2025


End of Document
