




Targeted News Service
January 25, 2025 Saturday 8:50 AM  EST


Copyright 2025 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved


Length: 442 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


The League of Women Voters issued the following news release on Jan. 24, 2025:
Today, the League of Women Voters of the United States CEO Celina Stewart issued the following statement in response to actions taken by the new administration and the impact they will have on our democracy:
"In the first week of President Trump's second term, we've witnessed an undeniable assault on the foundation of our democracy.
"The League is deeply dismayed by the executive order eliminating federal voter access initiatives (Initial Rescissions of Harmful Executive Orders and Actions). This order removes federal support for voter access and registration initiatives. This is a direct attack on the progress made to ensure that all Americans can freely and fairly participate in our elections. Instead of dismantling efforts that expand voter access, our government must enact policies that eliminate barriers, modernize voter registration, and provide accurate election information to all Americans.
"By pardoning the January 6 perpetrators, the President sends a signal to extremists who seek to use violence to undermine the will of the voters. The actions that took place on January 6, 2021, must never happen again. Unfortunately, these pardons endorse the violence of that devastating event. We must work to safeguard our institutions, uphold the will of the people, and commit to a peaceful transfer of power.
"As an organization working towards a multi-racial representative democracy, the League is outraged about the new administration's rollbacks to federal Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Accessibility initiatives (Ending Radical and Wasteful Government DEI Programs and Preferencing). Abandoning these values across our government proliferates intolerance of the freedom of expression and identity and is a hateful act used to target federal employees of color and of the LGBTQIA+ community.
"All of this week's actions are distressing and dangerous for people of vulnerable populations who are already disadvantaged in society. This administration's tactic is to exert control over the American people through chaos and fear. Now is the time to lead with compassion, move in partnership, and stand in solidarity with those most directly impacted by the extreme and harmful actions taken this week.
"As our democracy continues to be tested, the League of Women Voters will remain steadfast in our fight to empower voters and defend democracy for all people."
* * *
Original text here: 
[Category: Political]
Copyright Targeted News Services
MSTRUCK-9016599 MSTRUCK

Load-Date: January 25, 2025


End of Document
