




The Herald: Hobart and William Smith Colleges
February 28, 2025 Friday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 756 words
Byline: Jack Hanson
Body


College campuses are one of the places where federal regulation is felt most directly by Americans, which has become even more plain recently. On January 9th, a federal judge in Kentucky ruled that the Title IX regulations put into place last year by the Biden administration were unconstitutional, reverting back the 2020 version implemented by the first Trump administration. The regulations set certain requirements for how colleges and universities handle claims of sex discrimination, including sexual assault and harassment. The Department of Education communicated to school administrators through a series of "Dear Colleague Letters" that the Office of Civil Rights, which enforces Title IX as well as Title VI and disability protections, among others, plans to enforce a drastically different vision of civil rights law in education. 
The 2024 regulation extended protections to include gender identity and pregnancy, expanded which employees had to report anything disclosed to them and made a host of procedural changes which made the formal complaint process friendlier to complainants. The other letter, referencing the Students for Fair Admissions v. Harvard case which struck down affirmative action, went much further than the Supreme Court and said that the department planned to treat a wide swath of "DEI" related programs as illegal discrimination. The department's claimed examples included an institution "[eliminating] standardized testing to achieve a desired racial balance or to increase racial diversity" or taking into account race in basically any facet of college life. These letters do not have any legal authority like the civil rights laws or regulations implementing them, but they signal the government's intent to use their broad discretion in enforcing the law a certain way and can be incredibly influential. Indeed, the use of Title IX to respond to sexual assault stems from a 2011 letter and 2014 guidance document, so the possibility that emboldened 'reverse discrimination' lawsuits and federal enforcement could reshape how schools nationwide treat these issues is real.
The Colleges' response to these shifts is still developing, though the reversion to the 2020 Title IX regulations happened earlier, and more is known. Amanda Jantzi, Title IX and Equal Opportunity coordinator explained in response to questions from the Herald that the administration is complying with the new regulations, including the more limited scope of Title IX protections and the procedural changes that require cross examination in live hearings, complainants to personally draft a formal complaint and restricted the kinds of remedy available in informal resolutions.
However, Jantzi explained that the Colleges "affirmatively made the decision we want to still provide policy protection for gender, gender identity, and sexuality as well as for those incidents not covered under Title IX geography. Additionally, the 2024 rule included protections pregnant and parenting people and we wanted to keep those as well. This is partially based on HWS' values but also to comply with New York State Law 129B. This is what the "Community Standards Prohibited" conduct covers. Functionally, the policy requires that we treat a claim the exact same regardless of whether it is Title IX or Community Standards prohibited conduct." Effectively, everything that was prohibited before is still so, and that is unlikely to change, especially due to the state laws that apply.
It remains to be seen what, if any, policy changes are forthcoming from the institution in response to the anti-DEI threats from the government. Nothing has been announced so far, but the deadline set by the OCR for their enforcement is the 28th. President Gearan will be at the student government meeting Monday, where students will have an opportunity to ask about these changes, though how much information he will be providing is unknown.
Vice President of Campus Life Becca Barile, said that "We have not made any policy changes. As with any government guidance past and present, HWS has reviewed its policies and procedures and made sure they align with our institutional values while also complying with federal regulations."
General Counsel of the Colleges Lou Guard told the Herald that "The legal implications stemming from recent executive branch policy changes and administrative agency activity are rapidly developing. The Colleges diligently monitor these developments and are committed to our core values, mission, and the letter of the law."

Load-Date: February 28, 2025


End of Document
