




Newsweek.com
January 28, 2025 Tuesday 7:45 AM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 976 words
Byline: Khaleda Rahman
Highlight: The New York attorney general commented after the White House budget office ordered a temporary pause on federal grants and loans.
Body


New York Attorney General Letitia James has criticized a pause on federal funding by President 's administration as "reckless and dangerous."
Newsweek contacted the James' office and the White House for comment via email outside regular business hours.
Why It Matters
James, a Democrat, has a long history of challenging Trump. During his first term, she launched several lawsuits against his administration, including over his immigration and environmental policies.
She also filed a lawsuit in 2022 alleging that Trump's company deceived banks, insurers and others by overvaluing assets and his net worth on financial paperwork to secure deals and loans. A judge ruled that Trump and other defendants must pay —a sum that has now ballooned with interest to almost $500 million.
Following Trump's electoral victory in November, James signaled that she would continue to be a significant legal challenger in his second term, saying, "I am ready to do everything in my power to ensure our state and nation do not go backwards." She is among more than a dozen Democratic attorneys general  to end birthright citizenship.
What To Know 
On Monday, James wrote on X, formerly Twitter: "This administration's pause on federal funding is reckless and dangerous. Programs in communities across the entire nation depend on this funding to support our families, and this action is only going to hurt them."
The attorney general made the remark in response to a Washington Post report that the White House budget office had ordered a pause to grants and loans disbursed by the federal government. The newspaper cited an internal memo, which journalist Marisa Kabas had shared on social media.
In the memo, Matthew J. Vaeth, the acting director of the White House Office of Management and Budget, wrote that agencies "must complete a comprehensive analysis of all of their Federal financial assistance programs to identify programs, projects, and activities" that may be affected by .
The memo continued: "In the interim, to the extent permissible under applicable law, Federal agencies must temporarily pause all activities related to obligation or disbursement of all federal financial assistance, and other relevant agency activities that may be implicated by the executive orders, including, but not limited to, financial assistance for foreign aid, nongovernmental organizations, DEI, woke gender ideology, and the green new deal."
The agencies have until February 10 to provide the information, the memo said.
It added that the pause, which is set to go into effect on Tuesday, "will provide the Administration time to review agency programs and determine the best uses of the funding for those programs consistent with the law and the President's priorities."
A footnote said, "Nothing in this memo should be construed to impact Medicare or Social Security benefits."
In response to the Washington Post report,  Minority Leader  said the administration was "jeopardizing billions upon billions of community grants and financial support that help millions of people across the country." He added, "It will mean missed payrolls and rent payments and everything in between: chaos for everything from universities to non-profit charities."
What People Are Saying 
Matthew J. Vaeth, the acting director of the White House Office of Management and Budget, wrote in the memo: "Financial assistance should be dedicated to advancing Administration priorities, focusing taxpayer dollars to advance a stronger and safer America, eliminating the financial burden of inflation for citizens, unleashing American energy and manufacturing, ending 'wokeness' and the weaponization of government, promoting efficiency in government, and Making America Healthy Again.
"The use of Federal resources to advance Marxist equity, transgenderism, and green new deal social engineering policies is a waste of taxpayer dollars that does not improve the day-to-day lives of those we serve."
Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer said in a statement issued on Monday: "More lawlessness and chaos in America as Donald Trump's Administration blatantly disobeys the law by holding up virtually all vital funds that support programs in every community across the country. If this continues, the American people will pay an awful price.
"They say this is only temporary, but no one should believe that. Donald Trump must direct his Administration to reverse course immediately and the taxpayers' money should be distributed to the people.  approved these investments and they are not optional; they are the law. These grants help people in red states and blue states, support families, help parents raise kids, and lead to stronger communities."
Senator Patty Murray, the vice chair of the Senate Appropriations Committee, and Representative Rosa DeLauro, the ranking member of the House Appropriations Committee,said in a letter to Vaeth on Monday: "As leaders of the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations, we write with extreme alarm about the Administration's efforts to undermine Congress's power of the purse, threaten our national security, and deny resources for states, localities, American families, and businesses …
"The scope of what you are ordering is breathtaking, unprecedented, and will have devastating consequences across the country. We write today to urge you in the strongest possible terms to uphold the law and the Constitution and ensure all federal resources are delivered in accordance with the law."
What Happens Next 
Congressional  have criticized the move and are urging the Trump administration to reverse course.
According to the memo, the pause on federal funding is set to go into effect at 5 p.m. ET on Tuesday.


Graphic

 
New York Attorney General Letitia James
Michael M. Santiago/Getty Images
New York Attorney General Letitia James speaks during a press conference at the offices of the Attorney General on January 8, 2025 in New York City.

Load-Date: January 28, 2025


End of Document
