




Inside Vandy: Vanderbilt University
February 17, 2025 Monday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION; Pg. 1
Length: 390 words
Body


Vanderbilt alumni and current VUMC employees argue that VUMC's recent actions were an unnecessary response to President Donald Trump's executive orders.
Truman McDaniel The side of Eskind Biomedical Library, as photographed on Aug. 29, 2020. (Hustler Multimedia/Truman McDaniel)
By Lynne Berry, Joseph A. Little III and Sydney Afan Cornelison
3 hours ago
Dear Editor,
We have significant concerns about VUMC's website and social media purge of all things DEI-related. The Hustler's Feb. 4 article points to "[VUMC's] contractual relationship with several government entities" that  "requir[es] it to comply with federal regulatory guidelines." However, we believe this was an unnecessary step preemptively and willingly taken by VUMC. 
We have not been able to find any executive order that mandates the actions VUMC has taken. The two most likely:
EO#14173 (21 Jan 2025) requires recipients of federal funding to comply with all applicable federal anti-discrimination laws. This is nothing new: VUMC is already required to comply with all applicable laws in all areas.
EO#14151 (20 Jan 2025) takes a wrecking ball to DEI programs in all federal agencies and departments. VUMC is neither a federal agency nor a federal department. It is a private institution.
VUMC leadership has not, to our knowledge, specified these or any other discrete action or other legislation as the impetus for its actions.
Is VUMC's funding currently at risk? Yes, absolutely. All federal funding for healthcare and biomedical research is currently at risk. However, does current federal law mandate that VUMC shutter DEI programs and purge websites of select subsets of truth and fact?
We believe the answer to this second and entirely separate question is a resounding no. 
The VUMC Credo begins, "We provide excellence in health care, research and education. We treat others as we wish to be treated." Yet VUMC leadership has chosen to scrub our websites of references not only to DEI but also to principle, fact and truth - the principle of equal access to healthcare; the fact of social drivers of health; the truth of health disparity.
Absent any clear federal mandate, why has VUMC leadership made this choice?
We hope The Hustler will continue its coverage of this important issue.
Sincerely,
Lynne Berry, PhD '97
Joseph A. Little III, BA '72, MD '77
Sydney Afan Cornelison

Load-Date: February 17, 2025


End of Document
