




The Daily Athenaeum: West Virginia University
February 21, 2025 Friday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 811 words
Body


In January, WVU announced the closure of its Division of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion amid state and federal executive orders, calling for the elimination of DEI programs at agencies across the state and U.S.
Amid the closure, the University established the WVU Division of Campus Engagement and Compliance. The new office guarantees compliance under Title IX, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Civil Rights Act and Youth Protection, providing a space for members of the campus community to submit reports and inquiries for discrimination, sexual assault, harassment, stalking, child abuse or neglect and more.
However, the now-closed Division of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion provided indispensable resources to the WVU community.
The former office organized campus trainings that promoted education, accountability, support and leadership relating to diversity, including DEI Classroom courses, which tackled topics ranging from microaggressions and inclusive language to Title IX processes. While some of these trainings are still available, many have been removed from the new website. 
The office hosted and partnered with campus organizations for diversity events, and the presence of diversity initiatives are found across campus, with almost every college at the University acknowledging DEI through statements to students, faculty and alumni or committees. Additionally, DEI is recognized by the WVU Alumni Association, WVU Libraries and WVU Athletics.
The office employed a team of University employees who specialize in DEI outreach, case management and campus engagement and coordination.
As of now, the University is completing a review of Trump and Morrisey's orders. Executive Director of WVU Communications April Kaull said staff members who worked on Title IX and ADA compliance will continue to do so under the new office but that more information on community engagement initiatives will become available after the review is complete. 
The WVU student body is made up of students from all 55 counties in West Virginia, all 50 states in the U.S. and 115 countries around the world.
Seventy-nine percent of WVU students are white, 5% are two or more races, 4% are Hispanic or Latino and 3% are Black or African American. Twenty-three percent of the WVU student body identify as first-generation students.
DEI benefits multiple groups of students and faculty, advocating and providing opportunity to individuals based on their race, income status, religion, ability, place of residence and more. The benefits DEI provides to these communities do not equate to losses to other communities.
As a leader at The Daily Athenaeum, I recognize the importance of our coverage of the DEI office closure as a student voice on campus. As a white student in a primarily white newsroom, I recognize that our storytelling must act as an outlet and advocate for students from marginalized communities, representing and amplifying their voices while not speaking for them.
I will never understand the devastation a DEI ban has on the communities I am not a part of, and as students navigate the closure of our DEI office, I invite them to utilize our platform.
Although often not our stories, The DA is committed to centralizing the voices of WVU students, faculty and staff. Whether through an op-ed or an interview with a reporter, we want to hear your stories, and we want to help tell them.
DEI is not working against WVU. DEI is working for students, faculty, staff and alumni of all backgrounds by promoting equity and recognizing biases and underrepresentation. 
DEI initiatives allow people to look beyond what they think they know about others, and DEI allows people to recognize and acknowledge the needs of people different from themselves. 
It ensures everyone has a seat at the table, and more importantly, that everyone has the opportunity to succeed. 
Trump and Morrisey's orders erase dialogue with colleges across the nation and tell marginalized students, faculty and staff that they don't deserve recognition or services tailored to their needs. Additionally, they tell students and faculty of all backgrounds that they don't deserve resources and services that have the potential to benefit everyone on campus. 
WVU's mission, in part, commits to "creating a diverse and inclusive culture that advances education, healthcare and prosperity for all by providing access and opportunity."
Without opportunities and initiatives tailored to the needs of all students, faculty and community members, WVU cannot fulfill its commitment to diversity and inclusivity. If students are deprived of opportunities to connect with one another and services specific to their needs, WVU cannot guarantee belonging. 
If you have something to say, submit an op-ed or reach out to us directly at  We thank you for the opportunity to share your voices.

Load-Date: February 22, 2025


End of Document
