




The Guardian (London)
February 17, 2025 Monday 9:14 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved


Section: POLITICS; Version:16
Length: 8406 words
Byline: Martin Belam and Daniel Lavelle
Highlight: Conservative leader of the opposition speaks at right-wing conference in London. This live blog is closed
Body


block-time published-time 4.36pm GMT 
 Summary of the day …  Kemi Badenoch has suggested that western civilisation is at risk of collapse, and the UK will be lost as a country if the Conservative party is not successful in renewing itself and regaining powerIn a speech at the Alliance for Responsible Citizenship (ARC) conference in London, the opposition leader insisted the UK was not a racist country, said Keir Starmer had taken the knee during BLM protests because he was “cowed by the mob”, said that “some cultures are better than others” and that British people should be put first. Liberal Democrat deputy leader Daisy Cooper criticised the speech as “dangerous rhetoric”. Reform UK leader Nigel Farage is expected to appear at the event tomorrowPrime minister Keir Starmer has said the UK and Europe face a “generational challenge when it comes to national security” after he wrote an article for the Telegraph announcing that he was prepared to put British troops on the ground in Ukraine as part of a peacekeeping force. Starmer is in Paris meeting other European leaders to discuss European security in the wake of Donald Trump ’s seemingly unilateral decision to negotiate a peace with Russia on Ukraine’s behalfLiberal Democrat leader Ed Davey said it was “absolutely right” that Starmer was proposing deploying troops, and suggested the only people in parliament unlikely to support the move were what he called the “Trump bootlickers” of Reform UKKeir Starmer has announced that he will travel to the US to meet president Donald Trump next weekHealth secretary Wes Streeting has hailed news that the government claims to have met an election promise early by providing an extra two million appointments in NHS England since it was elected compared to figures from a year ago. 
Streeting said there was “a hell of a lot further to go” but the government was determined to provide “year-on-year improvement” in the NHSA group of more than 900 Labour members and trade unionists, including MPs and peers, have    of the Conservatives in its migration and asylum policyBoth Robert Jenrick and shadow chancellor Mel Stride have attacked chancellor Rachel Reeves over news that   amid collapsing business confidenceThe government has   in two Leeds -based cultural institutions as part of its Plan for Change programme, which will provide six major culture projects across the UK with more than £47m
That is it from me, Martin Belam, today. I will be back with you tomorrow. Take care, and I hope you have a good evening.
block-time published-time 4.34pm GMT 
The Conservatives have published the full text of leader Kemi Badenoch ’s earlier speech. You can read it . 
block-time published-time 4.28pm GMT 
Liberal Democrat chief whip Wendy Chamberlain has said her party supports reversing cuts in troop numbers made by previous Conservative governments, saying “we live in uncertain times.”
She said “Our manifesto talked about 2.5% [of GDP on defence spending] by 2030, and clearly we are living already in different times. And one of the key things we were talking about was the fact that we wanted to reverse the cuts that had been made to troop numbers by the last Conservative government.”
She said she agreed with earlier comments by Richard Dannatt, chief of the general staff between 2006 and 2009,   that there would not be enough British troops to fulfil a role in Ukraine.
Chamberlain said:
The lack of even the ability to put an armoured division out would be a key consideration for any UK military action or involvement.
Clearly, there is a lot more to do, but I think what we are right to say is that defence and national security is taking a much, much higher priority than it has done previously. 
And frankly, when you look at the sort of economic issues that are facing the chancellor, if we don’t have that security as a nation, the rest of that just becomes … you won’t deliver any of the things that the government say they want to deliver without that.
So I think actually the parties are all in a similar place in terms of accepting that we need to do more. It’s how quickly we do that. But we live in uncertain times.
block-time published-time 3.36pm GMT 
 Ed Davey: 'Trump bootlickers' in Reform UK unlikely to support Starmer over British troops in Ukraine  
 Liberal Democrat leader Ed Davey has added further words to his earlier comment about the potential deployment of British troops on the ground in a peacekeeping force in Ukraine, calling Reform UK MPs “Trump bootlickers”. 
He posted to social media to say “In principle there should be a vote in parliament when troops are deployed. I’m confident all sides of the House are likely to agree with the prime minister apart from those Trump bootlickers in Reform.”
Earlier   it was “absolutely right” that Starmer was proposing deploying troops to, as the Liberal Democrat leader put it, “uphold any peace deal and deter Putin,” adding “We must act rapidly to bolster the size of the army. British forces are among the best in the world but were neglected by the Conservatives under their 10,000 troop cut.”
The prime minister’s official spokesperson, asked if there would be a parliamentary vote on such a decision, told reporters “We’re getting ahead of ourselves here. We’ve already been clear that the UK will play a role in security guarantees, but parliament will, of course, be consulted as appropriate.”
block-time published-time 3.13pm GMT 
Prime minister Keir Starmer has arrived at the Élysée Palace in Paris where he has been welcomed by France’s president Emmanuel Macron. My colleague Jakub Krupa is following events there for the Guardian on . 
block-time published-time 3.05pm GMT 
Labour politicians in Scotland have been using today’s NHS England figures and the announcement by the government in Westminster that it had achieved an election promise of two million extra appointments in England to attack the SNP government record on waiting times in Scotland.
Scottish Labour lead Anas Sarwar   “UK Labour is delivering in government. Now it’s time for a new direction here in Scotland too – only a Scottish Labour government can fix Scotland’s NHS.”
MP for Dunfermline and Dollar Graeme Downie   “The UK Labour government is taking radical action to tackle waiting lists while more and more Scots wait for operations or are forced to go private. Only choosing a Scottish Labour government next year will see an improvement in the NHS in Scotland.”
The most recent Public Health Scotland bulletin on waiting times,  , said that there had been a 0.8% increase in ongoing waits compared to the previous quarter, amounting to nearly 5,000 patients. It added “The total waiting list size is 5.6% higher than at the end of September 2023 and has increased more than twofold since 31 March 2020, shortly after the onset of the pandemic.”
Recent polling has shown support draining from Labour in Scotland since the general election, with a Norstat poll for the Sunday Times suggesting if there was an election for the Holyrood parliament tomorrow, Labour would end up tied with the Conservatives in second place, with the SNP remaining the largest single party . 
block-time published-time 2.48pm GMT 
 Keir Starmer rather unconventionally announced the potential deployment of British troops on the ground in Ukraine via a newspaper op-ed this morning rather than in parliament. If you didn’t get a chance to read the article in the Telegraph, the government has just reproduced it on its website, where . 
block-time published-time 2.40pm GMT 
Lanre Bakare is an arts and culture correspondent for the Guardian
 The government has announced investment in two Leeds-based cultural institutions as part of its Plan for Change programme, which will provide six major culture projects across the UK with more than £47m. 
Culture secretary Lisa Nandy confirmed that £10m would go to the   in Leeds and there was a further £5m for the National Poetry Centre. The National Railway Museum in York will receive £15m, which is part of a Yorkshire-wide programme of investment in cultural sites.
The £10m for the British Library North will be spent revamping the Egyptian-style Temple Works building, which is a derelict Grade I building that will be converted into a northern outpost for the Library, and the £5m for the National Poetry Centre will renovate a Grade II-listed building to create a national headquarters for poetry in the city.
Nandy said: “Everyone across the country should be able to access arts and culture in the place they call home.”
In the announcement deputy prime minister Angela Rayner added: “Through investing in these critical cultural projects we can empower both local leaders and people to really tap into their potential and celebrate everything their home town has to offer.
“This means more tourism, more growth and more money in people’s pockets.”
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.41pm GMT
block-time published-time 2.23pm GMT 
Ben Quinn has been at the Alliance for Responsible Citizenship (ARC) conference today, and has filed this report from ExCeL London:
The biggest cheer for Kemi Badenoch at a gathering of global right-wing thinkers, activists and others came when she described critiques of  the west’s “inheritance” as “the real poison of left-wing progressivism.”
“Whether it’s pronouns, or DEI, or climate activism, these issues aren’t about kindness-they are about control. We have limited time and every second spent debating what a woman is, is a second lost from dealing with challenges,” said the Conservative leader, to cheers from those inside London’s ExCeL centre, which is hosting the Alliance for Responsible Citizenship (ARC).
Giving an opening keynote address a day ahead of an appearance by Nigel Farage, who will be interviewed by ARC co-founder Jordan Peterson, the Conservative leader sought to position her party as a torch-bearer in Britain of a new political wave, claiming that western civilisation is “in crisis” and echoing Trumpian and right-wing populist rallying calls. “Millions of people all around the world want to live in the west because they want the benefits. However, some of them bring behaviours, cultures and practices that will undermine the west and the values that helped make us great,” she told the audience. Badenoch also hit out at a familiar old opponent “the media class” and urged those at ARC not to listen to them “when they complain about populism.”
“The very essence of democracy is acknowledging the will of everyday people – and then actually making it happen,” she said. But she followed this with an implicit attack on her rivals on the right, Nigel Farage and Reform UK, saying that populism becomes corrosive if it is “anger without the ability to take action.” Badenoch concluded her address by telling ARC that failure to renew the Conservative party could lead to the loss of “our country and all of western civilisation”
 Mike Johnson, the Republican speaker of the US House of Representatives, appeared remotely, and used the event to bemoan what he said were poll findings that only one in five British adults consider themselves to be very patriotic. Speaking days after the US vice-president JD Vance sparked anger by  , Johnson decried what he claimed was a weakening of national identity. “If Americans are not Americans any more and Britis are not Brits any more and Germans are not Germans any more than naturally something else will fill the void,” said Johnson, who also doubled-down on the hardline new “America first” towards the Nato alliance and defence relations with previously close allies. “We must each take care of our own houses before we take care of the neighbourhood,” he said, a sentiment at odds with Donald Trump’s own expressed expansionist view that the US should “own” the Gaza Strip.
block-time published-time 2.01pm GMT 
Here are those earlier comments from Keir Starmer on defence earlier in full. The prime minister was speaking to broadcasters during a visit to a community diagnostic centre in Bristol. He said:
We’re facing a generational challenge when it comes to national security. Obviously, the immediate question is the future of Ukraine, and we must continue to put Ukraine in the strongest possible position whatever happens next, and to make sure that if there is peace – and we all want peace – that it is lasting.
I think there’s a bigger piece here as well, which is that this isn’t just about the frontline in Ukraine. It’s the frontline of Europe and of the UK. It’s about our national security, and I think that we need to do more.
We need to step up in terms of our collective response in Europe. And by that, I mean capability. By that, I mean playing our full part when it comes to the defence of the sovereignty of Ukraine, if there’s a peace agreement. And of course, when it comes to funding and training.
So on all those fronts, I want the UK and all European allies to step up for the UK to play a leading part in that.
block-time published-time 1.21pm GMT 
Two prominent Conservative figures have attacked Labour’s handling of the economy today. Previously a leadership hopeful, Robert Jenrick, the shadow secretary of state for justice has accused chancellor Rachel Reeves of being “a charlatan”.
Seizing on news that UK employers are preparing for the biggest redundancy round in a decade amid collapsing business confidence,   to say “She embellished her economic credentials on her CV, and now she’s driving our economy into the ground.”
Earlier, shadow chancellor Mel Stride picked up on the same news,   “Labour is putting the economy at risk. Small businesses are being badly hit, with confidence at its lowest point in a decade – outside of the pandemic. The government’s tax hikes will lead to more shop closures and job losses.”
He continued “Labour says it wants to deliver stability, but their lack of foresight & economic understanding looks set to cost thousands of jobs and push many businesses to the brink. Rachel Reeves needs to rethink her approach before it’s too late.”
It is Martin Belam back with you now for the next few hours. You can get in touch with me at 
block-time published-time 12.41pm GMT 
 Keir Starmer will meet president Donald Trump next week, No 10 has confirmed  
The prime minister’s spokesperson said: “There’s going to be a wide range of issues that we’ll be working with the new US administration on.
“The prime minister looks forward to meeting President Trump shortly to discuss how we can deepen the special relationship across trade, investment and security.”
He added: “The prime minister will travel to Washington DC next week.
The prime minister’s spokesperson also told reporters on Monday that Starmer will urge European leaders to take on a greater role in Nato, which will include increasing defence spending.
He later added: “It also means being ready to play a leading role on security guarantees, as we’ve discussed before, in Ukraine, and that includes further supporting Ukraine’s military. It also means being ready to contribute to security guarantees by putting our own troops on the ground if necessary.
“As the PM also spelled out yesterday, the United States is going to remain critical on this, and the US security guarantee will be essential for lasting peace, because only the United States can deter (Vladimir) Putin from attacking again, and that will obviously be relevant to the prime minister’s discussions with president (Donald) Trump in the coming week and working with him and all of our G7 partners to help secure the future of Ukraine.”
The proposed increase in spending on defence comes at a time when the government plans to cut disability benefits, which, experts say, will increase poverty among disabled people.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.51pm GMT
block-time published-time 12.24pm GMT 
A group of more than 900 Labour members and trade unionists, including MPs and peers, have accused the government of copying the “performative cruelty” of the   in its migration and asylum policy.
In a joint statement, they singled out the Home Office’s decision,  , to refuse citizenship to anyone who arrives in the UK via “a dangerous journey” such as a small boat over the Channel.
The statement also criticised ministers for highlighting the number of people being deported from the UK, with a   last week using footage and images showing people being removed on planes…
 Related:  
block-time published-time 12.21pm GMT 
Starmer says countries across Europe must “step up” their defence capabilities and funding to protect Ukraine.
The UK and Europe face a “generational challenge” and “need to do more” to secure Ukraine’s security in the long term, he adds.
block-time published-time 12.20pm GMT 
 Lib Dems back Starmer on Ukraine peace troops  
Lib Dem leader Ed Davey says he supports the Government in sending British peacekeeper troops to Ukraine, saying it is “absolutely” the right decision. He adds that Starmer should reverse the 10,000 troops the Conservative government cut from the Army.
Davey says:
The PM is absolutely right when it comes to the deployment of British troops in Ukraine to uphold any peace deal and deter Putin.
We’ve been very clear that the UK now needs to lead in Europe. That means ensuring that President Zelensky isn’t bullied into accepting a deal which effectively hands victory to Russia.
We must act rapidly to bolster the size of the Army. British forces are among the best in the world but were neglected by the Conservatives under their 10,000 troop cut. Our armed forces must have the capabilities they need to help keep our country and continent secure against Putin.”
block-time published-time 12.10pm GMT 
An extra two million extra NHS appointments within Labour’s first year in government is “just the foothills”, Sir Keir Starmer says.
The prime minister told reporters at a diagnostics centre in Bristol: “I said that we would get two million extra appointments done in the first year of the Government and I’m really pleased that we’ve done that, we’ve hit the target and we’ve done it with seven months to spare.
“So, that is really good. It shows what you can do with a plan that you put into action, working with doctors and nurses, NHS staff.
“I do acknowledge it’s the foothills. There’s lots, lots more to do, but it is important, I think, to consider the human impact.”
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.10pm GMT
block-time published-time 11.45am GMT 
 Lib Dems: 'Sad' that Badenoch has chosen to 'parrot Trump’s dangerous rhetoric'  
 In a reaction to Kemi Badenoch’s speech in London at the Alliance for Responsible Citizenship (ARC) conference, the Liberal Democrats deputy leader Daisy Cooper has accused the Tory leader of “competing with Farage to fawn over Donald Trump” and choosing to “parrot Trump’s dangerous rhetoric”. 
During a passage of her speech, Badenoch drew warm applause in the room when she said:
The Conservative party in Britain has just lost an election. We have a crisis. People ask me what difference new leadership will make? Well, take a look at president Trump. He’s shown that sometimes you need that first stint in government to spot the problems, but it’s the second time around when you really know how to fix them.
In other passages of her speech Badenoch asserted that the UK was not a racist country but suggested “some cultures are better than others” and claimed that some immigrants to the west were finding common cause with “our own useful idiots” in order to undermine society’s values.
In response, Cooper said:
Kemi Badenoch is competing with Nigel Farage to fawn over Donald Trump. Instead of standing up for Ukraine and Europe’s security, Kemi Badenoch has decided that she would rather parrot Trump’s dangerous rhetoric. To borrow a phrase from her political hero: sad.
block-time published-time 11.36am GMT 
 Badenoch: 'Our country will be lost' if Conservatives don't make success of policy renewal  
 Kemi Badenoch has warned that western civilisation is at risk of collapse due to “weakness” and a lack of courage on the part of conservatives to support classical liberal ideas. 
The Conservative leader of the opposition made the comments during a wide-ranging talk at a right-wing conservative conference in London during which she touched on various culture war talking points, claimed the prime minister Keir Starmer had been  , and asserted that “some cultures are better than others”.
Pledging that she was leading “the largest renewal of policy and ideas in a generation” in the Conservative party, she said “we stand at the dawn of a new conservative century with so much opportunity and possibility” if the party gets it right, but warned “If we throw this opportunity away, because of anger, or self doubt, or weakness, our country and all of western civilisation will be lost.”
Badenoch criticised what she perceived as lack of defence spending by the current government as “weak”, described “pronouns or DEI or climate activism” as examples of what she called “the real poison of left-wing progressivism”, and also claimed that minds were being poisoned in higher education establishments.
She opened the speech by saying “Western civilisation is in crisis,” adding “Our ideas and our culture have dominated the world for well over two centuries. This is not a crisis of values. It’s a crisis of confidence that has set in at exactly the same time that we face existential threats.”
In a strident passage dealing with immigration, Badenoch said:
Immigration is far too high. We cannot support all those who wish to come to our country. We have no obligation to do so. The British people must come first.
Our country is not racist. We don’t need to apologise. We don’t need to pay reparations or give away the Chagos islands.
Free speech matters. Some cultures are better than others, and it’s only contentious to say this because honesty has become impossible.
Most of all, we need to get up off our knees and start fighting not just for the UK, but for the west and our values.
Badenoch said that some immigrants “bring behaviours, cultures and practices that will undermine the west” and that “They find common cause with our useful idiots who don’t appreciate their own inheritance.”
The Conservative leader praised Katharine Birbalsingh, saying the headteacher had shown “how you defend western civilisation” by refusing to provide a prayer space for pupils at the school she runs despite pressure and a legal case from parents.
She warned people not to listen to the “media class” talking about populism, saying that the true purpose of democracy was to put into action the wishes of “everyday people”.
Badenoch said:
So let’s remember what we are defending here. Not just our wealth, but our culture. A culture built on those values we’ve taken for granted. Classic liberal values. Not left-wing liberalism, but classic liberalism. Of free markets, free speech, free enterprise, freedom of religion, the presumption of innocence, the rule of law, and equality under it. No matter who you are or where you come from.
The conference is intended to be a gathering of influential intellectuals shaping global rightwing thinking, and will also feature US House speaker Republican Mike Johnson, US Energy Secretary Chris Wright, Vivek Ramaswamy, and Reform UK leader NIgel Farage being interviewed by Canadian psychologist and self-help author Jordan Peterson.
block-time published-time 11.09am GMT 
By the way, if you want to watch that Kemi Badenoch speech, Sky News have video of it . 
block-time published-time 11.06am GMT 
 Streeting: people in England still struggling to get GP appointments but 'we will deliver year-on-year improvement'  
Health secretary Wes Streeting has conceded that people in England are still struggling to get GP appointments during his round of media appearances this morning, but said the government is determined to provide “year-on-year improvement” in the NHS.
Streeting was promoting the government’s announcement that it has   in England early.
He told viewers of BBC Breakfast:
We’ve delivered on our first step, and we’ve delivered it seven months early. But I don’t want anyone watching to think we’re doing victory laps. There are still massive challenges in the NHS, a hell of a lot further to go on waiting lists.
People are still struggling to get GP appointments, and GPs are struggling, let me tell you, with the hard caseload they’ve got, and we’ve also got big challenges on things like ambulance response times and A&E trolley corridor care.
I wish I could sit here now and tell you that, by next Christmas, there will be no-one waiting on a trolley in a corridor. I can’t make that promise, but what I can tell you is that we will deliver year-on-year improvement, and I’m determined to see an end to that kind of corridor care.
The government has said waiting lists in England have fallen by almost 160,000 since the government took office, and that “the NHS delivered almost 2.2 million more elective care appointments compared to the same period the previous year.”
block-time published-time 10.59am GMT 
 Badenoch: 'Our country is not racist' but 'some cultures are better than others' and 'British people must come first'  
 Conservative opposition leader Kemi Badenoch has asserted that “our country is not racist” but that “some cultures are better than others” in part of a speech in London where she said “immigration is far too high” and that minds are being “poisoned” in higher education institutions in the UK. She said “British people must come first”. 
Speaking at the Alliance for Responsible Citizenship (ARC) conference, which is also expecting to hear from Reform UK leader Nigel Farage, Badenoch said:
A country cannot be successful if its people and its intellectual elite don’t believe in it. This means dealing with the poisoning of minds happening in higher education. 
We have been naive on economic growth. We have been naive on issues from net zero to immigration, weakening ourselves and strengthening our competitors. 
Immigration is far too high. We cannot support all those who wish to come to our country. We have no obligation to do so. The British people must come first.
We cannot keep racking up debt for our children, It was fiscal weakness, not just war, that led to the decline of the Roman Empire. We need smaller government and smarter spending. The belief that the state and not business creates wealth has become normalised.
The world owes no one a living. Millions of people cannot just sit on welfare and expect to be paid to do so, and if they don’t like it, that’s their problem, not the state’s.
Our country is not racist. We don’t need to apologise. We don’t need to pay reparations or give away the Chagos islands.
Free speech matters. Some cultures are better than others, and it’s only contentious to say this because honesty has become impossible. 
Most of all, we need to get up off our knees and start fighting not just for the UK, but for the west and our values.
Badenoch implored the audience “Don’t listen to the media class complain about populism. The very essence of democracy is acknowledging the will of everyday people and then actually making it happen.”
Speaking of her own mission as the new leader of the Conservatives, Badenoch said:
For those of us who seek leadership, we must do better, and that is why in the UK, my party is starting the largest renewal of policy and ideas in a generation.
This conference is part of finding those answers, and it fills me with hope.
If we get this right, we stand at the dawn of a new conservative century with so much opportunity and possibility.
If we throw this opportunity away, because of anger, or self doubt, or weakness, our country and all of western civilisation will be lost. 
ARC was co-founded in 2023 by the Canadian psychologist and self-help author Jordan Peterson and the Tory peer Philippa Stroud. Financial backers  , one of the owners of GB News, and the Legatum Institute libertarian thinktank. It is expected that on Tuesday as part of the conference Farage will be interviewed onstage by Peterson.
block-time published-time 10.44am GMT 
In a passage of her speech to the Alliance for Responsible Citizenship conference in London, opposition leader Kemi Badenoch has said that some immigrants to western country are working with “useful idiots” to undermine society.
She said:
Millions of people all around the world want to live in the west because they want the benefits. However, some of them bring behaviours, cultures and practices that will undermine the west and the values that helped make us great. They find common cause with our useful idiots who don’t appreciate their own inheritance.
block-time published-time 10.39am GMT 
 Badenoch: Starmer took knee for BLM protests because he was 'cowed by the mob'  
 Kemi Badenoch has accused the prime minister of taking the knee as part of Black Lives Matter protests because he was “cowed by the mob”. 
Speaking at the Alliance for Responsible Citizenship conference in London, in a passage in which she praised Michaela Community School headteacher Katharine Birbalsingh for refusing to provide prayer spaces or allowing prayer to take place in the school’s secular environment, the Conservative opposition leader said:
Katharine showed how you defend Western civilisation. Contrast this courage with Keir Starmer, the prime minister who took the knee during Black Lives Matter protests in response to a problem that was not in his country and did not apply. Why? Because he was cowed by the mob. The problem isn’t liberalism. The problem is weakness. 
Earlier in the speech Badenoch praised what she described as the classical liberal values of free speech and freedom of religion.
Badenoch also took a swipe at the prime minister over defence spending, saying:
Totalitarian states like Russia, Iran and North Korea are coordinated in their efforts. Failing to spend more on defence is not peacemaking, it is weakness, and it only emboldens their threats to democracy and global stability. 
After 14 years of Conservatives in government,  , lower than the £57.1bn spent in 2009/10 during the last year of the previous Labour administration.
block-time published-time 10.27am GMT 
 Badenoch says 'Western civilisation is in crisis' during ARC conference speech  
 Kemi Badenoch has been speaking at the Alliance for Responsible Citizenship conference in London. The Conservative opposition leader opened her talk by saying “Western civilisation is in crisis.”
She said that a “crisis of confidence” has set in “at exactly the same time that we face existential threats.”
She said “it is not liberal values that are the problem – it is weakness.”
Citing survey results that suggest large numbers of young people in the UK are not proud to be British, and believe the country to be racist, and have little faith in parliamentary democracy and would support “a strong leader”, Badenoch said:
We should not be surprised. Young people see a parliament presiding over stagnation, despite making more and more laws. A parliament with only a few defending our values and many more too scared to challenge those who attack what we believe in.
She said:
So let’s remember what we are defending here. Not just our wealth, but our culture. A culture built on those values we’ve taken for granted. Classic liberal values. Not left-wing liberalism, but classic liberalism. Of free markets, free speech, free enterprise, freedom of religion, the presumption of innocence, the rule of law, and equality under it. No matter who you are or where you come from. 
As the world becomes more complicated, we need to bravely fight for these values now.
Instead, we are distracted, too busy critiquing and deconstructing what previous generations built, rather than making sure that the very best of our inheritance is left intact for the next generation.
This is the real poison of left-wing progressivism, whether it’s pronouns or DEI or climate activism. These issues aren’t about kindness. They are about control. We have limited time and every second spent debating what a woman is, is a second lost from dealing with these challenges.
block-time published-time 10.14am GMT 
 Streeting: NHS immigration impact is 'mixed picture' as many people come to work in health and social care  
 Asked about the impact of migration on NHS services while appearing on ITV’s Good Morning Britain, health secretary Wes Streeting said it was “a mixed picture”. 
Suggesting that the service was “slightly over-reliant on overseas workers” he told viewers:
There’s no doubt that net migration is placing real pressure on the NHS. But it’s a mixed picture, because in those figures are also people who are coming to work in our NHS and social care services.
So we are, I think, slightly over-reliant on overseas workers to staff our health and care services. And I think it’s partly my job to help the home secretary reduce those net migration figures.
And overall, we were investing in the skills of our nation so we can train up our own people, to reduce our reliance on people coming from overseas to fill vacancies.
Streeting had been asked “What about the pressure on the NHS of immigration, legal and illegal? We see figures just this weekend, very high. Hundreds of people crossed over the weekend, and it’s February. We’re not even in spring or summer. That’s putting immense pressure on the NHS, isn’t it?”
The health secretary defended the government’s record, saying:
On the question of illegal migration, in common with other challenges across government, we’ve made progress in the first seven months, especially on deportations of people who shouldn’t be here.
And the home secretary and the prime minister have been working ferociously with our allies across Europe, particularly countries like Italy, where this is also a challenge, to start dealing with our border security issues.
And just last week, we put legislation through parliament to set up our secure border command, which, unfortunately, the Conservatives and Reform voted against. But we are making progress. And in common with what I said about the NHS, a lot done, a hell of a lot more still to do.
block-time published-time 10.05am GMT 
 Keir Starmer ’s announcement via the Telegraph that he was prepared to put British peacekeeping troops on the ground in Ukraine was also described by Conservative MP and shadow cabinet spokesperson Alicia Kearns as not the right priority. She told viewers of Sky News “his priority should be today talking about defence spending.”
It was put to her that by Sky’s Wilfred Frost that “you’re trying to criticise the state of defence spending six months into their government, when this is a long-term issue, after 14 years [of Conservatives being] in power.”
Kearns responded by saying:
I’ve always been very clear. I was critical of my own government. But what I’m saying is, since July, a decision was made to side with the Treasury, to not give the increase in defence spending. We needed to continue to replenish stocks. Replenishing stocks should be the priority so that we are ready if we do need to provide peacekeeping services, if we do need to provide more support to Ukraine. 
Another person who raised the issue of the cost associated with Starmer’s announcement and broader defence spending was Richard Dannatt, chief of the general staff between 2006 and 2009, who told BBC Breakfast:
My reaction is the prime minister is doing the right thing. But, of course, doing the right thing comes at a price. If the prime minister is serious about wanting to deploy British troops, put boots on the ground in Ukraine as part of a peacekeeping force, he’s got to realise that’s going to come at a considerable cost.
Frankly, we haven’t got the numbers and we haven’t got the equipment to put a large force onto the ground for an extended period of time at the present moment. We’ve got to have the right number of people with the right equipment and the right training, and start to fund that now.
block-time published-time 9.55am GMT 
Conservative MP for Rutland and Stamford, Alicia Kearns, who acts as a shadow cabinet spokesperson, was also on the media round this morning, and told viewers of Sky News that while her party stood “shoulder to shoulder” with Ukraine, she was “quite cautious” about Keir Starmer ’s announcement in the pages of the Telegraph that   as part of a peacekeeping force.
She said:
I’m quite cautious, because we’re not a place in which we understand the terms or the conditions or the numbers or the way in which we’ve been deploying our people, and we should always make sure that we are making decisions based on as much information as possible.
The reality is that Ukraine is still fighting for its freedom. Russia has taken around 600 square miles of territory over the last few months. We’re not in a place as yet where I think we can be making those commitments … things are going to change over the next few hours, let alone the next few days, weeks and months.
I’m used to seeing what it’s like out where we have people deployed. I don’t like to deal in hypotheticals when it comes to putting our men and women on the ground, fighting for people, because I’ve seen how dangerous it can be on the ground and how important those decisions are.
On the prospects of a US-Russia brokered peace deal without including Ukraine or European voices in negotiations, Kearns said:
We will always give Ukraine the support they need. We will stand shoulder to shoulder with them. We will fight for them to determine the terms of this peace.
And also, it’s important to note, this can’t just be that we’ve managed to stop the shooting and murder, and therefore we’ve got peace. We need a peace deal that will end the threat to our European neighbours and to us, one that will make us safer from a state that is currently behaving like a terrorist.
block-time published-time 9.44am GMT 
While health secretary Wes Streeting has been doing the media round  , my colleague Denis Campbell has   stating that NHS patients in England are affected by dysfunctional admin. He writes:
 Patients routinely have to chase up test results, receive appointment letters after their appointments and do not know when their treatment will occur because the   is so “dysfunctional”. 
That is the conclusion of research by two major patients’ organisations and the King’s Fund, which lays bare a host of problems with the way the health service interacts with it users.
Sixty-four percent of people in   who used the NHS or arranged care for someone else over the last year encountered a problem involving its administration or communication.
Patients were left frustrated by test results going missing, being unable to change or cancel appointments or having to pursue the results of a test, scan or X-ray.
 You can read more of Denis Campbell’s report here: 
 Related:  
block-time published-time 9.40am GMT 
 Streeting: I hope NHS appointment achievement in England will help rebuild 'shattered confidence' in politicians keeping promises  
 The health secretary has said that he hopes the government’s announcement on additional NHS appointments in England will go some way to rebuilding the “shattered confidence” in politicians keeping their promises. 
Appearing on ITV’s Good Morning Britain, Wes Streeting told viewers:
I want to say two things really. The first is that we have delivered that first step. We promise to deliver two million more appointments a year to cut NHS waiting lists [in England], and we’ve done it seven months early.
So for all those people out there watching, and there will be many, who think that politicians talk a lot and do very little, and that politicians don’t stick to our promises, I hope this starts to rebuild your shattered confidence that we are sticking to our promises. So that’s the first point.
The second point, though, I’m not doing victory laps. The prime minister isn’t doing victory laps. We know there’s a hell of a lot more to do … whether it is the size of the waiting lists, the ambulance response times, the people on trolleys in corridors, or the struggle people have to get a GP or a dentist appointment. There are enormous challenges in the NHS.
We’ve hit the ground running. We are attacking those challenges and seeking to deliver year on year improvement. But you won’t hear us today going around saying, don’t worry. Job done. What we are saying today is we’ve delivered our first step.
So a lot done, but a hell of a lot more to do. And I hope it just rebuilds a bit of confidence that we are delivering our promises and that things will get better and brighter.
The government has announced that it has hit an election promise to deliver more NHS appoints in England. In a statement   “Pledge to deliver over two million more elective care appointments hit early with over 100,000 more treatments, tests and scans for patients each week” and that “Waiting lists falls by almost 160,000 since government took office, as extra appointments delivered for chemotherapy, radiotherapy, endoscopy, and diagnostic tests.”
block-time published-time 9.33am GMT 
 Streeting: Ukraine peace deal is 'existential question for Europe as a whole'  
 Health secretary Wes Streeting has been on the media round for the government this morning, and has been asked about   in a peacekeeping role if required by any peace deal. 
Speaking on Times Radio he said it was “premature” to talk about how many British troops could be sent. PA Media reports he told listeners:
The prime minister will be travelling to France to meet with other European Nato leaders to discuss what is a once-in-a-generation moment for the collective security of our continent, which isn’t just about the future of Ukraine, it is an existential question for Europe as a whole.
That’s why the gathering [in Paris] today is important. Next week, he’ll be travelling to Washington to meet with President Trump, no doubt relaying the outcome of some of those discussions today.
Asked what the scale of a potential peacekeeping force could be and if the Government would be prepared to carry out a recruitment drive, he said: “I think it’s premature to be talking about numbers.”
He said the government was still “on the path” to spending 2.5% of GDP on defence, although the government does not have a date for reaching the target.
According to House of Commons library figures, in the 2023/24 financial year, the UK spent £53.9bn on defence. A report published in December 2024 stated that “Real-terms defence spending fell by 22% between 2009/10 and 2016/17 (from £57.1bn to £44.6bn in 2023/24 prices), before starting to increase again to nearer its 2010 levels.”
 Related:  
block-time published-time 9.29am GMT 
 Starmer: 'ready and willing' to put British peacekeeping troops on the ground in Ukraine  
 Keir Starmer has said he is prepared to put British troops on the ground in Ukraine in a peacekeeping role as part of any peace deal. 
Taking the unusual step of announcing the potential deployment of British troops in the pages of the Telegraph rather than in parliament,   :
Europe must step up further to meet the demands of its own security. We have got to show we are truly serious about our own defence and bearing our own burden. We have talked about it for too long – and president Trump is right to demand that we get on with it.
Russia is still waging war and Ukraine is still fighting for its freedom, which is why we must not relent in our efforts to get the kit Ukrainians need for their fighters on the front line. While the fighting continues, we must put Ukraine in the strongest possible position ahead of any talks.
The UK is ready to play a leading role in accelerating work on security guarantees for Ukraine. This includes further support for Ukraine’s military. But it also means being ready and willing to contribute to security guarantees to Ukraine by putting our own troops on the ground if necessary.
I do not say that lightly. I feel very deeply the responsibility that comes with potentially putting British servicemen and women in harm’s way. But any role in helping to guarantee Ukraine’s security is helping to guarantee the security of our continent, and the security of this country.
Starmer continued by saying “The end of this war, when it comes, cannot merely become a temporary pause before Putin attacks again.”
The prime minister is .  My colleague Jakub Krupa   :
The Paris meeting will aim to outline a European action plan after days of chaotic briefing by the Trump administration. The summit will also need to decide how to respond to a request by the US to spell out whether leaders are prepared to commit troops to a stabilisation force in the event of a ceasefire.
Confirming the Paris meeting, France’s foreign minister, Jean-Noël Barrot, told France Inter radio on Sunday: “The president will bring together the main European countries tomorrow for discussions on European security.” He said there was a wind of unity blowing through.
 Related:  
block-time published-time 9.23am GMT 
Health secretary Wes Streeting has said he remains open to “serious proposals” for private investment in the NHS.
Speaking on BBC Radio 4’s Today programme, Streeting said:
I certainly want more patient choice, more patient power, more patient control over where they’re seen, how they’re treated, the nature of their appointments. The NHS should be as responsive as any other organisation that we use.
I think there is a role for private investment, but the terms of those arrangements, that’s where you’ve got to tread really carefully. But I’m open to serious proposals from the NHS, or indeed anyone else.
block-time published-time 9.16am GMT 
 Government claims it has delivered election pledge on NHS appointments in England early  
 The government has claimed that it has delivered early on an election pledge to offer an extra two million NHS appointments in England within a year. 
In a statement, the government said:
The prime minister has welcomed new figures published by NHS England which reveal that between July and November last year, the NHS delivered almost 2.2 million more elective care appointments compared to the same period the previous year – delivering on the government’s mission to fix the NHS as part of the plan for change.
The new data confirms the government reached the target seven months earlier than promised – with 100,000 more treatments, tests, and scans for patients each week, and more than half a million extra diagnostic tests delivered.
Speaking to BBC Radio 4’s Today programme, health secretary Wes Streeting said: “Look at the size of the waiting lists overall. It’s come down four months in a row. That’s progress, but there’s still a lot more to do.”
NHS England provided 2.2m more appointments for planned care – including chemotherapy, radiotherapy and diagnostic tests – between July and November last year than during the same period the year before.
block-time published-time 9.14am GMT 
 Streeting: 'hell of a lot more to do' on improving NHS care in England  
 Despite the announcement that the government claims to have hit its target of two million extra appointments, health secretary Wes Streeting has said there is “a hell of a lot more to do” to improve NHS care in England. 
Speaking on the BBC Radio 4 Today programme, the MP for Ilford North said:
What we’ve seen in the NHS over the course of winter with ambulance response times, and corridor care, [there’s] a hell of a lot more to do there. Mental health is in a dire state. There’s a huge amount more to do there.
And on each of those fronts, of course, we are going to deliver what we said in our manifesto.
But it’s important that as we do, we’re reporting back to reassure the public that politics can make a difference. That government can be a force for good.
block-time published-time 9.14am GMT 
 Welcome and open summary …  
Good morning, and welcome to our rolling coverage of UK politics for Monday. Here are the headlines.
The government has claimed that it has already delivered on its election pledge to provide two million additional NHS elective care appointments in EnglandHealth secretary Wes Streeting said there is “a hell of a lot more to do” to improve care in the NHS in England, singling out ambulance response times and corridor care as issuesPrime minister Keir Starmer has written an op-ed for the Telegraph saying that he is willing to put British troops on the ground as part of a peacekeeping force on the ground in Ukraine if required as part of any peace dealChancellor Rachel Reeves has been   to compensate for accelerating inflationUK employers are reported to be preparing for   amid collapsing business confidence as firms brace for tax increases from AprilBritain’s poorest households are paying an increasing share of their income on council tax,  Conservative opposition leader Kemi Badenoch, and Nigel Farage, leader of Reform UK, are 
It is Martin Belam with you today. You can get in touch with me at . 

Load-Date: February 17, 2025


End of Document
