




The Daily Caller
February 20, 2025 Thursday 05:25 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: DAILY-CALLER-NEWS-FOUNDATION; education; education
Length: 631 words
Byline: Jaryn Crouson, Contributor, 
Body



University employees in several major cities took to the streets Wednesday in a “national day of action” protesting President Donald Trump's cut to indirect federal research funds.
The movement, led by the National Education Association, the American Association of University Professors and several unions, saw events in Washington, D.C., New York City, Seattle, Chicago, Houston, Atlanta and Boston, among other locations,  to Labor for Higher Education. The National Institute of Health recently  its indirect cost guidance, limiting funding from federal research grants that is permitted to be used by institutions for non-research purposes to 15% of the total grant.
“The GOP is mounting these attacks by targeting workers in the higher ed sector through imposing a cap on indirect costs on grants across the NIH, freezing funding for crucial research, and threatening academic workers across the country,” the event description reads. “Labor for Higher Education, a coalition of unions representing higher ed workers, is organizing a national day of action on 2/19 to protest these reckless attacks.”
 TODAY! Workers are coming together to fight back in 15+ cities: Hands off our healthcare, research, and jobs! Join us. This is just the beginning of taking back our democracy.
 - American Association of University Professors (@AAUP) 
The indirect funding cap is meant to limit the wasteful spending of taxpayer dollars, as the funds were not strictly monitored and could be used towards any “indirect costs” an institution sees fit, including to pay administrators. The Trump administration has taken dozens of executive actions to limit wasteful spending in the federal government, with several agencies, such as the Department of Education, actively  “unnecessary” programs, such as those associated with diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI).
Hundreds of workers and students attended the demonstrations nationwide,  to various Bluesky posts from Higher Education Labor United.
 Seattle showed UP!  500 energized workers & students, @WAaflcio, and @RepJayapal rallied with unions from campuses & across the city to say: Hands off our healthcare, research, and jobs!
 We won't let billionaires gut higher ed & medical research to fund their tax cuts.
 #LaborForHigherEd

 - Higher Education Labor United (HELU) () 
The coalition justified their outrage by linking to examples of some of Trump's recent moves in the  sector on their website. One example listed was the president's promise to put an end to violent campus protests by  foreign students that engage in illegal demonstrations and allowing U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officials to enter schools in order to . Another cited his commitment to protecting women's sports by  from competing on female teams. 
The groups have planned an additional demonstration at the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) in Washington, D.C. on Feb. 25, according to their website.
Labor for Higher Education did not immediately respond to the Daily Caller News Foundation's request for comment.
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Graphic

 
NEW YORK, NEW YORK - NOVEMBER 21: Part-time faculty members, accompanied by students, walk a picket line during a strike at the New School after union contract negotiations failed to increase adjunct pay, November 21, 2022 in New York City, New York. The university relies on adjunct professors to teach more than 85% of its classes. (Photo by Andrew Lichtenstein/Corbis via Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
