




MailOnline
February 4, 2025 Tuesday 6:17 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 1166 words
Byline: James Cirrone For Dailymail.Com
Body


The popular liberal influencer who made a name for herself pushing Democrats to be more ruthless when calling out the opposition has set her sights on Karoline Leavitt, Donald Trump's 27-year-old press secretary.
Suzanne Lambert, who has likened her political approach to Regina George from the cult classic film 'Mean Girls', has already torched Leavitt's makeup and style choices, while also going after the appearance of Rep. Nancy Mace (R-South Carolina).
Lambert, 33, recently upped the ante, suggesting in a TikTok video that Leavitt wants to cut off Medicaid for elderly people.
Lambert pointed out that Leavitt's husband, 59-year-old Nicholas Riccio, will soon be eligible for the program for low-income seniors and joked that Leavitt has ulterior motives.
'Seeing as she's literally the White House's most vocal supporter of stripping Medicaid rights from senior citizens and her husband is almost a senior citizen himself, it's really clear what she's trying to do and I admire her transparency,' Lambert said in a video with more than 375,000 views.
There's no evidence Leavitt supports the dismantling of Medicaid and since Riccio is a millionaire real estate manager, he'll almost certainly never use Medicaid's services, which are reserved for seniors who often have low fixed incomes. 
However, Lambert was likely referring to the confusion that played out last week in the White House press room over Trump's short-lived federal funding freeze.
As a result of the freeze, all 50 states reported disruptions to their Medicaid programs, affecting up to 74 million Americans.
After being repeatedly asked about whether Medicaid was indeed included in Trump's freeze, Leavitt eventually said: 'I'll check back on that and get back to you.'
The White House confirmed Medicaid was exempt from the freeze, which Trump later rescinded after a federal judge blocked it from officially taking effect.
Lambert, who is based in Arlington, Virginia, catapulted herself into social media superstardom with a video on November 11, days after Trump defeated Vice President Kamala Harris in the 2024 election.
She called on liberals and Democrats to get meaner in the second era of Trump, suggesting that the 'when they go low, we go high' attitude of people like Michelle Obama hasn't been effective in beating back the rising tide of conservatism.
'Do you know how many reformed mean girls have been waiting for this exact moment in time? I'm an ex-SEC sorority girl, okay? I have three brothers and an Irish catholic mother. I know mean,' she said, while dressed in a fur shawl.
'Some of us were meant to be Regina George liberals. Lucille Bluth, Principal Ava Coleman liberals,' she added. 
Speaking to the more well-mannered liberals in the movement, she said: 'Y'all did it your way, and we're doing it our way.'
She has said she feels justified in being mean, citing her view that the right wing is chipping away at transgender rights and using DEI as a racist scapegoat for Americans' problems.
'Oh no, am I being mean to the people who want to erase my trans friends from existing on this Earth?' she said in a video from Saturday. 'Oh no, am I being mean to the people who are foaming at the mouth to say the N-word, so instead they just say DEI?'
Leavitt has consistently been one of Lambert's favorite targets. In a video again attacking her for Trump's federal funding freeze, she said Leavitt's makeup made her look 'jaundiced.'
Lambert also trashed her hairstyle, saying: 'The zigzag part in her hair is also certainly a choice. I actually had the same one in my fifth grade school photo, you know, before my pre-frontal cortex was done developing.'
Lambert's insults extended to Leavitt's makeup artist Brittany Danielle, who has crafted the looks of various Republican women.
Danielle allegedly blocked Lambert on Instagram after a video of her criticizing all of her makeup jobs went viral.
DailyMail.com approached Danielle for further comment.
Another Republican that's frequently in Lambert's crosshairs is Nancy Mace, who was elected to Congress in 2021.
Shortly after Trump's win, Mace introduced a congressional resolution to ban transgender women from using women's bathrooms in Congress, something House Speaker Mike Johnson approved.
The move from Mace came after Sarah McBride became the first trans woman to be elected to Congress this year.
Lambert, a frequent defender of trans rights, took this as an opportunity to disparage the 47-year-old's looks.
'Hey this is for Congresswoman Nancy Mace. If you're not Nancy Mace, then your nose contour probably doesn't look like grill marks on a piece of chicken,' she said on December 2023.
She continued: 'Wanted to check in girl, I know you're super busy hanging out in public bathrooms because it's all you seem to really care or think about.'
In an interview with The Washington Post, Lambert revealed she wasn't always this firebrand liberal. In fact, while she was growing up in Georgia, she was the president of her Young Republicans club in high school.
And in college, she campaigned for Mitt Romney, who ran for president in 2012 against Barack Obama. 
By the time Trump ran in 2016, she told the Post she couldn't vote for him. Plus around that same time, she dealt with an unplanned pregnancy that turned her into a supporter of abortion rights.
Lambert did her first television news hit on Monday, joining CBS's Major Garrett to expand on how reproductive rights prompted her political heel turn.
'When you find yourself in that situation, maybe unexpectedly, it all of a sudden shifts your belief on something you may have held your entire life,' Lambert said. 'All it takes is one moment, really, to make you open your eyes and think, "oh, this is what people were talking about when they said access is so important."'
Lambert also defended herself from people in the comments of her videos who say she shouldn't go after how women look, implying the criticism was a sexist double standard.
'Men do it all the time. Look at Steve Colbert. Look at Jon Stewart. They've been doing this, right? Humor has been a cornerstone of politics for the entirety of our history,' she said. 
'You don't see people in Jon Stewart's comments telling him to be nice,' she added. 'They don't tell them to be nice, so when it's a woman doing it, people are like "whoa, whoa, whoa, this is really mean", and I'm like, "yeah, that's the point."'
Lambert's rise to prominence mirrors the ascension of David Hogg, who became the vice chairman of the Democratic National Committee this weekend.
Like Lambert, Hogg is young, just 24, and unafraid to go after Republicans in a harsh manner.
Hogg has become a vocal gun-control activist after surviving the 2018 Parkland High School shooting. 
In the years since, he has consistently advocated for an aggressive approach when it comes to fighting for the left's ideals.
'We have to stop being cowards-it's time to be bold, aggressive, and to fight-just like we did after Parkland,' Hogg wrote after being elected DNC vice chair.

Load-Date: February 4, 2025


End of Document
