



thetimes.co.uk
February 24, 2025 Monday 3:00 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 601 words
Byline: Jonathan Ames, Legal Editor
Highlight: Simmons & Simmons aims to have a minimum of 20 per cent of its team from lower socio-economic backgrounds by 2029
Body


Julia Roberts turned a single mother into a household name 25 years ago in Erin Brockovich — the tale of a working-class woman at a law firm who brought a US corporation to its knees in the courts. 
But on both sides of the Atlantic the law historically has been the preserve of the upper middle classes. Now a City firm is bucking convention by aiming to have 20 per cent of its partnership from “lower socio-economic backgrounds” within the next four years. 
The move by Simmons & Simmons — one of the 20 wealthiest law firms in the Square Mile — not only flies in the face of years of professional tradition, it also runs contrary to the contemporary political mood. In the wake of Donald Trump’s return to the White House, multinational businesses are said to be putting years of equality and diversity schemes on the backburner.
However, Simmons & Simmons, which has a long list of financial institution clients, has set a target of having a minimum of 20 per cent of its team from lower socio-economic backgrounds by 2029.

The firm has confirmed that its target applies to partners as well as associate and junior solicitors and trainees. And for non-qualified roles, the target has been set at 30 per cent. 
Yet, establishing the definition of the term “lower socio-economic” will potentially be difficult for the firm’s management.
Three years ago, HR magazine noted that British employers looked at a variety of factors when attempting to determine the socio-economic background of staff, including the qualifications and occupations of parents, schools attended and eligibility for free school meals. 

But the magazine noted that “for employers and employees alike, this has proved confusing” and highlighted that an audit in 2020 of organisations that submitted entries to the social mobility employer index found that “despite the parental occupation measure being the most accurate, only a third of employers were collecting it”.
Figures published last month from the Solicitors Regulation Authority — the profession’s watchdog in England and Wales — found that the number of lawyers from lower socio-economic backgrounds had reduced from 21 per cent in 2015 to 18 per in 2023. 
That research also showed that 25 per cent of law firm partners had attended fee-paying schools compared with about 6 per cent of the wider population. 
Simmons & Simmons said it would refer to metrics recommended by the profession’s regulator and the Social Mobility Commission to measure whether it hits its target. 
It said that as of the beginning of this year at its three UK offices, 13 per cent of partners came from lower socio-economic backgrounds. That figure rose to 17 per cent of senior associates and 14 per cent of junior lawyers. 

According to the firm, 12 per cent of its current trainees come from lower socio-economic backgrounds. 
In a bid to meet its target, the firm said it would invoke “advanced recruitment tools” as well as its own social mobility programmes.
“A career in law should not be determined by background,” said Julian Taylor, the firm’s senior partner, who added that, nonetheless, the legal profession “as a whole is one of the least diverse by socio-economic background”.Taylor said that publishing the firm’s current socio-economic background figures would “allow the firm to hold itself to account. These ambitious social mobility targets will ensure that we go further and faster in our efforts to widen access and opportunities”.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper; Web Publication

Journal Code: WEBTTO

Subject: DIVERSITY & INCLUSION (90%); ECONOMY & ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); LAW & LEGAL SYSTEM (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); BARRISTERS & SOLICITORS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); PROFESSIONAL WORKERS (89%); DIVERSITY & INCLUSION REGULATION & POLICY (78%); SINGLE PARENTS (78%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY & INCLUSION (78%); LEGAL ETHICS (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); SCHOOL MEAL PROGRAMS (66%)

Industry: LEGAL SERVICES (90%); BARRISTERS & SOLICITORS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%)

Person: JULIA ROBERTS (59%)

Geographic: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); WALES (79%); ENGLAND (73%)

Load-Date: May 21, 2025


End of Document
