




States News Service
February 21, 2025 Friday


Copyright 2025 States News Service
Length: 565 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


The following information was released by the office of North Carolina Rep. Virginia Foxx:
The House Committee on Education and the Workforce of which I am a member touches the lives of every American. The work done by this committee carries monumental importance. Though I am no longer Chair of the Committee on Education and the Workforce, as I am the current Chair of the House Committee on Rules, I remain active and engaged on all issues that fall within the Committee's jurisdiction. I'm going to share some news with you on five separate bills that recently passed out of the Committee and are headed to the House floor for a vote.
In short, these five bills cover limiting foreign influence in America's education system and protecting child nutrition. Each bill provides targeted solutions that will make a sizable and lasting difference.
H.R. 1048, theDETERRENT Act
Tightens and clarifies foreign gift reporting requirements for colleges and universities.
H.R. 649, theWhole Milk for Healthy Kids Act of 2025
Protects students' access to a variety of healthy milk options.
H.R. 1069, thePROTECT Our Kids Act
Prohibits federal education funds from being given to any elementary school or secondary school that directly or indirectly receives support from the Chinese Communist Party (CCP).
H.R. 1005, theCLASS Act
Requires school districts to disclose to the Secretary of Education within 30 days of any instance of them receiving funding or entering a contract with a foreign source.
H.R. 1049, theTRACE Act
Establishes that parents have the right to know about donations, financial transactions, and classroom materials from foreign countries or foreign entities of concern.
I look forward to sharing more updates on the progress being made within this committee, the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, as well as the House Committee on Rules which I chair.
Exposing Mismanagement
Recently, I joined a handful of members from the North Carolina delegation in sending a letter to Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem and FEMA's Acting Director regarding millions of dollars that rogue FEMA employees from the Biden administration redirected away from disaster recovery efforts and used to house illegal aliens in New York City. Here's a short excerpt:
"It is clear that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has been neglecting its core mission to serve the American people. From discriminating against individuals based on political views to promoting woke agendas like DEI, the agency has repeatedly failed to fulfill its most basic duties. Just this week, rogue FEMA employees sent $59 million to house illegal aliens in luxury hotels in New York City in blatant defiance of President Trump's orders."
Investigating Foreign Funding
This week, I joined Oversight Committee Chairman James Comer in sending a letter to Denise Carter, the Acting Secretary of the Department of Education, requesting documents and information related to investigations of foreign funding at American universities. Foreign funding reports show that since 1981, foreign nations have given more than $57 billion to U.S. institutions. Higher education in America remains a target of foreign influence, and it is paramount that the Department of Education safeguards American education from malign foreign influence efforts. Our nation's academic freedom and national security should always be protected.

Load-Date: February 22, 2025


End of Document
