




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 29, 2025 Wednesday 8:22 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 222 words
Byline: Brady Dale
Body


January 29th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
Commerce secretary nominee  
Why it matters: His stance potentially contrasts with the White House's moves to drive diversity, equity and inclusion programs  
Driving the news: During Lutnick's confirmation hearing, Sen. Lisa Blunt Rochester (D.-Del.) asked the nominee if he supported continuing the Economic Development Administration and the MBDA. He said he did.
She followed up by asking if he would support expanding funding for the MBDA.
"I think it's small, so it's hard for it to be successful. It can be effective," he said. "It's important to put things in their size perspective, and it's a small agency, as you know."
Background: The MBDA works on expanding access to capital, markets and contracts for businesses led by minority entrepreneurs.
It dates back to 1969 and was created during the presidency of Richard Nixon.
Catch up fast: One of Trump's first move was   
The White House did not immediately respond to requests for comment on Lutnick's testimony.


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 30, 2025


End of Document
