




MailOnline
January 21, 2025 Tuesday 4:01 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 654 words
Byline: James Cirrone For Dailymail.Com
Body


MAGA celebrities Kid Rock and Jon Voight were just some of the celebs letting loose at Donald Trump's inaugural ball after he was sworn in as the nation's 47th president.
A-listers and political heavyweight attended multiple galas in Washington DC to celebrate after Trump's historic inauguration earlier in the day. 
                     Jake Paul and Mike Tyson, enemies in the ring just months ago, were among those clearly ready to party and 
In a video posted to Paul's Instagram, Tyson was seen getting on his former rival's shoulders as onlookers chanted words of encouragement.
Paul, 27, lifted the 58-year-old Tyson relatively easily as Iron Mike shouted in excitement. Both men were dressed in slick tuxedos for the black-tie event.
Paul, the influencer-turned-boxer who endorsed Trump days before the election, captioned the post 'best friends' and tagged Tyson.
Tyson didn't formally endorse the president this time around, but the former heavyweight champion has said complimentary things about Trump over the last three decades.
Their relationship dates back to the 1980s, when Trump hosted some of Tyson's fights in the gambling town of Atlantic City, New Jersey.
'I always remember him from being a good guy, paying me a lot of money,' Tyson said with a chuckle in 2022 during an appearance on the New York Post Sports' podcast. 
Before the 2016 election, Tyson told Huffington Post, 'He should be president of the United States. Hell yeah, big time!'
Paul and Tyson fought in a highly-anticipated bout on November 15 at the AT&T Stadium in Arlington, Texas.
The event, which generated more than $18 million in gate revenue, was exclusively broadcast on Netflix. It's estimated that 65 million households watched the fight, making it the most-streamed sporting event in US history.
Paul unanimously defeated Tyson after eight two-minute rounds, which was largely down to the 31-year age difference between the fighters.
Elsewhere in Washington D.C., other MAGA celebrities were seen celebrating after Trump officially took back over as commander-in-chief.
Pete Hegseth, Trump's nominee to lead the Department of Defense, was seen laughing at the Commander in Chief Ball. 
Kid Rock, who performed Sunday night at Trump's pre-inauguration rally, was photographed taking selfies with fans, throwing back a drink or two and smoking a cigar.
The country music star, whose real name is Robert James Ritchie, recently said more celebrities than ever are comfortable publicly showing support for Trump now that there's been a 'change in the air.'
Other famous faces seen throughout Inauguration Day included podcaster Theo Von, Logan Paul, and Conor McGregor.
Trump is scheduled to hit all three inaugural balls. He's already made appearances at the Commander in Chief Ball and the Liberty Ball, and is due to show up at the Starlight Ball.
                     Trump arrived to the Commander in Chief Ball arm in arm with First Lady Melania Trump, who was wearing a white and black leggy dress custom made by Hervé Pierre.
As Trump floats between black-tie events to end his first night as president, his dozens of executive orders are also taking up plenty of air time.
Among those decrees, Trump broadly pardoned all the January 6 defendants and declared Mexican drug cartels as 'terrorists.'
About 1,500 people involved in the January 6 Capitol riot received pardons and six more received commutations of their sentences. He also directed the attorney general to seek dismissal of about 450 pending criminal cases against January 6 defendants.
He also signed an initial flurry of executive orders at Capital One Arena in downtown Washington, where thousands of his supporters gathered to celebrate an inaugural parade that was moved indoors due to the cold.
Trump signed executive orders that overhauled the refugee admission program, withdrew the US from the World Health Organization, and halted all DEI programs in the federal government.

Load-Date: January 21, 2025


End of Document
