




 
FT.com
February 12, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.


Length: 1380 words
Body


One scoop to start: Johnson & Johnson has put its stroke care business , aiming for a valuation of more than $1bn, as part of its efforts to reorganise its medical technology division, according to people familiar with the matter.
And a DD exclusive: KKR has tapped bankers at Barclays and UBS to explore options for its £7bn UK waste management company Viridor, sources tell DD’s Ivan Levingston and Alexandra Heal.
In today’s newsletter:
Corporate America ditches DEI
Andrea Orcel’s ally in Germany’s Mittelstand
Lazard makes easy money on a hostile deal
American companies dump diversity goals
Corporate America is wasting no time falling in line with Donald Trump’s new cultural regime — and disentangling themselves from efforts to make them appear concerned for social issues and not just cold, hard cash.
First on the agenda for chief executives: scrubbing any suggestion that they embrace diversity, equity or inclusion initiatives. Mark Zuckerberg’s Meta along with McDonald’s and Target were especially swift in scrapping their programmes. And now another wave has arrived.
A volley of companies this week — including Goldman Sachs, Deloitte and Walt Disney — made tweaks to or abandoned their DEI pledges entirely.
On Wall Street, Goldman became the latest bank to roll back one of its commitments. It  to only take companies public that have a certain number of diverse board members, a rule the group first adopted in 2020 alongside a wave of other pledges that swept the US at the time.
Goldman still “encourages” diverse boards, a spokesperson said, but they will now work with diverse and non-diverse ones alike. (The bank is also, for now, still keeping its internal diversity goals.)
The Big Four accounting firm Deloitte also overhauled some of its commitments, and went a step further.
Not only did the US business ditch its wider diversity and inclusion programmes, but it asked employees working on government contracts to  from their email signatures.
The Deloitte case is also interesting because there’s a rift forming globally, with its UK arm signalling that it would double down on its own diversity policies.
Then, finally, there’s Disney. The entertainment giant  diversity and inclusion as a standalone metric in setting executive pay after conservative politicians accused it of pushing a “woke” agenda.
And the DEI pullback isn’t just limited to pay. Disney is also removing advisories it plays ahead of some old films, like Dumbo and Peter Pan, which warn viewers that they “include negative depictions and/or mistreatment of people or cultures”.
Commerzbank and UniCredit’s latest battle
UniCredit and Commerzbank, two of the biggest banks in Europe, made headlines late last year for a cross-border takeover battle that involved UniCredit bumping up its stake in the German lender again and again.
Yet now the fight has evolved into a new chapter: the takeover fight is temporarily taking a back seat as the companies  for the backbone of Germany’s economy. 
The banks have launched competing campaigns to win over Germany’s Mittelstand, the small and medium-sized companies that are the heart of the country’s economic engine.
UniCredit’s German subsidiary HypoVereinsbank has enlisted high-profile corporate clients such as cleaning equipment maker Kärcher and cable company Lapp for a newspaper advertising blitz under the slogan “Mittelstand statt Stillstand” (Mittelstand instead of Standstill).
Commerzbank is gearing up to launch its own campaign, arguing that the bank is much better known among the Mittelstand than “foreign competitors”. (Both banks have said that the campaigns were part of long-running marketing efforts and would not constitute a tit-for-tat.)
There’s more on the line here than just a bunch of new clients. The Mittelstand have taken on an outsized importance in the tussle for control of Commerzbank, and the bank’s dedication to the group has become crucial to its defence against UniCredit’s unwanted advances.
The Mittelstand are the ideal borrowers. They’re often family-run, risk-averse businesses that are both steady and reliable.
But in the race to attract new business, UniCredit made a bit of a fumble. Despite emphasising its century-long commitment to the Mittelstand, UniCredit misspelt the German word as “Mittlestand” several times in its third-quarter results presentation.
The only reason the Italian group corrected the error? Being approached by the FT for comment. 
Lazard makes it rain on a roofing deal
Billionaire BradJacobs, the man behind the build-ups of UnitedWaste, UnitedRentals and logistics interests XPO, GXO and RXO, has been a favourite on Wall Street for his serial deals that have been lucrative for stockholders and advisers alike.
Jacobs’ newest effort is QXO, a JaredKushner-backed cash shell hoping to create a $50bn building supplies giant using M&A. While QXO hasn’t sealed its first deal, it’s already showering windfalls on the sell-side.
QXO recently launched an $11bn hostile takeover of BeaconRoofingSupply as Jacobs seeks his beachhead asset. DD’s Sujeet Indap notes that Jacobs’s stalking has led to a $4mn windfall for Lazard .
Lazard was officially hired by Beacon on February 2 to run some mechanical M&A financial analyses to evaluate QXO’s bid — such as comparable company multiples, precedent transaction multiples, a discounted cash flow model and other data that goes on the mythic “ ” of bar charts.
Assuming the Lazard junior analysts were working for 72 hours straight (quite possibly true) for a Beacon board meeting that happened on February 5, that’s a cool $55,555 an hour for the firm, Indap calculates. Nice work if you can get it!
Lazard will make up to $7mn if Jacobs goes a few more rounds with Beacon.
That should be mostly painless to the bankers doing the grunt work since their underlying labour is essentially carried over from the first opinion — the Beacon projections weren’t changing nor was the comp set.
In other words, all they’ve got to do is hit update on the FactSet or Capital IQ codes, press F9 in Excel and move up an inch or two the dotted line that represents the latest QXO bid on the football field.
In that sense, it could wind up being one of the great investment banking performances of the year, but “don’t break the fourth wall, Sujeet”, quips one FT Alphaville reader.
Job moves
Entain chief executive Gavin Isaacs is  after just five months in the role, and will be replaced on an interim basis by chair Stella David, who previously led the company for a period last year after Jette Nygaard-Andersen stepped down.
Clifford Chance has hired Peter Isajiw as a partner in its litigation and dispute resolution team. He joins from King & Spalding. 
Skadden has hired Steven Porzio as a partner in the firm’s labour and employment group in New York. He formerly worked for Proskauer. 
Houlihan Lokey has hired Angela Hu as a managing director for the firm’s financial sponsors group in Hong Kong. She previously worked for Barclays in China.
Smart reads
Coming of age Robinhood was propelled to the top of the online brokerage firm rankings by meme-stock fans, the FT writes. As a new wave of crypto is expected to once again fuel big profits, has the kid on the block 
Hostile takeover Reaching a deal on the OpenAI restructuring was never going to be simple, Lex writes. Musk’s  at a minimum will add a bright spotlight on the negotiations.
China blinks China’s property crisis is entering a , Bloomberg writes. Authorities are forced into a first mainland rescue and iconic Hong Kong developer New World’s bonds sink into distress.
News round-up
 (FT)
 (FT)
 (FT)
 (FT)
 (FT)
 (FT)
 (FT)
 (FT)

Load-Date: February 12, 2025


End of Document
