




MailOnline
February 5, 2025 Wednesday 3:18 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 669 words
Byline: Jon Michael Raasch, U.S. Political Reporter For Dailymail.Com
Body


House Foreign Affairs Chairman Brian Mast sent out the memo
CLICK HERE: Sign up for DailyMail.com's daily U.S. politics newsletter
Republicans are celebrating Donald Trump's foreign aid pause that's 'already paying dividends' and saving taxpayers money, according to an internal memo obtained by DailyMail.com.
The president recently paused most outbound foreign aid for 90 days to give the State Department and other agencies including USAID a chance to review their expenditures.
                     GOP lawmakers have since found shocking amounts of money being doled out by USAID and the State Department like DEI and pro-LGBT initiatives from Peru to India.
As a result of these discoveries DOGE leader Elon Musk has said USAID needs to be shuttered. 
He has already instructed DOGE staff to root out USAID employees programs that the Trump administration finds wasteful, leading to a slew of firings and furloughs in the agency.
                     Democrats meanwhile have called the funding freeze dangerous, claiming that halting funds to provide food, medicine and shelter for scores of people across the world makes U.S. partners vulnerable. 
'This is a constitutional crisis we are in today,' Democratic Sen. Chris Murphy said at a press conference with liberal lawmakers outside of the closed USAID headquarters on Tuesday. Maryland Democrat Jamie Raskin decried: 'We don't have a fourth branch of government called Elon Musk. And that's going to become real clear.'
However, House Foreign Affairs Chairman Brian Mast touts in the memo that these projects are unnecessary and irresponsible, and cutting them is already helping save taxpayer dollars.
'A small cadre of career State Department and USAID bureaucrats deployed billions of dollars in foreign grants and awards through an opaque and antiquated process,' House Foreign Affairs Chairman Brian Mast wrote in the internal GOP memo obtained by DailyMail.com.
'Hard-earned American tax dollars were spent on funding drag shows in Ecuador, proselytizing atheism in Nepal, counseling migrants to circumvent U.S. immigration law, providing condoms to the Taliban, and spreading LGBTQ awareness throughout the globe.'
'Such misguided foreign spending damaged the United States and significantly benefited our foreign adversaries during the Biden-era,' Mast, a former explosive ordinance technician, continued. 
Global DEI initiatives were a central feature of Joe Biden's foreign policy, but Trump has been rolling back the programs and signed an executive order 'Ending Radical And Wasteful Government DEI Programs And Preferencing' on his first day. 
The State Department and USAID were found giving money to push ideological initiatives, such as funding a transgender opera, an LGBT comic book and drag shows in South America.
In the letter Mast argues that federal workers 'swindled the American taxpayer.'
Taxpayer money was being spent on fancy dinners in D.C., electric vehicle chargers in Vietnam and condoms for the Taliban, Mast writes. 
'In the last month of the Biden administration alone, Congress was notified of nearly $1.5 billion in foreign aid the State Department sent overseas,' the chairman wrote in the letter. 
'This included: $15.5 million for organizations like The International Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans, and Intersex Association and promoting radical social agenda in places like Zimbabwe, El Salvador, and Lebanon.'
'$11.5 million for gender programming throughout the State Department,' and '$300 million for environmental resilience in Guatemala.' 
Secretary of State Marco Rubio has also said that major reforms are coming for the State Department and USAID, 
Rubio revealed that high levels of 'insubordination' were discovered among the ranks at USAID. 
Trump made Rubio acting director of USAID on Monday as the agency is reviewed. 
Thousands of USAID workers have been locked out of certain systems, fired and put on leave in Trump's first two weeks.
Trump said Monday that he believes USAID 'should have been done a long time ago.'

Load-Date: February 5, 2025


End of Document
