




Newsweek.com
February 10, 2025 Monday 6:51 AM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 519 words
Byline: Marni Rose McFall
Highlight: It's not the first time the inclusion of the anthem has sparked online backlash from MAGA.
Body


The MAGA contingent and prominent right-wing commentators were outraged at the inclusion of the Black national anthem at the Super Bowl.
Newsweek has reached out to a representative for the  outside of regular working hours via email for comment.
Why It Matters
The hymn, 'Lift Every Voice and Sing,' adopted by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) is often referred to as the Black national anthem.
The , with the likes of  and  sharing their upset at it having been included. This year the backlash has come once again.
What To Know
The hymn was performed at this year's  by the Louisiana-born singer Ledisi, sparking backlash from prominent right-wing commentators and MAGA, including Charlie Kirk and the social media account End Wokeness, both of whom decried the inclusion of the anthem.
Critics take issue with the hymn being referred to as a separate national anthem.
Many social media users enjoyed the performance and were confused about the backlash. One social media user posted, "Are people really getting mad about Ledisi singing "Lift Every Voice and Sing," at the  tonight?" while another said that Ledisi's performance was "absolutely beautiful!!"
The hymn was first written as a poem by NAACP leader James Weldon Johnson in the late 1800s. It was then set to music by his brother, John Rosamond Johnson, and adopted by the NAACP as their official song in 1919.
The  began to incorporate the Black national anthem into its pre-game ceremonies in 2020, following protests against police brutality after the murder of .
It was , shortly after he ordered federal agencies to , a move that has received criticism from advocacy groups as discriminatory. However, he recently said he was "very honored to recognize February 2025 as National Black History Month."
What People Are Saying
Charlie Kirk, co-founder of Turning Point USA: "Only our actual national anthem should be performed at the Super Bowl."
The account End Wokeness wrote: "'Black National Anthem' is a racist relic left over from the BLM era. Get rid of it."
R T, a media personality: "Just muted the Black National Anthem. There's one national anthem for this country and that ain't it. We're all Americans, not divided by Race, Creed, Sex or Religious Preference."
Armstrong Williams, the writer and talk show host: "United by sport, but still divided by politics."
The account, Libs of , wrote: "There's no such thing as the 'Black National Anthem.' There's ONE National Anthem that represents ALL Americans."
What's Next
The backlash to the inclusion of the anthem is unsurprising, in light of past responses and the current state of polarization in American politics. This kind of backlash may well continue at future games.
Do you have a story Newsweek should be covering? Do you have any questions about this story? Contact .


Graphic

 
Ledisi
Cindy Ord/Getty Images
Ledisi performs during the Super Bowl LIX Pregame at Caesars Superdome on February 09, 2025 in New Orleans, Louisiana.

Load-Date: February 10, 2025


End of Document
