




USA Today
January 30, 2025 Thursday
2 Edition


Copyright 2025 USA Today All Rights Reserved
Section: SPORTS; Pg. C1
Length: 774 words
Body


History was made in 2023 when Philadelphia's Jalen Hurts and Kansas City's Patrick Mahomes became the first two Black quarterbacks to start in a Super Bowl. It was a stunning moment.
"To have two Black quarterbacks start in the Super Bowl, I think it's special," Mahomes said at the time. "I've learned more and more about the history of the Black quarterback since I've been in this league. The guys that came before me and Jalen set the stage for this and now I'm just glad we can set the stage for kids that are coming up now. It'll be a great game against two great teams and against another great quarterback. I'm excited to go out there and do what we can against a great team."
"I think it's history," Hurts said. "I think it's something that's worthy of being noted and it is history. It's come a long way. I think it's only been seven African-American quarterbacks to play in the Super Bowl, so to be the first for something is pretty cool. I know it will be a good one."
Yes, it was stunning. One for the history books.
But I would argue the fact that Hurts and Mahomes are back, playing in Super Bowl 59, is an equally important moment. Let me explain.
We are in the midst of one of the most vicious anti-Black eras in decades. This might be the most anti-Black this country has been in decades.
Trump has launched a war on DEI, and make no mistake, the war they talk about is a war on Black Americans. Everyone knows this. Especially the opponents of DEI. They don't even bother to try  to hide it.
One of the most blatant anti-Black moves during this anti-DEI rush was the removal of training courses that included videos of the Tuskegee Airman. The videos, according to The Associated Press, were used as part of DEI training during basic training for Air Force troops. The Tuskegee Airmen are some of the greatest heroes this nation has ever produced.
Naturally, the move caused massive outrage (at least from decent people) and the order was reversed. But the point was made.
Where the importance of Mahomes and Hurts comes in, is they are a reminder of Black excellence. They'll play the Super Bowl during Black History Month, another reminder of that excellence.
The core of what Trump is doing is portraying Black Americans as incompetent and incapable. It shouldn't be lost on people that the NFL once felt this way about Black quarterbacks, for decades, in fact, essentially segregating Black athletes from playing the position. This also happened with Black head coaches. Black players and coaches persevered to the point where we have two Black quarterbacks playing in the Super Bowl a second time.
Mahomes has always understood the importance of historic moments like this.
"I think you've seen over time," Mahomes said in 2023, "whenever a guy like Doug Williams or Michael Vick or Donovan McNabb go out and play great football it gives other guys like me and Jalen (who) have this platform and have this spot on another NFL team. If we can continue to show that we can consistently be great, I think it will continue to open doors for other kids growing up to follow their dreams and be a quarterback of an NFL team. It's good we have guys like Jalen on the other team because he's a great person and obviously a great quarterback."
Mahomes and Hurts are also both so good they will obliterate this notion Trump is trying to push which is Black people are dregs and need DEI programs to succeed.
Well, you liberal idiot, Mahomes and Hurts didn't have any DEI. They got to the Super Bowl based on merit.
So do the people who benefit from DEI programs. The notion that people who take advantage of DEI are unqualified has always been a lie. In fact, it's not Black people who benefit most from these programs. It's white women.
What exactly is DEI? CNN interviewed seven DEI experts and business leaders who described it this way:
Diversity is embracing the differences everyone brings to the table, whether those are someone's race, age, ethnicity, religion, gender, sexual orientation, physical ability or other aspects of social identity.
Equity is treating everyone fairly and providing equal opportunities.
Inclusion is respecting everyone's voice and creating a culture in which people from all backgrounds feel encouraged to express their ideas and perspectives.
Why does that description scare so many people? It's genuinely benign.
The country now is in a weird place. "Weird" is one way to put it. Let's just leave it at that. But there's an anti-Black fervor that I haven't seen in some time.
Mahomes and Hurts will counter that ugliness. Their play will be inspirational and, well, beautifully Black.
Mike Freeman
Columnist
USA TODAY

Graphic

 
Eagles quarterback Jalen Hurts, left, and Chiefs quarterback Patrick Mahomes, right, lead their teams again to the Super Bowl.
Cheryl Evans/The Arizona Republic

Load-Date: January 30, 2025


End of Document
