




Newsweek.com
February 5, 2025 Wednesday 8:07 AM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 663 words
Byline: Jordan King
Highlight: The dynamics of the global stage are shifting amid Donald Trump's changes to America's role in the world.
Body


Newsweek has created a map showing which countries China is investing in amid President 's dismantling of the United States Agency for International Development (USAID).
Why It Matters
Critics of Trump's decision to shut down USAID and freeze foreign funding are worried that the move is making space for China to step in as an influential superpower around the world.
What To Know
 after Trump deemed it "beyond repair," according to , the tech billionaire who Trump appointed as the head of the Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE).
The Trump administration is moving to merge USAID with the State Department and, while some aid functions will remain intact, this signals a significant reduction in funding and workforce.
Supporters of the move believe USAID was poorly managed and wasting taxpayers' money, with White House Press Secretary Karoline Levitt claiming: "$1.5 million to advance DEI in Serbia's workplaces, $70,000 for a production of a DEI musical in Ireland, $47,000 for a transgender opera in Colombia, $32,000 for a transgender comic book in Peru."
But critics are worried that Trump is weakening America's influence abroad, paving the way for adversaries, such as China, to step in.
Indeed, China's global investment has continued to expand with its economic growth. The combined value of China's overseas investment and construction has passed $2.5 trillion, according to the American Enterprise Institute's China Global Investment Tracker.
President  launched its Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), a global infrastructure and economic development strategy, in 2013.
As of February 2025, between 145 and 149 countries have Memorandums of Understanding (MoUs) with China to cooperate under the BRI, including 53 in Africa, 21 in Latin America and the Caribbean and nine in the Middle East, according to  kept by Fudan University's Green Finance & Development Center in Shanghai.
Panama used to be one of these countries, but this week, Panama's President José Raúl Mulino  to participate in China's BRI.
This came after Trump repeatedly suggested the U.S. should  if Panama does not reduce the fees it charges American ships. He has also frequently accused China of controlling the key global trade route.
Other Trump critics are worried about the humanitarian impact of cutting aid programs—Newsweek has reported on an AIDS foundation's estimation that  as a result of Trump's freeze.
Secretary of State  has issued a waiver allowing exemptions for "lifesaving" assistance, including medicine, medical services, food and shelter, but it is unclear which specific programs those apply to. Newsweek has contacted the State Department, via online contact form, for comment.
What People Are Saying
Dr. Philip Brenner, Emeritus Professor of International Relations and History, American University, Washington, D.C.  "provide an opening for China to replace the United States as a source of humanitarian support, which could undermine U.S. interests in strategic locations, and it certainly will reduce U.S. influence in the world, which might be destabilizing."
Conversely, Evan Cooper, a research analyst leading the Reimagining US Diplomacy Project at the Stimson Center, said: "The attempt by the Trump administration to shut down USAID has led to worries about diplomatic fallout and geopolitical consequences. China and Russia do not have the capacity to capitalize on this decision, but neither do U.S. allies and partners have the ability to quickly fill the gap."
What Happens Next
While America's boldness seems to be paying off in Panama, the impact of its withdrawal of aid across the world, and whether this will pave the way for China to increase its influence, remains to be seen.


Graphic

 
Map
Neewsweek
Map showing countries that are have Memorandums of Understanding (MoUs) with China to cooperate under its Belt and Road Initiative.

Load-Date: February 5, 2025


End of Document
