




thetimes.co.uk
February 6, 2025 Thursday 9:55 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 824 words
Byline: Jane Flanagan, Cape Town
Highlight: Washington escalates its crackdown on the country before the summit in Johannesburg, after Donald Trump threatened to halt hundreds of millions in aid
Body


Donald Trump’s secretary of state said he will shun a G20 summit of the world’s biggest economies hosted in Johannesburg in an escalation of Washington’s punishment of South Africa over new land reform laws. 
“South Africa is doing very bad things. Expropriating private property. Using G20 to promote ‘solidarity, equality, and sustainability’. In other words: DEI [Diversity, Equity and Inclusion] and climate change,” Marco Rubio said in a post on X on Wednesday night, which echoed the angry sentiment expressed by Trump and his South African-born adviser Elon Musk. 
The announcement follows threats made by Trump on Sunday to halt all aid to South Africa after new legislation was signed that allows the seizure of land without compensation in certain circumstances. South Africa received $440 million from the US in 2023.
“My job is to advance America’s national interests, not waste taxpayer money or coddle anti-Americanism,” Rubio added in his statement on the platform owned by 

. 
South Africa is the first African nation to hold the rotating presidency of the G20. It will pass it to America at the gathering of the bloc’s leaders in November, also in South Africa. 
Musk has added his own scorn for 

 — accusing it of having “openly racist ownership laws” and suggesting that white people were the victims.
Ramaphosa used a national address on Thursday night to hit back at the torrent from Washington, warning that South Africa “will not be bullied”.
“We are witnessing the rise of nationalism, protectionism, the pursuit of narrow interests, and the decline of common cause,” Ramaphosa said in his annual state of the nation address to parliament.
“This is the world that we as South Africa, a developing economy, must now navigate, but we are not daunted,” he said. “We are, as South Africans, a resilient people, and we will not be bullied.”
Pretoria insists that reforms will help correct skewed land ownership, but not allow for the arbitrary confiscations that were carried out in neighbouring Zimbabwe. 
Ramaphosa spoke on the phone with Musk on Monday to address 

 — a clear acknowledgment of how much influence Musk now has in the Trump administration. 
Rubio’s announcement was greeted with dismay by critics of the Trump administration, who 
said that the absence of America’s most senior diplomat handed an opportunity to China to strengthen its ties to Africa. Hours after Rubio’s announcement, Beijing’s ambassador to Pretoria met the foreign minister and pointedly tweeted after that he had “also expressed China’s readiness to support South Africa’s G20 presidency”. 
Zane Dangor, Ramaphosa’s G20 envoy, said Washington’s snub was not unexpected and that the foreign ministers’ gathering would press ahead. The themes for South Africa’s leadership of the bloc — solidarity, equality and sustainability — were, Dangor told The Daily Maverick, a “continuation of many G20 presidencies. We can’t change these themes because there’s an ideological opposition.”
Trump displayed little interest in Africa during his first administration and never visited, but the post-apartheid South Africa hits two of his priorities: cutting foreign funding and punishing DEI measures, which weave through Pretoria’s policies. 
Ramaphosa’s African National Congress has also riled Washington by seeming too close to Moscow and Beijing and hostile to Israel by bringing a case to the International Court of Justice accusing Israel of committing genocide against Palestinians in Gaza.
When Musk challenged Ramaphosa in an X post on Monday about “racist ownership laws”, it was more likely to have been seen as a dig at investment regulations than land ownership. His Starlink satellite internet service has failed to win a licence in 

 because it does not meet affirmative action criteria.
Chris Murphy, a senator from Connecticut, said that Trump’s targeting of South Africa was part of a “revenge campaign” by Musk on the 

 issue. “Our foreign policy is now just billionaire business tactics. What heartbreaking corruption,” Murphy said on Musk’s platform. 
In order to qualify for a telecoms licence in South Africa, foreign investors are required to provide 30 per cent of the equity in a project to businesses owned by black people. 
Black Economic Empowerment (BEE) was introduced by the African National Congress government to redress the wealth inequality created by apartheid. Critics say it has enriched only a well-connected few, among them Ramaphosa, who built a fortune during a break in his political career. 
Musk said in September that he was “still waiting for regulatory approval” from Pretoria after launching in neighbouring nations including Mozambique, Zimbabwe and the tiny kingdom of Eswatini, formerly Swaziland. 
Officials confirmed a recent request to adjust the BEE criteria for the telecoms sector had not been approved.

Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
