




Newsweek.com
February 1, 2025 Saturday 10:42 AM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 559 words
Byline: Brendan Cole
Highlight: Republican representative posted White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt's response to a question about diversity, equity and inclusion practices.
Body


Representative  highlighted the foreign accent of a reporter who asked White House spokesperson Karoline Leavitt about diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) practices in the aviation sector.
The GOP congresswoman posted a clip of Leavitt explaining the executive order terminating DEI hiring practices at the Federal Aviation Authority (FAA) amid the investigation into Wednesday's fatal mid-air collision near Ronald Reagan National Airport between a passenger plane and a military helicopter.
Taylor Greene praised Leavitt's response and in referring to the non-American accent of the reporter, said there should be a move to "throw out" foreign press.
Newsweek has contacted Greene's office for comment.
Why it matters
Leavitt's answer about DEI practices comes amid a growing furor about Trump appearing to blame  as part of a wider push to eliminate the initiative across the federal government.
What to know
The day after the crash between an  flight and a military helicopter, which  on board both aircraft, Trump blamed DEI hiring practices, arguing they weakened the FAA.
Greene, GOP representative for Georgia's congressional district, shared on X a clip of Friday's White House news conference in which Leavitt was asked by a reporter who appeared to have a foreign accent whether the freeze on hiring new federal workers might pose any air safety danger.
Leavitt referred to Trump's "strong" order terminating DEI at the FAA and how after the fatal collision, he had directed a probe to ensure that the federal government "is maintaining the highest personnel in aviation safety standards."
She continued by saying there was a "cultural" aspect to the debate as she questioned why an American who trained as an air traffic controller should have to fill out a questionnaire "that asked the color of your skin."
She said ordering people to provide details that "were not relevant at all to the job" lessened the morale of those in the aviation sector. This practice had led to people being denied positions which put "identity politics over merit and skills," she added.
In posting the clip, Greene praised Leavitt's response and said she was "throwing it in the faces of the nasty legacy media."
The congresswoman added, "how about that accent from that reporter? I think we need to throw out all the foreign press! American media first."
What people are saying
Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene on X: "(Karoline Leavitt) is doing a wonderful job! Bringing sanity and common sense and throwing it in the faces of the nasty legacy media. How about that accent from that reporter? I think we need to throw out all the foreign press! American media first."
White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt: "(If you are) an air traffic controller based on skill and merit you are forced to fill out a biographical questionnaire asking the color of your skin and where you are from...that deteriorates the morale of people in this industry."
What happens next
The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) is continuing its probe into what caused the collision with recovery crews still working to pull wreckage from the Potomac River.
It will take about 30 days to release a preliminary report although a final report, which will determine a probable cause, will take much longer.


Graphic

 
Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene
Kevin Dietsch/Getty Images
Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene (R-GA) is pictured at a campaign rally on October 15, 2024 in Atlanta, Georgia.

Load-Date: February 1, 2025


End of Document
