




Forbes.com
February 5, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Forbes LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 760 words
Byline: Molly Bohannon, Forbes Staff
Highlight: President Donald Trump has removed the security details of at least five former government officials.
Body


Topline
Former Defense Secretary Mark Esper recently lost his government security detail,multiple outletsreported Wednesday, making him the latest former government employee to lose security under President Donald Trump.
<figure>
<figcaption>
US Defence Secretary Mark Esper (C) arrives for a bilateral meeting with Turkish Defense Minister on the sidelines of a NATO Defence ministers meeting at the NATO headquarters in Brussels on October 25, 2019.
AFP via Getty Images
</figcaption></figure>
Key Facts
The security detail for Esper who is facing threats from Iran related to work done during Trump s first term was removed Tuesday night,CBS Newsreported, citing an unnamed Defense Department official.
Esper worked as thedefense secretaryfrom July 2019 until November 2020, and he had previously served as the secretary of the Army.
Trump told reporters last month after revoking the security detail for Dr. Anthony Fauci that,  when you work for government, at some point your security detail comes off   you can t have them forever. 
When asked if he would feel  partially responsible  if something were to happen to people whose security was pulled, Trump said no, and added:  They all made a lot of money they can hire their own security, too   certainly I would not take responsibility. 
Get Forbes Breaking News Text Alerts: We re launching text message alerts so you'll always know the biggest stories shaping the day s headlines. Text  Alerts  to  or sign up .
Who Else Had Their Security Detail Pulled Under Trump?
Trump s former secretary of stateMike Pompeolost his security detail after Trump returned to the White House, as did his former national security adviserJohn Bolton. Former special envoy to IranBrian Hook who, like Pompeo, has been threatened by Iran because of his actions while serving under Trump,The New York Timesreported lost his security detail, too.Fauci s security detail which was revoked in late January was reportedly provided and paid for by the National Institutes of Health, andCNNreported he hired his own private security.
Tangent 
Fauci received apreemptive pardonfrom former President Joe Biden, in a highly controversial action that came just hours before he left office. Biden said Fauci, along with the other people he preemptively pardoned, like General Mark Milley and members of the Jan. 6 House committee,  have served our nation with honor and distinction and do not deserve to be the targets of unjustified and politically motivated prosecutions.  In the statement announcing the pardons, Biden praised Fauci for saving  countless lives by managing the government s response to pressing health crises.  After the pardon, Faucitold CNNhe was grateful but had done nothing wrong,  certainly nothing criminal.  Fauci received significant criticism from Republicans during the COVID-19 pandemic for his handling of the nation s response, particularly his calls for wearing a mask and practicing social distancing measures to mitigate the spread, which remains in line with medical consensus. In a committee hearing last year, Fauci wasaccusedof misleading the country about the origins of the virus, though he called the accusation  simply preposterous. 
Key Background
Trump was sworn into office Jan. 20 for his second term and quickly got to work. He signed more than 20executive orderson his first day in office, ranging from pardoning people who stormed the Capitol on Jan. 6, 2021, to pulling out of the World Health Organization. Trump also promptly began trying to clear the government of people who do not align with his  America First  agenda. Trumpplacedall federal diversity, equity and inclusion employees on paid leave after issuing an executive order seeking to dismantle DEI policies government-wide. More than 150 National Security Council aides were sent home and told to remain available, but not report to the White House while the administration reviews staffing, theAssociated Pressreported. The president also revoked the security clearances of 51 former intelligence officials whosigneda 2020 letter that said Hunter Biden s laptop scandal had  classic earmarks  of Russian interference, and removed a portrait of Milley from the Pentagon.
Further Reading 
Biden Issues Preemptive Pardons For Trump Foes Fauci, Milley And Jan. 6 Committee(Forbes)
Trump has pulled Fauci s security detail, source says(CNN)
Trump s Biggest Staff Shakeups So Far: DEI Employees On Leave, DOJ Vets Reassigned, José Andrés Fired(Forbes)
Trump Revokes Security Detail for Mark Esper, Former Defense Secretary (The New York Times)

Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
