




CNN ERIN BURNETT OUTFRONT 7:00 PM EST
January 23, 2025 Thursday


Copyright 2025 Cable News Network All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; International
Length: 7380 words
Byline: Erin Burnett, Whitney Wild, Alayna Treene, Lulu Garcia- Navarro, Harry Enten, Matthew Chance
Guests: Ryan Goodman, Ken Buck, Anders Vistisen, Jack O'Donnell, Jackson Reffitt
Highlight: Trump's immigration raids now in effect; the mayor of Newark says that ICE agents just raided a business with no warrant. The executive order President Trump signed hours into his presidency that would have ended birthright citizenship in the United States is blocked by a federal judge. President Trump told reporters he would meet Vladimir Putin immediately, underlining his push to bring an end to the conflict in Ukraine.
Body


[19:00:32]
ERIN BURNETT, CNN HOST: OUTFRONT next:
The breaking news: Trump's immigration raids now in effect. The mayor of Newark says that ICE agents just raided a business with no warrant. The breaking details, what the mayor says is happening there in just a moment.
Plus, the member of the European Parliament who told Trump to F off. Those are his words, not ours. Why did he use them? He wants to tell you. He's OUTFRONT.
And he turned his father into the FBI for what he did on January 6th. Now his father is free. Have they reunited?
Let's go OUTFRONT.
And good evening. I'm Erin Burnett.
OUTFRONT tonight, the breaking news. The mayor of Newark, New Jersey says immigration agents are now on the streets of the largest city in the state of New Jersey. Just moments ago, the mayor posting this message and I quote, what the mayor put out there. Agents raided a local establishment in the city of Newark, detaining undocumented residents as well as citizens without producing a warrant.
And then he went on to add that a U.S. veteran was also detained and had the legitimacy of his military documentation questioned.
Well, this you know, this is again, coming from the mayor of Newark, just here in these minutes, as we're figuring out exactly what's happening.
It does come, of course, just days after Trump made this promise.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Very soon, we'll begin the largest deportation operation in American history, larger even -- even larger than President Dwight Eisenhower, who has the record right now.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BURNETT: And just moments ago, New Jersey Congresswoman LaMonica McIver who represents Newark, just put out a statement. So this is the next piece of information that we're just getting in. She says: Already, Trump's attacks on immigrant communities are hitting home, and we will not back down.
And she went through those details as I shared them from the Mayor of Newark, saying that there was no warrant that citizens and non- citizens had been taken in by ICE again, no warrant, and including a veteran. This defiance coming from -- as Trump is facing his biggest loss so far days into his presidency. It is on immigration, a Reagan appointed judge late today blocking Trump's executive order, ending birthright citizenship, basically a temporary restraining order of two weeks on that executive order from the president.
The judge writing, quote, I can't remember another case where the question presented was as clear as this one. This is a blatantly unconstitutional order.
We're going to have much more on that in just a moment. But I want to get to -- what we are trying to understand if there's details, what's really happening here in Newark.
Whitney Wild joins me live.
And, Whitney, these raids in Newark come as cities across the country are bracing. You are in Chicago tonight where you have been bracing and local businesses bracing for raids. What are you seeing right now?
WHITNEY WILD, CNN LAW ENFORCEMENT CORRESPONDENT: Well, Erin, what we have seen and what we have heard from the officials here and the leaders here, especially in the business community, is that people are changing their day to day lives because they are so afraid of these stepped up ICE actions.
For example, I spoke with a congressman who represents this area earlier this week. He said that people are moving around. They're afraid that ICE may have access to their address, and so they are moving their homes regularly because they are so afraid.
Erin, that fear is pervasive, especially in neighborhoods like this little village, heavily Hispanic. Again, we spoke to people here who are very concerned about these stepped up ICE enforcements.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
WILD (voice-over): With President Trump moving swiftly to deport undocumented immigrants across the country --
What does this space mean to you? What does this room mean to you?
Relief is one aspect of it. I feel calm because I'm sheltered.
This bedroom is part home, part hiding place for this woman whose name we are withholding because she fears deportation. A lot of helplessness because I'm nervous, she says. I'm anxious. I'm afraid of losing this trip I took across the Darien. I'm afraid of losing those dreams of having something in my country because I'm 50 years old, she says.
She has been in the U.S. for more than a year. She hoped to make some money here and then go back to Venezuela, where her two children and mother stayed. She had planned to find a job this week, but was too afraid to leave this apartment.
[19:05:04]
I put on makeup today because I had a job interview and it was really like putting on a mask because I'm really devastated, she says.
Fear is spreading as the Trump administration makes clear that cities like Chicago, a sanctuary city, are major targets for enforcement. Here, local ordinances generally bar officials from helping Immigration and Customs officials unless there is a criminal warrant.
TOM HOMAN, BORDER CZAR: If they're in United States illegally, they're going to be arrested, too. So sanctuary city is going to get exactly what they don't want, more agents in the communities, more people arrested, more collaterals arrested. So that's a game they want to play, game on.
WILD: Now, the Department of Justice is threatening to prosecute local and state officials who obstruct, resist or fail to enforce immigration law. The impact of stepped up immigration actions could be massive, according to leaders here, particularly for businesses who regularly use migrant labor.
Here in heavily Hispanic little village, normally busy streets are slow.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Ever since the word got out over the weekend, we have seen and heard from our small businesses that foot traffic and that the amount of people that are seeing is just going down drastically.
WILD: It's a real fear that is impacting an entire community.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're a very independent restaurant community, not a chain restaurant. So we could see some of our independent restaurants closing.
WILD: With so much uncertain, this woman can only hope to still fulfill her dream.
I came here for something, she says. I came to fight. I came to get ahead and I haven't done anything. I don't want to feel like a failure.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
WILD (on camera): Erin, the officials here, the Illinois governor, you know, Chicago's mayor, people I've spoken with, other you know, the congressman who represents this area. They have all made very clear they have no problem with these stepped up enforcement against violent criminals. But what they are very concerned about is that these enforcements are also going to capture people who otherwise have no criminal record. And so that is the major concern here. They say outreach is absolutely critical.
So what the Chicago city of Chicago did today, Erin, was in unveil a Chicago transit authority-wide system video system display that is a know your rights display. Again, that is going to be out throughout the Chicago transit authority system. Erin, a lot of major questions remain, though.
BURNETT: Right, right. And, of course, the Trump administration has said and this was one of the things in the campaign, right, is crossing the border itself a crime and how they see criminal. We're now seeing that play out on the streets, possibly as news of this raids starts to come out.
We have more on the breaking news in this defeat for the executive order President Trump signed hours into his presidency. That is the executive order that would have ended birthright citizenship in the United States. A federal judge blocking that. It is basically a temporary restraining order is going to go up through the courts.
Alayna Treene is OUTFRONT of the White House.
So, Alayna, look, they knew when they did this that they were going to get a legal challenge. This is a Reagan appointed judge who issued this with great speed. How is Trump reacting to the news?
ALAYNA TREENE, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER: Right. Well, and I would point out as well that this federal judge in Washington had said that the birthright citizenship or the executive order to end birthright citizenship is blatantly unconstitutional. Donald Trump, we heard him earlier today when he was signing other executive orders in the oval office, say that his team plans to appeal. I want you to take a listen to how he put it.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: You know, obviously, we'll appeal it. They put it before a certain judge in Seattle, I guess, right? And there's no surprises with that judge.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
TREENE: Now, Erin, there's a few things I want to say here. One is that Donald Trump has long been wanted to do this. I remember back during his first administration, he was really fixated on this idea of signing an executive order that would end birthright citizenship. Now he's actually done that, given its his second term. But he has finally done something that he has long set out to do.
Of course, though, as you mentioned, his team anticipated they were keenly aware that this was likely to get caught up in the courts. Now, when I talk to some of Donald Trump's advisers about this, they said that they recognize that. And also part of them hopes that this could reach the Supreme Court, that they believe that this fight, this challenge needs to be had and play out in the nation's highest court.
And one adviser actually said that its time to kick start. They needed something, I should say to kick start that legal battle. And so that's kind of where this is now. But again, they are planning to appeal this. This is not the end of that fight.
BURNETT: No, absolutely not. It sounds like from what you're saying, it's one they not only anticipated but are looking forward to.
All right. Alayna, thank you very much.
Ryan Goodman is here, OUTFRONT legal analyst, coeditor in chief of "Just Security"; "New York Times" podcast host who has done extensive reporting on immigration over a long time, Lulu Garcia-Navarro; and the former Republican Congressman Ken Buck.
So, Ryan, you heard Alayna saying they -- they were prepared for this, you know, on this -- on this challenge.
[19:10:05]
And I want to get to that in a moment. But I want to just this breaking news. It's literally coming in, reports of these ICE raids, one in Newark targeting a business. We're getting this from the mayor, now the congresswoman working to get more information on this. But they are saying that there was a raid and it was a warrantless raid. Also, reports of others in Boston.
What's your reaction from what we are hearing?
RYAN GOODMAN, JUST SECURITY CO-EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: So as we talked about earlier this week, ICE has also suspended the idea that they will not go into sensitive locations. So they might also now go into churches and schools. So this is a harbinger of something that could also happen in those places.
And as we talked about then, I said that's actually a policy choice. They can decide to do that. But there's one constraint, the Constitution.
BURNETT: Right.
GOODMAN: They can't go into private locations without a warrant that's been approved by a judge. So when the mayor says that this was without a warrant, that is a serious concern. And it would --
BURNETT: Because you could do it warrantless or can you?
GOODMAN: You cannot as long as it's in private locations. If it's a public setting, a public location, ICE is allowed in. But if it's a private part of the business or its the back rooms in the business where the workers are, they're not without a warrant.
BURNETT: Right. All right. So, so that -- I guess we don't know where this falls on that, whether that's acceptable or not.
Congressman Buck, the congresswoman who represents Newark does say there was no warrant. She says that they detained immigrants, citizens and a military veteran who was legally in the U.S. again, this is just what we are being told at this time. Congressman Buck, you know, look, immigration was front and center in this in this election. Is this what Americans voted for?
KEN BUCK (R), FORMER U.S. REPRESENTATIVE: It is. There's a lot of issues that president Trump is involved in that I would argue aren't part of the mandate that he was given. Immigration is absolutely clearly part of the mandate that he was given. He has to do it in a legal way. The executive order is very suspect.
But in terms of these immigration enforcement actions, I think immigration -- ICE is absolutely within its jurisdiction to engage in this. It's what Americans expect. And in fact, if the president didn't do it, you would see his approval ratings plummet at this point.
BURNETT: Well, right. And I mean, certainly, it's what -- it's what many, many wanted. Well see if the extent of it is indeed what they -- what they anticipated or not.
I mean, Lulu, you hear Whitney Wild's report when she spoke to that woman? You know, the mother who has been in the U.S. for a year just trying to work and return back to her children, which is what she wants to do in Venezuela with money, terrified of being a failure, too afraid to leave where she's staying, to even go to apply for a job. What's the effect of all this going to be, Lulu?
LULU GARCIA-NAVARRO, CNN CONTRIBUTOR: I mean, the fear is actually part of the point. We know this from the first Trump administration.
The question that we really have to ask ourselves is, is this actually stepped up enforcement? Because at the end of the day, Donald Trump doesn't have more money, he doesn't have more officers. And the question is, is this really the point is to tell people that they are going to be taken away in, you know, in churches and hospitals and schools and, and make them feel unsafe.
I mean, for context, ICE arrested 33 noncitizens in New Jersey in the weeks before the inauguration under the Biden administration. They were accused of drug trafficking. They were accused of domestic abuse. Targeted raids have been happening all through the Biden administration. In fact, in 2024, ICE removed more than 271,000 people in this country.
So the idea that this is somehow new is not correct. What is new is if indeed they weren't using a warrant. That is, as the previous guest said, actually illegal. And then the question becomes, are they flouting the rule of law? And that is indeed very serious.
BURNETT: Right. And of course, whether the raids that were hearing about now and again, the details, we are still getting them to try to understand whether this is something that actually is happening because Trump took office or to your point, is just an ongoing thing that ICE would have done anyway, unbeknownst to the Trump administration, we don't know yet, Ryan.
The context, though, is everything. And let's talk about this executive order. As you and ken buck were discussing it, you were on the show just the other day saying there's no way this would be upheld, probably the Trump administration assumed that as well. But where does this go from here? I mean, so right now it's a temporary restraining order, essentially saying Trump has a restraining order from doing this. That's 14 days.
GOODMAN: So there are a number of other cases in other districts across the country, and other issues are going to drop. There's a very compelling case in Maryland in which some of the plaintiffs are, in fact, women who are pregnant, and here in the country legally. For example, a woman from Venezuela who's here since 2019 and she's on a temporary protected status, which is authorized status in the United States.
BURNETT: Yeah.
GOODMAN: They're probably going to win as well. So if all of these cases actually come down, as one would expect, in which the judges react strongly that this is unconstitutional, there's even a scenario in which the Supreme Court doesn't take it. The Supreme Court usually takes cases when there's a split across the country among the different courts. If it's uniform, that might be a resounding defeat in that. In that regard, they never get to the Supreme Court.
BURNETT: So. Well, I guess we'll see.
Congressman Buck, you know, on this point and Ryan bringing up, you know, somebody who had been in the U.S. -- is in the U.S. legally but is not an actual citizen, right?
[19:15:08]
Whether it's a temporary protected status or some other in-between world that many people can be in green cards, who knows?
Do you think there are exceptions when it comes to birthright citizenship? You know, I do want to note the judge, you know, Trump. Trump made the point. Well, this judge has a record. The judge is a Reagan Ronald Reagan appointed judge who said, and I quote, congressman, I have been on the bench for over four decades. I can't remember another case where the question presented was as clear, calling the order blatantly unconstitutional.
As a former U.S. attorney, do you agree?
BUCK: Absolutely. I think the order is unconstitutional. The only way to change the Constitution is with a constitutional amendment. However, I do believe that the Department of Justice, working with Homeland Security, can find individual instances, maybe a crime fraud exception to this particular constitutional amendment that would start to whittle away at this -- this law and not have it as broad as it has been interpreted in the past, but just with the stroke of a pen, a president can't do this. President Biden couldn't forgive student loan debt with the stroke of a pen. Past presidents can't do this. Typically, presidents, especially in their first 100 days, overstep their executive authority by trying to engage in acts like this.
BURNETT: Lulu, Alayna was reporting just a moment ago in on the context of all of immigration, which is so many things that this issue, birthright citizenship specifically, has been a fixation of Trump's since he first took office the first time, right, that this is the core of it for him.
So how far do you think he's willing to take it?
GARCIA-NAVARRO: I think he's willing to take it as far as he can. I think what you're seeing now is Trump completely unconstrained. You know, he is taking these executive orders. He's making theater out of it. He's signing them. He can't do things with the stroke of the pen.
And so this will all be decided in the courts. And the question here is, what will the courts do? What will the Supreme Court do? And are we, you know, and will we see the rule of law prevail?
And they're going to be using the courts and pushing these things through the courts, and they may come down in different ways. And ultimately, this is about what kind of country we want this to be. It's about who we conceive of as Americans and who we conceive of as not Americans.
And Donald Trump has one vision and others have a different one. And this will ultimately be decided by the Supreme Court, the highest court in the land.
BURNETT: Right. And of course, we hope people continue to have respect for the rule of law and the courts. Thank you all very much.
And next --
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Let me put it in words you might understand, Mr. Trump, (EXPLETIVE DELETED) off.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BURNETT: That member of parliament is OUTFRONT to explain why he said that. Plus, Trump's net worth skyrocketing, thanks to his own cryptocurrency, which is far from the only way that this presidency is already profiting Trump.
And CNN on the ground tonight in Moscow. Are the Russians after Trump's tough words now turning on him?
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
[19:22:37] BURNETT: Breaking news, mister fantastic. That is what President Trump is calling the crown prince of Saudi Arabia, who personally approved the murder of U.S. resident Jamal Khashoggi, according to the CIA.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: It's also reported today in the papers that Saudi Arabia will be investing at least $600 billion in America. But I'll be asking the crown prince, who's a fantastic guy, to round it out to around 1 trillion.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BURNETT: That fantastic guy, again, according to the CIA, gave the okay for a team to fly from Saudi Arabia to Istanbul, among them an intelligence officer and an autopsy specialist carrying a bone saw which was used to chop up Khashoggi's body.
So Trump is making a statement by choosing the crown prince to be the first foreign leader he speaks with, someone that he has said he trusts over America's intelligence community assessment.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: I hate the crime. I hate what's done. I hate the cover up. And I will tell you this, the crown prince hates it more than I do, and they have vehemently denied it.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BURNETT: Context always matters. And in this case, Saudi Arabia matters to the Trump family. Since leaving the White House, Trump's son in law Jared Kushner's private equity firm has received a reported $2 billion from the Saudis. And the Trump organization is now planning to build a luxury tower in Jeddah, Saudi's up and coming destination.
Eric Trump posting this video just last month with the message, incredibly proud to officially launch a project that has been underway for many months, Trump Tower, Jeddah.
And tonight, Trump claims the Saudis are going to invest at least $600 billion to maybe $1 trillion, as you heard Trump say, in the United States.
There are, though, some leaders taking a different tack with Trump tonight. Mexico's president making it clear that she is in no rush to roll out the red carpet for a Trump state visit.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
CLAUDIA SHEINBAUM, PRESIDENT OF MEXICO: One thing at a time, there is no need to get ahead of ourselves.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BURNETT: And tonight, this Danish lawmaker did not mince words when it comes to the president and Greenland.
(BEGIN VIDOE CLIP)
ANDERS VISTISEN, DANISH MEMBER OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT: Let me put it in words you might understand, Mr. Trump, (EXPLETIVE DELETED) off.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BURNETT: An OUTFRONT now, that Danish member of European parliament who told President Trump to F off, you heard him, Anders Vistisen.
[19:25:06]
And Mr. Vistisen, I really appreciate your time and thank you so much. I know it's late where you are.
Look, you made a choice to use that word, right? You didn't just do it in a heated moment, right? You chose to do it. Very blunt language to address the sitting president of the United States. Why were you so blunt?
VISTISEN: For two reasons. First of all, it is completely unacceptable attack on Danish sovereignty to want to claim that territory that have been Danish since the 10th century, three times as long as the United States have existed, but also because we -- in my party, are unhappy with the Danish government, not taking a more clear stand towards this --these signals from the U.S. president. We think the Canadian and Panama governments have been more -- standing more firmly and rebutted this claim to gain territory from sovereign and allied nations.
BURNETT: It's interesting how you lay it out since the 10th century, three times as long as the United States has existed. You know, these are serious things. And if there's anyone who says borders need to be respected and mattered, it is, of course, Donald Trump, but obviously, you know, you chose to use that language. And that's why were talking. So in a sense, that's the reason you did it, right, because the world is hearing it.
But the vice president of your parliament was not so pleased with your choice of words. Here's how they put it.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
NICOLAE STEFANUTA, EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT VICE PRESIDENT: It is not okay in this house of democracy. Thank you. Regardless of what we think of Mr. Trump, it is not possible to use such language.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BURNETT: Do you have any regrets or no?
VISTISEN: I don't really. The European parliament has quite biased way of interpreting these rules. It's okay to call people fascist, racist, communists, but apparently you cannot use the same language as Mr. Trump has used regarding his own top generals in the Pentagon. Okay. If they have a problem, they can take it up with me. I have not heard from the president of parliament since my speech, so I'm waiting for her to contact me, but I don't assume it will be a big deal.
BURNETT: So you've been clear that you believe Trump's push to buy Greenland is absurd as you -- as you just said now, you laid out your reasons that you think it's an insult to people of Greenland and people of Denmark.
But you know what the president has said, and you know this, Anders, he has continued to come out and say, Denmark's going to want to do a deal, and Greenland is going to want to do a deal. They're going to have a change of heart. And here is what he says.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: Greenland is a wonderful place. We need it for international security, and I'm sure that Denmark will come along. I think its costing them a lot of money to maintain it, to keep it.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BURNETT: That's a sore point. I mean, obviously, Denmark does send money to Greenland, a lot of it, right? That that -- that is true. Is it possible he ends up being right?
VISTISEN: No, for two reasons. You have two arguments there. One is what is best for American security. We take those concerns very seriously. We are a NATO ally.
But America has had a military presence in Greenland since 1941, and we have accommodated all security concerns. So if America wants to have more bases or different kind of equipment in Greenland, there is actually no -- no one contesting that, neither in Greenland nor in Denmark. So that concern can be taken aside quite rapidly.
And for the other argument that America can make a great deal, we actually have some historical precedents for this. A hundred years ago, we sold you the what you call the U.S. Virgin Islands today. And that territory still doesn't have voting rights for your presidential elections. That place doesn't have a voting member of your parliament, the Congress or the House of Representatives and the Senate.
And when I visited, when we had the 100-year commemoration, there was not a great lot of enthusiasm about the way the U.S. is handling that. So I think if the Greenlandic people are looking carefully at this and looking on the U.S. overseas territories, or looking at how indigenous people are treated in the U.S., it's very hard to make a compelling argument that they will have a better deal from the United States than what they have within the Danish realm, the kingdom of Denmark, where they have full voting rights in the Danish parliament. They actually are overrepresented. And as you clearly stated, they have a very beneficial agreement economically with Denmark.
BURNETT: All right. Well, Anders Vistisen, I very much appreciate your time. Thank you very much. It is amazing to be having these conversations, but I appreciate your taking the time, staying up late and having one with me. Thanks.
VISTISEN: Of course. Have a nice evening.
BURNETT: All right. You, too.
And next, Trump says he's fulfilled his promise to be America's crypto president. And it's paid off. His net worth is skyrocketing because of it. We'll show you the numbers.
[19:30:00]
Plus, he turned his father into the FBI after January 6th. And now, of course, his father is free. He said he was concerned about his safety. Have they met yet?
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BURNETT: So tonight, President Trump just signing his first executive order on crypto. And the new order creates a group that's supposed to come up with rules regulating crypto. The whole goal is to make crypto be basically an American asset, a national digital asset, a reserve currency. The order tonight fulfills a promise from Trump to be a crypto president. Trump was a huge crypto critic in his first administration, has significantly and totally done about face on, is now going so far as to sell his own brand of cryptocurrency coins.
[19:35:07]
And there are now claims his net worth is up 800 percent since he launched it just seven days ago. What? Whoa!
Harry Enten is OUTFRONT.
HARRY ENTEN, CNN SENIOR DATA REPORTER: A lot of money.
BURNETT: Okay. So I'm sorry. I'm, like, just trying to get my head around this.
ENTEN: It's hard.
BURNETT: Trump is saying he's now a crypto billionaire?
ENTEN: I mean, look, the fact is, crypto is crazy because the price of the Trump crypto coin has gone up and down and all around. You know, it started off what is it like seven bucks? You looked at Friday at 11:00 p.m. Look at that, it was up to 73, by Sunday at 7:00 a.m., and then at 6:00 p.m. today it's down to $35. So that's dropped by half from its height.
So look, he may at one point be a crypto billionaire. But turn around the next moment. You don't know what exactly might happen. Because as you know crypto is very, very unstable, as is the case for Trump's crypto coin.
BURNETT: All right. And his own personal profiting off of it, of course, is separate from the very serious policy things they are going to do on crypto. And that's very serious. But when you talk about the coin, right, that he's been marketing, he has recently marked and been very clear during the campaign that this money was not for the campaign. You know, it was for himself.
ENTEN: Yeah.
BURNETT: The China bibles for $60, the gold sneakers for $400, the vodka.
ENTEN: Yeah.
BURNETT: The wines, the steaks. We know that. But even in the past few years, he had NFTs.
ENTEN: Yeah.
BURNETT: You know, the digital art, I guess in this case, he was non- fungible token that depicted him as a superhero.
Which of these has brought in the most money?
ENTEN: Yeah, this is fascinating. So, you know, he makes his money from, you know, licensing or royalties and what you essentially see when you kind of put it all together. And again, it's a little bit difficult to understand exactly what were looking at. But what we know is that he has made a ton of money off of the NFTs. Look at that. At least $7.2 million.
How about that book "Letters to Trump", 4.5, at least 4.5 million. The Trump bible only at this point, $300,000 plus.
But again, these are at least figures, at least figures. If you put it all together. He's made at least 10 million off of these three things just.
BURNETT: I mean, that's 5,000 bibles. Okay -- at six. Yeah. Okay. Tell me something I don't know.
ENTEN: Yeah, I'll tell you something that you don't know. If you look back, the most perhaps bizarre thing that Trump has made money off of, it was actually a few decades ago, but he was selling vitamins, Trump was selling vitamins, and he made get this.
He licensed out his name and he made 2.6 million. That, in fact, is a urine test. That box over there to understand which vitamins you actually have to have in order to get yourself.
BURNETT: A derivative of vitamin.
ENTEN: Yeah.
BURNETT: It's a vitamin derivative.
ENTEN: Yes. It's a vitamin derivative. Its just Trump makes money in a lot of different ways. And this is just the latest example.
BURNETT: It is -- it is quite incredible. Okay, Harry, thank you very much.
All right. And I want to go now to the former president and chief operating officer of Trump Plaza Hotel and Casino, Jack O'Donnell, also the author of Trump the inside story of the real Donald Trump.
So, Jack, you've had a front row seat to Trump's businesses over the years, many years that you worked with him. And that's when I had mentioned other things steaks, you know, the watches, the vodka, all that stuff, even guitars. Harry was showing a test to show what vitamins you might need to take. We've got the bibles, the NFTs, superhero, crypto coin, limited edition coins for $100, which are made with $30 worth of silver. So I do you. I guess were just going to see more and more of this, even though he's president?
JACK O'DONNELL, FORMER PRESIDENT AND CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER OF TRUMP PLAZA HOTEL & CASINO: Oh, sure, you're going to he's going to leverage this presidency as much as he can, Erin. I think that's his top priority, to be honest.
And the crypto thing is particularly scary on two fronts. It's very reminiscent of the junk bonds that he sold in the '90s were small time investors could get in. And as Harry alluded to, it's -- the crypto meme coins are incredibly volatile. So he's going to actually wind up hurting many of the MAGA people because they're going to do like they did in the '90s. They don't want to buy his product. Okay.
And they are going to suffer the consequence of the volatility. Its -- it's probably the most volatile commodity in the market today. But the bigger concern for me.
BURNETT: Go ahead, go ahead.
O'DONNELL: Yeah. Yeah. The bigger the bigger concern, Erin, is that the way the cash moves here. It moves almost directly to Trump. And so it can be used just like his hotels were used in the first administration where the foreign countries and wealthy people used his hotels to gain favor. Well, this is a perfect vehicle, okay, because you can literally -- a country could go in and buy $10 million worth of crypto coin, Trump's crypto coin. And he's the beneficiary of this.
I think it's just flat out dangerous for national security that, you know, that he could be influenced like this.
BURNETT: Well, well, hope, of course, you've got attorneys general and others watching this.
[19:40:00]
You've watched Trump in business over many years, and there was a couple of things I wanted to mention to set this up. And his first day in office, he took down General Mark Milley's portrait that came down less than two hours after Trump took office.
He revoked the security for his former secretary of state, Mike Pompeo and John Bolton. Both of them, by the way, have faced threats from Iran for following Trump's orders during his first term as president. And, you know, there's been all sorts of reporting about the extent to which those threats may have been, you know, against their life and livelihood.
We spoke with a federal employee who works in the DEI department, no longer has a job tonight saying that Trump's order on ending DEI is vindictive.
So do you think that we will see this throughout his presidency? This -- this going after people who have specifically and personally upset him in some way. That's why I'm mentioning all these individuals by name -- Pompeo, Bolton, Milley. Or does he just make the point and move on?
O'DONNELL: Oh, no. I think this is going to be a pattern, and it's going to be a combination of just what you suggested. Some of its going to be very petty, taking down, you know, a photograph or a painting.
And another is going to be very serious where he's going to put peoples lives and risk their families, as he's doing with Bolton and Pompeo. It's just -- it is not going to stop. He has a history of this. He's done it his entire career.
I mean, an example would, you know you know, that I remember vividly was Marvin Roffman, an analyst from Janney Montgomery Scott in the -- in the '90s, would criticized the Taj Mahal because it was a, you know, it looked like a bad deal on paper before it opened. Within three days, Trump had him fired from his job.
So, yeah, I mean, it's not going to change. It's going to be continuing for four years because he's been doing it for 40 years.
BURNETT: All right. Jack O'Donnell, thank you. Good to see you.
O'DONNELL: Thank you, Erin.
BURNETT: All right. And next, he turned his dad into the FBI after January 6th. You heard him speak on this show a few days ago. His father is now free, thanks to Trump, and his son is about to tell us whether they've seen each other and why the images he has seen of his father. Now terrify him.
Plus, Trump said this today.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: I really would like to be able to meet with President Putin soon.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BURNETT: He talked tough on Russia the other day. And the question is Russia turning on Trump? We're live in Moscow.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
[19:46:53]
BURNETT: Tonight, president Trump saying he's, quote, open to hosting January 6th defendants at the White House. He also dismissed the actions of those defendants, some of whom were charged with assaulting police officers and convicted of doing so with weapons.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: They were protesting a crooked election. You know, I mean, people understand that also. And they were treated very badly. Nobody's been treated like that. I gave them their life back.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BURNETT: OUTFRONT now, Jackson Reffitt, he turned his father, guy, into the FBI for participating in the insurrection.
And Guy Reffitt was released from prison yesterday after Trump pardoned him. He had been in the process of serving a more than seven year sentence. This is video right now of a Guy, your father Jackson.
And so, you know, I know you've seen this video. When we spoke on Monday, it was just moments before your -- your father was pardoned and you said you didn't want him pardoned. And now you see him. You see him. There he is, out of prison. How are you feeling tonight? And what's it like to see him coming out?
JACKSON REFFITT, SON OF CONVICTED JANUARY 6TH CAPITOL RIOTER: I mean, I love my father, and I want what's best for him, and in my final letter to the judge in his sentencing, all I asked for was, you know, mental health coverage for him while he's in prison and he denied it in the process, and that was hard on its own.
But, you know, stepping out of a prison and basically falling to the arms of a more far right extremism into this country, more radicalized than when he went in that I've witnessed is very saddening to witness. And because I thought it got better at one point. But now he's fallen into the same kitchen as Stewart Rhodes, and I'll be a lot more gentle than Michael Fanone, let's put it. But, you know, that's not okay.
You -- this is validating behavior that can lead to worse and worse situations for people like me. And running into the White House or the Capitol, wherever Trump invited them, it's just going to validate them more so and give him something physical that they've really improved their lives by taking this violent action on January 6th, 2021.
BURNETT: Jackson, you mentioned Officer Fanone, who, of course, was assaulted that day on Capitol Hill.
I want to ask you about something your father said because he has spoken out. But first, you have these serious concerns. The first thing you said, of course, is I love my father. Have you spoken to him or to anyone in your family since the pardon happened? Your mother or sisters?
I texted my sister, I love you, and I got. I love you back. And, you know, that's all I really need in this moment is just that. And I need distance and time just to prioritize my safety. And, you know, make sure I'm okay in this moment, and I've -- and I've taken the precautions needed to get to this point. And, you know, they've expressed that. And, of course, my dad said he loves me and all that.
But, you know, the only way we can really go forward is he acknowledges, is what led him down this path.
[19:50:03]
You know, Trump and these far right extreme militias that, you know, bounced off of Trump and his presidency towards the end of 2020. And, until that happens, I'm -- I don't know what I'm going to do. I don't know how I'm going to go forward with any of this. And, it's terrifying to even think about, because I don't know.
BURNETT: Jackson, look, I'm glad you had that exchange with your sister. It -- I hope it makes people, you know, feel a sense of. I don't know -- I don't know whether it's a sense of hope, but -- but at least that there can be love, even with so much division. You talk about your worry that you thought at one point your father was changing, but that then he has turned more towards these radical groups.
He did speak to reporters when he got out of prison yesterday. I know that you've seen this, but just let me play for everybody, because I know obviously there had been he was in prison serving his time, and you wouldn't have seen him or heard him. So he just spoke. And here's what he said.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GUY REFFITT, PARDONED JANUARY 6 DEFENDANT: You're not going to get a fair trial here if you're not on their political agenda. You're not going to get that here.
REPORTER: What would you say to Donald. Trump right now?
REFFITT: Peace, brother.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BURNETT: So what do you hear when you hear that? I mean, obviously, he's not remorseful, at all at this point.
REFFITT: No, and that's the one thing I -- we can't get past is an understanding of actions and how it's affected us. I mean, I -- I am severely guilt ridden with my action and my participation in tipping the authorities. I live with it every day of my life, and I acknowledge the pain and suffering that I've put onto my family by my actions, by doing what I thought would was to protect them.
But, you know, my father steps out of jail and says, "peace, brother," to the guy that basically threw him in that jail cell and led him up that Capitol without even knowing his name or who he was, you know. And now Donald Trump has reached his hand out and reached out to my father and is giving him everything he ever wanted. And I don't know what my dad's going to do in return.
BURNETT: Jackson, thank you very much. It's good to talk to you again.
REFFITT: Thank you so much.
BUIRNETT: All right.
REFFITT: Thank you.
BURNETT: And next, Russia was celebrating Trump's win. But is their view of the new president quickly changing? Our Matthew Chance is on the ground tonight in Moscow.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
[19:57:04]
BURNETT: Tonight, Trump really wants to meet with Putin.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: I really would like to be able to meet with President Putin soon and get that war ended.
From what I hear, Putin would like to see me and we'll meet as soon as we can. I'd meet immediately.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BURNETT: I'd meet immediately. I mean, he said it today twice. It comes as he has talked tough on Russia by threatening sanctions. So is it just talk?
Matthew Chance is OUTFRONT.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN CHIEF GLOBAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Tonight, the Kremlin is stepping up attacks across Ukraine, seizing as much territory as possible ahead of a potential ceasefire in this brutal war.
This, as the U.S. president speaking to the World Economic Forum in Davos, made an impassioned call for peace.
BURNETT: Our efforts to secure a peace settlement between Russia and Ukraine are now hopefully underway. It's so important to get that done. That is an absolute killing field. Millions of soldiers are being killed. Nobody's seen anything like it since World War II. They're laying dead all over the flat fields. It's a flat field, farmland. And there's millions of Russians and millions of Ukrainians, and nobody's seen anything like it since World War Two. It's time to end it.
CHANCE: The remarks come amid expectations in Moscow of a Trump call with the Russian leader, Vladimir Putin. And after Trump's scathing social media post telling Putin to reach a Ukraine deal or face more sanctions, a threat which left the Kremlin unfazed.
We don't see any new elements here, Putin's spokesman Dmitry Peskov tells reporters in a conference call. In the first iteration of his presidency, Trump was the American president who most often resorted to sanctions. He likes these methods, Peskov adds.
But the Kremlin and the Trump White House have left the door open to a presidential summit to discuss Ukraine's future.
Back on the front lines, Russia's special military operation, what the Kremlin calls its conflict in Ukraine, continues to take an appalling toll in blood and treasure.
An early end to the fighting is something that President Trump himself pointed out was in the Kremlin's best interests. I'm going to do Russia, whose economy is failing, and President Putin, a very big favor, Trump wrote in his social media post.
Publicly, the Kremlin leader insists Russia's economic situation is under control, but indicators like soaring inflation and interest rates suggest otherwise.
And if for Trump, brokered ceasefire also lets the Kremlin consolidate territorial gains, that may prove a very big favor indeed.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
CHANCE (on camera): Erin, tonight, President Trump told reporters he would meet Vladimir Putin immediately, underlining his push to bring an end to the conflict in Ukraine. Every day they don't meet, Trump added, soldiers are being killed on the battlefield.
Erin, back to you.
BURNETT: Matthew, thanks very much, live from Moscow.
And thanks so much for joining us.
"AC360" with Anderson begins right now.

Load-Date: January 24, 2025


End of Document
