




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 13, 2025 Thursday 7:36 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 726 words
Byline: Avery Lotz
Body


February 13th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
  
The big picture: But she gave few details on how she would balance Trump's vow to abolish the agency with preserving - and reorganizing - federal education programs.
The hearing was interrupted at least five times by protesters.
What she's saying: McMahon outlined in opening remarks the "remedy" for what she deemed as "excessive consolidation of power," calling for funding "education freedom, not government-run systems."
"Listen to parents, not politicians," she added. "Build up careers, not college debt."
Yes, but: McMahon spent around two-and-a-half hours auditioning to helm a department that Trump wants to see eliminated, a dynamic Sen. Maggie Hassan (D-N.H.) described as a "very elegant gaslighting."
McMahon on Trump's proposed ED takedown
McMahon agreed that congressional action would be needed to eliminate the Education Department when pressed by Committee Chair Bill Cassidy (R-La.) and Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.).
"It clearly cannot be shut down without it," she said.
McMahon emphasized it is not the administration's goal to "defund the programs" offered by the department but "only to have it operate more efficiently."
She suggested shifting special education funding to the Department of Health and Human Services, helmed by  
Asked by Sen. Andy Kim (D-N.J.) whether Trump agreed that the power of dismantling the ED lies with Congress, McMahon said "he's also stated that he will work with Congress to make that happen."
Kim drew a parallel to the  
There are a "couple of implants" from DOGE at ED
Sen. Patty Murray (D-Wash.) pressed McMahon on the presence of Elon Musk-led  
Asked if DOGE employees should have access to "private student data," McMahon said she believes DOGE employees have been "onboarded" as ED employees and therefore "operate under the restraints of of utilizing access of information."
She characterized their presence as "a couple of implants" from the DOGE team "doing an audit."
McMahon committed to directing federal funds to be spent as appropriated by Congress.
Yes, but: Asked by Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine) about DOGE's announced contract cuts totaling some  
DEI executive order confusion
Sen. Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) grilled McMahon on Trump's executive   
Asked how a school would know if they are running a "DEI program" that could compromise federal funding, McMahon said DEI is "a program that's tough," arguing, "We are getting back to more segregating of our schools instead of having more inclusion in our schools."
Murphy posed the example of Martin Luther King Day celebrations in schools, which McMahon said would not be in violation "in my view."
Zoom out: Trump in an executive  
But asked if a public school that upheld "ethnic clubs" similar to those at West Point would be at risk of losing federal funding, McMahon said she did not want to address "hypothetical situations."
"If you're running an African American history class, Could you perhaps be in violation of this order?" Murphy asked, to which McMahon replied, "I'm not quite certain, and I'd like to look into it further."
Go deeper:  


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
