




Tufts Daily: Tufts University
February 19, 2025 Wednesday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 464 words
Byline: Hannah Rajalingam
Body


The Medford City Council Public Health and Community Safety Committee is reviewing an ordinance "securing the rights of individuals seeking gender-affirming care" in the city.
The committee discussed the ordinance draft during a Feb. 4 meeting, voting to keep the draft in committee considering the lack of urgency on the state level and until it can undergo legal review. The legal review for the draft will be done by KP Law and will be completed later in the week.
The draft of the ordinance is four pages long and outlines a plan to protect gender-affirming healthcare and reproductive healthcare.
The ordinance defines gender-affirming care as "all supplies, care, and services of medical, behavioral health, mental health, surgical, psychiatric, therapeutic, diagnostic, preventative, rehabilitative, or supportive nature relating to the treatment of gender dysphoria."
This drafted ordinance establishes Medford as a sanctuary for people seeking gender-affirming care, ensuring the city's police department is only responsible for enforcing state and municipal ordinances.
According to City Councilor Emily Lazzaro, the concern around gender-affirming care that inspired this ordinance began after the Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade. Medford's proposed resolution was inspired by a similar one in Easthampton, Mass.
"Easthampton had an ordinance that [was] just short of legal rights for people who were doing gender-affirming care and people who were doing reproductive healthcare, and may have been traveling to get reproductive healthcare and didn't want to be prosecuted by other states," Lazzaro said.
City Councilor and Harvard Law student Justin Tseng, who introduced the ordinance alongside City Councillor Kit Collins, also took inspiration from conversations with Medford residents.
"I was talking to a lot of residents who felt very similarly about the importance to stick up for people to make sure that diversity means diversity, that equity means equity, to not run away from DEI and to really embrace it in how our city operates and our policies," Tseng said.
Advocacy groups such as People Power reached out to councilors to press the importance of the issue, Lazzaro said.
"We didn't have a chance to finish this one. So this is something that we were reminded of, and we wanted to take it up after." Lazzaro said. "So it started in review, and then it was even more important after Trump's election."
For Tseng, the question was how to introduce "meaningful and impactful" legislation in a state which has enshrined many protections for LGBTQ+ individuals.
"The question then becomes, what can we do that ... responds to the concerns that people are feeling, the anxieties that people are feeling on the ground, and yet still be meaningful and have force," he said.

Load-Date: February 19, 2025


End of Document
