




thetimes.co.uk
February 20, 2025 Thursday 6:00 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 751 words
Byline: Charlie Gowans-Eglinton
Highlight: The president’s daughter shared a photo of herself dining at Forte dei Marmi restaurant in Miami with friends. Who are they?
Body


Donald Trump is back in the White House but his daughter Ivanka hasn’t reclaimed her office in the West Wing (it’s probably been redecorated as a black pleather video game room for Elon Musk anyway). Citing “a darkness” in the political world that “I don’t really want to welcome into mine”, the first daughter won’t be reprising her official role as adviser to the president. But having burnt her bridges with the New York elite of her old life — coincidentally or not, in 2022 Chelsea Clinton said that their friendship ended when Ivanka went “to the dark side” — she’s starting from scratch with a new life in Miami and a new social circle of beautiful, Instagram-famous but real world-unknown women.
She’s been weight training with the supermodel Gisele Bündchen’s boyfriend and posting gratitude lists on social media — “My intention for 2025 is to lean into love, courage and purpose,” she promised at the end of last year. And this week Ivanka, 43, shared a photo of her new squad on Instagram. The group of women posed around the table at the Italian restaurant Forte dei Marmi in Miami Beach, a Birkin’s throw from her $24 million home on a secure island known as “millionaire’s bunker” (the actual name is Indian Creek).
There were seven (very lightly laden) plates around the table and, of the four women tagged on Instagram, only one had less than half a million followers (that was Natasha Gorham, whose account is private but whose husband founded the cult beauty brand Byredo — Ivanka also posted an unboxing haul of gifts from them this week).

The other three are, to vastly understate it, of a type. Early to mid-thirties, very well groomed, very thin (so of course one joked on her Instagram that having dessert was breaking her diet) and entrepreneur-philanthropists. Their businesses are eponymous, their wealth vast, their good works 
                   for the children                   
. Which all sounds quite Waspy, except that they’re all Brazilian models with a love of the woo-woo.
Most Instagram-famous is Camila Coelho (10.2 million followers), founder of Elaluz, “where inner light meets outer glow”, which translates to tanning drops and bronzers. She also has a fashion line in her own name and is an ambassador for the Epilepsy Foundation of America.
Martha Graeff (501,000 followers) sells drinkable wellness — a range of health shots under the brand name Happy Aging — and is part of the children’s charity fundraising initiative The Bazaar for Good.
Isabela Rangel Grutman (519,000 followers, also a friend of Victoria Beckham) adds two more brands named after herself to the count — the first being “fashion that respects the earth” and is “crafted with the planet in mind”; the second being fine jewellery (the priciest item a yellow diamond tennis necklace at £148,877). She’s a partner in a haircare line “for the modern generation”, which might mean literally anything but probably doesn’t mean you or me, and she’s also VP of another non-profit, also benefiting children.
It’s quite the pivot but then Ivanka falling out with her school friends wasn’t the sort of thing that could be resolved over a bottle of wine. One of them, Lysandra Ohrstrom, shared her side of the story in Vanity Fair, putting the words “why would you tell me to read a book about f***ing poor people?” in Ivanka’s mouth. Societally we expect women to have big groups of friends and are suspicious when they don’t, but that doesn’t always come easily for those women who are most famous for their parents. Or, for that matter, their husbands — look at the Duchess of Sussex’s besties, who seem always to be after her to be papped in their wares to boost their sales figures. Where are the school friends who became GPs or teachers? Where are the friends whose husbands don’t work in private equity?
For Ivanka, it’s a case of enter the professional beautiful people, the model entrepreneurs transactionally tagging each other on Instagram and for whom performative bestie-ing is all in a day’s work. They’re scratching each other’s backs, or at least loaning out their masseuses. Because if Ivanka wants to rehabilitate her name, and perhaps her own eponymous brand (taken off the shelves by Nordstrom and several other retailers amid calls to boycott it by the #GrabYourWallet campaign), she needs to be aspirational again. And rebranding herself as a wellness guru, a Miami Beach Gwyneth Paltrow knock-off, might just get her there.

Load-Date: February 20, 2025


End of Document
