




MailOnline
February 7, 2025 Friday 10:44 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: MEDIA; Version:2
Length: 526 words
Byline: Samantha Rutt For Dailymail.Com
Body


READ MORE: CNN panel ignites into heated clash as guest fumes over 'pay gap'
                     Megyn Kelly ferociously attacked a CNN pundit who had a meltdown on air claiming she is paid less than her white, male colleagues.
The journalist ripped into former White House staffer Ashley Allison, 42, during her hit show on Friday, discussing the 'terrible race-obsessed panel of yelling' seen on CNN's NewsNight. 
The Thursday night episode saw Allison explode at CNN's Scott Jennings and panel member Arthur Aidala, over diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives. 
'They're really not letting go of the race thing,' Kelly, 54, said of CNN, before tearing into Alison's intense outburst. 
'She thinks she's downtrodden, poor her because she's a black woman, and therefore we're supposed to be feeling sorry for her,' Kelly said after Allison claimed to be 'paid less than her white, male colleagues.'
'I do not have the same opportunity as you, I know I don't,' Allison said on the show. 
'I have a law degree, a masters degree and two bachelors, probably more than all y'all added up together and I have always been the least paid person on payroll at every institution.'
Kelly later tore into the commentator's race-based claims, raising questions regarding Allison's 'actual talent.'
'She's going, "I don't have the same opportunity. I've been the least paid in all my job." How do you know that's due to your color and your gender?' Kelly remarked.
'Maybe you were the youngest, maybe you had the least experience? Maybe you actually just weren't that talented.'
The podcast host continued tearing into the Biden-Harris campaign senior staffer claiming she's 'not a star' and will 'never get her own show.' 
'Maybe you're just not that talented. Maybe you're not quite as good on television or in the White House for Obama, who I don't think has a bias against black women as you think you are.'
Kelly claimed that Jennings, whom she says is 'the only fair guy' at CNN, was 'ambushed' by the panel which included two black women, two white men, along with one white woman. 
'Scott Jennings, who's the only fair guy over there on CNN and Republican and our pal, Arthur Aidala, who's a lawyer... He got completely ambushed...' she said.
'Honestly, all these women are extremely successful, you would have thought that it was 1949 America the way this thing went down.'
The right-wing journalist also roped Abby Phillip into her scathing rant, claiming the CNN NewsNight anchor was 'just as bad.' 
'I guarantee Abby Phillip was out there, just as bad as the other two. I guarantee you she's making over a million dollars, and yet she's still - like Michelle Obama - wants us to think this is a racist, sexist country that won't reward her adequately for her talents...' Kelly said. 
The talk show host then flipped the script, pointing out President Donald Trump's recent rollback on all DEI initiatives which she claims have 'victimized' white people, specifically white males.
'This is their chance to get out there, even though the nation has just issued a referendum on the nonsense around this kind of thinking to say, you're all wrong. We're victims,' she concluded.

Load-Date: February 8, 2025


End of Document
