




The Hillsdale Collegian: Hillsdale College
February 6, 2025 Thursday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 629 words
Body


Class is back in the White House and it's as badass as ever. 
Since taking the presidency for the second time, President Donald Trump has delivered on several campaign promises, signing 51 executive orders, eight proclamations, and 16 memoranda. It might be the most productive first two weeks in presidential history. But first lady Melania Trump has made headlines of her own with her fashion choices at the Inauguration and in the following days. And frankly, it's nice to have style back. The first lady is as close as the U.S. will ever get to having royalty, and the American people deserve to have one with as much class as Melania.
Melania's bold fashion statements indicate the domestic and international shift in American politics this year. No longer is the United States to be the laughingstock of the world, led by a puppeteer and her puppet president. Instead, America is entering her "Golden Era" with the Trumps at the helm.
Last week, the White House released the 54-year-old's second official first lady portrait. It's stunning. The photo taken in the White House's Yellow Oval Room features the former supermodel dressed in a black Dolce & Gabbana tuxedo, complete with a cumberbund and white blouse with its top two buttons undone. The Washington Monument looms in the background as Melania gently leans forward, smiling slightly.
Her portrait is unlike any other first lady's portrait in recent history. While most first ladies have historically had their portraits painted, both of Melania's portraits have been photographs. This year, however, Melania opted for black and white - a jarring style choice that makes the image that much more intense. 
The portrait, coupled with her Inauguration Day fit -  a navy blue coat and skirt, paired with a matching wide-brimmed hat with a cream stripe - have set the tone for Melania's second term as first lady. Melania's moody color choice comes as a departure from the historically-colorful ensembles of previous first ladies, from Jill Biden's 2021 light blue dress and overcoat to Michelle Obama's yellow-cream ensemble in 2009. Melania's solemn Inauguration wardrobe this time around was void of color: starkly different from her own powder-blue Ralph Lauren dress from 2017. 
Melania's taking a no-nonsense approach to this term. And after the hell the Left has put her family through over the last nine years, who can blame her?
Aside from one semi-standout moment at last year's D-Day remembrance dinner, White House fashion critics have been unemployed with Jill Biden as first lady. Melania's style as first lady, however, reflects the sentiment of the second Trump administration as a whole. After four years of an incompetent administration focused on DEI, "trans rights," and other issues that have only driven the nation to near-damnation, the Trump team is ready to get to work, Melania included.
During her first term as first lady, Melania told the press she wished "people would focus on what I do, not what I wear." But her recent fashion statements are refreshing and deserve attention, especially after enduring years of "Dr. Jill" Biden's drab apparel choices.
While many online complained her Inauguration Day hat concealed too much of her face, it sent exactly the message it seems she intended. With no way of seeing her eyes, the hat gave the first lady an air of sophistication and separation. On the day when all cameras would be on her, Melania's classy look channeled the words of Clark Gable in "Gone with the Wind," signifying to the media she "doesn't give a damn."
A humorous scene from the Inauguration came when Trump leaned in to give Melania a kiss on the cheek but was hindered by the hat. She is untouchable, even by her own husband.
Tayte Christensen is a junior studying history. 

Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
