




USA Today Online
January 30, 2025 12:35 AM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Section: FACEBOOK NEWS & LAWSUITS NEWS
Length: 444 words
Byline: James Powel, Jessica Guynn and Amanda Lee Myers, USA TODAY
Body


Meta, the parent company of Facebook and Instagram, on Wednesday agreed to  by , according to court records obtained by USA TODAY.
 first reported that the company agreed to pay the plaintiffs a total of $25 million, with $22 million considered a donation to Trump's presidential library. USA TODAY was not able to immediately confirm the terms of the settlement.
"The parties have reached an agreement to settle the named plaintiffs’ individual claims and resolve this matter," Meta attorney Winn Allen wrote in a court filing Wednesday. "The parties will file a joint stipulation of dismissal with prejudice in the coming days."
The suit was brought after Facebook, , suspended Trump's account following the  that attempted to overthrow the 2020 election.
 reported that the settlement does not require Meta to admit wrongdoing.
Meta did not immediately respond to USA TODAY's request for confirmation of terms of the settlement on Wednesday. 
Settlement follows Zuckerberg's moves toward right
The settlement follows a  by Meta and its CEO Mark Zuckerberg, who began an earnings call with investors on Wednesday by applauding Trump's administration for supporting the tech industry and predicting that 2025 will be a major year for “redefining” the company’s relationships with governments, NBC News reported.
On Jan. 10, Meta canceled its  to align its social media company with the then-incoming administration and the so-called MAGA anti-"woke" movement.
“The term 'DEI' has also become charged, in part because it is understood by some as a practice that suggests preferential treatment of some groups over others," Janelle Gale, Meta's vice president of human resources, wrote in an employee memo .
The company also loosened restrictions on hate speech and  on Facebook, Instagram and Threads. 
Zuckerberg, , named  earlier this month and elevated prominent Republican Joel Kaplan to lead its global affairs operation.
At a press conference earlier this month at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida, Trump praised Meta for its recent moves, saying, “I think they’ve come a long way.” Asked if Meta was responding to threats he had made against the company and Zuckerberg, Trump said: “Probably.”
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
