



Newsweek.com
February 8, 2025 Saturday 11:57 AM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 970 words
Byline: Mandy Taheri
Highlight: Military branches have paused its sexual assault prevention training following President Trump's DEI executive order.
Body


Some military branches have paused sexual assault prevention trainings after President  signed an executive order on diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) as they review how it applies to their policies.
Newsweek has reached out to the Department of Defense (DOD) for comment and confirmation via email on Saturday.
Coast Guard veteran , who advocates for sexual assault awareness in the armed forces, called the move "troubling" in a phone interview with Newsweek on Saturday morning, warning it could create fear around reporting sexual crimes.
Why It Matters
Sexual assault and harassment in the military are significant concerns as thousands of service members are impacted annually.
The DOD reported that in 2023, nearly 25 percent of active-duty women and almost 6 percent of men experienced sexual harassment. The DOD received 8,515 reports of sexual assault in 2023. Estimates, however, are expected to be higher as many incidents go unreported.
The abrupt halt of sexual assault prevention training raises serious concerns about prevention efforts, the safety of service members, and reporting crimes.
What To Know
Shortly after taking office, Trump signed an executive order titled, "Ending Radical And Wasteful Government DEI Programs And Preferencing," effectively dismantling federal DEI programs.
Since then, agencies and departments have been working to interpret the order and implementation of specific terminology, with some military branches pausing sexual assault prevention trainings over the matter.
Earlier this week, a directive issued by the Marine Corps and obtained by The Los Angeles Times, said: "The fleet to PAUSE on all [Sexual Assault Prevention and Reporting] training due to recent changes within the White House to remove diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) from all federal policies." It is unclear what changes the DEI order requires in the training.
The U.S. Navy also paused its sexual assault prevention training, the Times and Defense One reported.
The Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (SAPR) program was established in 2005 and is "the central authority charged with preventing sexual assault in the military and facilitating recovery for warfighters," per its website. The pause applies to training programs but does not affect other SAPR offerings, including resources for victims. Reporting sexual assault and harassment processes remain unimpacted by the pause.
However, Krepp told Newsweek that any cessation of trainings "is troubling to me because sexual assaults are criminal activity, and they're criminal acts that have been committed against men and women. We're not talking about something that has to do with diversity, we're talking about criminal actions taken against men and women."
She noted that "a lot of people have struggled to report their crimes because of a fear of retaliation for reporting for the perception that they should be ashamed of reporting and what I don't want is for fear to return, because that will not stop crime."
Krepp added: "When you don't continue to address this, criminal activity continues."
Newsweek has also reached out to Service Women's Action Network, an advocacy organization for women in the armed forces, for comment via email on Saturday.
The pause comes shortly after  was confirmed as secretary of defense. Hegseth has been accused of sexual assault, allegations he has denied. During his confirmation hearing, he disclosed
A 22-page police report detailed allegations that Hegseth sexually assaulted a woman in a California hotel room in 2017. Hegseth told police at the time that the encounter had been consensual and denied any wrongdoing. No charges were filed.
Sexual crimes in the armed forces are not rare.
Last month, a  doctor . Major Michael Stockin, an anesthesiologist and pain management specialist at the Joint Base Lewis-McChord's Madigan Army Medical Center in Washington state, pleaded guilty to 36 specifications of abusive sexual contact and five of indecent viewing.
What People Are Saying 
Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, a New York Democrat who sits on the Senate Armed Services Committee, wrote on X, formerly Twitter, Friday: "According to reports, the Navy has paused its sexual assault prevention and response training. This is incredibly alarming. We worked for a decade to combat sexual assault in our ranks, resulting in historic reforms to our military justice system. Rest assured, I'm demanding answers, and I won't rest until I get them."
Representative Sara Jacobs, a California Democrat, wrote in a Friday X post: "I've heard reports the military branches paused sexual assault prevention and response trainings. That's horrific, against the law, and disastrous for our ability to recruit, retain, and protect women. @SecDef, you have some explaining to do. Stay tuned for my oversight letter.
Senator Elizabeth Warren, a Massachusetts Democrat, wrote in an X post in December: "In 2023, over 29,000 active-duty troops were sexually assaulted, including more than 6 in every 100 women in the military. Many servicemembers never report these crimes. The rates of assault are estimated to be up to 4x higher. Pete Hegseth must not be the Defense Secretary."
A spokesperson for the U.S. Navy told Defense One earlier this week the branch is "working to fully execute and implement all directives outlined in the Executive Orders issued by the President, ensuring that they are carried out with utmost professionalism, efficiency, and in alignment with national security objectives."
What Happens Next?
It is unclear how long the pause will last or what changes may be made to sexual assault prevention training.


Graphic

 
donald trump
Chen Mengtong/China News Service/VCG via AP
U.S. President Donald Trump speaks about the mid-air crash between American Airlines and a military helicopter at the White House on January 30, 2025 in Washington, DC.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Web Publication

Subject: ARMED FORCES (90%); DIVERSITY & INCLUSION (90%); DIVERSITY & INCLUSION REGULATION & POLICY (90%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY & FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); CRIME, LAW ENFORCEMENT & CORRECTIONS (89%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); CRIMINAL HARASSMENT (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (79%); GOVERNMENT BODIES & OFFICES (79%); NAVIES (79%); US NAVY (79%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SAFETY (78%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); News (%)

Company:  LOS ANGELES TIMES (66%)

Industry: NAICS513110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); ARMED FORCES (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (79%); NAVIES (79%); US NAVY (79%)

Person: DONALD TRUMP (90%)

Geographic: UNITED STATES (79%)

Load-Date: February 8, 2025


End of Document
