




The Times (London)
February 19, 2025 Wednesday
Edition 1, Ireland


Copyright 2025 Times Newspapers Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Pg. 16
Length: 597 words
Byline: Tom Witherow
Body


A foreign aid project paid £4 million to promote "inclusivity" and "youth-led storytelling" in global efforts to tackle pollution in the oceans.
The programme, Championing Inclusivity in Plastic Pollution (CHIPP), used British taxpayers' money to "build awareness" of pollution among young people in places such as India, Kenya and the Caribbean.
Despite targeting plastic pollution in seas and oceans, some countries that received cash - Zimbabwe and Uganda - are landlocked.
Another target country, the Democratic Republic of Congo, a country of close to a million square miles, has a maritime coastline of about 35 miles.
The Times has been examining the diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) industry across the public sector in a series of articles after President Trump took an axe to US-funded programmes. Searches by The Times on the government's public contracts website have revealed a slew of controversial projects abroad.
Last year the Foreign Office paid for a £110,000 conference on "preventing gender-based disinformation" in Kenya and set aside £10 million to enhance "gender and human development outcomes" in Nepal.
The five-year contract, which started last month, has "a clear ambition to mainstream gender, equity and social inclusion dimensions in the delivery of social services". Documents related to the contract said it had a "non-negotiable focus on human development outcomes", including "emphasis on women and girls and broader inclusion".
A private company won a £9.5 million contract to support "accountability and inclusion" in the war-torn Democratic Republic of Congo. One of the contract's core aims is to ensure "women and other marginalised groups" participate in running local services.
Another Foreign Office contract offered £575,000 to a contractor to support the Jordanian armed forces with its "gender mainstreaming strategy".
Contractors are also being hired to deliver diversity schemes and training in this country: UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) spent £11,000 on "conscious inclusion leadership training"; diversity training for staff at the Office for Nuclear Regulation cost £54,000; and Historic England, the body that advises on how to protect archaeology and historic buildings, was awarded an £18,000 contract for a diversity plan.
Joanna Marchong, investigations campaign manager of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "Taxpayers will think the scale of pointless projects funded by the government is a complete joke.
"Waste seems to run through every corner of the public sector, and hardworking Brits are only just seeing the tip of the iceberg. Ministers need to get serious, stop wasting cash on vanity projects and focus spending on fruitful change."
A government source said that the CHIPP programme "enabled eligible countries to participate" in the negotiations to end plastic pollution by 2040.
"The vast majority of these contracts were set up under the previous government," a government official said. "The upcoming spending review will ensure taxpayer money is focused firmly on the government's Plan for Change, getting the NHS back on its feet, rebuilding Britain and securing our borders."
Where diversity money went Up to £10 million to enhance "gender and human development outcomes" in Nepal.
£110,000 on conference on "preventing gender-based disinformation" in Kenya. £575,000 to support Jordan's army with its "gender mainstreaming strategy".
£25,000 to the South Downs National Park Authority to update diversity training that includes "unconscious bias".
£54,000 on diversity training at the Office for Nuclear Regulation.

Load-Date: February 19, 2025


End of Document
