




The Daily: Ball State University
February 12, 2025 Wednesday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 788 words
Body


Ivy Tech Community College is closing all diversity, equity and belonging offices across the state.
The move, announced Monday, is an effort to protect the community college's state and federal funding - both operational and for student financial aid - as Republican elected officials take aim at DEI programs.
But now that the office is closing, some students are concerned about how it could impact opportunities for students at a diverse campus like Ivy Tech, where enrollment data shows the majority of students are not white.
"If you look around, especially at Ivy Tech, there's so many different people," said Rahma Ahmed, a 23-year-old social work student. "It sucks."
Jazmine Mays hasn't had much interaction with the diversity office. But as someone who has a learning disability, she's disturbed by what she sees as efforts to make campus less welcoming for people from marginalized communities.
"It's all about making it harder for people who are different," the 24-year-old cybersecurity student said. "The whole point of DEI is just to protect people who are different."
Mirror Indy
Ivy Tech's Center for Intercultural Excellence is seen on Feb. 11, 2025, at Ivy Tech's Lawrence campus. The college announced that its office of diversity, equity and belonging, which is housed in the center, will close mid-March of this year. Credit: Jenna Watson/Mirror Indy
Gov. Mike Braun recently issued an executive order to end DEI programs in state government, though the order did not address programs on campuses. But state lawmakers are considering a bill that would prohibit DEI at state universities and colleges, such as Ivy Tech. Similarly President Donald Trump ordered that organizations, including colleges and universities, must agree to not fund DEI programs to receive federal grant money.
In Indianapolis, the Ivy Tech campus is the first to react to the national push to end diversity offices. Ivy Tech spokesperson Mary Jane Michalak said the college did not expect concerns about DEI to go away from state and federal government leaders - and the college did not want to risk losing funding.
"Many students rely on (financial aid) for living expenses in addition to their tuition," said Michalak, senior vice president of government and legal affairs at Ivy Tech. "We want to ensure that there is a continuation of the services and education that our students receive."
What Ivy Tech's DEI offices did
Across Ivy Tech's campuses, diversity staff hosted events to empower and celebrate marginalized communities. These events included everything from Black History Month celebrations to discussions about housing equity.
The office also focused on community outreach and helped connect students to supportive resources, such as disability and veteran services.
Michalak said that while student outreach and resources will remain a priority, other diversity or equity-focused events will be evaluated on a case by case basis going forward.
Mirror Indy
A student ambassador works a table during an event hosted by Ivy Tech's office of diversity, equity and belonging on Feb. 11, 2025, at Ivy Tech's Lawrence campus. The college announced that the office will close mid-March of this year. Credit: Jenna Watson/Mirror Indy
Though Ivy Tech will no longer have a diversity office or dedicated staff, Michalak said the college remains committed to fostering a welcoming environment.
"The welcome mat is still out at Ivy Tech," Michalak said. "Ivy Tech has a culture and values that include empathy and integrity, and we serve all students with respect."
The diversity office is slated to close March 12. Ivy Tech will eliminate 23 diversity positions statewide, including six staffers in Indianapolis.
Those employees will be able to apply for other jobs within the college, according to an email to students and staff from college president Sue Ellspermann.
Are you an Indianapolis college student, staff or faculty member? Claire Rafford covers higher education for Mirror Indy in partnership with Open Campus. Contact Claire at  or on Instagram/X/Bluesky @clairerafford.
Read More
Delaware County Athlete of the Week nominees
By Staff Reports
/
3 hours ago
Here are the Delaware County Athlete of the Week nominees from Monday, Feb. 3 to Saturday, Feb. 8.
Since opening in August 2024, Baryo has gained traction in the Muncie community
By Ella Howell
/
7 hours ago
Authentic Filipino restaurant in Muncie is enjoyed by locals and has attracted people from surrounding states.
'A hell of a play:' Ball State tops Eastern Michigan with Jermahri Hill's game-winning dunk in overtime
By Zach Carter
/
18 hours ago
Ball State defeated Eastern Michigan with a game-winning dunk from junior guard Jermahri Hill in overtime.
Comments

Load-Date: February 12, 2025


End of Document
