




Daily Nebraskan: University of Nebraska-Lincoln
January 31, 2025 Friday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 1360 words
Body


University of Nebraska-Lincoln commemorated Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King's legacy Tuesday with various MLK Week events featuring Harry Williams, president and CEO of the Thurgood Marshall College Fund, an organization that represents the public historically Black colleges and universities in the United States. 
Students, faculty and advocates focused on the impact of King's legacy amid concerns over the consequences of President Donald Trump's executive orders attacking Diversity Equity and Inclusion and the UNL's closure of its Office of Diversity and Inclusion in the fall semester.
Williams told Lincoln students and educators Tuesday to remain positive during what he called uncertain times.
"Be optimistic about America and be optimistic about this country," he said.
Event 1: Reflecting on the Legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. 
The commemoration began in the Sheldon Art Museum at 8:30 a.m. on Jan. 28 with an introduction to the day's events, followed by a meet-and-greet with Williams. 
Williams emphasized the need for people who prioritize others over material gain. He noted that King never profited from his advocacy and donated his Nobel Peace Prize award money of $54,000, or $500,000 in today's money, back to the movement. 
In recounting his daily drive past the National Mall in D.C., Williams said the monument reminds him of the impact one can make despite never being elected to office.
"He was never elected to anything, but he's there with Abraham Lincoln, who saved the union. He's there with Washington, who helped create this great country," he said.
Williams discussed the intersecting social and legal legacies of King, Malcolm X and Thurgood Marshall, the nation's first Black Supreme Court justice.
Williams said stories of leaders like King and Marshall remind him of the value education holds, inspiring his work through the Thurgood Marshall College Fund.
"The more people that we can get educated in this country, and the more people we can get in the middle class, the stronger this country will be," he said. "Our motto is that education changes lives, and education is the equalizer."
Jathesn Xretqalin, a junior advertising and public relations major, said she attended the event because of her views on the current political climate. 
"In today's political landscape, it's incredibly polarized with the rising signs of the neo-Nazi movement, the rising signs of the pro-right and just how there is this huge effort to silence efforts and activities and events and programs that would fall under diversity, equity and inclusion," she said. 
Xretqalin said her view on King's legacy is different from the one often taught in schools. 
"In his time, he was disliked. He was hated. People deviated to support him because he was such a polarizing, controversial figure, even though he was incredibly pacifist," she said. "MLK, to me, is not only an inspiration, but I think it's also a warning sign. It's also a constant reminder that there's some things that haven't changed." 
Event 2: Intersection of MLK and Thurgood Marshall- A Legal Perspective
The UNL College of Law hosted the day's next event over the lunch hour with a lecture from Williams about the lives of King and Marshall through a legal perspective, then finished off with a Q&A. Williams advised law students on continuing those leaders' legacies in their professions. 
The Daily Nebraskan was unable to attend the event at the UNL College of Law due to scheduling conflicts.
Event 3: Leadership for the Future- Carrying Forward the Dream
After accepting the 'Fulfilling the Dream' award Tuesday night, Williams asked the Swanson Auditorium crowd to reflect on what they would do if they knew they had only 39 years on Earth - the length of King's life.
"We are living in some really difficult times where people are afraid to make bold and courageous decisions," he said.
However, Williams told the audience he is optimistic about the future.
"We're going to be okay because we've been here before," he said.
Williams said reflection on King's legacy can help direct our path forward as the U.S. continues to progress since the Civil Rights Movement.
"People died for the rights that we have today, and we have to continue to remind people of the importance of taking days like this out of our busy schedule to reflect on where we've been and where we're going," he said.
Williams said King stressed the importance of education as the ultimate equalizer. The Thurgood Marshall College Fund helps support 54 member schools, as historically Black colleges and universities taught students who went on to become the nation's greatest civil rights leaders, he said.
"If we did not have those institutions that were set out to provide educational opportunities, where would we be," Williams questioned. "There would be no Thurgood Marshall or Langston Hughes, because it's those educational institutions that sparked the intellectual opportunity for them to grow and see what they can become."
Williams said the opportunity for growth is why it's important to protect the right to education, allowing students to reach their full potential. 
The need for MLK week
Recent cutbacks to DEI policies and national observances of Black History Month, Holocaust Remembrance Day, and other culturally-linked celebrations at the federal level provide uncertainty about the future of the holiday, but Chatters and Williams emphasized its significance. 
The event organizer, Lawrence Chatters, director of community partnerships and strategic initiatives in the Office of the Chancellor, said he recognizes the importance of events like these in times of civil unrest.
"When you consider how turbulent things have been at times over the course of the history of our country, there's always those threads of positivity, empathy and care for each other that hold us together during those times," Chatters said.
Chatters said Williams' visit connected him with students and faculty. Hosting an event dedicated to the remembrance of King's positive impact through nonviolent responses is important amid current uncertainty, Chatters said. 
Xretqalin said she's noticed unease among students who relied on ODI programs in her work at the Institute for Inclusive Innovation, recently moved to the Office of Student Life after ODI's closure. 
"Some students, from what I know personally, did not want to come back to school or did not think that the University of Nebraska-Lincoln system is a feasible education anymore," she said.
Xretqalin said people often don't realize that, while their numbers may be fewer, the students of color at UNL endure hardships that the majority of the student body does not.
"They have to have a higher sense of tolerance. They have to withstand much more mentally, physically, emotionally and academically too," she said. 
Xretqalin said this weight contributes to Nebraska's "brain drain." 
"There's so many brilliant minds that have left because of the stagnation that's happening," she said. 
She said she sees a need for community and safe spaces and a need for diversity, equity and inclusion. 
"If they want to see a better Nebraska, stronger Nebraska, 'the good life,' per se, they should be actively working towards it instead of disbanding things that are actually helping them progress," she said. 
At both the state and federal levels, Xretqalin said the issues currently dividing people highlight a pressing need for stronger community connections.
"I believe this is a moment to unite, a moment to collaborate and offer those spaces that are being taken away from us," Xretqalin said. 
Williams said the MLK events served as an opportunity to "pause for a day to reflect on his legacy" and then refocus the attention on continued progress.
"This is part of the evolution of our growth, because we are still evolving as a country, even though we're only 200 and some odd years in, we're still young and we're still evolving around this democracy," Williams said.
Events to come
Resilience MLK Banquet hosted by the Afrikan People's Union on Feb. 7, 6:30 p.m.
"Dream Lives On: A MLK Legacy Speech Competition"hosted by The Jackie Gaughan Multicultural Center


Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
