




The Independent (United Kingdom)
January 25, 2025 Saturday 7:57 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Independent Print Ltd  All Rights Reserved


Section: MILITARY NEWS
Length: 414 words
Byline: Tara Copp
Body


 The  has removed training courses with videos of its storied Tuskegee Airmen and the Women Airforce Service Pilots, or WASPs - the female World War II pilots who played a vital role in ferrying warplanes for the military - to comply with the Trump administration's crackdown on diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives.
The videos were shown to Air Force troops as part of DEI courses they took during their basic military training.
In a statement, the Air Force confirmed the courses with those videos had been removed and said it "will fully execute and implement all directives outlined in the Executive Orders issued by the , ensuring that they are carried out with utmost professionalism, efficiency and in alignment with national security objectives."
The problem may not be with the historical videos themselves, but that they were used in Air Force basic military training DEI coursework. However, the lack of clearer guidance has sent the Air Force and other agencies scrambling to take the broadest approach to what content is removed to make sure they are in compliance.
The Tuskegee Airmen, known as the "Red Tails" were the nation's first  military pilots who served in a segregated WWII unit and their all-Black 332nd Fighter Group had one of the lowest loss records of all the bomber escorts in the war. 
They flew P-47 Thunderbolt, P-51 Mustang and other fighters to escort American bombers on dangerous missions over Germany. Before the fighter escorts began accompanying the slow and heavy U.S. bombers, losses were catastrophic due to getting dive-bombed by German aircraft. 
President George W. Bush awarded the Tuskegee Airmen the Congressional Gold Medal in a ceremony at the Capitol Rotunda in 2007.
In 2020, in his State of the Union address, President  announced he had promoted one of the last surviving Tuskegee Airmen, Charles McGee, to brigadier general. McGee died in 2022 at the age of 102.
The WASPs contributed to World War II by learning to fly and ferry brand new bombers off the assembly lines to airfields where they were needed to ship off to war - freeing up male pilots to focus on combat missions overseas. They earned the right to be buried in Arlington National Cemetery just in the last decade. 
The Air Force, like other branches, has recently tried to broaden the number of people they reach to consider military careers like aviation that historically have had few minority service members in their ranks. 
___

Load-Date: January 26, 2025


End of Document
