




The Independent (United Kingdom)
February 26, 2025 Wednesday 3:32 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Independent Print Ltd  All Rights Reserved


Section: US NEWS
Length: 486 words
Byline: Madeline Sherratt and Rhian Lubin
Body


 has fired more than 100 U.S. spies after sexually explicit chats were unearthed on an official  instant messaging forum. 
The U.S.  of national  confirmed she has dismissed agents across 15 different spy agencies after the "disgusting" messages came to light, casually discussing fetishes, artificial genitalia, group sex and more. 
Agents involved in the chats were from the NSA, CIA, and DIA, according to the conservative journalist and activist Christopher Rufo of the , which first reported the dismissals. 
"There are over 100 people from across the intelligence community that contributed to and participated in... what is really just an egregious violation of trust. What to speak of, like basic rules and standards around professionalism", Gabbard told Fox News host Jesse Watters on  Tuesday night.
The messages at the heart of the controversy stem from a series of  groups on the NSA's Interlink Messenger, titled "LBTQA" and "IC_Pride_TWG," according to Rufo.
One explicit exchange included a discussion about an individual who had undergone genital reconstructive surgery and discussed intercourse.
Another agent, according to screengrabs shared by Rufo, said that the surgery allowed them to "wear leggings or bikinis without having to wear a [protective piece of clothing] under it." 
The conversation also veered toward laser hair removal. "Getting my b***hole zapped by a laser was...shocking." 
"Look, I just enjoy helping other people experience boobs," another message about estrogen injections said. 
The Independent hascontacted the Office of National Intelligence and the NSA for comment.
The NSA confirmed in a  it was aware of the "inappropriate" posts within its intelligence community and was investigating. 
"IC collaboration platforms are intended to drive mission outcomes," the statement said. "Potential misuse of these platforms by a small group of individuals does not represent the community. Investigations to address this misuse of government systems are ongoing." 
Gabbard said that she was continuing with her "mission to clean house" following in toe 
"This behavior is unacceptable and those involved WILL be held accountable," Gabbard posted on X. "These disgusting chat groups were immediately shut down when @POTUS issued his EO ending the DEI insanity the Biden Admin was obsessed with. Our IC must be focused on our core mission: ensuring the safety, security, and freedom of the American people." 
Gabbard's spokesperson Alexa Henning separately announced in a post on X that intelligence agencies have been asked to unmask the guilty employees involved in the "obscene, pornographic, and sexually explicit" chatrooms, by Friday at the latest.
Musk chimed in on the controversy too. "Well, at least we know what they did last week," the billionaire quipped. 

Load-Date: February 26, 2025


End of Document
