




The Daily Athenaeum: West Virginia University
January 31, 2025 Friday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 356 words
Body


West Virginia Gov. Patrick Morrisey released a statement Friday in response to WVU's announcement of the closure of its Division of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Thursday.
Morrisey praised WVU for the closure, calling it a "win" for the state. 
"West Virginia University announced that it was eliminating its division of DEI. This is a big win for the Mountain State. I want to applaud WVU for the actions that it's taken. ... I know there's always a lot of pressure to do the wrong thing here in West Virginia. We're going to do the right thing, and we're going to make sure that West Virginia always stands for freedom, the rule of law and the American ideal," he said in a video posted to X.
The University announced the closure of the DEI Office via a release sent to students' WVU MIX emails. The announcement referenced Morrisey's Jan. 14 Executive Order 3-25, "Ordering cessation of DEI," which bans all state institutions and agencies from using state funding or resources for DEI staff positions, activities, procedures or programs. 
The closure also comes as a result of an executive order issued by President Donald Trump on Jan. 20, titled "Ending Radical And Wasteful Government DEI Programs And Preferencing," according to the release.
The release also announced the creation of the Division of Engagement and Compliance, which will comply with federal and state guidelines and requirements under Title IX and the Americans with Disabilities Act.
Morrisey said the executive order is part of his mission to "eradicate the woke virus in the schools." 
"Several weeks ago, I came to you during my inaugural address to talk about how we needed to eradicate the woke virus in the schools. We emphasized the importance of getting rid of DEI out of West Virginia state government. The very next day, I issued a series of executive orders, one of which was to eliminate DEI out of state government," he said. 
Morrisey said his office will continue to disband DEI initiatives in the coming months. 
"This is just the beginning of our effort to root out DEI. That's going to happen more and more in the weeks and months ahead," he said. 

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
