




Targeted News Service
February 5, 2025 Wednesday 9:20 AM  EST


Copyright 2025 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved


Length: 1656 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


Public Employees for Environmental Responsibility issued the following news release:
* * *
Most Sidelined Federal Diversity Staff and Others Should Be Allowed Back to Work
CONTACT
Peter Jenkins (202) 265-4189 
OPM's "Deferred Resignation" Administrative Leave Plan Is a Sham
Washington, DC -- Federal government agencies must allow most of their shunted-aside Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) staff to return to active work status on Thursday, February 6, according to a letter sent to the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) and House and Senate oversight committees. Otherwise, the agencies will be in violation of the Administrative Leave Act of 2016 (ALA), which succinctly states, with no exceptions: "During any calendar year, an agency may place an employee in administrative leave for a period of not more than a total of 10 work days."
OPM's "Guidance Memorandum" of January 21 implemented one of President Trump's first actions. It aimed at eliminating all DEI staff government-wide, stating that effective the next day, January 22, all such staff must be placed on "administrative leave effective immediately." The 10 work days allowed under the ALA will lapse effective Thursday, February 6. According to PEER's letter, all agencies then must allow their DEI employees who were placed on leave then to return to active work status until a proposed adverse action against them, such as removal or else a Reduction in Force (RIF), is effectuated, unless they are formally placed on investigative or notice leave. However, the legality of a RIF applied only to those staffers is highly doubtful. Under federal personnel law, numerous procedural steps are required to complete either an adverse action or a RIF; it is very unlikely the agencies have taken all those steps since January 22.
"Any DEI employee who is left on administrative leave by their agency, and who is willing to fight back, starting this Thursday, should consider explicitly pointing out the illegality of their continued leave, in writing, to their supervisors and to the Office of Special Counsel," said Peter Jenkins, PEER's Senior Counsel. "They also should, if they wish, state they are willing to return to work; that may help them in their future legal cases challenging the vicious, arbitrary actions taken against them at President Trump's bidding."
Many Environmental Justice (EJ) staff have also been placed on administrative leave, as well as other employees government-wide. The same 10-day limit arguments also applies to them.
The PEER letter to OPM also points out the flimsy nature of the conditioned offer of 8 months of paid administrative leave for federal employees who accept OPM's highly controversial "deferred resignation" offer. Agencies that actually gave 8 months of paid leave would be in gross violation of the ALA's 10-day limit. Future interventions by a federal court or Congress could simply invalidate OPM's paid leave offer. And, per OPM's guidance, agencies can choose not to give administrative leave in the first place - or they can revoke it.
"Ultimately, the courts, administrative law judges, and Congress must act as a check against this Trump-Musk-driven lawlessness," Jenkins continued. "Until then, federal agencies that blindly follow OPM's dictates are on notice that they're violating the Administrative Leave Act."
###
Background: After the 10 work days limit on administrative leave ends, civil servants may be placed on investigative leave under the ALA, but only if serious misconduct is alleged against them that requires investigation, which does not apply to the DEI staffers. Notice leave can be applied to an individual when the agency has already decided to take an adverse personnel action against them. But agencies cannot apply either investigative or notice leave to any individual unless the agency first determines they would pose a threat to other employees or their presence would otherwise jeopardize the agency's functioning. Such findings are implausible for the DEI employees.
Read the Administrative Leave Act of 2016:
* 10 work days
* Notice period
See OPM's Guidance Regarding DEI/EJ staff:
* Initial Guidance Regarding DEIA Executive Orders
* Memorandum to Heads and Acting Heads of Departments and Agencies: Guidance Regarding RIFs of DEIA Offices
View analysis of OPM's illusory "deferred resignation"
See Trump's initial attacks on the Federal workforce
* * *
February 4, 2025
Charles Ezell, Acting Director
U.S. Office of Personnel Management
1900 E Street, NW
Washington, DC 20415-1000
FEDERAL EXPRESS
Re: Federal Civil Service Employees Placed on Administrative Leave
Dear Mr. Ezell,
Public Employees for Environmental Responsibility (PEER) has long been closely involved with OPM on the topic of administrative leave (AL). We represented the plaintiffs, and were a co-plaintiff, in the litigation that pushed your agency to issue the final AL regulations in December of last year.1 We are very familiar with the details of the Administrative Leave Act of 2016 (ALA). We are writing to urge you to halt and correct a number of misuses of AL that your agency has announced in recent decisions about treatment of federal civil servants.
Paid Administrative Leave is Strictly Limited by Law
The ALA succinctly provides, without exception (emphasis added):
5 U.S. Code Sec. 6329a
(b)Administrative Leave.--
(1)In general.--
During any calendar year, an agency may place an employee in administrative leave for a period of not more than a total of 10 work days.
At the expiration of the 10 work days, then Sec. 6329b may apply, allowing for investigative or notice leave, but only in appropriate cases:
(b)(3)Duration of leave.--
(A)Investigative leave.--Upon the expiration of the 10 work day period described in section 6329a(b)(1) with respect to an employee, and if an agency determines that an extended investigation of the employee is necessary, the agency may place the employee in investigative leave for a period of not more than 30 work days.
(B)Notice leave.--Placement of an employee in notice leave shall be for a period not longer than the duration of the notice period.
Investigative and notice leave are defined under subsection Sec. 6329b. The former applies in cases of investigation of misconduct and the latter applies when there has already been a determination to take an adverse action against the employee. A civil servant may only be placed on investigative leave under the ALA when serious misconduct is alleged against them that requires investigation. And agencies cannot apply either investigative or notice leave to any individual unless the agency first determines they would pose a threat to other employees or their presence would otherwise jeopardize the agency's functioning (Sec. 6329b(b)(2)).
There is absolutely no provision in the ALA for allowing a federal civil servant to remain on AL for more than 10 work days. Further, the preamble to OPM's new regulations further defining AL, issued on December 17, 2024 (but which are not in effect yet as far as agency compliance, pending
each agency's own separate rulemaking), specifical emphasizes that still the:
Agencies are responsible for compliance with time limits provided for in the Act,...89 Fed. Reg. at 10,2257.
OPM's "Guidance Memorandum" of January 21, implementing one of President Trump's first actions, aimed at eliminating all Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) staffs across the federal agencies. It provided that effective the next day, January 22, all such employees were to be placed on "administrative leave effective immediately". For those employees, the 10 work days allowed under the ALA will lapse effective Thursday, February 6.
Unless the individual DEI employees are formally placed on investigative or notice leave, all agencies then must allow them to return to active work status unless or until a proposed adverse action against them, such as removal, is completed, or a Reduction in Force (RIF), is completed. The "threat" or "jeopardy" findings necessary for imposing investigative or notice leave to keep them out of their workplaces are highly unlikely for any of the DEI employees. Further, the legality of a RIF applied just to those employees is highly doubtful; the last two weeks has not been enough time for the processes needed for a proper RIF applied to those individuals to take place.
The above arguments also should be considered with respect to the vast number of other federal staff who have recently been placed on AL since January.
The Deferred Resignation Offer of Administrative Leave is Improper
The other major recent OPM action of concern is the "Fork in the Road" deferred resignation offer of January 28. Its vague and conditional promises of paid AL are deceptive as, again, under the ALA, agencies are only allowed to place employees on AL for 10 work days in a calendar year. Based on the above analysis, you must rescind the assertions about paying up to 8 months of AL in that offer. The damage the federal agencies may cause by providing illegal paid AL to potentially hundreds of thousands of employees is almost incalculable.
We will look forward to your prompt response to this letter and OPM's public announcement of corrections in its improper use of AL as shown above.
Sincerely,
Peter T. Jenkins, Senior Counsel
CCs:
Chairman James Comer and Gerald E. Connolly, Ranking Member, U.S. House of Representatives, Oversight and Government Reform Committee
Chairman Rand Paul and Gary Peters, Ranking Member, U.S. Senate, Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs
1 See PEER press release of December 17, 2024: Feds Finally Regulate Administrative and Investigative Leave, at: / .
* * *
Original text here: /
[Category: Environment]
Copyright Targeted News Services
MSTRUCK-9034869 MSTRUCK

Load-Date: February 5, 2025


End of Document
