




The Daily Caller
February 17, 2025 Monday 03:37 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: DAILY-CALLER-NEWS-FOUNDATION; us
Length: 490 words
Byline: Ireland Owens, Contributor, 
Body



A majority of Americans think that U.S. foreign aid is being wasted, according to a new survey from the Financial Times.
Of those surveyed, more than 60% believe that funding set aside for humanitarian aid was being “wasted on corruption or administration fees,”  to the survey published Monday. The survey's findings comes amid growing  surrounding wasteful spending across several federal agencies, including the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID).
USAID has come under fire recently amid growing reports of the agency wasting  of taxpayer dollars to disburse funds for various costly international programs, some of which had high  of ending up in the Taliban's hands. The fate of USAID is currently unclear after the Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE)'s   on Feb. 3 that he and President Donald Trump had agreed to overturn the structure of the government agency.
“It's a completely unresponsive agency. It's supposed to respond to policy directives with the State Department, and it refuses to do so,” Secretary of State Marco Rubio  reporters on Feb 3. “Every dollar we spend and every program we fund, that program will be aligned with the national interest of the United States. USAID has a history of sort of ignoring that.”

(Photo by Kevin Dietsch/Getty Images)
Shortly after returning to the Oval Office on Jan. 20, Trump signed an  to pause  for foreign aid, leading to  from many Democratic lawmakers. Still, some Democrats have expressed  for decreasing foreign aid funding. 
DOGE's ongoing  to eliminate  across the federal government have been  by many voters and Republican lawmakers who have been  for various government agencies to cut out  spending.
Musk has been a vocal  of USAID over the past several weeks, writing in a Monday  on X that the agency “was funding DEI abroad while America goes broke at home.”
Notably, while foreign aid agencies like USAID have sent  to aid countries overseas, the U.S. has struggled with faltering  and various   such as  wages. USAID appropriated more than $40 billion in foreign aid in fiscal year 2023,  to the Congressional Research Service.
A methodology for the FT poll was not available at the time of writing.
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Graphic

 
(Photo by J. David Ake/Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 26, 2025


End of Document
