




CNN Wire
February 3, 2025 Monday 10:55 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Cable News Network All Rights Reserved
Length: 627 words
Byline: By Meghan Pryce, CNN
Dateline: (CNN) 
Body


             Editor's Note: CNN's 5 Things newsletter is your one-stop shop for the latest headlines and fascinating stories to start and end your busy day. 
Welcome to 5 Things PM! A growing number of skiers are skipping the lift, choosing to power up the mountain in the snow. The , attracting those in search of a good workout and giving a new meaning to leg day.
Here's what else you might have missed during your busy day:
5 things
1   Motives of arsonists: Why do people deliberately set fires? There's no such thing as a typical arsonist, and the reasons can sometimes be dark and surprising. But there is  in order to tackle it.
2   Target's reversal: The company was one of the most outspoken supporters of diversity and inclusion initiatives. Less than five years after its vow, . The switch is symbolic of a broader pivot across corporate America.
3   'No Buy 2025': When the world is in turmoil, it's easy to impulse spend. But many Americans are pushing back against overconsumption and  - or even nothing beyond essentials - as they lose faith that the economy will get any better.
4   Defining obesity: For years, medical experts have used body mass index to determine a person's health risks. A new definition proposed by a global commission could change medical care for millions of adults. 
5   A forgotten talent: Edmond Dede was the first Black American to compose a full opera, but he never got to see his work brought to life on stage. The score was thought to have been lost, but a chance discovery of the manuscript presented an opportunity. Now, after 138 years, .
Watch this
Super Bowl ads: It's less than one week away from the big game - and the star-studded commercials. From Doja Cat and Taco Bell to Post Malone and Shane Gillis for Bud Light, .
Top headlines
· Trump pauses Canada and Mexico tariffs. ·  as humanitarian agency is taken over by the State Department·  as investigators review new information
Check this out
Journey to the moon: The Blue Ghost lunar lander captured stunning images from space, including footage of Earth eclipsing the moon. 
Quotable
Oscars controversy: The star of "Emilia Perez" says she is  despite the resurfacing of offensive social media posts. In an interview with CNN, she apologized "to all the people who may have felt offended."
Quiz time
 Cities across the globe are becoming far rattier, and the boom is primarily driven by climate change. Which city experienced some of the biggest growth?
A. New OrleansB. LouisvilleC. TorontoD. Tokyo   Scroll down for the answer.
Good vibes
'You don't have to work anymore': WNBA star Angel Reese gave her mother a birthday gift so shocking that she almost dropped her cake. The Chicago Sky forward paid off her mother's mortgage, revealing the surprise on her podcast. Reese later called it a "dream come true." 
Thanks for reading
 We'll see you tomorrow.   Quiz answer: C. New Orleans, Louisville and Tokyo actually saw . Meanwhile, Washington DC, San Francisco, Toronto, New York City and Amsterdam experienced the biggest growth. Check out all of .
5 Things PM is produced by CNN's Kimberly Richardson and Eduarda Speggiorin.         
             By Meghan Pryce, CNN         
TM & © 2025 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.

Load-Date: March 12, 2025


End of Document
