




MailOnline
February 21, 2025 Friday 5:30 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: MEDIA; Version:1
Length: 1436 words
Byline: Alex Hammer For Dailymail.Com
Body


                     NBCUniversal has agreed to settle a $30 million defamation suit filed by a Georgia gynecologist after on-air talents - including Rachel Maddow - falsely labeled him a 'uterus collector.'
Dr. Mahendra Amin sued in September 2021 after NBCU hosts like MSNBC's Maddow reported claims he performed 'mass hysterectomies' on ICE center detainees with impunity - allegations that later turned out to be false.
Documents filed in the US District Court for the Southern District of Georgia Thursday show how MSNBC's parent has since agreed to settle - with talks about a number now underway.
'The parties are diligently working to finalize the language of the settlement agreement,' a notice stated, after a Georgia judge already ruled that Maddow, Chris Hayes and Nicole Wallace all made 'verifiably false' statements about the doctor.
The ruling was made in July, and allowed the long-in-limbo case to go to court. 
NBC News correspondents Jacob Soboroff and Julia Ainsley also contributed to the reporting, stating the gynecologist, who had been working in a Georgia immigration facility, performed 'mass hysterectomies' on women even when unnecessary. 
A hysterectomy is a surgical procedure that removes the uterus of a woman and renders them infertile. The claims were brought to the NBCU-owned networks by a nurse named Dawn Wooten - who later admitted it was all made up.
Evidence presented during discovery such as texts, emails and conference calls went on to she shed light on NBCUniversal's questionable editorial standards, and how they failed to halt Hayes, Maddow, and Wallace from airing their unfounded segments.
: 
'When I met all these women who had had surgeries, I thought this was like an experimental concentration camp,' Maddow said during her September 2020 broadcast on Amin's practice, quoting detainees and Wooten at their word.
'The nurse says she and her fellow nurses, quote, questioned among ourselves like, "Goodness - he's taking everybody's stuff out. That's his specialty, he's the uterus collector.
'"He's taking all their uteruses out or he's taking their tubes out."
'What in the world?' Maddow went on to ask, years before court documents filed by NBCU's lawyers would insist she 'initially questioned reporting on the allegations.'
'I should tell you that these allegations from this whistleblower [Wooten] are not isolated,' she added.
Citing Soboroff and Ainsley's reporting, Maddow then declared that 'NBC News has spoken to four different lawyers who represent women who were detained in [the ICE federal facility, the Irwin County Detention Center in Ocilla, Georgia].
'They are making similar claims,' Maddow went on, weeks before Trump would be voted out of office. 
'One of the lawyers represents two women who were detained at the facility who say they received hysterectomies that they believe may have been unnecessary.
'Another lawyer represents a woman who says she went to this doctor's office [referring to Amin] for an exam. The exam left her with bruising. 
'An attorney for the doctor against whom these allegations have been made says his client, quote, "vigorously denies these allegations and will be cleared of any wrongdoing when the facts come out,"' Maddow continued. 
'For its part, ICE - Immigrations and Customs Enforcement - refused to comment on those allegations made by the reporters at NBC News,' she concluded.
Her sidekick Hayes, recently ridiculed on SNL for his resemblance to the female anchor, on his own show teased his interview with Wooten as 'shocking whistleblower allegations of atrocities at an ICE detention center.'
The promo falsely insisted that Amin had 'forced hysterectomies on women who don't need them.' 
'What was your job at this facility when did you start working there,' Hayes asked the nurse, who was joined by her lawyer.
The women went on to explain how she had been first employed at the center as a nurse in 2010, before being brought back on 'three on three different occasions.'
'I returned in 2014, worked until 2016, came back in 2010,' she explained. 'I was a nurse there - medication nurse.'
During the interview, the nurse explained how the untrue information came from detained women - all of which ended up being hearsay: 'On numerous occasions [detainees] would come to me and say, "Ms. Wooten - I had a hysterectomy."
'I had no answers as to why they had those procedures.
'One lady walked up to me this time last year... And she said that [Amin was known as] the uterus collector. He collects uteruses.
'And I asked her what does she mean,' she recalled, doing the interview remotely at a time where illegal immigration was a national talking point and the US was in the throes of the pandemic.
'She says, "Everybody that I talk to has had a hysterectomy." And you just don't know what to say.'
Wooten herself filed a legal complaint, further claiming officials were denying Covid-19 tests to immigrants and shredded records. 
At the time, Wooten and other Americans were protesting the ICE facility, with some likening it and others like it to a 'camp.' 
This was after she faced disciplinary action after openly airing the claims and was told she no longer had a full-time position.
Before the claims from the single mother were found to be false, Chris Scholl, NBCUniversal's deputy director of standards, questioned the veracity of the lawsuit.
 'The guy has a pretty clean record,' Scholl said of Amin during a conference call with Hayes the day after both broadcasts, according to notes released in the since-settled filing. 
Scholl added how Wooten 'has no direct knowledge of this stuff' and could 'have a beef'.
'We just don't know if any of this is true,' the filing credited him as saying, while revealing that he openly declared that he 'had no idea whether Wooten's claims were accurate, and whether or not Amin was a "a good doctor or a shitty doctor."
'We don't know the facts here,' Scholl continued - to which a listening Hayes replied: 'Right, right, right, right.'
In response, Hayes added how both he and Maddow 'initially questioned reporting on the allegations,' and suggested there was a lot of 'jumping to conclusions around the complaint'.
They both covered it anyway. In addition, Hayes did a second segment on the subject later in the week.
Also jumping to conclusions was Wallace, who hosted Ainsley on a White House-heavy addition of Deadline to openly discuss Wooten's false claims.
Again, Ainsley attributed the information to 'four lawyers' representing those same women, none of whom were named.
In internal correspondence revealed during discovery, she too expressed doubt about the story's truth- after Soboroff wrote to her in a text that an immigration attorney he spoke with offered 'mixed feelings' about Wooten. 
Ainsley, in response, expressed concern at the small number of procedures Amin was alleged to perform.
'Just two hysterectomies?' she wrote to Soboroff on September 15, 2020 - the day of the Maddow and Hayes broadcasts. 
Amin, a year later, filed his lawsuit against NBCUniversal, alleging he was falsely portrayed as 'an abusive, unethical, and dishonest physician who treated and operated on immigrant women in an abusive fashion.' 
He also sought to quash the claims he did any operations 'without consent, and [had been] motivated by profit instead of quality healthcare.'
In her July ruling, a judge, Lisa Godbey Wood of the Southern District, found that Maddow, Hayes and Wallace made 39 'verifiably false' allegations about Amin.
The judgment paved the way for pretrial proceedings, which are now at an end following Thursday's filing revealing NBCU's willingness to settle. 
The decision comes days after FCC Chairman Brendan Carr ordered a federal investigation into Comcast and its NBCUniversal operations, focused on the telecommunication firm's DEI initiatives and practices. 
It also comes days after CNN agreed to settle a defamation suit with an Army vet they erroneously painted as profiting off of the 2021 pullout of Afghanistan - one of Joe Biden's first moves in office.
Maddow, meanwhile, was among those deposed for the Amin defamation suit, which was widely overlooked by mainstream media outlets.
News of the settlement, moreover, was first reported by The Washington Post's Jeremy Barr. A number has not been made public.
Meanwhile, SpinCo - a newly created spinoff of some of NBCU and Comcast's channels - is currently discussing how to properly separate MSNBC and CNBC from NBC News. 
MSNBC, CNBC, and networks like USA, CNBC, MSNBC, Oxygen, E!, SYFY and the Golf Channel will go the new company, while Comcast will retain NBCUniversal assets like NBC and NBC News.

Load-Date: February 21, 2025


End of Document
