




MailOnline
February 1, 2025 Saturday 1:05 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: MEDIA; Version:1
Length: 757 words
Byline: Samantha Rutt For Dailymail.Com
Body


READ MORE: Trump obliterates DEI with new demand to place agents on leave
A former FBI agent appeared on MSNBC on Friday to claim America is 'becoming less safe' as the federal agency was seen painting over a 'diversity wall.'
Frank Figliuzzi, 62, a former assistant director for counterintelligence at the Federal Bureau of Investigation, appeared on MSNBC's The Beat with Ari Mebler on Friday to claim the country is becoming more unsafe 'very quickly'. 
The former federal agent referred to a picture, published by the New York Times, in which a person can be seen painting over a colorful wall of words Figliuzzi said represent 'the FBI's core values.'
'The New York Times put out a photo today of the walls of Quantico, the FBI academy, where they were painting over the FBI's core values to include integrity, adherence to the Constitution and diversity,' he said.
                     Fairness, compassion, diversity and respect are just some of the words that were painted over with a much duller, gray color.
'A less diverse FBI is a less effective FBI,' he claimed.
Figliuzzi went on to list a few very specific instances that he thinks 'would not work' without having a more diverse federal agency.
'Try doing surveillance on the street in the inner city with two white guys,' he said. 'Try working undercover in a Middle Eastern terror organization with a white guy ... it doesn't work that way.'
'So, we're becoming less and less safe, very quickly,' Figliuzzi added. 'Any semblance of diversity and inclusion is literally being wiped off the map.'
Trump signed the sweeping executive order on January 21. 
The order addresses diversity, equity, and inclusion programs in the private sector, affirmative action programs by government contractors, and affirmative action in higher education and other educational agencies.
The executive direction seeks to end diversity, equity and inclusion programs and affirmative action programs that 'violate the text and spirit' of civil rights laws and 'undermine the traditional values of hard work, excellence, and individual achievement.'
The executive order revokes four prior executive orders stretching back to 1965, while leaving in place certain earlier orders relating to non-discrimination and equal protection.
Social media users have since spoken out about the controversial order penned by the 47th President, with some claiming the newly installed directive is 'symbolic' of what's to come.
'MSNBC's meltdown over the end of DEI programs in the FBI is a perfect example of the left's obsession with identity politics over actual competence and safety,' one user wrote on X. 
The same user added: 'The viral photo of someone painting over a DEI mural isn't just symbolic; it's a declaration that the FBI should focus on catching criminals, not chasing political correctness.'
Another called the 'entire narrative' 'too funny.' 
'This entire narrative is too funny,' the user wrote, adding, 'Saying Trump is getting rid of all the minority agents. FALSE. As he is actively trying to confirm a "non white guy" as the Director. Who all the Democrats are slandering and foaming at the mouth over.'
Another chimed in writing: 'Hiring will be based on merit, rather than skin color. So are these guys on MSNBC saying people of color won't be hired now, because of this? If so, that is an interesting take.'
The new Trump administration sent a letter to all heads and acting heads of government agencies on January 21, informing them all federal employees in DEI roles must be placed on paid leave by 5 pm the following day.
The letter first obtained by CBS News, said the agencies were ordered to 'take prompt actions' against all departments 'focusing exclusively on DEI initiatives and programs.'
The letter also demanded all public DEI focused webpages be taken offline, and orders employees within the departments to report 'any efforts to disguise these programs by using coded or imprecise language.'
Any employees that are aware of 'coded or imprecise language' intended to keep DEI programs alive but do not report them within 10 days are warned of 'adverse consequences.'
                     Trump's executive order, titled 'Ending Radical and Wasteful Government DEI Programs and Preferencing and Initial Rescissions of Harmful Executive Orders and Actions', directly reverses a DEI executive order enacted by President Biden on his first day in office four years ago.
The order concludes: 'These programs divided Americans by race, wasted taxpayer dollars, and resulted in shameful discrimination.'

Load-Date: February 1, 2025


End of Document
