



MailOnline
January 26, 2025 Sunday 7:48 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: MEDIA; Version:2
Length: 760 words
Byline: Rachel Bowman For Dailymail.Com
Body


MSNBC contributor Elie Mystal ranted about President Donald Trump's first week in office, blaming white people and the price of eggs for his 'disgusting version of America.'
Mystal, 46, went on the two-minute-long attack while speaking with anchor Ali Velshi on Saturday.
The political commentator argued Trump's pardoning of more than 1,000 January 6 Capitol rioters should not come as a surprise to his voters.
While Trump had talked about pardons for some of the rioters, the blanket dispensation - including those who used violence and attacked police officers - came as a surprise to many. 
His decision to sign a blanket pardon for at least 1,500 people charged over the riot in Washington, D.C., rankled many on his team and some officials in the Republican Party. 
'A majority of white people voted for this. This is the disgusting version of America that people want,' Mystal said.
He doubled down on criticizing voters who supported Trump over economic concerns.
'And, by the way, eggs are still more expensive, so you didn't even get that; great job, white folks,' Mystal added.
'I don't like the shock and awe version of this because if he had been paying attention, they wrote it down. They told you exactly what they were going to do and exactly how they were going to do it.' 
A series of polls released two weeks before Election Day showed voters were still focused on inflation. Americans concluded that Trump would leave them wealthier, narrowly saying they trusted him more on the economy.
In his first network television interview after the election, Trump said he owed his victory to Americans' anger over immigration and inflation, specifically the rising cost of groceries.
'When you buy apples, when you buy bacon, when you buy eggs, they would double and triple the price over a short period of time, he told NBC's Meet the Press. 'And I won an election based on that. We´re going to bring those prices way down.'
One week into his presidency, the price of eggs has yet to go down as bird flu sweeps the nation. However, Trump signed several executive orders on other issues, including DEI.
Mystal chastised Trump for issuing a series of executive orders seeking to dismantle DEI programs since he took office on Monday.
'Every time the media tries to sane-wash Trump, whitewash Trump, explain Trump, defend Trump, what they're doing is muddying the waters on these issues that we have already decided,' he said.
'And I'm not saying that there's not a place for nuance. I actually wrote in The Nation about how if Trump wants to end DEI programs, that's legal. DEI is a policy, DEI is a policy invented by white folks to try to stop other white folks from being racist, so if they want to end the policy, the next media question shouldn't it be, oh my God, you're ending DEI?
'Because if the answer is nothing, well, then that becomes illegal... What are you going to replace it with? Because just going back to antebellum racism, that's what's illegal.'
Trump's executive action calls for the termination of DEI programs, mandates, policies, preferences and activities in the federal government. along with the review and revision of existing federal employment practices, union contracts and training policies or programs. 
Trump and his allies say DEI programs unfairly discriminate against other Americans and weaken the importance of candidates' merit in job hiring or promotion. 
Mystal has been vocal about his disdain for Trump voters and called them 'despicable' during an MSNBC segment with Joy Reid in September.
'The reason it does not end his career is because his supporters are despicable. Trump's whole thing is he is a narcissist, so his whole thing is a complete lack of compassion and empathy for anybody else - that's his whole thing,' Mystal said.
'And it works for him because his supporters are just as un-generous and have just as little compassion and empathy for others.'
In 2022, Mystal joined Reid in accusing Republicans of racism for 'disappearing' Barack Obama from a post about Presidents Day.
The MSNBC host hit out at the GOP for a meme in which they praised several former Republican Presidents and made a slight dig at Joe Biden. 
'Happy Presidents' Day to such great US presidents,' read the post over photos of Abraham Lincoln, Ronald Reagan, George Bush and even Richard Nixon.
President Biden was pictured in the center of the meme with a caption in red, 'Not you.' 
'If you want to know what Republicans "anti-CRT education" looks like, here it is!' Reid said. 
Mystal added: 'They put Nixon there POSITIVELY, but not Biden.' 
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Web Publication

Journal Code: WEBDM

Subject: NEGATIVE NEWS (90%); RIOTS (90%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (89%); FOOD PRICES (89%); INFLATION (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); 2021 US CAPITOL RIOTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMY & ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PRICES (78%); NEGATIVE MISC NEWS (77%); PARDONS (76%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY & FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); IMMIGRATION (50%); IMMIGRATION, CITIZENSHIP & DISPLACEMENT (50%)

Industry: FOOD PRICES (89%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (73%); NETWORK TELEVISION (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%)

Person: DONALD TRUMP (79%)

Geographic: WASHINGTON DC, USA (79%); UNITED STATES (95%)

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
