




The Daily Caller
January 31, 2025 Friday 07:48 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: DAILY-CALLER-NEWS-FOUNDATION; media
Length: 493 words
Byline: Harold Hutchison, Reporter, 
Body



MSNBC host Ana Cabrera claimed Friday that “plenty of data points” prove that diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) enabled businesses to have greater success.
President Donald Trump issued an  within hours of taking office on Jan. 20 that mandated an end to DEI efforts in the federal government, saying they were “unlawful, corrosive, and pernicious identity-based spoils system.” Cabrera asked former Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano if Trump was using DEI as a scapegoat in the deadly  between an American Airlines flight and a United States Army UH-60 Blackhawk helicopter that killed 67 people. 
WATCH:
“Part of it is that DEI has become a catchphrase for anything bad. If anything is bad, it's DEI. A helicopter hits a plane going down the Potomac River. Oh, well, that must be DEI,” Napolitano said. “You know, I think the president has a habit of latching on to a few things, and then he just repeats them and repeats them and repeats them. And of course, as we know, repetitiveness leads many people to believe him, which is its own problem. But, you know, a diverse workforce, all that means is that you're drawing from the strength of all Americans to work in the government, to work in the public service. I don't know what's wrong with that.”
“And in business, for example, there are plenty of data points to show that businesses with more diversity are more successful,” Cabrera said.
A  published in “Econ Journal Watch” found that a series of studies by McKinsey and Company showing a positive impact on financial performance by firms embracing diversity were not able to be replicated.
Major  in the United States, including ,  and  have been  from DEI initiatives. Bud Light saw its sales  after it  with transgender influencer Dylan Mulvaney in 2023, including providing a customized beer can.
Target  Pride items from stores following a 2023 boycott over “trans-friendly” bathing suits for children and other items, instead limiting them to online sales. The boycott reportedly cost the company over  when their stock price tumbled.
The Mountain States Legal Foundation alleged that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) turned away over 1,000 applicants from a training initiative due to their race in an April 2024 lawsuit against the agency,  to SimpleFlying.com.
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Graphic

 
Ana Cabrera and Janet Napolitano

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
