




The Daily Caller
January 22, 2025 Wednesday 04:14 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION
Length: 350 words
Byline: John Loftus, Editor at Large, 
I hopped aboard the DC pirate ship at 23, starting as an editor and later becoming a columnist. I also write a weekly newsletter, "Mr Right," about masculinity in the modern world.

Body



The Reverend Al is at it again.
Immediately after being sworn in, President Donald Trump , some of which mandated that the federal government recognize only two sexes, male and female, and ended Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) programs throughout the bureaucracy. In response to Trump's pro-merit, anti-DEI rhetoric in his inaugural address, MSNBC Host Al Sharpton  Monday that his non-profit, National Action Network, will boycott American companies that have axed their own woke policies. 
“Donald Trump can't make us spend money for companies that will not deal and commit and continue with diversity and equity and inclusion,” Sharpton  his MSNBC colleague Joy Reid.
“What we said today is that these companies that are now saying they're going to back up off of diversity and equity and inclusion, should therefore not have a diverse consumer base,” he went on to say.

Although Sharpton's boycott announcement will be met with glee from the guilty white liberals who still watch MSNBC, the majority of Americans will likely roll their eyes. Numerous corporations and U.S. companies, including Tractor Supply Co., John Deere, , Harley Davidson, , , and McDonald's have recently backed off from DEI policies. Asking Americans to boycott Coors is like asking a nun to boycott the rosary - it's never going to happen. 
DEI is dying off, and as the American people move on from the past decade of social justice identity politics that has divided the country, so too will the country's corporations. If there's going to be any political boycotts in Trump's America, it's going to be a boycott of Sharpton, MSNBC, and all the remaining companies that peddle race-based DEI nonsense.
Did you enjoy this post? Consider checking out John's full weekly newsletter, Mr. Right, available here: 

Graphic

 
NEW YORK, NY - FEBRUARY 21: (L-R) 2020 Democratic presidential candidate Sen. Kamala Harris (D-CA) and Rev. Al Sharpton exit after having lunch at Sylvia's Restaurant in Harlem, February 21, 2019 in New York City. According to Sharptons civil rights organization National Action Network, the two discussed criminal justice reform and other critical issues. Harris dined on a dish of chicken and waffles. Drew Angerer/Getty Images

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
