




The Daily Caller
February 23, 2025 Sunday 02:50 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: DAILY-CALLER-NEWS-FOUNDATION; media; media
Length: 442 words
Byline: Harold Hutchison, Reporter, 
Body



MSNBC host Joy Reid's show is being axed by the left-leaning corporate media outlet and could be off the air as early as Monday, according to a report from The New York Times.
Reid's show, “The ReidOut,” which airs at 7 p.m. Eastern time on weekdays, would be replaced by a panel show featuring MSNBC hosts Symone Sanders-Townsend, Michael Steele and Alicia Menendez, The New York Times . MSNBC host Alex Wagner's show, slated to return in April, is also reportedly on the chopping block, with former White House press secretary Jen Psaki planned as her replacement. 
 ⚠️Stacey Abrams pulls the notion that   is somehow a “DEI graduate.” Make that make sense. ⚠️ 
 - Harold Hutchison (@HaroldHutchison) 
The cable giant is  MSNBC, CNBC, USA, E!, Oxygen, SyFy and other channels in news and entertainment after MSNBC ratings fell by 53% following former Vice President Kamala Harris'  in the 2024 election, The Wall Street Journal  in November.
Reid has a history of  rhetoric directed toward conservatives on her show. On Nov. 5, she  “white women” for not backing Harris.
“In the end, if they didn't make their numbers and essentially exceed the numbers that Joe Biden had in the suburbs, I think we have to be blunt about why. Black voters came through for Kamala Harris, white women voters did not,” Reid said.
Reid also allowed former Democratic gubernatorial candidate Stacey Abrams of Georgia to  Vice President J.D. Vance a “DEI graduate” on her show in January.
MSNBC hosts and  routinely hyped the claims that President Donald Trump's 2016 campaign colluded with the Russian government to defeat former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. The news channel also  had then-Democratic Rep. Adam Schiff of California, who often made  about alleged collusion between the 2016 Trump campaign and Russia, on the air. The Steele Dossier, which was used to further the allegations of collusion, was later .
Reid has been at MSNBC since 2016, and has hosted during the 7 p.m. slot since 2020.
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Graphic

 
Joy Reid

Load-Date: February 26, 2025


End of Document
