




thetimes.co.uk
February 25, 2025 Tuesday 8:25 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 669 words
Byline: David Sanderson, Arts Correspondent
Highlight: Simon Sebag Montefiore tells a Times and British Museum debate that historical connections to slavery are ‘no surprise’ but institutions spend millions on reports about them
Body


Cultural institutions’ preoccupation with slavery has become “humdrum”, a leading historian has said, with displays at some museums “completely dominated” by the subject. 
Simon Sebag Montefiore said it was no surprise that anybody who made money or was part of the British establishment during the slavery era had done so in part through the trafficking of people. 
“Everybody had some connection so does that mean that one has to mention it on every single portrait,” he said. “The work has all been done now. We don’t need to go into a permanent cultural revolution. It’s not even a revolution, it’s become humdrum.
“Every institution in Britain is now spending millions producing more reports on connections of patrons and British aristocracy with slavery. This is now no surprise even for people who didn’t know before … there are no revelations.”
He said museums’ slavery captions, in particular, were written in “jargon”. 
“Certain words are constantly used,” he said. “And it is out of date. Nobody now is using the same jargon.”

The historian 
 highlighted Tate Britain’s comprehensive rehang 
, which drew criticism over accompanying texts that some said gave too much emphasis to slavery at the expense of other facets of history, and without due credit to the nation’s role in abolition.
“The captions you get in Tate Britain at the moment are comically out of date. They read like they were written in 2020 [when the Black Lives Matter movement surged after George Floyd’s murder in the United States],” Holland said. “Which I imagine they were.”
The two were speaking at a Times and British Museum debate on Monday about whether museums “can preserve the past while addressing the present”, alongside the businesswoman Margaret Casely-Hayford and the artist Grayson Perry.
Perry said he understood that “we need to rebalance the way we display things in museums”, but that he did not want politics to “get in the way of looking at it, at the aesthetics and the enjoyment”.
He added: “Quite often the tone of a lot of political engagement with culture these days is a bit scoldy, a bit finger-waggy. Particularly from the left. That’s why you got Brexit and why you got Trump — it’s the finger-wagging.
“I believe in what they are doing. I agree with everything they are doing. But it’s the tone. Go to the museum on your day off. You want to have some fun. You want to see some lovely things, have an interesting story. You don’t want to be, ‘Oh, you’ve got to feel a little bit guilty looking at this’.”
, who is a trustee at the 
, said: “Anyone who was in the establishment, who had made money, who was in the aristocracy at that time had some connection to slavery, to sugar.
“Does that mean that one has to mention it on every single portrait? I think that is boring.”
He highlighted the former home turned museum of Thomas Jefferson, the third US president and a slave owner, where he said “some of the captioning now is completely dominated by slavery”.
“He was a slave owner but also a great man of letters and a great politician and some of it was being overwhelmed with the fashion or fascination with slavery and concentration on slavery,” Sebag Montefiore added.
The historian said there were aspects of Jefferson’s life that illustrated how the topic of slavery could be covered by institutions in an engaging way. 
After the death of his wife Jefferson had “brought over to France, where he was ambassador, a 14-year-old half-sister of his wife, who was also owned by his wife and was a slave”, Sebag Montefiore said. 
“Jefferson had six children with her,” he added. “It is such a mixed story and gives an idea of the complexities of slavery. You just realise that what you want to discover when you read captions about slavery is how complicated this was, and what this world was.”
                   Listen to the debate on Times Radio on Saturday, March 1, from 7pm                   
.

Load-Date: February 25, 2025


End of Document
