




MailOnline
February 6, 2025 Thursday 6:47 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:4
Length: 953 words
Byline: Brittany Chain For Dailymail.Com
Body


                     Elon Musk mercilessly mocked federal workers upset over DOGE's effort to transform multiple government agencies - even after the billionaire 'first buddy' suffered his first blow in an 11th-hour court showdown.
The Tesla founder updated his X bio on Wednesday to unveil his new government title as 'White House Tech Support' while his acolytes in the Department of Government Efficiency continued to mine large swaths of sensitive data. 
Musk's latest troll sent a blunt message to critics about his prominence in President Donald Trump's orbit - even as Democrats scramble to limit his ever-expanding powers.
His title change followed a last-ditch court request to limit DOGE's access to Treasury's $5trillion system - the first hiccup for the nascent agency after weeks of ruthlessly purging federal institutions to eliminate waste and overspending.
Over the coming days and weeks, the court's decision on privacy concerns about DOGE's access to the data will be a monumental test of their power to infiltrate and wipe out government spending. 
Lawyers with the Justice Department agreed to a motion that allows only two people associated with Musk 'read only' access to the system - which includes tax returns and social security numbers - on the condition they do not share what they find with any colleagues.
Those two employees are Musk disciples Tom Krause and Marko Elez. 
Elez is 25 years old and has worked for both X and SpaceX under Musk as an engineer. 
Krause, meanwhile, was the former chief executive of Cloud Software Group, a tech company out of Silicon Valley.
The duo have been given 'special government employee' status, as has Musk to orchestrate his far-reaching purge. 
The judge who will decide on the proposal is U.S. District Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly, who was appointed by President Clinton.
Back in 2017, Kollar-Kotelly issued a preliminary injunction stopping a proposed ban on transgender people enlisting or serving in the armed forces. She also ordered that a Kuwaiti detainee held at Guantanamo Bay be released after being held in prison for seven years.
Justice Department attorney Bradley Humphreys maintained that Musk himself had not been briefed on or seen what Elez and Krause have been investigating.
Unions representing federal workers made a last ditch bid to deny DOGE's access to the data at the Treasury, which is responsible for dishing out $5trillion worth of government payments annually.
Tax returns, social security numbers and the confidential salaries of key federal workers are all stored in the system which Krause and Elez now have access to.
This limited access will be approved by Kollar-Kotelly as a temporary solution to the legal challenge until both sides return to court on February 24.
Acting Deputy Secretary David Lebryk resigned from his position at Treasury after more than 30 years of service, reportedly after Musk and his DOGE organization requested access to the sensitive Treasury data. 
DOGE is facing lawsuits on several fronts as disgruntled employees and unions demanding legal guidance on just how much power Musk has to enact this change. 
Already, USAID, the Department of Education and DEI departments across the board have been slashed under DOGE's bold target to identify and save $3billion per day.
Federal employees, including every single worker in the CIA, have been offered a buyout scheme which would provide eight months pay and benefits in exchange for a resignation in an effort to trim bloated departments.
Musk has been proudly documenting the work of DOGE on X, sparking protests on the streets as furious lefties chant 'Deport Musk,' 'Down with Trump' and 'Do your Job Congress!' 
Senator Elizabeth Warren addressed frustrated crowds, agreeing: 'Elon Musk is seizing power from the American people.' 
'He's here to seize power for himself, we are here to fight back.' 
Senator Patty Murray was just as scathing, arguing: 'Let's not mince words here: An unelected, unaccountable billionaire with expansive conflicts of interest, deep ties to China and an indiscreet ax to grind against perceived enemies is hijacking our nation's most sensitive financial data system and its checkbook.'
But Vice President JD Vance rushed to Musk's defense on Wednesday with a stark reminder to his critics that the billionaire is doing just what President Trump promised Americans he would do during the election campaign.
Responding to critics who say 'no one voted for Musk', Vance said: 'They did however vote for Donald Trump who promised repeatedly to have Elon Musk root out wasteful spending in our government.'
Within Musk's team are six young men aged between 19 and 25 who have been tasked with helping him dismantle America's foreign aid agency.
Musk is leading an extraordinary civilian review of the federal government with Trump's backing.
'It became apparent that it's not an apple with a worm it in,' Musk said in a live session on X Spaces early Monday. 
'What we have is just a ball of worms. You've got to basically get rid of the whole thing. It's beyond repair.' 
His title as 'White House Tech Support' has ruffled feathers, with Musk being branded the 'ultimate troll'.
But under the executive order which brought DOGE to life, Trump identified 'modernizing government-wide software, network infrastructure, and information technology (IT) systems' as a primary goal.
So far, DOGE appears to have instead focused on government spending and reducing waste rather than the technical element of the order.
However, following the Washington DC tragedy last week in which a plane and Army helicopter collided, killing 67, DOGE has been enlisted to help reinvigorate the air traffic control system and make 'rapid safety upgrades.'

Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
