




telegraph.co.uk
February 14, 2025 Friday 8:40 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:2
Length: 587 words
Byline: By Sarah Knapton, Science Editor
Highlight: SpaceX’s rockets are used for travel to the International Space Station
Body


Elon Musk’s war on diversity will not stop the world’s first disabled astronaut from going into space – in the billionaire’s rocket.
John McFall, a British astronaut, was cleared on Friday, after two years of testing, for a mission to the International Space Station (ISS).
The paralympian, 43, who lost his leg in a motorbike accident, has spent the last two years completing a   to see if it was possible to send a disabled astronaut into space.
Astronauts now rely on Elon Musk’s SpaceX to take them to the ISS and the billionaire is backing Donald Trump in his   (DEI) schemes.
But Daniel Neuenschwander, the European Space Agency’s director of human and robotic exploration, said there was “no reason” why that would prevent Mr McFall taking off.
Following the American Airlines crash that killed 67 people,   on the accident, claiming air traffic controllers with “severe intellectual and psychiatric disabilities” had been recruited.
At a press conference at the European Astronaut Centre in Cologne, Germany, Mr Neuenschwander said every check had taken place to make sure that Mr McFall was capable of embarking on an ISS mission.
He said: “I think the evidence brought through technical discussions, operational discussions, medical discussions, just showed that we can go ahead.
“We are now entering a world which is changing a bit from a DEI perspective, from one of our partners of the International Space Station.
“We have our European values, we will continue with our European values, but we’ll stick to the procedures. And I see no reason why we would change our approach in this context.”
The remarks came as the Royal Society was   in a letter signed by more than 1,700 scientists, teachers, academics and journalists.
The society, a centuries-old scientific academy, elected him as a fellow in 2018 because of his work with SpaceX and Tesla.
The calls for his expulsion are because of his role in Mr Trump’s DEI tightening and a claimed “assault on scientific research in the US”.
In recent weeks, the US government has cut how much universities can claim in funding from the National Institutes of Health (NIH), as well as freezing some grants and renouncing climate commitments.
A spokesman for the Royal Society said: “In the event of any concerns raised about the behaviour of a fellow, the society has a clear set of processes described in our code of conduct, which is published on our website along with relevant disciplinary regulations. Any issues raised in respect of individual fellows are dealt with in strict confidence.’’
Mr McFall, 43, who was born in Surrey and grew up in Somerset, had his right leg amputated when he was 19.
After learning to run again, he became a professional athlete, winning bronze in the 2008 Beijing Paralympics in the 100-metre T42 event.
He retrained as a doctor, working in the NHS for several years, and has recently completed his final exams specialising as an orthopaedic surgeon.
Mr McFall said he felt that his selection for an ISS mission marked a “cultural shift” that would change people’s mindset when considering who was capable of going to space.
“I feel hugely proud,” he said.
“I’m lucky that I am as fit and healthy as I am. What’s really interesting is this isn’t about me, this is way bigger than that, because this is a cultural shift.
“This is something that has not been done before. I am proud of the mindset shift that this has achieved.”

Load-Date: February 14, 2025


End of Document
