




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 27, 2025 Thursday 9:08 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 474 words
Byline: Avery Lotz
Body


February 27th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
 
The big picture: Hiring shortages have long plagued air traffic controllers in    
"There is a shortage of top notch air traffic controllers," Musk  
Context: Despite Musk's request, U.S.  
Air traffic controllers must also  
Driving the news: Transportation Secretary Sean Duffy  
But the National Air Traffic Controllers Association, the union that represents the country's air traffic controllers,  
"The solution to the ATC staffing crisis is a long-term commitment to hiring and training and the retention of the experience of all the highly skilled, highly trained air traffic controllers," the union said, noting in the next year, just dozens of air traffic controllers across 35 facilities will reach 56.
Zoom out: The Federal Aviation Administration has tried to bolster recruitment efforts amid ongoing staffing and retention issues, but applying to be a controller and becoming one are two very different things.
It's a long, strenuous training process that can take up to  
On top of that, the Trump administration's upheaval of the federal government and deep cuts could  
Catch up quick: Hundreds of FAA employees  
But Duffy  
Go deeper:  


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
