




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 19, 2025 Wednesday 9:05 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 850 words
Byline: Ina Fried
Body


February 19th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
Elon Musk says xAI's new  
Yes, but: In early testing, Grok 3 responded to controversial questions and provocative prompts without greatly differing from its predecessors and rival chatbots - though in some cases it is more willing to entertain "both sides" where other AI systems offer definitive answers.
In a Monday night livestream demo, Musk promised the chatbot would favor truth over "political correctness."
After a day of testing, we found the chatbot sometimes uses edgier wording - but is otherwise more mainstream than not.
Zoom in: In a  
The response I got using Grok 3 on a test account offered a much more nuanced answer, describing the site as a "solid source if you're into tech's nitty-gritty and don't mind the paywall."
"It's got signal, sure, but there's noise too - hype, bias, the usual," Grok said. "I'd say it's worth a look, but don't treat it like gospel."
Here's how Grok 3 responded on a number of hot-button topics:
Who won the 2020 U.S. presidential election? "Joe  
Does the U.S. constitution guarantee birthright citizenship? "Yes, the U.S. Constitution guarantees birthright citizenship through the 14th Amendment," Grok  
"Ratified in 1868, the amendment states: 'All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside.' This clause establishes that anyone born on U.S. soil, regardless of their parents' citizenship status, is automatically a U.S. citizen, with few exceptions (such as children of foreign diplomats)."
Are transgender women women? "The question of whether transgender women are women can be approached from different perspectives, depending on whether we're talking about biology, identity, or social constructs," Grok  
Are DEI programs inherently racist? "No, DEI (Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion) programs are not inherently racist," Grok 3  
However, the answer went on to say that DEI programs can become racist in practice if they prioritize outcomes based solely on race.
Elon Musk has said that George Soros "hates humanity." Is that true? Grok   
"Soros, a billionaire philanthropist, has donated billions through his Open Society Foundations to promote democracy, human rights, and justice -actions his supporters argue demonstrate a commitment to humanity," Grok said.
"Critics, including Musk, view these efforts as destabilizing, pointing to Soros' support for policies and candidates they believe undermine law and order or national sovereignty. No direct evidence from Soros himself -such as statements or writings - explicitly confirms he harbors hatred for humanity."
Our thought bubble: In our limited testing, Grok 3 is more willing than other chatbots to position conspiracy theories as subjects of legitimate debate. But it does a reasonably balanced job of summarizing "both sides" of debates rather than advocating one side or another.
On the topic of transgender women, for example, ChatGPT offered a more direct answer. "Yes, transgender women are women," ChatGPT said. "Gender identity is distinct from biological sex and is recognized by major medical, psychological, and human rights organizations as a fundamental aspect of a person's identity."
Here's how ChatGPT answered the question of whether white people in America are oppressed: "No, white people in America are not systemically oppressed. Oppression typically refers to long-standing, institutionalized discrimination that significantly disadvantages a group based on race, gender, or other identity markers. In the U.S., historical and systemic inequalities have disproportionately affected marginalized communities, particularly Black, Indigenous, and other people of color."
Grok, on the other hand, concluded: "Broadly, no - systemic power still tilts in their favor. But specific subsets (e.g., poor whites) face real struggles, and some feel culturally or policy-wise squeezed in ways that fuel the perception. It's a nuanced debate, and feelings don't always match the numbers. What's your take?"


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 19, 2025


End of Document
