




USA Today Online
February 11, 2025 9:47 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Section: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT NEWS
Length: 518 words
Byline: Rebecca Morin, USA TODAY
Body


How’s it going? It’s Rebecca Morin, senior national news reporter at USA TODAY. Starting Wednesday, I’ll be sending On Politics in the early afternoon as part of a test! Love it? Hate it? Feedback on the newsletter? 
5 ways Elon Musk is working to dismantle the federal government
Reducing the size of the federal government has long been at the top of Republicans' wish list. Elon Musk, the richest man in the world, is working to do just that. Musk, a billionaire tech entrepreneur, is now leading President Donald Trump’s goal to gut departments and slash the number of employees working for the nation's government. From orchestrating the buyout option for workers to shuttering USAID, here’s how Musk has started to dismantle the federal government.
Musk, who is leading the Department of Government Efficiency, or DOGE, announced Tuesday the Department of Education would terminate nearly $1 billion in research contracts. Critics said the move depletes the government of vital data sources on American schooling and all but decimated the agency’s research division. 
Trump, joined by Musk in Oval Office, orders up big 
Trump expresses trust in Elon Musk: 5 takeaways 

A politics pit stop
Refugee resettlement groups challenge 
Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth renames 
Fact check: Fabricated Trump post blames Chiefs' 
Fed not 'in a hurry' to cut interest rates with 
Trump DOJ directs prosecutors to drop charges against 
Eric Adams says DOJ ordered feds to drop the case against him
New York Mayor Eric Adams said Tuesday that the Department of Justice ordered federal prosecutors to dismiss the corruption charges against him. Adams in September was indicted for federal bribery, fraud and campaign finance charges. The directive came after months of speculation that Donald Trump would seek to end the case against the New York mayor, as Adams became increasingly friendly with the president. 
Officials criticize DOJ move to dismiss 
Timeline of Adams’ 
Eric Adams, like Jan. 6 defendants, 
Low flow no more? Trump to roll back rules on toilets, showers and lightbulbs.
Plastic straws, high flow toilets and incandescent light bulbs could make comebacks. Donald Trump is working to end previous environmental standards, saying that he was instructing Environmental Protection Agency Secretary Lee Zeldin to immediately change the requirements. Trump previously criticized energy efficient light bulbs and low-flow toilets, claiming in 2019 that Americans had to flush their toilets "10 times, 15 times as opposed to once" due to the introduction of low-flow toilets. 
Got a burning question, or comment, for On Politics?  or send me an email at .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: February 11, 2025


End of Document
