




Fox News FOX NEWS @ NIGHT 11:00 PM EST
February 18, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7638 words
Byline: Greg Gutfeld, Trace Gallagher, Mike Emanuel, Matt Finn, Ashley Strohmier
Guests: Lydia Moyhinan, Caroline Sunshine, James Klug, Arynne Wexler, Batya Ungar-Sargon, Dee Sarton
Body


(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Zach Levi, go see his movie. Jamie Lissow, Paul Mauro, Kat Timpf, our studio audience. "FOX NEWS @ NIGHT" is next. I'm Greg Gutfeld. I love you, America.
TRACE GALLAGHER, ANCHOR, FOX NEWS @ NIGHT: Good evening. I'm Trace Gallagher. It's 11:00 p.m. on the East Coast, 8:00 here in Los Angeles and this is America's late news, FOX NEWS @ NIGHT.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ELON MUSK, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, TESLA MOTORS: President will make these executive orders, but then they don't get implemented. With those team is just making sure that the presidential executive orders are actually carried out.
DONALD TRUMP (R) PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Elon called me. He said, you know they're trying to drive us apart. I said, absolutely.
MUSK: They call it like Trump Derangement Syndrome. It's like they become completely irrational.
TRUMP: He's got some very brilliant young people working for him that dress much worse than him actually.
MUSK: Yes. If the bureaucracy is fighting the will of the people, then what we live in is a bureaucracy and not a democracy.
TRUMP: You know, I wanted to find somebody smarter than him, we settled in this.
MUSK: Thanks for having me. They're saying that things are being done unconstitutional, but what they are doing is unconstitutional. They are guilty of the crime of which they accuse us.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: And breaking tonight, a 60-minute exclusive interview with the most prized, maybe despised member of Team Trump. Department of Government Efficiency advisor Elon Musk sitting down with the President and Sean Hannity tonight for a candid conversation ranging from the media's war on Musk to Trump Derangement Syndrome. Meantime, Democrats in the liberal media reacting to the interview.
We will have full analysis throughout the show, but we begin with the Chief Washington Correspondent Mike Emanuel live in the nation's capital with tonight's highlights. Mike, good evening.
MIKE EMANUEL, FOX NEWS CHIEF WASHINGTON CORRESPONDENT: Trace, good evening. A fascinating interview digging into the working relationship between President Trump and his DOGE ally, Elon Musk. The President and musk noted, the mainstream media is trying to drive a wedge between them.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: Elon called me. He said, you know they're trying to drive us apart. I said, absolutely. It's just so obvious. They're so bad at it. I used to think they were good at it but you know what I have learned, Elon? The people are smart. They get it.
MUSK: Yes. They do.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
EMANUEL: Musk notes the pushback from the government bureaucracy on the left is fierce, and he explains it -- as his DOGE team must be doing something right, suggesting they must be over the target, Musk describe the role of his DOGE team.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MUSK: I'm here to provide the President with technology support. And now that may seem like, well, is that a silly thing? But actually, it's a very important thing because the President will make these executive orders which are very sensible and good for the country, but then they don't get implemented. One of the biggest functions of the DOGE team is just making sure that the presidential executive orders are actually carried out.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
EMANUEL: Musk explains cutting government waste comes down to competence and caring. And the President's clearly holding out hope that Musk and his DOGE team could find up to $1 trillion in waste, fraud and abuse. Trace?
GUTFELD: It's going that way. Mike Emanuel live for us in D.C. Mike, thank you. Let's bring in New York Post Reporter Lydia Moynihan and former Trump 2024 Deputy Communications Director Caroline sunshine. Great to have you on, folks. I just want to put this up first, Lydia to you, because Elon Musk says we -- you might have heard it in the intro, we live in a democracy, not a bureaucracy. And I'm going to give you the whole sound bite here. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MUSK: The President is the elected representative of the people, so he's representing the will of the people. And if the bureaucracy is fighting the will of the people and preventing the president -- the president from implementing what the people want, then what we live in is a bureaucracy and not a democracy.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: And Lydia, he's right when he says bureaucracy really is fighting the will of the people in this case.
LYDIA MOYHINAN, NEW YORK POST REPORTER: It's true. It's true. Yes. It was an interesting interview, certainly, Elon striking a very deferential tone there as well, making it very clear he's there at the will of the president. And that was an interesting point that he made, because he obviously has been focusing on DOGE but basically painted a broader picture of his job, that it's there basically to make sure that the President's will gets enacted.
And that was one issue in his first term that proved to be really challenging. President Trump would issue an executive order or try and get something done, and he was undercut by the bureaucracy at every level. And so, it's been really interesting to see this term. You have President Trump moving at a very rapid pace to get things done and then you have Elon Musk and his team on the other side making sure that those things actually get done.
GUTFELD: Yes, it's very true. Here is Musk on Trump Derangement Syndrome. Watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MUSK: I was at a friend's birthday party in L.A., just a birthday dinner and if it was like a nice, quiet dinner, and everything was -- everyone was behaving normally and then happy to mention this before the election, like a month or two before, after I mention the president's name and it was like they got shot with a dart in the jugular that contained, like the methamphetamine and rabies.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: I mean, you witnessed this firsthand, Caroline. You worked with the President. It's one of those things where a lot of people who work with them when they go out in the regular world, they get that, they get this same type of reaction.
CAROLINE SUNSHINE, FORMER TRUMP 2024 DEPUTY COMMISSIONER DIRECTOR: Highly contagious, Trump Derangement Syndrome for the democrats. But you have to ask yourself, why are they get that they get this same type of reaction, highly contagious Trump drain syndrome for the Democrats. But you have to ask yourself, why are Democrats so upset about an African-American man who happens to be a legal immigrant teaming up with President Trump to drain the government of waste, fraud and abuse?
I would think that checks all of their DEI boxes. But of course, it's because he's done exactly what I just said. He's paired up with President Trump. It'd be so interesting, actually, to take that clip and almost play it to an audience back in 2005 or something, and say you don't know it now but, you know, a decade from now, these two men, former Democrats are who have been beloved by culture really are going to now be treated as defectors for trying to do what's right for the country and unlikely pairing.
GUTFELD: Yes. And your comment about who is against this. Common Sense has some thoughts on that coming up a few minutes. Meantime, Trump says Elon helps him execute executive orders. Here's the President.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: He said, you know, when you sign these executive orders, a lot of them don't get done, and maybe the most important ones. And he would take that executive order that I'd sign, and he would have those people go to whatever agency it was. When are you doing it? Get it done. Get it done.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: I mean, the truth is, they are getting a lot of pushback doing this, Lydia, but the other side of this is they are achieving amazing things in a very short amount of time.
MOYNIHAN: They are and I mean, truly, this first 100 days they recognize is the most important time to get something done within 100 days, that's really your window of opportunity, and then things sort of clam up and sort of grind to a halt there. But they did have done a great job basically highlighting what they've been able to cut, and I think it's key that they continue to highlight why and how they're doing that.
And I think one of the areas of pushback we've heard from Democrats is that, you know, his folks aren't being accountable to anyone. They're just in there looking at everyone's Social Security information. I think it's important for them to make the point. They're looking at this major data points, going through and combing through what is potentially fraudulent. They're not in there, basically making changes to people's social security checks.
And the other point is, we've already heard this criticism from the left is that Elon Musk is talking about 75,000 going to transgender operas when you have other major concerns in the government, you know, Medicare and Medicaid and I think it's really important for them to highlight. These cuts are critical because they are emblematic of a vibe shift that we're seeing. A vibe shift in Washington that's much more concerned about American taxpayers and is going to cut back on fraud on a small and a massive scale.
GUTFELD: Meantime, the President on Elon's motives for back -- lack of a better term. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: I know people that would try and take advantage of the situation. This guy is somebody that really cares for the country and I saw that very early on. I saw really a long time ago when I got to know him. He's a very different kind of a character. That's why, you know who loves him, young people that are very smart.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: I mean -- and Caroline, you could say the same thing about Elon and the President because we've had people like Bo Loudon on these young people are gravitating toward both Elon Musk and the president.
SUNSHINE: Oh, absolutely. I mean, President Trump won the youth vote this time around by 30 points. I mean, no Republican in the modern era, maybe ever has done that, and that's because President Trump, as always, says he's a young, vibrant man. I mean, look at the schedule that he's keeping. Look at how much he's got done in the last three weeks. Yes. I mean, you think he has the energy of a spry 22-year-old.
And now he's got some of the best and brightest 22 year olds working for him at DOGE, rooting this out. And it's a testament to him that he's willing to empower young people and allow them to use their talents to further serve his mission, too.
GUTFELD: It's funny because when they put out -- the White House put out a lid, you know, at like, 7:00. You think it's amazing. We got a lid at 3:00 in the afternoon, the old administration, and now it's 7:00.
SUNSHINE: You're not used to it.
GUTFELD: It's crazy. Caroline, Lydia, thank you both.
MOYNIHAN: Thanks, Trace.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MUSK: I guess we must be over the target or doing something right. You know, if, like, they wouldn't be complaining so much if they -- we weren't doing something useful, I think. What all we really trying to do here is restore the will of the people through the president and what we finding is that there's an unelected bureaucracy. Speaking of unelected, there's a -- there's a vast federal bureaucracy that is implacably opposed to the President and the cabinet. And you look at, say, D.C. voting, it's 92 percent Kamala.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: Meantime, the political reaction is coming in at this hour to Hannity's exclusive sit-down interview with President Trump and Elon Musk. Let's bring in political commentators, James Klug and Aaron Wexler. It's great to have you both on. James, to you first. Jasmine Crockett said this on MSNBC trying to stir things up. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. JASMINE CROCKETT (D-TX): This is nothing more than a money grab. He is not out there trying to save money for the American people. That is not what he is doing. He is lining his pockets, and at the same time, he is outraging people who don't know how we spend our money and how it benefits us.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: I guess she forgot about the 50 billion they've already saved here, James, because I think that's a big mathematical error.
JAMES KLUG, POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: I mean, it's billions and billions of dollars, right. in the fact that they're like, they're opposed to this. They're oppose rooting out waste, fraud and abuse from government spending. You would imagine that that is right there political suicide. And you know what, if Democrats want to take that stance, that's absolutely fine with me. I think they're pretty much teeing up glorious victory for Republicans in 2026 and 2028.
GUTFELD: Yes. It's kind of amazing. Karoline Leavitt, meantime, Arynne said the following here on Fox News. Kind of prescient to tonight's interview. Watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: The only difference between what President Trump is doing and what these Democrats have promised the American people for decades. He's actually following through on the promise to cut federal government waste, fraud and abuse, and this is the first president to actually do such a thing.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: Yes. And the truth is, a lot of other presidents have wanted to do this exact thing because we ran the tape last night, going back to Bill Clinton and Al Gore but nobody has been able to achieve it.
ARYNNE WEXLER, POLITICAL COMMENTATORS: Yes. It's actually pretty incredible to see also the years of the GOP that was not able to accomplish this, and President Trump, again, it's promises made, promises kept. We keep repeating that phrase, but it's really true. And I want to add here that Elon and Trump both kept repeating this phrase of competence and compassion.
And I actually think they're missing part of that equation which is subtracting the corruption, which is what we're talking about so much. That's why the left is really panicking right now. We've actually never seen them be so lost in this moment. It's a great time for us to just make a lot of change in the government that we've been waiting for a very long time.
GUTFELD: Yes. And Meantime, Elon Musk, this is on Forbes Magazine says the following. Musk mulls sending all Americans $5,000 checks using DOGE savings. It goes on to read, the proposal calls for 20 percent of DOGE's targeted two trillion in savings to be returned to the 79 million taxpaying households. I can guarantee you, a lot of those people are like, oh, DOGE is -- it's criminal and this. They get that five grand in the mail like, hey, thank you. Thank you, DOGE.
KLUG: A quick way to change everyone's opinion that was may be opposed to it to begin with, but -- I mean, this just like looking at the Elon Derangement Syndrome that we're seeing this second Trump term, right? First Trump term, OK, TDS. Now we have TDS, EDS will probably end up with RFKDS as well. I mean, they're having a meltdown -- a meltdown on every front right now. And what's so interesting about this is there they're spreading this focus.
Democrats are spreading this focus and this hatred across the board, instead of just fixating on Donald Trump. I think this administration is going to see this as a blessing in disguise, obviously.
GUTFELD: Yes. Meantime, foxnews.com writes the following here, Arynne. U.S. District Judge, Tonya Chuck, we've heard that name before, declined to grant the plaintiff's request to issue a temporary restraining order citing what she said was their failure to demonstrate evidence of irreparable harm caused by DOGE's access. I mean, waste is not harmful unless, of course, you're getting money pulled away from you because you're running some kind of, you know, comic book for $32,000 in some far-flung part of the world.
WEXLER: You know, Trace. I would love to be a liberal where all my problems are entirely made up, but I live in the real world along with you and your audience and people who voted for Donald Trump, where we get to enjoy this moment. I cannot imagine being someone who is panicking over totally fake problems. You're talking about us getting possibly $5,000 checks in the mail back from the government that were taken from us.
Don't throw me with a good time. I look forward to that day. I'd love to get it in the mail.
GUTFELD: Man, I'll tell you. A lot of people thinking, send me the -- show me the money as the -- as the savings or the old movie says. Arryn, James, thank you both. We appreciate it.
Meantime, the President and Elon Musk showing off their budding bromance earlier tonight, right here on Fox News. Matt Finn live with a sample of reaction to Hannity's big exclusive interview. Matt, good evening.
MATT FINN, FOX NEWS NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Trace, as we have been discussing in the White House interview, President Trump and Elon Musk toss to talk to our Sean Hannity about a range of topics, including -- excuse me, legally contested DOGE cuts, immigration -- guys, Trace, I'm sorry.
GUTFELD: I've got some tea for you.
(CROSSTALK)
FINN: Coming back from an illness. And the Department of Education, Musk told Hannity he used to be adored by the left, but he's gained a lot of critics. The White House insists Musk is not in charge of DOGE but tonight, some Musk critics question that.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
CARI CHAMPION, BROADCAST JOURNALIST: Why are we talking about Elon Musk as someone who can come in and slash the government spending? Because he is in charge, and we're not like the guy who made my Tesla's in charge of the federal government.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
FINN: OK. I'm back. A quick search on X tonight found that some users think that Trump and Musk seemed to display respect for each other during the interview. One user on X writing, the liberal outrage tomorrow over the Sean Hannity bromance interview between President Trump and Elon Musk is going to be of epic proportion. I honestly can't wait. And at one point, President Trump joked he could not find anyone more intelligent than Musk.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: You know, I wanted to find somebody smarter than him. I searched all over. I just couldn't do it. I couldn't -- I could --
(CROSSTALK)
SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: You really try it hard.
TRUMP: I couldn't find anyone smarter than him. We settled -- and we settled in this --
MUSK: Well, thanks for having me.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
FINN: Earlier today, a federal judge sided with DOGE and denied an effort by democratic state attorneys general to temporarily block DOGE's access to federal data systems, Trace, and our viewers. I'm sorry about that.
GUTFELD: I like the peppermint tea, Matt. The peppermint tea is the best for me. It works, help -- helps.
FINN: The stage of ice.
GUTFELD: Matt Finn, thank you.
Well, the FOX NEWS @ NIGHT Common Sense Department is perplexed at how many Americans are openly and happily living in upside down, inside out, blatantly backward society where outrage is consistently pointed in the wrong direction. Nothing highlights the argument better than the debate over Elon Musk and DOGE where a large segment of the left is not one bit angry at the hundreds of billions of dollars of wasted taxpayer money.
But is irate at the man who was locating and alleviating hundreds of billions of dollars in wasted taxpayer money. It's an upside-down world when Elon Musk is castigated but Luigi Mangione is celebrated, applauded for allegedly shooting and killing a health care executive in cold blood. The world is inside out when praising those who killed 1200 Jews is considered opinion, but making America healthy again is considered voodoo witch doctory.
Maybe Billy Joel is right. Maybe we didn't start the fire but we have certainly fanned the flames of fabulism where Russian collusion is true and a certain laptop is bogus, where Joe Biden is healthy and Donald Trump is Hitler. Common Sense thinks the lies and hate that have become normal and tolerable are now untenable. It's no longer just about cutting waste. It's about turning society right side up, right side out and forward finally.
Let's bring in the author of Second Class: How the Elites Portrayed America's Working Men and Women, journalist Batya Ungar-Sargon. And the host of A Home That Heals Podcast, one of America's great former T.V. news anchors, Dee Sarton. Great to have both of you on. Batya, to you first, I want to play some sound from MSNBC because they were just apoplectic at this whole thing tonight. Lawrence O'Donnell said this. Watch it.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
LAWRENCE O'DONNELL, MSNBC HOST: It was just as breathtakingly empty an interview as you could possibly imagine. You couldn't, actually it's more empty than that. Complete utter waste of time other than I can report to you authoritatively they didn't put up or shut up.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: Why not just honestly observe the interview and say something that maybe you disagreed with instead of just blowing the whole thing off as empty when there was actually a ton of information in that interview?
BATYA UNGAR-SARGON, JOURNALIST: Thank you so much for having me. I totally agree with you. I got a lot out of it. First of all, the comfort that they have with each other. It's clear that they're really vibing off of each other. Here's why I find the liberal outrage at Musk so offensive. It's because he does have conflicts of interest. He is a contractor with the Department of Defense. He does have very close ties to China.
There are many things that we need to be very careful about which the President has said he intends to be. So when the liberals and the leftist media gets out there and are just utterly hysterical for no reason and they care more about all of these foreign governments not getting our talk taxpayer dollars than they do about Americans not getting the American dream. They make it that much harder to actually pay attention to the potential conflicts of interest here.
GUTFELD: It's very true. Meantime, Stephen Miller, you'll appreciate this, Dee, because of your days on the news desk where you're doing interviews. Here is Stephen Miller giving some instruction to CNN's Brianna Keeler. Watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
STEPHEN MILLER, WHITE HOUSE DEPUTY CHIEF OF STAFF FOR POLICY: Why are you not celebrating these cuts? If you agree, there is waste, if you agree, there is abuse, if you agree, there is corruption. Why are you not celebrating the cuts, the reforms that are being instituted? Every day that no action is taken, the entire salaries of American workers that are taxed disappear forever.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: She's saying, calm down. But the truth is, I mean, he's got a right to be kind of up in arms because these cuts should be celebrated. They are cutting money that presidents going way back, Dee, have wanted to cut. It's happening. And the media just will not give up.
DEE SARTON, FORMER NEWS ANCHOR: By the way, I would have loved to have interviewed him when I was still in the news media, because he has energy. And it's always exciting to see somebody excited about what they're talking about. You know, what it reminded me of is that they are going -- they are cutting through the complexity to the simplicity, making it look simple, that they're doing this very, very hard thing that folks in Congress have talked about for decades.
I was interviewing people 40 years ago about this kind of thing. And finally, something is happening. You know, a predecessor of Musk, Steve Jobs. You remember him, Trace. He said something that I think is key here. Simplicity comes not by ignoring complexity by conquering it. And that is what I thought as I watched that interview tonight, is that they're using all the tools, their chemistry, their relationship, they're using their skill, their genius, their abilities.
They're not afraid to ask for help. President Trump wasn't afraid to ask Elon Musk for help, and he wasn't intimidated by his ability to get it done.
GUTFELD: Yes. That's right. Meantime, The Daily Beast, I'm going to kind of blaze through these very quickly here. The headline is, Musk flails around, comparing Trump Derangement Syndrome to rabies, Musk then launched into a tirade about so called Trump Derangement Syndrome, make believe condition used by a MAGA loyalist to undermine any criticism of the president.
Make believe. We saw Russian collusion. We've -- I could go down the list, Batya, your thoughts on that.
UNGAR-SARGON: Absolutely. And, you know, the other thing that came up tonight in the interview was President Trump was praising Elon Musk's ability to inspire young men to want to be part of the government, smart guys who care about this country. This is a really big deal, because as Musk keeps pointing out, 90 percent of the people working in these bureaucracies are liberals.
How do we inspire young conservatives to want to take these jobs, want to take them on, and want to bring something to the table? And I think that that's a really important part of this story.
GUTFELD: It really is. Dee, lastly. The media is just working overtime trying to divorce Elon and Trump. They want them separated because together, they appear to be a force. I've got about 30 seconds for you.
SARTON: Well, just briefly, I did think this too that that relationship that they have, the type of interview that Hannity did, it kind of gave us a little window into more of that relationship. And that's really what it takes and that's what I think has been missing in so many of these situations is a good working relationship where everybody is focused on the same goal and again, getting things done.
GUTFELD: Yes. And achieving that goal. Dee, Batya, thank you both.
Coming up. Survivors are speaking out about what it was like on board the Delta plane that flipped upside down. And the shocking new video that shows the plane erupting into a fireball as it crash-landed.
And later in The Nightcap, Elon Musk said tonight that the way to save taxpayers money is through competence and caring. What do you think? Has Elon lived up to his goal so far? Let us know, X and Instagram @tracegallagher. We will read your responses coming up in The Nightcap.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GUTFELD: We have incredible new video of the moment a Delta plane slammed down on the runway and flipped upside down as a crash landed in Toronto. And when you watch the video, what's even more incredible is there were no fatalities. Ashley Strohmier is live in New York City with the new video and information on this. Ashley, good evening.
ASHLEY STROHMIER, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Hi, Trace. Yes. This new footage taken by another pilot in a nearby plane shows the harrowing moment of the crash after the Delta plane touches down, the right wing strikes the ground causing the aircraft to catch on fire and then flip over it, then slides across the runway and a billow of smoke and flames. Here is what one of the survivors described, what it was like.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PETER KOUKOV, TORONTO PLANE CRASH SURVIVOR: There was no. A warning from the pilot. I -- there was no like physical warning either. I didn't feel like anything was wrong until, kind of just like the second the wheels touch the ground. Then at all -- it all kind of went mayhem from there.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
STROHMIER: Absolutely horrifying. First responders arrived on scene within minutes to help the passengers out. We now know at least 21 of the 80 people on board were hurt. That's up from the 19 reported last night but there were no life-threatening injuries luckily. And Canada's Transportation Safety Board is handling the investigation. They say it's still too early to tell what exactly caused that crash, Trace.
GALLAGHER: Ashley Strohmier live for us in New York. Ashley, thank you.
Let's bring in aviation attorney and former pilot, Arthur Rosenberg. Arthur, great to have you on. I want to play some more sound from that passenger. He's talking about when the wing actually hit the ground. Watch this and I'll get your take.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KOUKOV: We hit the ground and kind of just bounced up and turned on our side and we're sliding on our side for a while. Honestly, not as long as I thought we're going to slide for and then we ended up upside down. And we were -- yes, we were hanging by our seat belts upside down for a second and then. Yes, we made it off safely. Everyone is alive, thankfully.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Arthur, you've seen the video again and again. What do you think? Wind shear a possibility? What happened in those final milliseconds before it touchdown?
ARTHUR ROSENBERG, AVIATION ATTORNEY: Yes, so the investigation is ongoing. But what we do know, we have these films, these incredible films taken from a leader pilot holding short of runway 23. The planes approach looked fine. But about 50 feet away from touchdown, it looked to me like it had gone though some blowing snow which made -- obscure the vision of the pilot.
The plane was fighting a crosswind from the right. The nose would have been crabbed into the wind. When you come over the runway, you want to come out of the crab, straighten out, raise the wing, and you want the runway to be right underneath you. You don't want to end up being blown across the runway.
So, to me, for whatever reason, it looked like this plane was flown into the runway. Normally the nose comes up, the main wheels touch down, and either bump or no bump. But here, this looked like a naval aircraft trying to land on an aircraft carrier with a torch of flight right into the plane. The force -- the force broke the right main landing gear, probably punctured the underside of the wing where all the fuel is, precipitated the fire, and the press sequence which followed.
GALLAGHER: I was just saying, Arthur, and apologies, but I was just saying you're right. You know, he was crabbing into the wind, but I didn't see -- we didn't see a flare. It's almost like you need to flare that thing, get that thing slowed down before it hits the ground. We didn't really see that.
ROSENBERG: You didn't see it. Normally, the pilot tries to time it. So, you want to come out of the crab, come out of the slip, and touch down with both main wheels at the same time because you don't want to end up being blown across the runway. But here none of that happened. So, was it because his visibility was obscured from the -- from the blown snow he had gone through? Was there something else going on? We will find out. Flight crews are alive. The black boxes have been recovered. All the information is available.
But to me, it looks like they flew in. They landed on that right main landing gear. They collapsed the gear, punctured the wing, started a fire and this horrible press sequence.
GALLAGHER: I got to go. I've got ten seconds left for you, Arthur. But would you have gone around -- in this case, would you have gone around and try it again?
ROSENBERG: Absolutely. If I was in command of this plane, once I flew through that billowing snow, their vision was obscured, we are all taught under those conditions, you immediately go around. It's a no-brainer.
GALLAGHER: Arthur Rosenberg, thank you, sir. We appreciate your time.
ROSENBERG: Thank you for having me.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: I don't want all these people killed anymore. I'm looking at people that are being killed and they're rushing in Ukrainian people, but they're people. It doesn't matter where they're from on the whole planet. And I think I have the power to end this war.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: The President expressing confidence today that an end to Russia's war on Ukraine is in sight, despite Kyiv not being a part of peace talks. Let's bring Heritage Foundation Senior Fellow and Retired Navy Captain Brent Sadler. Brent, great to have you on the show. I want to play a little bit more sound from the President. He was asked about Ukraine not having a seat at the table for peace talks and he responded by saying this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do you have any message for Ukrainians who after three years of fighting might feel betrayed or disappointed at not having a seat at these initial talks in Saudi Arabia?
TRUMP: I'm very disappointed. I hear that, you know, they're upset about not having a seat. Well, they've had a seat for three years and a long time before that. This could have been settled very easily. Just a half -- a half-baked negotiator could have settled this years ago without -- I think, without the loss of much land.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Ukraine wants to be involved here, Brent, should they be?
BRENT SADLER, RETIRED NAVY CAPTAIN: Well, I think -- first off, thanks for having me on this evening. I'd have to say that the phone call last week on Wednesday between Zelenskyy and Trump is in fact having the Ukrainians involved in these early discussions.
There's going to be several major movements setting up the contours of any formal negotiations. These are just the preliminary moves. And so, having Ukraine in every single meeting is probably not going to be constructive to get to a pathway to a lasting peace.
But again, I push back on the notion that the Ukrainians are not engaged. They certainly are. And we should also watch General Kellogg and his trips and his engagement with the Ukrainians as well.
GALLAGHER: Yes, that's a fair point. Meantime, here's Trump on talks with Russia.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Tell us a little bit more about the Russia talks. Your impression of how they went today and if you'll have more confident or less confident of a deal after what happened today?
TRUMP: Well, much more confident. They were very good. Russia wants to do something. They want to stop the savage barbarianism.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Of course they started it, so you know, there's that -- there's that part of it.
SADLER: No, absolutely. I think Putin is trying to find an off ramp. The important thing is to make sure that he doesn't use this as a pause. And there's a rich Russian history of doing exactly that, taking a strategic pause to rearm, recoup, and then re-attack.
And so, the key thing as these negotiations go forward is to make sure that for Putin to try to re-initiate a new war is too costly in the future. So, there are other details that are starting to come out as to -- as to that point, but that's the key thing.
GALLAGHER: Yes. And lastly, I just want to get this in very quickly. Fox News writes, Russia has insisted it will not sign a peace agreement until Ukraine agrees to hold elections. And the U.S. is now floating the idea of a three-stage plan, ceasefire, then Ukrainian elections, then inking of a peace deal. 15 seconds, is that the pace that you kind of see?
SADLER: No, I think -- well, this is something to be very cautious. This seems to be a Russian ploy to try to instigate a change of government in Ukraine so that they have a stronger position going into formal negotiations. Better to have the negotiations started with the current regime. This is a wartime regime.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Brent Sadler, great to have you on. Thank you, sir.
And coming up, back to our top story, Sean Hannity's exclusive interview with President Trump and Elon Musk. Plus, California Attorney General Rob Bonta leading a resistance against Trump. All the Democratic attorneys general in the country are meeting daily to find ways to sue the president. We know that because local Fox News anchor Elex Michaelson just interviewed the California A.G. He joins us live on set with the details next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ELEX MICHAELSON, FOX 11 NEWS ANCHOR: You talk as a group via Zoom every single day?
ROB BONTA, ATTORNEY GENERAL, CALIFORNIA: Every day.
MICHAELSON: Wow.
BONTA: Every day. And it's important that we do, because there are new actions taken every day, new developments. We're talking all the time. And it's important. It's necessary. It's the right thing to do. I think the people of this state, the people of this country deserve preparedness, readiness to uphold our constitution and the rule of law.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: That is California Attorney General Rob Bonta. He's trying to use his position as you can see to slow down the President's aggressive agenda. Let's bring in Fox 11 News anchor Elex Michaelson. Elex, I mean, he's talking -- there's 23 Democratic state attorneys general in this -- in this country. They're talking every day on Zoom. It shows you Trump has kind of shake and things up a little bit.
MICHAELSON: Right. And they're basically deciding you take this one, you take this one, you take this one, this one goes to California as a way. But you think about it, they're kind of the only place that has power right now, because the Democrats don't have any power, basically in Washington. These states attorney general are their way to try to sue their way to stop everything. They may not have the Supreme Court, but they got these lower courts that have a lot of liberal justices and it's not -- judges I should say -- opportunity to potentially slow down the president.
GALLAGHER: Yes. And I was kind of fascinated when he said, literally, about running for governor. He -- Kamala Harris, he's a big fan of Kamala Harris, and if she runs for governor, he is all in. Here's what he said.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MICHAELSON: Why is that?
BONTA: I've supported her since day one as a San Francisco D.A., as Attorney General of California. She had my job. We are fellow Californians. I'm proud to say I have her old job. U.S. Senator, Vice President, I just think she is talented and skillful and represents what California needs and is best at. It represents our greatness. She is a generational talent.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: He went on to say he thinks she clears the field on that.
MICHAELSON: Including potentially him. Because for about a year, there's been a rumor that he was going to run for governor. He was, I know, talking to different people about that possibility. He decides all of a sudden not to, and now he's all in on Kamala Harris, maybe thinking she's the one that's going to win.
GALLAGHER: Yes. You also asked him if he thinks Trump is doing a good job, and well, he answered this way. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BONTA: I mean, look, he won an election. He's -- I think he's overreaching in terms of what he thinks his mandate is. I think there's no mandate. I think there was people wanted change. I don't think they wanted consistent violations of the Constitution, consistent breaking of the law, ending of critical essential federal services and programs. But he was able to earn enough votes to win a presidential election. That's no small feat.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Yes, he keeps going, kind of he's revisiting refrain of constitutional crisis. He's kind of hitting that same note, right?
MICHAELSON: And a very different than what Governor Gavin Newsom is saying about Donald Trump recently, who's been much more complimentary, potentially wanting all this money for California from the federal government, Rob Bonta with a very different tone right now.
GALLAGHER: Yes. I want to bring in Caroline Sunshine, former communications expert here in the Trump administration. And it's interesting because you hear about these things and a lot of people, a lot of news organizations have used the phrase, constitutional crisis. And you see Rob Bonta kind of -- kind of digging into that a little bit, right?
SUNSHINE: Yes, you can see the talking points that come from the top have now trickled down to the state level, you know. But respectfully, in terms of the job performance review of President Trump, I don't think we need to take job performance reviews from somebody who thinks that Kamala Harris would be a great governor of California.
But I want to -- you know, that point in the interview he talks about President Trump doesn't have a mandate. It was no small feat. President Trump has an overwhelming mandate -- let's be very clear -- from the American people. He won the popular vote, all seven swing states. That is exactly no small feat. He has a wide, deep, far-ranging mandate from the American people to go in and do everything that he's doing at remarkable speed.
And I think Democrats would be smarter to get on board and find common ground than continuing to fight him again and again and again. That's a surefire way to not win any midterm elections.
GALLAGHER: Meantime, you also interviewed the mayor of Los Angeles, Karen Bass. And I'm kind of fascinated to see what she said because there's a lot of questions that I would have for her as well concerning the fires and all that. Let's place some of this back and forth and we'll get Elex's final comments.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KAREN BASS, MAYOR, LOS ANGELES: That type of preparation didn't happen. If that had, I will tell you, Elex, I wouldn't have even gone to San Diego, let alone leave the country.
MICHAELSON: What do you mean there were warnings you weren't aware of? Because I know we were talking about it on the news. A lot of people were talking about the problems, warning that this was going to be a huge thing.
BASS: So, it didn't reach that level to me to say something terrible could happen and maybe you shouldn't have gone on the trip.
MICHAELSON: Why do you not?
BASS: But to me -- I don't know. I mean, I think that that's one of the things we need to look at.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: A little bit of finger pointing there at some, you know, the fire chief and so forth because everybody knew. You were covering it. Everybody knew that was very bad and she was off to Africa.
MICHAELSON: Yes. And so, she went to Ghana on this trip and then had to come back from that trip. Hadn't done any sit downs like this until now, a month after the fires. So, clearly, she's changing her communication strategy and hopefully she starts talking more because she's been pretty quiet.
GALLAGHER: Final thoughts on this, Caroline.
SUNSHINE: Oh, I completely forgot about the fact that she went to Ghana. And then I don't remember the part where she came home. And the reporters doing their jobs, asking her, do you have a message for the people of California? Not one word.
GALLAGHER: Wouldn't say a word.
SUNSHINE: Wouldn't say a word.
MICHAELSON: She admitted in that interview with us today for the first time that that was a big mistake as well.
GALLAGHER: Big mistakes all around.
SUNSHINE: Huge.
GALLAGHER: Caroline, thank you. Elex, see to you tonight at 10:00 p.m.
MICHAELSON: On Fox --
GALLAGHER: Here in Los Angeles, Fox 11. Thank you.
Meantime, Hannity's interviewed with President Trump and Elon Musk. Musk mentioned the way to save taxpayer money is through competence and caring. What do you think? Has he been true to these values so far? Let us know X and Instagram @Trace Gallagher. We're back with the "NIGHTCAP" crew, including you, next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GALLAGHER: We're back with the "NIGHTCAP" crew, Mike Emanuel, Ashley Strohmier, Matt Finn, Caroline, Sunshine, James Klug, Dee Sarton, and Elex Michaelson. Tonight's topic, Secrets of Success. Elon Musk said tonight that the way to save taxpayer money is through competence and caring. Has Musk lived up to the goals so far, Dee Sarton?
SARTON: I can't wait to get up every morning and see what's next. So, I would say yes.
GALLAGHER: Yes. It's -- a lot of people in that kind of same vein. Ashley Strohmier.
STROHMIER: Yes, and I think it's just the tip of the iceberg and I think transparency needs to be thrown in there too because these prior administrations didn't think Americans could handle it, but we really just want transparency.
GALLAGHER: Yes. James, to you, because he really has -- I mean, he's gone out of his way to say, look, we're trying to take care of these people. You know, this whole narrative about how they were out of a job in eight months of severance.
KLUG: Yes. I think when it comes down to it, I think he's absolutely fulfilling his job so far compared to the previous abomination of an administration. 100 percent I'm trusting this process right now that he's got going on and I think the American people do too.
GALLAGHER: Matt Finn?
FINN: Obviously, he is competent and has a lot of heart. As far as the DOGE cuts, I think people want them to be methodical and smooth.
GALLAGHER: Yes. And he doesn't need the money. Caroline?
SUNSHINE: So, you look at the stuff that DOGE is uncovering. Like, the fact that USAID dollars were used to fund the college tuition of al-Qaeda terrorists. Not competent, not caring, very competent caring to bring that money back to the American people.
GALLAGHER: Mike Emanuel?
EMANUEL: Well, Trace, as someone who's covered the bureaucracy, I think there are smart, capable people who know where the waste fraud and abuse are, who will now speak up because Elon wants them to. And so, look for that.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Elex?
MICHAELSON: Too early to tell. He's really good at getting employees out of the way. We'll see if it makes the government more efficient long term.
GALLAGHER: He's saving his opinion for the 10:00 show.
We asked what you think. Betsey says as a California public school teacher, I cannot wait until he investigates the Department of Education for everything they have wasted.
Jay: Musk's focus on competence and caring for cost-saving seems popular. He certainly achieved his goal.
Chris says he's doing what we hope to reduce so far.
Rachel: Without a doubt, he has our government, has been incompetent and careless for decades. Now common sense thinking and American first. What a novel idea. I screwed that one up but you get the gist.
Cat: Absolutely. Elon and team have far surpassed expectations. This is only the tip of the iceberg.
Shari says he has far surpassed that goal. Keep going, Elon, we love it.
Gracie: He is the epitome of both these and I feel the American people are so fortunate. Elon wholeheartedly took on the college -- the challenge of DOGE.
And Monica says yes, and we need Eline to keep digging.
Thank you for watching America's late news FOX NEWS @ NIGHT. I'm Trace Gallagher. We'll see you back here.

Load-Date: February 19, 2025


End of Document
