




Fox News INGRAHAM ANGLE 7:00 PM EST
February 26, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6785 words
Byline: Bret Baier, Laura Ingraham, Laura Ingraham, Raymond Arroyo
Guests: Alina Habba, Tommy Tuberville, Tomi Lahren
Body


BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS HOST: Fair, balanced and still unafraid. The Ingraham Angle starts now.
LAURA INGRAHAM, FOX NEWS HOST: Good evening everyone. I'm Laura Ingraham. This is The Ingraham Angle from Washington tonight. As always, thank you for joining us. Well, I'm back from Guantanamo Bay, and Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth gave The Ingraham Angle an inside look at where illegals are being held. We're going to bring you our exclusive coverage in moments. But first, the art of the reveal. That's the focus of tonight's Angle.
What a novel concept, a president who wants the government to work for, not against us, which means stop blowing our money on pointless wars and start making us money whenever possible.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We're going to be signing an agreement which will be a very big agreement that will be on rare earth and other things. And as you know, we're in for probably $350 billion Europe is in for $100 billion and that's a big difference. It's very important to everybody. We're going to get our money back, and we're going to get a lot of money in the future. And I think that's appropriate, because we have taxpayers that are -- shouldn't be footing the bill.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: He's 100 percent correct. This war was a catastrophe for both sides and a drain on America, and now it's time to use our leverage to make things as fair as possible for all parties, and only Trump could pull this off. And only Trump could have pulled in Elon Musk to help pull off a whole of government cost-cutting mission. We have no other choice.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ELON MUSK, CEO, X: We simply cannot sustain as a country a $2 trillion deficit. If we don't do this, America will go bankrupt. If we are to achieve $1 trillion deficit reduction in financial year 2026, it requires saving $4 billion per day every day from now through the end of September. But we can do it, and we will do it.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Well, failure simply is not an option. Thus, the President's team needs information. Answers to simple questions from employees who get paid by us, questions really difficult ones like, tell us what you accomplished last week. Now, other than for those employees in very sensitive jobs. I mean, this should be simple, easy and take no time at all.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MUSK: What we are trying to get to the bottom of is we think there are a number of people on the government payroll who are dead, which is probably why they can't respond. And some people who are not real people like they're literally fictional individuals that are collecting paycheck. Well, somebody's collecting paychecks on a fictional individual. So literally, trying to figure out, are these people real? Are they alive?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: I love that banner. Are these people real? Are they alive? Well, it's another novel idea, though, don't pay dead people. And speaking of people who don't have a pulse, when did Joe Biden ever, and I mean ever, coherently preside, preside over a cabinet meeting. Well, this is how one went down.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOE BIDEN (D), 46TH U.S. PRESIDENT: Jill is here today. Heard that clapping. It wasn't for me.
JILL BIDEN, FORMER FIRST LADY: It's time to write a new story of health care in this country, one where women get the answers we need. Thank you.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Oh my gosh, I totally forgot that the one with Jill's reading. Story time at the cabinet meeting with Jill Biden. Well, again, the key here is knowledge. So, do not underestimate how much we're learning about the systems, the intricacies of the systems that make the D.C. spending machine go, remember, we pay for it, and a lot of it is broken.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MUSK: Many of these systems are extremely old. They don't communicate. There are a lot of mistakes in the systems. The software doesn't work.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Software doesn't work. Of course, it doesn't work. It's the federal government. Now, remember, they're trying to find about 15 percent across the board savings from just fraud and waste. We all know that's just the tip of the iceberg, though, but that's a good start.
Now, Musk's formula for who should stay and who should go. It's something even the most dim-witted liberal should understand.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MUSK: We wish to keep everyone who is doing a job that is essential and doing that job well, but if they're -- if the job is not essential, or they're not doing the job well, they obviously should not be on the public payroll.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: And dead people can't do the job well, so again, take them off. But that's so cruel, that's unheard of, says the Federal Employees Union. You can't cut that. Well, except it's not any of that. The legacy media, they like to ignore the fact that President Clinton actually fired 377,000 federal employees between January 1993 and September of 2000.
The Trump administration, again, has a goal of about 10 percent of the workforce, or a total of 230,000 positions cut. It has to happen, and it can't happen fast enough. And actually, when you think about it, I think 230,000 it's far too few. But again, we'll take it. So this is all exciting and it's encouraging. It makes people feel optimistic. But while we are optimistic and while we are excited, at the same time, Trump 2.0 has to be mindful, just because Democrats are lost now, and they are lost. It doesn't mean they're going to be lost forever.
So if it begins to appear that Trump's team loses its way on the America First agenda or focus, well, you risk giving an opening to Democrat populists. Now they'll be fake populists, but nevertheless, they'll pretend but Democrats who seize on anything that appears to put foreign workers and foreign countries, especially our adversaries, ahead of American workers and American interests.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: I see so many things saying that we don't want China in this country. That's not right. We want them to invest in the United States. That's good. That's a lot of money coming in and we'll invest in China.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: OK, but China has already bought up American companies, agricultural interests and huge swaths of land and properties, including some that we've documented here on the Angle near our military bases. But did MAGA turn out for Trump because they want more of that, or they want thousands of more foreign workers here to drive down wages and opportunities for Americans? A fine line must be walked. Americans First, always, no matter what the donors want.
But overall, look, this is extremely exciting, ending wars, deporting illegals, saving money, cutting the fat, making fair trade deals, a return to commonsense. So now is the time to double down on MAGA. Build out the majority. Do not give the Left an inch, and that's the Angle.
Joining me now, Alina Habba, Counselor to President Trump. Alina, a little, little murmuring in MAGA land about, you know, the comments about China today. Did MAGA vote for China to be able to buy up more American real estate or American companies, they ask?
ALINA HABBA, COUNSELOR TO PRESIDENT TRUMP: Is that really a question? Really? That's what we're doing now, the spin. That's the spin. Yes, no, what the President said was very simple. It's the same policy we've had across the board. When you look at reciprocal tariffs, when you look at the strongarm that President Trump has had with China, with Canada, with Mexico. We want America to be safe. We care about American people first. It's like what you just said in your monologue, it couldn't have said it better America First.
INGRAHAM: Alina, but you can't buy -- reciprocity would mean Americans can go off and buy lots of Chinese real estate, real estate near military bases, which I know President Trump is not in favor of. But the concern obviously is like we wanted -- the deals are great and so much of our phenomenal, but you see where Democrats are starting to like, warm their way into the populist agenda and say, whoa, whoa, whoa, how is that for the American worker to bring in thousands of more foreign workers. That is what some on the MAGA side are, you know, kind of whispering about, but nevertheless, it's out there.
HABBA: Yes, let me clarify that then, if there's any confusion, what the President was referring to was us continuing to have business relations. We do import, export. Of course, we do. That is what we're talking about. Yes, we are going to be a strong nation. Yes, we are going to have peace through strength. Yes, we are going to have a stronger economy, and we are going to cut the fat through DOGE, through the President's initiatives, and what we have voted the American people have voted for on November 5th, but that means that, yes, we're going to be tough, but we still want to make money. We still want to be producing. We still want to work with other countries.
China is just another example. It's a lot like Laura, when the President says something like Putin is bright or Putin, that doesn't mean he's praising him. That means that he is acknowledging the situation. What is good for America? What is America First? If you say we're not going to have Amazon, we're not going to have anything imported or exported with China, that's not realistic. That's not what he's saying. We want to do business, but it's got to be done the right way, and that is what the President was referring to. But of course, the spin is real, as you know now.
INGRAHAM: Now, Alina, when I saw that cabinet meeting, Trump had taken questions. Elon made his point. Again, they were trying to draw -- drive a wedge between Elon Musk and President Trump. I don't know why they're still doing that. It's obviously not working at all. And I think Musk made the point perfectly. We want people who actually are alive, getting paid, and people actually have a role or a job, you know, to stay on board. If it's an essential role, stay on board. If it's not, move on down the road. It's pretty commonsense.
HABBA: How about just work. Like, never mind essential role. That's easy. Are you working? Are you working? Are you double dipping? Are you working for another company? And if you cannot say that you are working, you do not have a job pretty much anywhere. And I hope that any boss runs their company the way President Trump is running this country. And what was crazy, I was in the cabinet meeting sitting right behind, right next to Elon, and I literally looked at him and laughed at one point because he was saying, you know we're going to -- and President Trump said, now, wait a minute, Elon, wait one second. Let's be very clear. There is an outer bubble, and he is not backing down.
President Trump told Elon Musk in a public, again, transparency tweet, Elon, go harder. Elon, do more. Elon is an assistant to the president, a special government employee, who has been tasked with saving government spending where we don't need it, so that we can have a budget and have a balanced budget, something we haven't had for a long time.
INGRAHAM: Now, Alina, do you think they'll get to that 230,000 employee number to cut? Will they go higher? What's your sense as things stand now?
HABBA: Higher. Higher.
INGRAHAM: How high?
HABBA: I think that we're not -- I think there's -- I don't know, but I can tell you that the -- what we've recovered and what we've seen is so clear, we're already ahead of schedule. Elon spoke to that. Right now, if we continue at this route, we hope to have a balanced budget. We hope to fix the deficit serious problems that have existed in this country that have not been addressed, and you have to do it quickly and swiftly. And President Trump expects us to work really hard to make sure it gets done in this administration, not in six years, not in 10 years.
INGRAHAM: Alina, it's always great to see you. We saw you sitting in that cabinet room. Thank you so much as always.
HABBA: Thank you.
INGRAHAM: All right, last night, the House passed Trump's budget blueprint to cut spending, lower taxes. But a showdown may be coming. Now, the goal is to cut 1.5 trillion in spending, but that's over a 10 year period, pretty slow. But Democrats, of course, they're arguing that the proposed legislation could add roughly 3 trillion to the deficit. What's the truth here?
Joining me now, Senator Tommy Tuberville. Senator, now walk us through the math. Because, again, there's analysis that I'm looking at that shows that there's not really a lot in the way of spending cuts in this current blueprint, and that, in fact, it would be a small increase in spending and the cuts would actually that exist are quite modest. What is the truth?
SEN. TOMMY TUBERVILLE (R-AL): Well, first of all, Laura, thank you. But in the Senate side, we passed ours on Friday. It's really no cuts at all. It's pretty much we're spending, we're spending more money, but we have to have it for the border. But in the House, they are cutting some money 10 years. It's obviously not going to be enough. There's going to have to be some adjustments. We're going to -- we're going to work together to get this done. We'll probably have to conference both bills to try to make it work. But at the end of the day, Laura, everybody knows this, we have to cut spending. That's the reason DOGE is so important. If we don't cut spending and grow this country, we're not going to survive as we know it.
INGRAHAM: Well, former Senator Claire McCaskill is trying to turn rural voters against Trump. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
CLAIRE MCCASKILL, FORMER U.S. SENATOR: The billionaire class did not put him in office. Who put him in office were poor people and, frankly, rural America. So what Donald Trump is really doing? He is taking from the poorest people in America, primarily in rural America, and he is making the middle class pay more for health insurance.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Now, Senator, I know we don't know all the you know, the rural voters were a major reason why Trump won. Correct?
TUBERVILLE: Exactly, and he's trying to save the rural America and the middle class workers, Laura, because if we don't get these tax cuts, number one, if we don't get these tax cuts, every one of the middle class Americans next year will pay $1,000 per month more in their check. So it's obvious what we have to do. Again, the Democrats have no game plan whatsoever. They should never even speak because for four years they have run this country straight into the ground. All they've done is spend money, and they've created such a disaster for President Trump, but he has a game plan, and the game plan is to cut spending and grow the country. And if we don't do those two, then we're going to have a very, very tough time.
INGRAHAM: Now, Senator, will the Defense Department budget be cut? Because we're going to get to this. But I interviewed Secretary Hegseth, he has some, you know, he has some goals in that arena, but will that happen? That's $850 billion and we know there's a lot of waste, fraud abuse inside the Pentagon spending craziness.
TUBERVILLE: Yes, because we hadn't had a decent audit of any of the money spent years and years and years. But end of the day, DOGE is going to help there. Pete Hegseth has welcomed DOGE to come in into the military. We have to start in the Pentagon. We need to make a trigon, three sides instead of five sides in the Pentagon, it is way too big, way over bloated. They have, what, 30,000, 40,000 people in the Pentagon, then 100,000 people across the street in Arlington that are making tons of money.
We have to cut back and do it for the warfighter. Help the warfighter. Build equipment, do the things we need to do. We can -- we can get the cuts, but we need to continue to do what we -- what Pete has done is cut out all the bloat and all the DEI, get our military back to a killing machine, somebody that can protect this country and our allies.
INGRAHAM: Well, President Trump had a very strong reaction, Senator, to the budget resolution, writing on Truth. Big first step win for Speaker Mike Johnson in America. Now, let's start to balance the budget. It can be done. Well, we haven't balanced a budget since what, 2000 I think, something like that. The last time we balanced the budget in the United States of America, we had a surplus, or we had a surplus. That just should be obvious, that that's where we need to get to.
TUBERVILLE: Yes, well, first of all, it's going to be hard to do, but it all goes back to, we're over bloated. We have a business that's way over strained in terms of people working in the federal government, we have to do things to help the American people. Put the American people first. And right now, American people have not been first until President Trump took office about 20, 30 days ago.
INGRAHAM: Senator, are you for the golden visas, where you get 5 million to invest and you get a -- you get a golden visa? Is that -- a lot of people want to park a lot of money in the United States. I'm not sure all of them the people I'd want to welcome in the United States, but there probably be some vetting. But what's your view on that?
TUBERVILLE: Well, it's a very unusual idea. Only President Trump could come up with that. I played golf with him before. He comes up with 100 ideas and 18 holes of golf. You know and he's always thinking about something to make things better. He's a business guy, and so we'll see what he -- where this ends up. But it's very unusual. But again, at the end of the day, we need to make sure that we bring in good people. If we bring in people that can help this country from being illegal to legal.
INGRAHAM: Yes, well, there's a lot of people, a lot of money, are not necessarily good people as well, Senator, but I hear you. We'll see. It's devil's always in the details. And very interesting idea, no doubt. Thank you so much. All right. Up next, an Ingraham Angle exclusive. We're on the ground when a flight of illegals landed at Gitmo.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
INGRAHAM: Well, I just got back from Guantanamo Bay with Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth for an exclusive look at where the Trump administration is holding illegal aliens. Here's what we found.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: It's 07:30 a.m. and we just arrived at Joint Base Andrews, right outside of Washington, D.C. You may hear the roaring of the government jet in the background. We're about to board; we're going to head to Gitmo. It's a 45 square mile military base in Southeastern Cuba, and it's known to many Americans for housing the 9/11 terrorists, including Khalid Sheik Mohammed, but in the 90s, it was used to hold thousands of Haitian and Cuban migrants who were trying to claim asylum in the United States, but now it has a new purpose.
TRUMP: We have 30,000 beds in Guantanamo to detain the worst criminal illegal aliens threatening the American people. Some of them are so bad we don't even trust the countries to hold them because we don't want them coming back. So we're going to send them out to Guantanamo.
INGRAHAM: We're here aboard the Department of Defense government plane on the way to Naval Station Guantanamo Bay, where everybody knows there are flights of illegal immigrants arriving on a regular basis. That is the administration's decision as a way station before they are returned home. President Trump says he wants thousands of illegals to pass through Gitmo, try to speed up the process, but there are only a few 100 beds at Gitmo to accommodate them.
15 minutes after our plane touchdown, a migrant flight from Fort Bliss came in. There are nine high value detainees. It's really loud. From Guatemala, Honduras, Guinea, Venezuela, Vietnam, so only nine in that plane, but the commander told us they can only handle so many at a time, given the hospital facility, the site facility here, but they're speeding up the processing every day, and it's becoming more efficient every day.
MAJ. GEN. PHIL RYAN, COMMANDING GENERAL, JOINT TASK FORCE-SOUTHERN GUARD: The vehicles that you just saw pull up, they came over on a ferry about an hour ago to get lined up right now you will see one by one, the illegal aliens will come off. They are shackled. They are screened on the site, and then they will be put into the vehicles. The whole process starts. They go down the ramp onto the ferry, the vehicles stay on the ferry, and then it's a 20 minute drive once they get to the other side. Once they get to the detention facility, it's about another hour of in processing that happens. So this is -- this whole dance takes about two hours total.
INGRAHAM: Nine on that very large plane. But why people watch it be like? Why such a big plane? Why not a small plane?
RYAN: There's at least one ICE personnel for each one of them. There's a medical team on board. It gets small pretty quick.
PETE HEGSETH, SECRETARY OF DEFENSE: We've had groups with more than that. I think some, some of it is maintaining a constant flow with the assets that we have. And key thing that the general pointed out is it's all ICE custody.
INGRAHAM: How close are the 9/11 high value enemy combatants to where these high value illegal aliens are?
RYAN: They are in a different facilities.
INGRAHAM: But how close?
RYAN: They're close. They're within 50 yards of each other, there's fences.
HEGSETH: But there's no way they're going to have any interaction. There's no possibility they'll have interaction. They might as well be miles apart as far as the facility.
INGRAHAM: What's your message to the cartels? They're watching all this. What's your message to them?
HEGSETH: Oh, my message has been from the beginning, we're taking nothing off the table, nothing. We will do whatever it takes to secure the American homeland, to maintain our sovereignty and protect the American people.
INGRAHAM: Does that mean you're ruling out potential strikes inside of Mexico on fentanyl labs that we know they exist, and we know where they exist.
HEGSETH: No, I don't think I ruled anything out. All -- anything is on the table. The Commander-in-Chief ultimately, with my consultation and with the chairman and others, will make those determinations, but nothing's off the table. Our sovereignty will be defended.
RYAN: So the hand-off has happened. The Marines are coming back. They've already been put in. That's how quick it goes now.
HEGSETH: How long did it take? Maybe 15 minutes. 10 minutes max. I once stood here as a fully kitted up Second Lieutenant on this runway, we stood there for four to five hours because you had to get the detainees back in the day, had to sign their own release ultimately, and the guy we were sending back was refused to sign his own release back to his home country, because, to your point, Laura, he was treated so well here. He actually didn't want to go back to where he was coming from, because he knew he'd be mistreated.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: And after the illegals were escorted off the plane, we moved our interview into the join op center.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Just in time for your visit here. The Washington Post has a hit piece out on this entire operation. They're basically saying that three of the detainees that were transported out of here last week were not criminal offenders. They were run of the mill, illegal aliens, and they complained of inhumane conditions. They complained of mistreatment, isolation. Your response to that.
HEGSETH: That article is B.S. It is exactly what the blame America First crowd will always do, which is try to characterize our efforts, try to mischaracterize our efforts in order to impugn the motives of the President of the United States and his efforts to secure the American people. This idea that people are mistreated is absolute garbage.
INGRAHAM: But a federal judge stopped three Venezuelans from being transported here because apparently, at least temporarily, decided that it wasn't clear why they were being sent here. So clearly, the legal cases are trying to force the administration to give more information, more access to the migrants, more legal rights to the migrants, more access to attorneys, family calls.
HEGSETH: That's what they always do. My job as the Secretary of Defense is not to worry about what the lawyers are arguing. I've got my own set of lawyers that will give us the legal parameters, and we are abiding by the law, completely.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Coming up, we're going to take you inside where the illegal aliens are held at Gitmo.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
LAURA INGRAHAM, FOX NEWS HOST: OK, a lot of you want to know what are the conditions for the illegals at Gitmo? I know it keeps you up at night. Well, we have an exclusive look inside one of those facilities.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: All right, we're rolling. We're on our way to the MOC, which is the Migrant Operation Center. There are about 50 beds there. They hold illegal aliens, not the highest value detainees. But nevertheless, they're processed there. And they're there. They're held there, ideally for not a long period of time. And then they're processed out of the country. But 50 beds, we got millions of illegal immigrants.
But this, again, this is a one-part of a multi-part operation across all of government to support President Trump's mission to enforce our borders, protect our sovereignty, and send a message to anyone thinking they're going to come to the United States illegally. You might end up here in Guantanamo Bay, and then you're going to go home.
These are some of the types of facilities where they're held. You see two, four, six, seven here. Refrigerator, bathroom, t-shirt, and kind of the standard issue clothing. Very well air conditioned. Much better air conditioning here than in some of the official buildings that the soldiers are in. But it's kind of standard issue.
And then the same thing here. There are, hmm, two, four, six, eight here, refrigerator, air conditioning, bathroom, maybe a little, well, handicap outfitted here.
The thing to understand about this is that while DOD moves the migrants in, the control of this facility is done by ICE and DHS. So, ICE and DHS have the control, and yet, DOD, most of this comes out of their budget, so it's kind of interesting interplay among the agencies. It's actually cold here, so let's keep going.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: There's another part of Gitmo that we were not allowed access to. We couldn't go into with Secretary Hegseth and it's called the windward side, and this is where they're housing the high threat illegals and the 9- 11 co-conspirators like Khalid Sheikh Mohammed.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: So, what did you see over there?
PETE HEGSETH, U.S. SECRETARY OF DEFENSE: People forget this is an active naval station, and a really robust one. So, I got to see a DDG, a destroyer. All crew, they were recently over in the Red Sea dealing with the operations, active operations over there. Got to meet that whole crew. So, that's something to remember.
Then we went back to the detention facility where the illegal aliens are. It's an incredibly professional operation. It's as I remember it when I was here. But I think the message is clear. If you break the law, if you are a criminal, you can find your way at Guantanamo Bay. You don't want to be at Guantanamo Bay, which is where we housed Al Qaeda after 9-11. They're professionals, they do their job. It's not easy, it's not easy time. It's a maximum-security prison.
INGRAHAM: Did you talk to any of the detainees or see any of them?
HEGSETH: Saw them. We didn't talk to them or interact with them, but we saw them, saw their living conditions.
INGRAHAM: And what do they look like?
HEGSETH: It's austere, it's basic, but it's every basic amenity that you could need is provided. Medical checks, dental checks, healthcare checks, welfare checks, recreational opportunities. But again, it's austere and it's basic, because it should be. You broke our laws, if you may temporarily have to go to Gitmo, then you're going home.
INGRAHAM: An ACLU group is saying that the confinement there is tantamount to solitary confinement, which is against the U.N. rules on how you have to house people like this, because they're, they only get two hours of outside time, outside of their cells. What do you say to that?
HEGSETH: I say bull (BLEEP) to the ACLU. I know what their agenda is. They want to make the America look bad. They want to make our commander-in- chief, President Trump, look bad. These are top-notch, top-tier facilities run by professionals, where they bend over backwards to make sure that medical, dental, health care, food, religious accommodations, language accommodations all exist.
No, you're not going to have universal freedom at Guantanamo Bay. It's a prison. But they get all the time that they need as a temporary place to send them home. This is about temporarily holding high profile, high threat individuals who then we send home.
INGRAHAM: Now, what about the 9-11 detainees? Did you get a chance to head over there?
HEGSETH: Saw them all.
INGRAHAM: Did you see Khalid Sheikh Mohammed?
HEGSETH: Saw Khalid Sheikh Mohammed.
INGRAHAM: How's he looking?
HEGSETH: I don't really care, but he's fine. And I hope he finds justice soon. And one of the rare things I agree with my predecessor on, Lloyd Austin, that he deserves a death penalty. And I hope he finds it soon through that system. But we saw them. They're consolidated in Camp 5. And they've got, actually, they've been there a long time. So, the conditions are different, and they're certainly taken care of.
INGRAHAM: Well, after spending the day with Secretary Hegseth and his phenomenal staff and all the troops here at Guantanamo Bay, we learned a lot. We learned what the media want you to believe about how America is and how we treat the illegal aliens on the way out of the country.
And we learned about the humanity of the troops here and their service, their absolute loyalty to the mission and to American sovereignty. We hope you learned as much as we did.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: We're going to have much more for my trip to Guantanamo Bay in the coming days. And coming up, what's going on in Maine? Is there something in the water up there? Because Democrats are now punishing a female Republican lawmaker for speaking her mind on female athletes. Coming up.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
RYAN FECTEAU (D), MAINE HOUSE SPEAKER: Bringing images of kids online without their consent is a clear violation of that trust. I urge you, and indeed every member of this body, to recommit to keeping kids out of the political fray.
The chair understands that the member does not intend to submit an apology to the body.
UNKNOWN: That's correct.
FECTEAU: The member will not be able to cast a vote or speak on the floor.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: And you're going to sit in the corner for the rest of the day. OK. So that was Maine State Rep. Laurel Libby being censured for exposing how a boy, claimed to be transgender, won a girls' state high school pole vault championship in Maine. Now that same boy who now goes by Katie competed in the boys' pole vault a year ago, tied for fifth place. We brought you this story last week, but there continues to be a lot of fallout.
Joining me is Tomi Lahren, host of Tomi Lahren is Fearless. Tomi, this is where we need the federal government. I'm not usually for stepping on states' rights here, but this cannot continue, OK? And yet, it is continuing. DEI is not dead. It's just -- it's sleeping in certain places, but it's not dead.
TOMI LAHREN, HOST, TOMI LAHREN IS FEARLESS: Yeah, and what I love about this is this is all under the guise of protecting children. Excuse me, come again. If you want to protect children, if you want to protect young girls and women, you keep their sports and their spaces free from biological men. That is a common-sense idea right there.
And I hope that President Trump does follow through and cuts federal funding from Maine and other states that are not complying with his executive order.
I would also say, Laura, of all the dumb hills Democrats are choosing to die on since their historic defeat last November, this might be the dumbest. So, for DOGE wanting to continue waste, fraud and abuse, OK, they love big government, I get it. Coddling illegal immigrants, all right, they see them as future voters, they love the cheap labor. But this?
The constituency for this is pretty limited. This might go over well in maybe West Hollywood, California, but everywhere else, this is a 90-10 issue. I mean, Democrats, do you ever want to win an election again?
INGRAHAM: Well, one, when you really think about this, Tomi, it kind of makes sense, right? Because where else is the left going to go? They don't have any solutions for the economy. They don't really have a path to make a better economy out there for anybody, young people, African-Americans.
We've seen what's happened to African-Americans in the inner city. We've seen what's happened to California and New York, and the list goes on. So, what else do they have? They're just doubling down on failure.
LAHREN: Well, of course they're doubling down on identity, in woke politics, but I would argue that protecting women is actually a much larger constituency than protecting the they-them. You think they also would have learned that lesson after that incredibly effective campaign ad in which they showed Kamala for they-them, and Donald Trump for you and me.
So again, they're not reading the room. They're not understanding that woke is dead. And if they want to resurrect it, this is not the way to do it. You can have a lot of woke things that are maybe mainstream, but men and women's sports is not one of them. You've got Stephen A Smith, Bill Maher, Charlamagne the God coming out saying, hey, please let this issue die. But they can't let it, not in these deep blue states. Best of luck to them. I hope Donald Trump sees them in court.
INGRAHAM: Now the trans craze is always -- also, Tomi, in our national security. So, at this sex chat room was exposed among the federal intel employees where they talked about castration, other gross fetishes on a government messaging system during work hours. Thoughts on that?
LAHREN: Well, Laura, I'm hoping that they're answering the email about the five things that they've done in the last week, and I hope they're detailing this so the American taxpayer can see what so-called intelligence officials are doing to safeguard our national security. I mean, this is porn, soft porn in some cases. I hope Tulsi Gabbard roots this out as soon as possible, and I hope we uncover more of it.
These people have no business being funded by the taxpayer, and no business being anywhere near national security. It's sick, it's wrong, and quite frankly, it's gross.
INGRAHAM: Tomi, great to see you as always. Thanks so much. And Jake Tapper has a case of amnesia, and Newsome has fired up over a new media venture. Uh oh, Raymond Arroyo has it all. Seen and Unseen is next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
INGRAHAM: It's time for Seen and Unseen, we reveal the stories behind the headlines, and for that we turn to Fox News contributor Raymond Arroyo. All right, Raymond, it sounds like Jake Tapper is trying maybe a little bit to make a little money, a few bucks on the Biden cover-up. Ah.
RAYMOND ARROYO, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Laura, Tapper announced his new book detailing amazing, amazingly he's discovered this Biden's decision to run for reelection in the cover-up of Biden's mental decline. The book is called, Original Sin, which could well describe Tapper since this was him back in 2020. I think this could be called a major sin of omission. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNKNOWN: I think what we see on stage with Joe Biden, Jake, is very clearly a cognitive decline. That's what I'm referring to. It makes me uncomfortable to watch somebody on stage search for questions.
UNKNOWN: It's so amazing to me that --
UNKNOWN: And try and figure out an answer.
UNKNOWN: A cognitive decline. You're mocking his stutter and I think you have absolutely no standing to diagnose somebody's cognitive decline.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
ARROYO: I guess she has no standing, but he does. I doubt if that exchange will end up in the book with Lara Trump.
INGRAHAM: Well, they all kind of knew, or they weren't paying attention. If they weren't paying attention. Jake's a pretty smart guy. I mean, everybody knew, but things you stress, things you don't stress. Come on.
ARROYO: I know, but he denied it. This is broadcast whiplash. He may as well go out and write a book, The Virtues of Conservative Media, at this point. He has no credibility on this stuff. I mean, you can't come out with a book after you've been denying what everybody could see for years.
And look, just when you thought it couldn't get any worse, guess who's launching their own clod cast -- podcast, Laura.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNKNOWN: I'm going to be talking to people directly that I disagree with. In the first few weeks we're going to be sitting down with some of the biggest leaders and architects in the MAGA movement. This is Gavin Newson.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
ARROYO: No, this is political rehabilitation, Laura. That's what I think you'd call it.
INGRAHAM: Gav MAGA. He should have called it Gav MAGA. Wouldn't that have been a much better name of that? I hope he can monetize it, though, because hair products have really been hit by inflation, Raymond.
ARROYO: They have indeed.
INGRAHAM: Take it from me.
ARROYO: This foray comes as a recall effort is underway trying to throw Gavin Newsom from office and it's gaining traction. Watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNKNOWN: Along with that federal money, should come a federal investigation into what the hell happened. It's time for accountability. It's time for leadership that doesn't wait until it's too late.
UNKNOWN: I want to fire him. I literally want to drag him out by the people and fire him.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
ARROYO: This thing -- people are mad as hell. That was Mel Gibson, by the way, at the mic, initially --
INGRAHAM: I thought it was Mel. I thought that was Mel.
ARROYO: Yeah, that was Mel Gibson.
INGRAHAM: It sounded like him, too.
ARROYO: But, Laura, Gavin Newsom, he's saying he wants to talk to people who disagree with him. Try talking to your constituents. These people have been burned out of their homes. He doesn't have time for them, but boy, he's doing the whole, you know that, shake them thing for his podcast. So, he's right on time with that. This won't wash.
INGRAHAM: Gav MAGA. All right, Raymond, as Newsom tries to launch his new venture, Trump is reimagining a well-known one.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: Look, see that? Trump was right about everything. Just came in. Somebody sent, I said, this was sent in by a fan. I said, I think we should make some of them. But we were pretty much. You want one? Are you allowed to take one? Because he'll consider it. I know him well. He's sort of a stiff.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Do you notice that Bobby Kennedy is not laughing? Yeah, Kennedy, I love Kennedy's really not reacting, and Lutnick is like, this is the funniest thing ever. But RFK versus Lutnick's reaction. Hilarious.
ARROYO: Only Trump would offer hats to reporters advertising that he was right and they were in need of revisions. So, literally, Trump to try to pull that off.
INGRAHAM: Would you like one? You can't carry it off anyway.
ARROYO: You're a very stiff guy. A very stiff guy.
INGRAHAM: It is a running stand-up, Raymond. This is Rickles, this is Don Rickles at his best.
ARROYO: But, look, before we go, I have to get this in. Let me tell you what I'm right about. Budget airlines aren't always worth it. Last week, a massive brawl out at, you guessed it, the Spirit Airlines counter in Atlanta.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
(INAUDIBLE)
(END VIDEO CLIP)
ARROYO: What spirit is that, Laura? Some fearsome and quarrelsome spirit, but not a holy one. Bystanders say they don't know why the fight broke out, but if those in boarding group 8 jump the line and join group 5, I can see how this could have happened. The brawl dissolved but -- or maybe they just all got on board, I don't know. But by the time the police arrived, no arrests were made. Can you imagine that?
INGRAHAM: No, but, Raymond --
ARROYO: I wouldn't want to be a steward on that thing.
INGRAHAM: -- at certain airlines, like, you can't -- you don't get a pillow, you don't get -- extra for air, and a little extra if you want to breathe, you have to pay another $25 surcharge. All right, Raymond, awesome stuff. It's always great to have you on.
All right. That's it for us tonight. Make sure to follow me on social media. Thank you for watching. We'll have special behind-the-scenes looks at Gitmo on Instagram, so check it out. Jesse Watters takes it next.

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
