




The Times (London)
January 25, 2025 Saturday
Edition 1, National Edition


Copyright 2025 Times Newspapers Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Pg. 38
Length: 637 words
Body


Monday What a victory! Perhaps the biggest in history! Do I know anything about other periods of history? No!
You know the best bit? Sad people! Just look at those snivelling Democrats I had to invite to my inauguration! Like Obama, and the Clintons, and Biden, and George W Bush! Actually, that sounds wrong. Somebody check.
The first person I see, though, is my hot wife Melania, in a cool hat. So I lean in for a kiss.
"Aaagh!" she shrieks. Backing away. Eyes rolling in terror. Like a horse. Then she says her hat means she can't see up.
"It's true," says my very tall son Barron. "I don't think she even knows I'm here."
"So why wear it?" I say. "Because husband will not approach from below," says Melania, smugly. "On account of bald."
See? Not just hot. Also smart. Then I do the speech. The best bit is where I give things proper American names. Gulf of Mexico? No! Gulf of America! And if the indigenous people of Alaska don't like the name Mount McKinley, they can go back where they came from!
Also, Greenland should definitely have a name in English! Why don't people get this?
Tuesday Before that, I called China. Gonna have to deal with Xi! He's Asian, you know. Funny how many of those guys are. Must be DEI.
"So anyway," I said to Xi. "Need some advice on how to win elections?" "Not really," said Xi.
"You need," I say, "the youth vote.
Which we won! Numerically? No.
But in other ways."
Then I told Xi that this was probably down to Barron. "Because he introduced me to other young people," I explain. "Like the 57-yearold Joe Logan!"
"Rogan?" said Xi. "Funny!" I say. "I thought it was a stereotype. But that's really how you guys talk!" Wednesday Also, I spent yesterday issuing executive orders! Including one to free all the remaining hostages!
And now I'm speaking to JD, who is sort of my Veep. "Sort of?" says JD, looking alarmed. "Hmm?" I say, looking around for Elon.
Then JD says he's just catching up. But he's also not sure we can free the hostages by executive order. Because they're in Gaza.
"Not those hostages," I tell him. "The January 6 ones. The patriots!"
JD gulps. Then he says he'd been talking me seriously but not literally, like everyone had told him to. So he'd hoped this might not happen. And he hopes I haven't forgotten that a policeman died and another 140 were injured.
"It's like we say," I remind him. "Defund the police!"
"That's not us," says JD. "It's not?" I say.
Thursday More executive orders! Signing them so fast it hurts my tiny hands!
Although I'm taking a break to speak to Pete Hegseth. He's the guy from Fox News who I want to run the military. And I'm telling him that America is about to  more affirmative action! Because this government has had enough of glaringly unsuitable people getting important jobs entirely to appease particular demographics. "So I don't have your support?" says Pete, in a wild panic.
"What?" I say. "Nothing," says Pete. "Carry on."
Then we talk military matters. Such as how I've told Vladimir
Putin to make peace. Or I'll be cross.
"Kinda weird Biden never thought of that," says Pete. "Too old," I shrug.
Friday Off to California today to solve the fires. Probably they'll go out as soon as I arrive. Or they'll have an executive order to worry about! . But first, Elon stops by and sticks his arm out.
"Nice wave," I say. "Catchy!" Elon says it went viral.
"We should all do it!" I say. Then Elon says he's actually here because it's been five days now. So he wants to know when we're going to Mars.
"About that," I say. "Should it still be called Mars? Or something more American?"
"Hmm," says Elon. Then he says it's also got to have connotations of being toxic, inhospitable, a long way from the rest of humanity. While simultaneously being a colour a bit like orange.
"Hey, wow," I say. "I've just had an idea!"
*according to Hugo Rifkind

Load-Date: January 25, 2025


End of Document
