




States News Service
February 14, 2025 Friday


Copyright 2025 States News Service
Length: 462 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


The following information was released by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP):
Today, as the nation witnesses an unprecedented onslaught against diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) initiatives from the White House, theNAACP supportsCongresswoman Ayanna Pressley (MA-07) and Senator Cory Booker (D-NJ)reintroduction ofH.R. 40 to congress. The legislation sets out to establish a federal commission to examine the lasting legacy of slavery and develop proposals for reparations for African American descendants of enslaved people. The bill, which comes during Black History Month, is a powerful counterweight to the harmful actions taken by Donald Trump and a call to action for America to address the systemic oppression of Black people throughout its history.
NAACP President and CEO, Derrick Johnson, shared the following statement:
"The United States has had several opportunities to atone for slavery but has failed to take any major action. The NAACP has, and will continue to be, a strong supporter for reparations in America. For more than three decades, we have voiced the dire need for descendants of enslaved people to receive the reparations they deserve. We applaud our fearless policymakers and all involved with the reintroduction of H.R. 40 in standing firm on demanding solutions to centuries-long oppression. Despite extremist oppositional forces attempting to overthrow our democracy and revert our progress, we still have brave leaders who are committed to making sure we keep advancing."
H.R. 40 would create a federal commission to examine the lasting impact of slavery, systemic racism, and racial discrimination on Black Americans and explore reparative measures to address these harms. For decades, the NAACP has stood alongside policy makers insupport of the sentiments within H.R. 40.
For more information on the history of the NAACP's support of H.R. 40, clickhere.
###
About NAACP
The NAACP advocates, agitates, and litigates for the civil rights due to Black America. Our legacy is built on the foundation of grassroots activism by the biggest civil rights pioneers of the 20th century and is sustained by 21st century activists. From classrooms and courtrooms to city halls and Congress, our network of members across the country works to secure the social and political power that will end race-based discrimination. That work is rooted in racial equity, civic engagement, and supportive policies and institutions for all marginalized people. We are committed to a world without racism where Black people enjoy equitable opportunities in thriving communities.
NOTE: The Legal Defense Fund also referred to as the NAACP-LDF - was founded in 1940 as a part of the NAACP, but now operates as a completely separate entity.

Load-Date: February 15, 2025


End of Document
