




Targeted News Service
January 28, 2025 Tuesday 8:40 AM  EST


Copyright 2025 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved


Length: 1138 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


The National Association of College and University Business Officers issued the following NACUBO On Your Side news wrap up from Jan. 7-27, 2025:
* * *
As things move quickly in Washington, DC, NACUBO is your constant advocate in action. NACUBO On Your Side covers important legislative and agency activity NACUBO staff are tracking, what we're currently advocating for, and how you can take action with us.
Here are the issues we are tracking and advocating for this week.
On the Hill
NACUBO and GFOA Advocate for Tax-Exempt Bond Preservation
NACUBO endorsed the Government Finance Officers Association's (GFOA) data brief, "Built by Bonds." The brief highlights the importance of tax-exempt municipal bonds in financing infrastructure projects and urges Congress to preserve this vital financing tool. The GFOA and NACUBO are working together to advocate for policies that will benefit students, institutions, and our nation's economy.
Agency Action
Financial Responsibility FAQ Updated by ED
On January 8, the Department of Education updated its Frequently Asked Questions related to Financial Responsibility. Question 2 and 3 add clarity around reporting year changes, for years beginning on or after July 1, 2024, and possible impacts to compliance audit submissions. Those questions have also been expanded to include several extensive examples.
Executive Order Aimed at Terminating DEI, Affirmative Action Programs
President Donald Trump signed a January 22 executive order directing all federal agencies to stop promoting diversity, to end all "discriminatory and illegal preferences, mandates, policies, programs," and to initiate enforcement actions to "combat illegal private-sector DEI preferences." Higher education institutions with endowments over $1 billion are singled out in the executive order as potential targets for civil compliance investigations.
New IRS Guidance Released on the Clean Vehicle Credit
Recently proposed rules from the Department of the Treasury and the IRS provide information on how to determine the credit amount for the Section 45W commercial clean vehicle credit and clarify requirements for qualifying vehicles and eligibility, special rules for certain transactions, and recapture methods. The credit is equal to the lesser of (1) 15 percent of the basis in the vehicle or (2) the incremental cost of the vehicle. They also published Notice 25-09, which provides safe harbors regarding the incremental cost and retail price equivalent of certain qualified clean vehicles.
IRS Announces Tax Relief for Those Impacted by California Wildfires
Taxpayers, including colleges and universities, located in Los Angeles County who have been affected by fires that began on January 7 have until October 15, 2025, to file federal returns and make tax payments. According to the announcement, the October 15, 2025, deadline also applies to calendar-year tax-exempt organization returns normally due on May 15, 2025. Penalties on payroll and excise tax deposits that are due on or after January 7, 2025, and before January 22, 2025, will be abated if the tax deposits were made by January 22, 2025.
FTC Scales Back Regulatory Language on Disclosures for Fees
The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) published final regulations on January 10 addressing specific businesses that use bait-and-switch pricing, stating that the practice is unfair or deceptive. The final rule, which requires the full price to be clearly disclosed, narrows the application, however, to live-event tickets or short-term lodging, a significant change from the proposed language shared almost a year ago. NACUBO and the American Council on Education expressed concerns at that time.
ED Reopens FVT/GE Reporting Portal The Department of Education shared that it has reopened the reporting process for the Financial Value Transparency and Gainful Employment regulations until February 18, 2025. The Electronic Announcement, dated January 17, explains that ED is allowing institutions to report debt and other information while it waits for the IRS to generate earnings data. The announcement shares how institutions can avoid technical issues and what they should do if they are unable to complete debt reporting.
Biden ED Reminded Institutions of Misrepresentation Rules and Applicability to Third-Party Servicers In the last few days of the Biden administration, the Department of Education shared guidance reminding institutions of their obligations to comply with rules pertaining to misrepresentation. The January 14 Dear Colleague Letter emphasized that the rules apply equally to third-party servicers, including Online Program Managers (OPMs). It is unclear if the Trump administration will rescind the guidance.
Association Action
NACUBO Joins Amicus Brief on 403(b) Retirement Plans
NACUBO recently joined the American Council on Education and 12 other associations in filing an amicus brief to the U.S. Supreme Court in the Cunningham v. Cornell 403(b) case related to the use of service providers in connection with their ERISA retirement plans.
Take Action
Explore Disaster Assistance Program Options
Institutions and organizations interested in establishing disaster assistance programs can find options here (), compiled by NACUBO in the aftermath of the 2024 Atlantic hurricane season.
Register for NACUBO's Next Washington Update
Join NACUBO policy experts on February 11 from 2:30-3:30 pm ET for "What's Next for Higher Education Policy: Navigating a New Congress and Administration," a webinar offering insights into the evolving political landscape, recent regulatory developments, and the current and future opportunities and challenges facing higher education and the business office. Registration is free for members.
Commonfund Institute Webinar for Endowments and Foundations
The Commonfund Institute is hosting a webinar, What Endowments and Foundations Should Know in 2025, on January 30 from 1:15-2:30 pm ET. Amidst ongoing uncertainty, there are legislative actions many experts agree will impact the endowment and foundations space. During this webinar, experts will explore what proposals and actions will be on the table in 2025 - from tax policy to broader policies that may have implications for endowments and foundations. Register here ().
Previous Edition
NACUBO On Your Side: December 10-January 6 ()
* * *
Original text here: 
[Category: Education]
Contact: Ashley Jackson, government affairs director, 202/861-2522, 
Copyright Targeted News Services
MSTRUCK-9019536 MSTRUCK

Load-Date: January 28, 2025


End of Document
