




States News Service
January 24, 2025 Friday


Copyright 2025 States News Service
Length: 577 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: Washington 
Body


The following information was released by the National Association of Social Workers:
By Mel Wilson, NASW Senior Policy Advisor
Among the almost 100 executive orders enacted during President Trumps first day in office, the administration included an order that has rolled back all federal programs promoting diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEandI). That inclusion was a significant regression from the Biden administrations approach to advancing racial equity and for remedying systemic racism. Not surprisingly, shortly after signing the order, Trump disparagingly attacked this longstanding program as being radical DEI preferencing.
Briefly, the executive order mandates:
The termination of all DEI initiatives across federal agencies.
That all federal employees working in DEI roles be placed on paid leave, with plans for eventual layoffs.
To emphasize so-called Merit-Based Hiring:
That all federal agencies are directed to review and dismantle DEI-related policies and programs, including those in federal contracting and grant recipients. And
That federal agencies must only recognize two genders: male and female.
It is NASWs point of view that Trumps DEandI executive order will worsen Americas racial disparities related to access to higher paying employment opportunities that have growth potential while increasing the nations economic divide. Of similar importance, ending successful DEandI programs greatly slows down the advancement to a level playing field for people of color and women as envisioned by Civil Rights leaders of the 1960s.
In 2025, the United States is rapidly being transformed into a nation where minorities are becoming the majority, the notion of workplace equity and inclusion should be seen as ideal rather than something to be despised.
For example, Trumpsexecutive order targeting DEI eliminated many previous executive orders that sought to end racial and gender discrimination in the workplace. Chief among them was Trump decision to shutter the U. S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) created by Lyndon Johnsons Equal Employment Opportunity Act in 1965.
From our standpoint, it is significant and ominous that Trumps DEandI ban is also being forced on the private sector. It is notable that on the day following the public DEandI executive order announcement, Trump signed an addendumpresidential action that directed government agencies to combat illegal private sector DEI preferences, mandates, policies, programs, and activities. This directive goes on to instruct the Attorney General in collaboration with the heads of government agencies to submit a report with recommendations to deter [private sector] DEI programs or principles (whether specifically designated DEI or otherwise) that constitute illegal discrimination or preferences.
All of which demonstrate how aggressive and far-reaching attacks on DEandI the Trump administration intends to be. This fact should serve as an alert to NASW and our like-minded social justice allies that we all must be fully committed to an informational counter-offensive aimed at protecting critical diversity and inclusion policies and programs.
About NASW
The National Association of Social Workers (NASW) is the largest membership organization of professional social workers in the world. NASW works to enhance the professional growth and development of its members, to create and maintain professional standards for social workers, and to advance sound social policies.

Load-Date: February 8, 2025


End of Document
