




States News Service
January 30, 2025 Thursday


Copyright 2025 States News Service
Length: 299 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON, D.C. 
Body


The following information was released by the National Association of Social Workers:
The National Association of Social Workers is alarmed by Trump Administration executive orders that could hamper health care and diversity, equity and inclusion efforts and hurt people who are immigrants or seeking gender affirming care.
Here is a wrap-up of our statements, videos and blog posts on the executive orders.
NASW CEO Anthony Estreet responds to Trump Administration Executive Orders (YouTube)
NASW Committee on Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer + Issues responds to executive order restricting gender-affirming care (NASW Facebook page)
Threats to Medicaid and Medicare: Potential Threats to Vulnerable and Marginalized Populations(webpage)
NASW's Appalled by Executive Order Ending DEI in Federal Government(NASW Social Work Blog)
Trump Administration's immigration executive orders will harm families, children (NASW Social Work Blog)
Don't Panic. Take Action! (YouTube)
Other Resources:
Project 2025 on Social Safety Net: A Social Work Perspective
The National Association of Social Workers (NASW), in Washington, DC, is the largest membership organization of professional social workers. It promotes, develops, and protects the practice of social work and social workers. NASW also seeks to enhance the well-being of individuals, families, and communities through its advocacy.
All News Releases | Search News Releases
.
750 First Street, NE Suite 800
Washington, DC 20002
About NASW
The National Association of Social Workers (NASW) is the largest membership organization of professional social workers in the world. NASW works to enhance the professional growth and development of its members, to create and maintain professional standards for social workers, and to advance sound social policies.

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
