




Newsweek.com
February 28, 2025 Friday 1:36 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 827 words
Byline: Suzanne Blake
Highlight: After Friday, the People's Union USA is planning several more boycott dates.
Body


Friday marks the  organized by the People's Union USA, but there are several more  being scheduled by shoppers against  in the coming months.
Why It Matters
President  ended several diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) initiatives in the federal government and also issued an executive order that funds could be frozen for companies that do not comply.
In response,  closed its DEI office and ,  and  are among the companies criticized for changing their DEI policies.
This has sparked a chain of boycotts, with the first economic blackout occurring today.
What Is a Nationwide Economic Blackout?
A national economic blackout occurs when consumers across the country boycott by refusing to make purchases.
While the People's Union USA has fixated on refraining from spending at major retailers like , sending a clear message to retailers that do not prioritize DEI.
"If we disrupt the economy for just ONE day, it sends a powerful message," the group wrote on its website. "The People's Union is not just about resisting corruption, it is about exposing it. For decades, corporations, politicians, and industries have worked together to rig the system against the American people."
What To Know
After Friday, the People's Union USA, a grassroots organization targeting corporate and , is planning several more boycott dates.
These target specific chains or brands that the group feels have prioritized profits over the American people and may have rolled back DEI initiatives in the wake of Trump's executive order.
The next boycott takes place from March 7 to 14 where shoppers will refrain from making Amazon purchases during that time, according to a People's Union USA flyer circulating on social media platform X, formerly .
Shoppers are also planning to stop making any purchases from food and drink conglomerate Nestle from March 21 to 28.
Nestle produces a range of products from beloved chocolate bar Kit-Kats to top cereal brands, Coffee-Mate and more.
The boycott for retail giant Walmart will be taking place just a few weeks after from April 7 to 14.
The People's Union USA is also organizing a secondary 24-hour economic blackout on April 18, according to the flyer.
Following that, the movement will stop purchasing from General Mills from April 21 to 28.
Additional Amazon and Walmart boycotts are scheduled for May 6 to 12 and May 20 to 26, respectively.
Target is another top retailer the economic blackout group has targeted, and consumers are planning from suspending all spending from the chain from June 3 to 9.
Fast food has also been included in the types of spending shoppers are supposed to stop during the economic blackout. Subsequently, the People's Union USA will be boycotting  from June 24 to 30.
For those that do need to make a purchase during the boycotts, the People's Union USA asks them to prioritize small businesses instead.
What People Are Saying
John Schwarz, founder of The People's Union, previously told Newsweek: "The People's Union USA is not just about one day, it's about creating a long-term strategic action. February 28th is the start, but we are building a sustained movement that continues to grow with each video posted.
Michael Ryan, a finance expert and the founder of MichaelRyanMoney.com, previously told Newsweek: "One day of not shopping probably won't dent these mega-corporations financially. People will likely just shift their shopping to before or after. But the awareness it's creating? That might be the real win here."
Alex Beene, a financial literacy instructor for the University of Tennessee at Martin, told Newsweek: "Boycotts have a very spotty record of actually working. We have seen in recent years that some companies and their products caught in the middle of a social or political debate do see sales and stock drops."
Kevin Thompson, finance expert and founder/CEO of 9i Capital Group, previously told Newsweek: "The retailer boycott and economic blackout are centered around major retailers like Walmart, Best Buy, and Target, which are perceived as aligning with the current administration's policies. The immediate financial impact of a single-day boycott is likely to be minimal, as consumers may compensate by purchasing more in the days before or after. However, the significance lies in the message rather than the actual financial loss."
What Happens Next?
While boycotting a business for one day or even a week might not necessarily impact the company's bottom line, it can shift consumer sentiment and force some change if there's widespread awareness, experts say.
"The real question is whether this movement gains traction and leads to longer-term behavioral shifts among consumers," Thompson said. "If it evolves beyond a symbolic protest, it could create further disruptions, affecting not just these companies but the broader retail sector."


Graphic

 
Walmart
Joe Raedle/Getty Images
A Walmart sign is displayed outside a Supercenter on November 18, 2024 in Miami, Florida.

Load-Date: February 28, 2025


End of Document
