




Newsweek.com
February 11, 2025 Tuesday 2:28 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 660 words
Byline: Suzanne Blake
Highlight: When Donald Trump reentered office, one of his first calls to action was to end several DEI initiatives in the federal government.
Body


A group is planning a nationwide economic blackout as a response to the rollback of  sparked by the federal government.
Why It Matters
When President  reentered office last month, one of his first calls to action was to end several of the DEI initiatives in the federal government. He mandated in an  that funds could be frozen for companies that do not comply. He also outlawed any messaging that promotes
The orders have caused  to close its DEI office, while major companies like ,  and  are taking steps to dissolve DEI initiatives.
What To Know
As a response to the DEI rollbacks, the People's Union is planning a 24-hour economic blackout all day on February 28, beginning at 12 a.m.
During this time, participants are pledging to not make any purchases either online or in brick-and-mortar stores.
The People's Union is targeting Amazon,  and Best Buy, but the group is also asking boycotters to refrain from spending money on fast food or gas, as well.
If consumers must make purchases, they are asked to buy only from small, local businesses.
The People's Union originated from grassroots efforts of Americans looking to regain control over corporate influence.
"If we disrupt the economy for just ONE day, it sends a powerful message," the People's Union wrote on its website.
What People Are Saying
Kevin Thompson, a finance expert and the founder and CEO of 9i Capital Group, told Newsweek: "The goal is to demonstrate how even a single day of consumer restraint can affect corporate bottom lines, ultimately pushing for change. This initiative aims to reclaim economic power for the people by showing that collective financial action can drive corporate and societal shifts."
Alex Beene, a financial literacy instructor for the University of Tennessee at Martin, told Newsweek: "We've seen economic protests like this before when changes were made to different major employers that were controversial, and this planned one is no different...While these blackouts are normally done with the hope of positive implications, the reality is past data indicates they lead to little financial data from most major companies. At the end of the day, even if consumers support the cause, they're going to continue to fulfill their purchasing needs and desires."
Michael Ryan, a finance expert and the founder of MichaelRyanMoney.com, told Newsweek: "What makes this protest unique is its laser focus on companies that have rolled back DEI initiatives. Target, Walmart and  are particularly vulnerable given their recent policy changes. While a single day of reduced revenue won't devastate these giants, it sends a powerful message about consumer expectations in today's market."
What Happens Next
As companies look ahead to the boycott, it's unclear how much their finances could be impacted.
While voting is a primary method of creating change, Thompson said your wallet can be an even more powerful tool.
"History has shown us this—our ancestors leveraged economic pressure in 1955 during the Montgomery Bus Boycott, which lasted far longer than a single day and led to real systemic change," Thompson said. "While the impact of a one-day boycott may be limited, its true power lies in mobilizing a like-minded community. If this initiative sparks a larger movement, its long-term influence could extend far beyond February 28."
While the sales impact is likely to be minimal for the targeted corporations, a successful blackout could force companies to reassess rolling back their DEI initiatives, Ryan said.
"This protest's real power lies in its potential for escalation," he said. "If The People's Union follows through with planned longer-term boycotts, we could see significant shifts in how corporations balance profit margins against social responsibility. Smart investors are already watching this movement closely."


Graphic

 
Walmart
ETIENNE LAURENT/AFP via Getty Images
People wait for a Walmart store to open on Black Friday in Downey, California, November 29, 2024.

Load-Date: February 11, 2025


End of Document
