




Newsweek.com
February 12, 2025 Wednesday 5:07 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 564 words
Byline: Suzanne Blake
Highlight: The national economic blackout is scheduled as a way for Americans to boycott major retailers that have pulled back on DEI policies.
Body


Americans are pledging to stop making any purchases for a  on February 28.
The national economic blackout is scheduled as a way for Americans to  that have pulled back on  as a response to President .
Why It Matters
Early into his presidency, Trump ended several DEI initiatives in the federal government. He issued an executive order that funds could be frozen for companies that do not comply, and Trump also outlawed any messaging that promotes inclusion-based language.
The orders have caused  to close its DEI office, while major companies like ,  and  are taking steps to dissolve DEI initiatives.
What To Know
While the nationwide economic blackout applies to all discretionary spending, the organizers are targeting some retailers in particular.
This includes:
AmazonBest Buy
But participants are also asked to refrain from spending money on fast food or gas.
The group pushing for the economic blackout is called The People's Union USA. If people do have to spend money, the group urges, focus on supporting small local businesses.
"If we disrupt the economy for just ONE day, it sends a powerful message," the group wrote on its website.
"The People's Union is not just about resisting corruption, it is about exposing it. For decades, corporations, politicians, and industries have worked together to rig the system against the American people."
Newsweek reached out to Amazon, Walmart and Best Buy for comment via email.
What People Are Saying
Alex Beene, financial literacy instructor for the University of Tennessee at Martin, told Newsweek: "The focus of the February 28 Economic Blackout is to halt spending on items from major corporations like Amazon, Wal-Mart, and other major big box and fast food retailers in protest to recent changes to hiring policy and standards that have seemingly been triggered by the new administration. The protest is urging those who participate to only purchase essentials if necessary and try to support small businesses instead. While protests of retailers for social and political purposes are nothing new, their frequency and business impact has increased over the last decade. At the end of the day, it's hard to see one event having a tremendous impact on any of these major entities. However, if follow-up events form a trend, it could lead to a more lasting dent in sales over time."
Kevin Thompson, finance expert and founder/CEO of 9i Capital Group, told Newsweek: "The retailer boycott and economic blackout are centered around major retailers like Walmart, Best Buy, and Target, which are perceived as aligning with the current administration's policies. The immediate financial impact of a single-day boycott is likely to be minimal, as consumers may compensate by purchasing more in the days before or after. However, the significance lies in the message rather than the actual financial loss."
What Happens Next
Thompson said if the messaging around the February 28 economic blackout gains popularity, there could be widespread consumer shifts.
"The real question is whether this movement gains traction and leads to longer-term behavioral shifts among consumers. If it evolves beyond a symbolic protest, it could create further disruptions, affecting not just these companies but the broader retail sector."


Graphic

 
Walmart
Joe Raedle/Getty Images
A Walmart sign is displayed outside a Supercenter on November 18, 2024 in Miami, Florida.

Load-Date: February 12, 2025


End of Document
