




States News Service
January 30, 2025 Thursday


Copyright 2025 States News Service
Length: 910 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: BOSTON, Mass. 
Body


The following information was released by Northeastern University:
Upon taking office on January 20th, the Trump administration issued a wave of executive actions and other sweeping federal funding and policy changes. The university is working to evaluate the impacts of these actions on Northeastern's teaching and research enterprise, as well as members of the university community. This FAQ is intended to share real-time information about these impacts and the university's response. We will continue to update this page as additional information becomes available.
How is Northeastern responding to the actions and policies of the new administration in Washington?
Northeastern has been actively planning for policy changes that could affect the university community and our research and teaching mission. In December 2024, the university issued guidance to international students, faculty, and staff on when to return from overseas travel. Other issues of strategic importance, including the status of research funding and student financial aid, are being closely monitored.
Research
The Trump administration recently released, then partially rescinded, directives from the National Institutes of Health (to freeze meetings and travel), and from the National Science Foundation (to pause grant reviews). What should faculty and staff who receive federal grant funding be doing right now?
As of now, teaching and research should continue as planned. As recent news shows, this is a fluid situation that we are monitoring carefully understanding that pauses in new grants are not uncommon at the start of a new administration. We will evaluate any forthcoming executive orders or pauses if they happen and provide updated guidance when necessary. Specific questions related to research grants at Northeastern should be directed to 
Some executive orders have mentioned Diversity, Equity and Inclusion. I am currently conducting federally funded research that includes DEI related activities. Should I suspend those activities?
Faculty conducting research under previously executed contracts with federal agencies should continue to fulfill the terms of those awards, unless a U.S. Government contracts officer has issued a stop work order to Northeastern for a particular grant, contract, or project at issue. We will continue to closely monitor any litigation that may impact the university or guidance from federal agencies. Any researcher with questions about a specific project should contact 
Has the National Science Foundation requested that all funded projects cease any work related to 'DEIA?'
We are thoroughly reviewing the university's grant-funded portfolio to understand the potential scope and impact of the various messages and executive orders related to "DEIA." This will include determining the current administration's definition of DEIA.
Immigration and
International Issues
The Trump administration is aggressively increasing its enforcement of immigration laws. Northeastern has a global campus network with international students, faculty, and staff. What is Northeastern doing to support that population?
In addition to guidance issued in December 2024, Northeastern has been in regular contact with its international students, faculty and staff, advising them on their rights and on travel to and from the United States. For routine, compliance-related immigration visits, continue to follow established procedures at your campus location. For all other visits from an immigration official, please contact the Office of the General Counsel at 
Belonging
The administration has signaled its intention to end DEI programs within the federal government and to examine DEI at major universities. What will that mean for Northeastern?
Northeastern's commitment to embracing our entire global community remains steadfast. While internal structures and approaches may be adjusted to ensure continued compliance with the law, the university's core values don't change. We believe that embracing our differences and building a community of belonging makes Northeastern stronger.
How is Northeastern reimagining its approach to belonging?
Our reimagined approach centers on embracing the experiences of individuals across the global university system to maximize impact at the institutional level. This involves offering education and workshops, encouraging participation in affinity groups, sharing best practices, and using data to inform how we focus our resources and our work.
What is the university doing to safeguard the rights of LGBTQIA+ members of the community?
Northeastern remains committed to providing a living, learning, and working environment free from discrimination and harassment for all members of our community. Moreover, the university's Policy on Nondiscrimination and Equal Opportunity remains fully in effect. Several states where Northeastern maintains campuses (including MA, ME, CA, WA, VA, and NC) have laws expressly prohibiting gender discrimination.
Why is the university making changes in response to the latest orders from the administration?
We have an obligation to the entire Northeastern community and to society as a whole to make sure our work can continue. Failing to comply with the law could jeopardize student financial aid and federally funded research across a range of disciplines and projects.

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
