




States News Service
January 27, 2025 Monday


Copyright 2025 States News Service
Length: 444 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


The following information was released by the National Education Association (NEA):
The Trump administration began purging public-facing resources, shutting down offices and suspending professional personnel who do critical work for the U.S. federal government on Diversity, Equity and inclusion, including the U.S. Department of Education. The move removed hundreds of critical documents, training manuals and guidance for public schools and educators.
By:Miguel Gonzalez
Published: January 27, 2025 Last Updated: January 27, 2025
NEA President Becky Pringle issued the following statement in response to these unprecedented and harmful actions.
"Donald Trump and extreme politicians want to shut the door to equal educational opportunities for all children by attacking diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) programs on public college and university campuses and beyond. This is just the latest example of how these politicians seek to turn back the clock and ensure that students who speak a different language, who are first-generation Americans, or who go by a different pronoun are no longer welcome and supported. These unwarranted attacks on DEI will have a chilling effect on programs that provide equity and opportunity for all Americans.
"The relentless assault on DEI supports and programs are the latest boogeyman for far-right politicians and their allies. They go hand in hand with their efforts to whitewash history, to ban books about important figures like Martin Luther King Jr. and Rosa Parks, and to silence the voices of educators who teach about uncomfortable truths in our schools. They are weaponizing the federal government to roll back civil rights protections that have been in place since the Lyndon B. Johnson administration.
"Let's not let politicians distract us from their failures to fully fund public education, and from addressing the important issues for parents and families such as keeping students safe from gun violence, providing adequate resources for their public schools, and fixing the educator shortage and pay issues, to name a few. We know what's at stake. That's why we are coming together parents, students, educators, and social justice advocates to fight for allour students' right to be seen and supported, and to have the resources they need to live into their brilliance."
###
The National Education Association is the nation's largest professional employee organization, representing more than 3 million elementary and secondary teachers, higher education faculty, education support professionals, school administrators, retired educators, students preparing to become teachers, healthcare workers, and public employees.

Load-Date: January 28, 2025


End of Document
