




The Independent (United Kingdom)
February 18, 2025 Tuesday 7:38 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Independent Print Ltd  All Rights Reserved


Section: ENTERTAINMENT: LATEST, Movie business news, Television industry news & DIGITAL DISTRIBUTION NEWS
Length: 452 words
Byline: Brittany Miller
Body


 returned on Friday with a fresh batch of single contestants hoping to find love in the pods.
 sees 10 men and 10 women (this time based in Minneapolis, Minnesota) get to know each other and get engaged without being able to see what their partners look like.
As fans sat down to watch the show, they couldn't help but realize that a lot of the men on the season looked very similar, specifically singling out Daniel Hastings, Alex Brown, Mason Horacek, Ben Mezzenga, and Dave Bettenburg.
On X, many people joked about the similarities between the contestants.
"If ANYTHING shows the importance for DEI [Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion], it should be this new season of #LoveIsBlind. Because there's no way you're casting these 5 men on the same show, giving them all a large amount of camera time, & expecting me to know the difference," one person wrote, referencing .
"This season of Love is Blind has the problem where there are too many identical white people that I can't tell apart," one post read.
If ANYTHING shows the importance for DEI, it should be this new season of . Because there's no way you're casting these 5 men on the same show, giving them all a large amount of camera time, & expecting me to know the difference. 
- mrs. payne (@MadeNChynna)

This season of Love is Blind has the problem where there are too many identical white people that I can't tell apart
- DEI Fridays (@munemoji)

"This season of @LoveIsBlindShow really skipped on DEI, seven white guys who could basically be clones," another person agreed.
This season of  really skipped on DEI, seven white guys who could basically be clones.  
- . (@KhadijahTaine)

"Love is blind season 8 really expects us to think these are 3 different men," added a fourth alongside a screenshot from the series.
Episode six of the new season ended with five engaged couples: Monica and Joey, Ben and Sara, David and Lauren, Devin and Virginia, and Daniel and Taylor. Madison and Alex got engaged in the pods, but are no longer together. 
Future episodes of the season will see the lead-up to the engaged couples' wedding day as they navigate living together. New episodes will be released on Fridays at 3 a.m. ET with episodes seven through nine coming out on February 21, episodes 10 through 11 on February 28, and the finale on March 7.
 has not yet announced whether or not there will be a season eight reunion. However, reunion dates have previously been revealed further along in the season.

Load-Date: February 19, 2025


End of Document
