




States News Service
January 27, 2025 Monday


Copyright 2025 States News Service
Length: 1261 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: LOS ANGELES, CA 
Body


The following information was released by the Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation (GLAAD):
By Lana Leonard
LGBTQ activists in New Jersey say they're fortunate to live in New Jersey as the new administration kicks-off its term by attacking the transgender community and diversity initiatives. Advocates at Garden State Equality say New Jersey sets a standard for legal equality that can inspire states throughout the country.
As part of its education and advocacy "Going Local" programming across the country, the GLAAD Media Institute (GMI) GLAAD's training, research and consulting division convened meetings with local leaders and community advocates at Garden State Equality and throughout the nation. Attendees who complete a program or session with the GLAAD Media Institute are immediately deemed GLAAD Media Institute Alumni, who are equipped to maximize community impact by leveraging their own story for culture change.
The state is known for its tough pro-equality laws like New Jersey Law Against Discrimination (LAD), which is considered one of the most comprehensive anti-discrimination laws in the country. Yet, new laws in the state legislature help combat a rise of LGBTQ disinformation and hate speech, straight out of Project 2025. The anti-LGBTQ hate machine has affected dozens of Jersey school board's policies on book bans, critical race theory, and sex education.
Main Street, home to Garden State Equality Headquarters; photo by Lana Leonard
Since Garden State Equality's founding in 2004, over "230 LGBTQ civil rights laws" have been enacted at the state, county, and local levels. According to the organization's website, that's "more laws in less time than in any other state in American history."
On a federal level, President Trump began his second term signing executive orders to dispute the fact that transgender and gender diverse people exist. On Trump's first days in office he signed an executive order titled Defending Women From Gender Ideology Extremism and Restoring Biological Truth to the Federal Government. The order is used to delegitimize trans truth, history, and science, which promptly raised concerns over a federal ban of the "x" gender marker for people of nonbinary, trans or gender nonconforming experience in the United States.
Read More: Trump Accountabilirty Tracker 2025, Fact Sheet for Reporters Term to Avoid: "Transgenderism"
"As of today, it will henceforth be the official policy of the United States government that there are only two genders, male and female," President Trump incorrectly said upon signing the order.
Garden State Equality says they're ready to resist these efforts by the current administration, and continue to encourage diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) programs, while uplifting best practices for LGBTQ youth and adult community members as they have within their state government, says advocates.
"We want our youth to understand that they don't just live in a bubble here in New Jersey, that the work that they are doing to be activists here in our state is going to influence other states and other students across the nation," Natalie Hernandez told GLAAD.
Natalie Hernandez, camp director and project manager and trainer; Screenshot by Lana Leonard
Hernandez is the Camp Director of Garden State Equality's Changemakers Youth Leadership summer program. Empowering youth leaders helps inform the work of other departments and so forth, it's a collaborative effort to fight for legal equality for the state organization.
Hime Sarah Thomas, project manager and trainer with the Education and Youth Development Department, grew up in a queer family who introduced Thomas to Garden State Equality through the Changemakers Youth Leadership summer program. Thomas works to encourage youth to become "changemakers" by giving them an outlet to express their frustrations, and amplify their voices.
@glaadLGBTQ advocates on the Jersey Shore at Garden State Equality (GSE) tell the GLAAD Media Institute (GMI) at the start of our going local programming that they're grateful to live in New Jersey, a state where "lived and legal equality" can set the standard for the country, advocates say. Those who participate in this programming our Telling Your Story curriculum are immediately deemed GMI alumni. "We want our youth to understand that they don't just live in a bubble here in NJ, that the work that they are doing to be activists here in our state is going to influence other states and other students across the nation," Natalie Hernandez, GSE project manager, told GLAAD. GSE says that the team is preparing for 2025 by organizing their messaging and continuing to check in on the resiliency and wellness of transgender, nonbinary, and gender nonconforming people moving into New Jersey from Philadelphia and New York City. "Our world is ever evolving. There are some very legitimate anxieties, and also... we are really, really fortunate to live here," Aisling MacDonald project manager of GSE's Training and Trans Resiliency Program said.a¬ original sound glaad
Only a small number of youth actually transition: less than one-tenth of one percent of teenagers with private insurance in the United States are transgender and receive gender-related medicine, according to a study by JAMA Pediatrics.
"These youth need a space where they can talk about all the things that are happening in the news and the world because they don't have the autonomy to be able to vote and make those choices on who is representing them," Thomas said.
Read More: "2.5 ANTI-LGBTQ INCIDENTS EVERY DAY OF 2024" GLAAD'S ALERT DESK RELEASES NEW DATA ON RISING ANTI-LGBTQ HATE AND EXTREMISM
For Aisling MacDonald, a project manager for the organization's Training and Trans Resiliency Program, which advocates for the wellness of transgender and gender nonconforming adults and families moving into New Jersey for their LGBTQ protections.
"Our world is ever evolving. There are some very legitimate anxieties, and also... we are really, really fortunate to live here," MacDonald said.
MacDonald spends much of her day building coalition relationships and legal resources for name changes and documents for trans people who have been under attack on social media, through legislation, and the news.
Hime Sarah Thomas, project manager and trainer; Screenshot by Lana Leonard
"My experience as a woman of trans experience who is from some very particular demographics, and a very particular flavor of multiple marginalizations, is that we do not have a lot of trust for systems, institutions and legislators, especially," MacDonald said. "And I think more than anything else in 2025 we have an opportunity to build a different kind of community."
These insights into the LGBTQ community of Asbury Park lead into a larger narrative about community needs in New Jersey and beyond. Even still, Garden State Equality recognizes that there are hurdles that must still be overcome.
More about the GLAAD Media Institute: The GLAAD Media Institute provides training, consultation, and actionable research to develop an army of social justice ambassadors for all marginalized communities to champion acceptance and amplify media impact. Using the best practices, tools, and techniques we've perfected over the past 30 years, the GLAAD Media Institute turns education into armor for today's culture wartransforming individuals into compelling storytellers, media-savvy navigators, and mighty ambassadors whose voices break through the noise and incite real change. Activate with the GLAAD Media Institute now at glaad.org/institute

Load-Date: January 27, 2025


End of Document
