




Fox News FOX SPECIAL REPORT WITH BRET BAIER 6:00 PM EST
January 30, 2025 Thursday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Length: 7228 words
Byline: Bret Baier, Mark Meredith, Jacqui Heinrich, Griff Jenkins, Alexandria Hoff, David Spunt, Jennifer Griffin, Trey Yingst, Josh Kraushaar
Guests: Tim Kaine, Leslie Marshall, Trey Gowdy
Body


DANA PERINO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: That's it for us, everyone. Have a great night. Hey, Bret.
BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS CHANNEL ANCHOR: You guys always get the best food. OK, Dana. Thanks.
PERINO: Thanks.
BAIER: Good evening. I'm Bret Baier.
Fireworks on Capitol Hill as the president's nominee for director of national intelligence faces some bipartisan scrutiny during her confirmation hearing. We'll bring you there.
Then, another fiery confirmation battle at the Capitol. The president's pick to lead the FBI defends past and present statements.
And later, chaos unfolds during the release of Israeli hostages.
But first, "BREAKING TONIGHT", officials confirmed that all 67 people aboard the two aircraft that collided mid-air just outside the nation's capital are dead.
The collision happening late Wednesday when an army Black Hawk helicopter flew into the path of an American Airlines flight while it was attempting to land at the Ronald Reagan National Airport.
Emergency crews have been working tireless -- tirelessly to recover the bodies of those killed, as well as the wreckage, as federal investigators try to piece together the moments before that collision.
Correspondent Mark Meredith is just outside the crash site in Washington. Good evening, Mark.
MARK MEREDITH, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Bret, good evening to you. Investigators say it's way too early to know for certain what led to last night's mid-air collision.
They are still investigating what happened with those 67 people who were killed as they ended up here on the river last night. We know that they are still looking for the black boxes on both aircraft, and that as of right now, planes are allowed to land and take off from Reagan airport, even though there is still a recovery operation underway.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
MEREDITH (voice over): 8:47 p.m., Wednesday, cameras facing Reagan National Airport captured the moment an American Airlines regional jet collided with the U.S. Army helicopter, just as the jet was seconds away from landing.
JENNIFER HOMENDY, CHAIR, NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD: We're here to assure the American people that we are going to leave no stone unturned in this investigation.
MEREDITH (voice over): The accident, America's deadliest since February 2009, when a regional jet crashed in Buffalo, New York is sparking new questions about congestion, communications, and the stability of the national air traffic system.
Radio traffic captured controllers instructing the chopper to avoid the plane landing nearby.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (via telephone): Runway 3-3 clear to land.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: PAT25, do you have the CRJ in sight? PAT 25 pass behind the CRJ. Did you do that?
MEREDITH (voice over): The New York Times reports there was one air traffic controller doing the job of two people, reportedly handing both planes and helicopters.
Investigators say that is under review, but not confirmed.
TODD INMAN, 48TH MEMBER, NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD: Our investigators are continuing to pull all that information, their personnel records, their files, where they were at, whether they were fatigued.
MEREDITH (voice over): Today, top government officials, including Sean Duffy, the newly confirmed transportation secretary, vowed accountability.
SEAN DUFFY, UNITED STATES TRANSPORTATION SECRETARY: When Americans take off in airplanes, they should expect to land at their destination. That didn't happen yesterday. That's not acceptable. And so, we will not accept excuses.
MEREDITH (voice over): Flight 5342 left Wichita with 64 people on board, including four crew members. The military helicopter involved, the Sikorsky 860, was on a training mission with three service members on board.
RAY LAHOOD, FORMER UNITED STATES SECRETARY OF TRANSPORTATION: We don't need any more flights in this airspace. We need to relieve the congestion, and I think the NTSB will look very, very carefully at that.
MEREDITH (voice over): At Reagan Airport, flights resumed before lunch, but more than 500 flights were canceled just today, as passengers are still coming to grips with the disaster.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Kind of worried all last night. So, already a nervous flyer, so it made me nervous.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
MEREDITH (on camera): Tonight, American Airlines has dispatched a crisis team to help with the victims' families. We also know the company's CEO has made his way here to Washington. Members of Congress are already demanding accountability.
Today, we saw President Trump put in place a new Acting Administrator of the FAA as this investigation gets underway. And Bret, we're told a preliminary report on what happened is still at least a month away. Bret?
BAIER: Mark Meredith, outside the crash site. Mark, thanks.
President Trump is calling the deadly air disaster an hour of anguish for our country. President and members of his Cabinet briefed White House reporters today, but it quickly turned confrontational after the president placed blame, pointing the finger at policies of his predecessors.
Senior White House correspondent Jacqui Heinrich has that story live from the North Lawn. Good evening, Jacqui.
JACQUI HEINRICH, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Good evening, Bret.
President Trump said tonight, he believes this crash was preventable, but he did not call to restrict the number of flights out of DCA, given the frequent military activity in that area.
He said problems can be prevented with the right people. He started by appointing a new acting FAA administrator.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
HEINRICH (voice over): What began as a somber update --
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I'd like to request a moment of silence for the victims and their families, please.
HEINRICH (voice over): -- quickly turn political.
President Trump, zeroing in on DEI hiring by former democratic presidents for key federal jobs.
TRUMP: The FAA is actively recruiting workers who suffer severe intellectual disabilities, psychiatric problems and other mental and physical conditions, under a diversity and inclusion hiring initiatives.
HEINRICH (voice over): Biden's FAA exceeded its goal in fiscal year 2023. According to the annual report from the FAA Office of Civil Rights, more than 16 percent of the agency's hires had a disability. Two percent had a so-called targeted disability, involving hearing, vision, missing extremities, paralysis, epilepsy, or severe intellectual or psychiatric disabilities. Most hires for medical officer and engineering positions. 0.38 percent for air traffic control.
Trump blamed Biden's Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg.
TRUMP: He ran his city into the ground, and he's a disaster. Now, he's just got a good line of --
HEINRICH (voice over): Who answered, "Despicable. As families grieve, Trump should be leading, not lying. We put safety first, drove down close calls, grew air traffic control, and had zero commercial airline crash fatalities out of millions of flights on our watch."
Outrage from Democrats.
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): It just turns your stomach. It was just grotesque, the way he immediately politicized.
I think he owes the American people an apology.
HEINRICH (voice over): The president later said he wasn't sure if DEI played a role in the crash, but believes incompetence may have.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Are you aware of any performance issues or disciplinary actions that were taken against anyone who was working the tower last night or flying the plane?
TRUMP: No, no. And I hope that's not the case in this case, but certainly over the years, it's been the case, and it's the case with respect to close calls.
HEINRICH (voice over): Trump signed a presidential memorandum to have the FAA assess the "damage done by Biden's woke policies and ensure future hiring is based on merit."
TRUMP: We don't care what race they are. We want the most competent people, especially in those positions.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
HEINRICH: And that the FAA policy under former President Biden said, people with disabilities hired into mission critical occupations must meet the same qualifications as other applicants.
President Trump said tonight he does plan to meet with the victim families soon. He also made arrangements to return the bodies of Russians who died in that crash to their country with no air travel between the U.S. and Russia. Bret.
BAIER: Hey, Jacqui, speaking of Russia, the president was asked if he's spoken with Vladimir Putin, and he said, not about this. And that obviously raised some eyebrows. What else do we know?
HEINRICH: Yes. Not too much more, Bret.
In the Oval Office tonight, the president refused to say when he last spoke with Vladimir Putin. A White House official indicated earlier today, it has not been, since taking office. But the White House has not read out any Putin-Trump calls.
National Security Adviser Mike Waltz said recently that plans are underway for the two to connect soon. Bret.
BAIER: Jacqui Heinrich, live on the North Lawn. Jacqui, thank you.
We have new details about the passengers and crew members of the American Airlines flight and the military Black Hawk helicopter.
Correspondent Griff Jenkins reports from Reagan National Airport.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
GRIFF JENKINS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Cadet Ryan O'Hara was the Black Hawk's crew chief, a husband and father. His Georgia High School remembered his time in Junior ROTC and on the rifle team.
Sam Lilley was Flight 5342's first officer. He was planning his wedding and began flying in 2019, like his army veteran father. His crew included Ian Epstein, a Montreal native. His family says the husband, father, and step father loved being a flight attendant because he truly enjoyed traveling and meeting new people.
Passenger, Wendy Shaffer was Shields and Bennett's mother, her husband, Nate, calls her a truly amazing woman, through and through.
U.S. figure skating says 14 members of its team were also on board. Among them, coaches Evgenia, Shishkova, and Vadim Naumov. The married couple were the 1994 Paris world champions and represented their native Russia in two Olympics. They've been in the U.S. training young skaters for decades, most recently at the skating club of Boston.
DOUG ZEGHIBE, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, SKATING CLUB OF BOISTON: This will have long, reaching impacts for our skating community.
When you lose coaches like this, you lose the future of the sport.
JENKINS (voice over): The club says two of their students were on board. 16-year-old Spencer Lane, who was traveling with his mother, Molly. And Jinna Han, also 16, was with her mother Jin.
They are remembered as remarkably talented competitors, once worthy of sharing the ice with Olympians.
NANCY KERRIGAN, OLYMPIC SILVER MEDALIST: We've been through the same thing. That training, that rigorous schedule of falling over and over and somehow picking yourself back up.
ZEGHIBE: It's a close, tight bond, and I think for all of us, we have lost them.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
JENKINS (on camera): And Bret, as we await more names to be released, we're learning many victims were from the surrounding Virginia area, including another coach, named Inna Volyanskaya, who skated for the former USSR team, as well as three students who attended local Fairfax County Public Schools, traveling with their parents.
And finally, the Steamfitters Union says that five of its members were passengers aboard Flight 5342. Bret?
BAIER: So, sad. Griff Jenkins, live at Reagan National. Griff, thanks.
I'll discuss the investigation into the collision with Virginia Democratic Senator Tim Kaine a little later in the show.
President Trump's pick to lead the intelligence community is facing what is likely the toughest confirmation process for any official in his administration, at least so far.
Former Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard, nominee for Director of National Intelligence, facing bipartisan criticism over positions on Russia, Syria, and national security leaks.
As Chad Pergram always says, it is all about the math, and that's why we have senior congressional correspondent Chad Pergram, the man aforementioned, following it all from Capitol Hill. Good evening, Chad.
CHAD PERGRAM, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Bret, good evening.
Gabbard is believed to be the most endangered nominee of all. Up to six Republicans could have concerns about Gabbard. She is trying to flip doubters to yes.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PERGRAM: Morning, Miss Gabbard, what will you say to Republicans skeptics? Anything that you will extend to (INAUDIBLE)?
TULSI GABBARD, DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE NOMINEE: Tune in to the hearing.
PERGRAM (voice over): One GOP senator on the fence is Susan Collins of Maine. She is a swing vote on many nominees and sits on the Intelligence Committee. Opposition from Collins could block Gabbard's nomination from hitting the floor.
SEN. SUSAN COLLINS (R-ME): I had not made a final decision. She responded well to my questions.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERGRAM: During testimony, Gabbard said that Vladimir Putin was responsible for the war in Ukraine. She once said that Moscow was justified to begin the conflict.
Gabbard had pushed a pardon for Edward Snowden. He ripped off intelligence records and fled to Russia. There is bipartisan concern that Gabbard would not guard secrets. That's why senators tangled with Gabbard about Snowden.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. MICHAEL BENNET (D-CO): Do you believe, as the chairman of this committee believes, as the vast majority of members of our intelligence agencies believe that Edward Snowden was a traitor to the United States of America?
GABBARD: Senator, if confirmed, as director of National Intelligence, I will work with you to make sure that there is not other Snowden likely.
(CROSSTALK)
BENNET: This is when the rubbers hits the road. This is -- this is not -- this is not a moment for social media.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERGRAM: Gabbard also supports a key foreign spy program. She once argued it violated privacy rights. Also, the nomination of Russ Vought to become budget director heads to the floor. Democrats boycotted the move over the pause of grants and loans, and the Senate confirms Doug Burgum as Secretary of the Interior tonight. That's going to start here in about three minutes, Bret. Back to you.
BAIER: OK. And we will follow that and bring it to you live here on SPECIAL REPORT. Chad, thank you.
PERGRAM: Thank you.
BAIER: Stocks were up today over key tech earnings and data. The Dow gaining 169, the S&P 500 added 32. The NASDAQ jumped 49.
Up next, President Trump's FBI nominee Kash Patel and HHS nominee RFK Junior, face a barrage of questions about some of their past statements. We'll have live reports.
First, here is what some of our Fox affiliates around this country are covering tonight. WJZY in Charlotte as federal prosecutors reportedly are investigating whether veteran NBA player Terry Rozier manipulated his play as part of an illegal sports betting scheme.
A Wall Street Journal report says the inquiry is part of a wider government probe into a sprawling ring of people who allegedly rigged the games across the sports landscape. Rozier has not been charged with a crime or accused of wrongdoing.
FOX4 in Dallas, where heavy rainfall overnight into this morning at the Dallas Fort Worth Airport causes significant flooding. 2.8 inches of rain set a daily record for January 29th. More than 330 flights were delayed, more than 160 others canceled by the afternoon at DFW.
And this is a live look at Los Angeles from our affiliate, Fox 11, one of the big stories there tonight. Some of the biggest names in music will come together this evening for the fire aid benefit concert raising money for Los Angeles aerial wildfire relief efforts.
Some musicians performing include Jelly Roll, Katy Perry, Lady Gaga, Rod Stewart, Stevie Wonder, and the Red Hot Chili Peppers.
That's tonight's live look, "OUTSIDE THE BELTWAY" from SPECIAL REPORT. We'll be right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BAIER: President Trump's nominee to lead the Federal Bureau of Investigation also facing intense scrutiny today, Democrats on the Judiciary Committee grilling Kash Patel during his confirmation hearing over his qualifications, the possible weaponization of government and past statements on gutting the FBI.
Correspondent David Spunt has the story from Capitol Hill.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
SEN. JOHN KENNEDY (R-LA): Don't go over there and burn down that agency. You go over there and lift it up.
DAVID SPUNT, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Tough Questions for FBI Director Nominee Kash Patel, handpicked by President Trump to lead a bureau that is no stranger to controversy.
SEN. CHUCK GRASSLEY (R-IA): Either you're going to run your agency or the agency is going to run you.
SPUNT (voice over): Patel repeatedly pressed on past comments.
KASH PATEL, FBI DIRECTOR NOMINEE: I'd shut down the FBI Hoover Building on day one and reopening the next day as a museum of the deep state.
SEN. AMY KLOBUCHAR (D-MN): Did he say that the headquarters should be shut down, Mr. Chair, I deserve an answer to that question.
SPUNT (voice over): Patel, a former public defender and government official under the first Trump administration, responded this and other criticisms were, "False accusations and mischaracterizations."
PATEL: The only thing this body is doing is defeating the credibility of the men and women at the FBI.
SPUNT (voice over): He says his focus will be on curbing crime.
PATEL: The priority of the FBI, if I'm confirmed, will be to ensure that our communities are protected and safeguarded, and our children have parts to play in and not needles to walk over.
SPUNT (voice over): Patel deflected Democrat criticism over past provocative statements suggesting he wanted to purge anti-Trump deep state officials in the government. He sidestepped a direct answer as to whether Joe Biden won the 2020 election, only saying Biden was the certified president. He was asked to clarify his views on January 6th.
PATEL: There can never be a tolerance for violence against law enforcement.
SPUNT (voice over): And he said this just one week after President Trump granted clemency to more than 1500 involved in the January 6th Capitol attack.
PATEL: I do not agree with the commutation of any sentence of any individual who committed violence against law enforcement.
SPUNT (voice over): Republicans coming to his aid, asking about past Bureau controversies, including the crossfire hurricane probe, the basis for the Trump Russia narrative Patel helped expose.
SEN. LINDSEY GRAHAM (R-SC): Are those days over in the FBI you hope?
PATEL: Well, if they're not, they will be.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
SPUNT (on camera): Patel also said he would look into those people that were behind that controversial FBI Richmond Field Office memo from 2023 that used the word extremists in the same phrase as Catholic parishioners, Bret.
BAIER: David Spunt live in the hearing room. David, thanks.
Day two in the hot seat for Robert F. Kennedy Jr., President Trump's pick to run the Department of Health and Human Services, once again, defending past statements and trying to clarify his position on vaccines for the senators.
Correspondent Alexandria Hoff has details from Washington. Good evening, Alex.
ALEXANDRIA HOFF, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Good evening, Bret. Kennedy's 3.5 hour hearing yesterday was tense. No doubt about that. Today, it got emotional.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
ROBERT F. KENNEDY JR., HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES SECRETARY NOMINEE: Almost all the members of this panel are accepting -- including yourself, are accepting millions of dollars from the pharmaceutical industry.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (I-VT): No. Not one nickel of PAC money from the pharmaceutical industry. They came from the workers.
SEN. MAGGIE HASSAN (D-NH): I am the proud mother of a 36-year-old young man with severe cerebral palsy. So, please do not suggest that anybody in this body of either political party doesn't want to know what the cause of autism is.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We believe so much in submission. We're not going to have an open mind to study these things.
HOFF (voice over): With vaccines once again at the center of questioning, Kennedy assured the Senate helped committee he would not enter the job of Health and Human Services Secretary with any preordained biases.
KENNEDY JR.: I'm going to empower the scientists at HHS to do their job and make sure that we have good science that's evidence based, that's replicatable.
HOFF (voice over): Supporters were there to cheer Kennedy on as his final hearing wrapped, but Republican Committee Chair, Senator Bill Cassidy, who is also a physician and could be a key confirmation vote, said he is still struggling with this nomination.
SEN. BILL CASSIDY (R-LA): Does a 70-year-old man, 71-year-old man who spent decades criticizing vaccines and who is financially vested in finding fault with vaccines, can he changes attitudes and approach now that he will have the most important position influencing vaccine policy in the United States?
(END VIDEOTAPE)
HOFF (on camera): Now, if confirmed, Kennedy announced today that he plans to appoint the first Native American to serve as assistant HHS Secretary, Bret.
BAIER: Alex, thank you. Federal officials have approved a new type of pain drug designed to eliminate the risks of addiction and overdose associated with other opioid medications, vertex pharmaceuticals pill JOURNAVX is the first new pharmaceutical approach to treating pain in more than 20 years. The drug works by blocking pain signals at their source, unlike opioids, which trigger the brain's reward centers.
Up next, what we're learning about the victims of the deadly plane collision over Washington, and then my interview with Virginia Senator Tim Kaine on the air disaster and today's confirmation hearings.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Breaking tonight, we are learning more details about the timeline of events that led to that collision of the military helicopter and the American Airlines jet. Chief national security correspondent Jennifer Griffin has that part of the story live from the Pentagon. Good evening, Jennifer.
JENNIFER GRIFFIN, FOX NEWS NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Good evening, Bret. The co-pilot of the Black Hawk Army helicopter was a female pilot with 500 hours of flying time. The instructor who was also being evaluated on this routine nighttime training mission had logged over 1,000 hours. Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth described them as fairly experienced. He ordered a 48-hour operational pause for the Army Aviation Battalion involved in the crash.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PETE HEGSETH, DEFENSE SECRETARY: Three soldiers, a young captain, staff sergeant, and CW-2 chief warrant officer on a routine annual retraining of night flights on a standard corridor for a continuity of government mission. I think the president is right. There was some sort of elevation issue.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GRIFFIN: The flight ceiling for helicopters in the D.C. Capitol region is 200 feet. Jonathan Koziol, the Army Aviation Director at Chief of Staff, told reporters the pilots were familiar with the route and area, and the crew chief had been with the unit for some time. The president's choice for army secretary was asked about a 2024 Army Aviation report that suggested last year had the most severe aviation incidents for the army in more than 10 years.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DANIEL DRISCOLL, ARMY SECRETARY NOMINEE: I think we might need to look at where's an appropriate time to take training risks, and it may not be near an airport like Reagan.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GRIFFIN: Officials say there was no sign of terrorism or criminality. The Black Hawk helicopter took off from Fort Belvoir. The pilots had night vision goggles on board, but it's not clear whether ambient light may have confused them and caused them to look at the wrong plane. A lot of attention will now be paid to the elevation of the -- of the aircraft as well as communications with the Reagan National airport's control chief there. Bret, back to you.
BAIER: Jennifer Griffin, thank you.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, (R) U.S. PRESIDENT: We'll find out how this disaster occurred and we'll ensure that nothing like this ever happens again. My administration will set the highest possible bar for aviation safety.
REP. SHARICE DAVIDS, (D-KS): There's a natural human response to start grasping for answers, but right now it's so early. We have to let this investigation play out.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: Joining us now to discuss the air tragedy over Washington and today's confirmation hearings as well, Virginia Senator Tim Kaine. Senator, thanks for being here on a very tough day for the entire community of Virginia, Maryland, D.C. Your thoughts, 30,000 feet here, about this tragedy?
SEN. TIM KAINE, (D-VA): Well, Bret, it's just awful. I was over at the airport about 6:30 this morning for a couple hours. So, first, the tremendous sorrow for the 67 families who have lost loved ones, the three soldiers, the four crew members, the 60 passengers. The lists are going to start fully coming out, and we'll all know people on that list, because the D.C. community, that's a big metro area, but we're all connected. And so that is very tragic.
Tremendous gratitude for these first responders. I mean, as you know, out in the water last night, ice on the water, doing this very complicated rescue and now recovery effort, very, very -- I really praise that work. But there's a lot of questions.
And the National Transportation Safety Board, they have a good track record of getting to the bottom of it. Some facts are emerging already that are pointing the way to questions that need to be asked, but we don't yet fully know the answers.
BAIER: To that point, the A.P. saying the staffing was not normal in the air traffic control tower at Washington's Reagan National Airport. That's according to a report by the FAA that was obtained by the Associated Press. A report saying one air traffic controller was working two positions at the time of the crash. To your point, we don't have a definitive word from the NTSB and won't probably for a few weeks. But Senator, you have been concerned about Reagan National particularly for years.
KAINE: Yes.
BAIER: And tell us about that and why.
KAINE: Well, Bret, you know this airport, but for those who don't, it's a really small footprint. It was built very close to downtown Washington on an acreage and with a runway structure that was estimated to be able to serve 50 million passengers a year in and out of that airport. We're now well now over 20 million passengers a year, getting up to 25 million. And for years Senator Warner and I have really urged federal officials, but also our congressional colleagues.
This is an important city, air traffic into the city is important, but we have three airports. We have Reagan National, we have Dulles, and Baltimore, Washington, International. We need to spread the traffic among these airports rather than have such congestion into Reagan National.
The other thing about Reagan National is when you are right in downtown D.C., there is a lot of military flights. It is a very complicated and congested airspace. It's gotten more complicated after 9/11 with certain security details. And so, yes, last March we had a bill before the Senate. There was an effort to add more flights into an already overburdened runway that we fought very hard against, and we brought up our concern that an event like this would happen. And, you know, when I got the news last night, I -- I don't know. I haven't been as angry as I have been in a very long time.
Now, we don't know that as the factor. As you pointed out, the FAA suggests that shortages in air traffic control, which are not just at Reagan National but they have been national level shortages may have contributed. Normally they would have one person in the tower monitoring helos, another person working, more than one person working on planes. The person that was doing the helo monitoring last night and the plane monitoring, it was one individual, but they often use different frequencies to talk to the pilots of the different vehicles. Could that have been a factor? The NTSB will tell us whether it was.
BAIER: Are you concerned about the hiring of air traffic controllers?
KAINE: Yes. Yes.
BAIER: I mean, you've seen it change from -- yes.
KAINE: Absolutely. And that was, again, the funny thing, Bret, you know, legislation can have a good piece and a bad piece. What we did in the FAA reauthorization last year was designed to deal with some of these critical shortages, and I believe we've made progress from March until now, so that was a good part of the bill. But the addition of even more traffic into Reagan National was a bad part of the bill. I ended up wanting to support the bill, but I opposed it over this jamming more flights into Reagan National.
Again, I have this deep concern that I have had for years, but I do have to say, whether that concern was a factor last night or not, the NTSB, they will do a good job and they will give us the answer to that question.
BAIER: Yes, Secretary of Transportation Sean Duffy saying they are going to get to the bottom of it and try to improve things and work with you all on Capitol Hill as that investigation continues.
I want to talk about Capitol Hill. Obviously, it's the center of the universe for confirmation hearings. You've had some tough questioning for various nominees. Can you see yourself getting if a yes for some of the Trump nominees?
KAINE: Yes, Bret, I have already voted yes on a number. In fact, I voted for Secretary of Transportation Duffy, and I met him at 6:30 in the airport this morning, 24 hours on the job and he's already dealing with this tough, tough emergency. I voted for Secretary Burgum. We had his confirmation vote, or maybe actually the final vote is later tonight. I'm voting yes for him for secretary of the interior. I voted Marco Rubio for secretary of state. There will be others I expect to vote yes on. There will be some others that I will probably vote no on.
BAIER: Senator, we appreciate your time. This is a big issue, and I know you are right in the middle of it. Thanks for coming on.
KAINE: Always good to be with you, Bret.
BAIER: Former congressman Mike Rogers says he is strongly considering another Republican bid for the Michigan U.S. Senate seat just months after he narrowly lost to Democrat Elissa Slotkin. That race is poised to one of the nation's most fiercely contested after Democratic Senator Gary Peters announced he will not seek a third term.
Up next, a phase two of ceasefire discussions gets underway, a chaotic scene in Gaza during the release of Israeli hostages. We will take you there.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BAIER: There are new concerns tonight over the stability of the ceasefire between Israel and Hamas after scuffles erupted during the release of Israeli hostages today. The chaos led Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to order a delay in the release of Palestinian prisoners. Chief foreign correspondent Trey Yingst is in Tel Aviv with the latest.
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
TREY YINGST, FOX NEWS CHIEF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENT: Chaotic crowds scream and jeer as Israeli hostages are paraded through the Gaza Strip. Hamas putting on another propaganda show of force as they handed over three Israeli and five Thai citizens to the Red Cross. Along the Gaza border, emotional reunions as Agam Berger, Arbel Yehud, and Gadi Moses, reunited with loved ones before being flown by helicopter to a hospital in central Israel. Gadi was one of the oldest people taken hostage on October 7th at 79 years old. His partner was accidently killed by an IDF helicopter during the attack.
DR. SEFI MENDELOVICH, ISRAELI HEALTH MINISTRY: The preparation for receiving the returned captives have consisted of being professional, sensitive, and comprehensive medical and psychological supportive system. After the emotional reunions, the returned captives will undergo initial medical assessments.
YINGST: Today's hostages were exchanged for 110 Palestinian prisoners, including a high-level militant who was the former head of the Jenin battalion. With today's release the number of hostages remaining in Gaza stands at 82, 35 are believed to be dead. The next group of three is scheduled to be released on Saturday.
President Trump's Middle East envoy Steve Witkoff is in Israel today and visited Hostage Square as the exchange was taking place. Witkoff also visited Gaza and is meeting with top officials including Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to discuss phase two of the ceasefire deal.
STEVE WITKOFF, TRUMP SOCIAL ENVOY TO MIDDLE EAST: I think it's showing what a wonderful, how joyous the people of Israel are, and all other --
(END VIDEO TAPE)
YINGST (on camera): Next week Prime Minister Netanyahu will travel to Washington, D.C., where he will be the first foreign leader to visit President Trump since the new administration took office. Bret?
BAIER: Trey Yingst in Tel Aviv. Trey, thank you.
The two NASA astronauts stuck at the International Space Station took their first spacewalk together almost eight months after arriving. Commander Suni Williams and Butch Wilmore removed a broken antenna and wiped the station's exterior for any evidence of any microbes that might still be alive. The pair have been stranded at the ISS since last June. President Trump has asked Elon Musk to get them down.
Up next, the panel on today's cabinet confirmation hearings, plus the politics and the tragedy around the deadly air disaster over Washington.
First, Beyond our Borders tonight. A nighttime Russian drone attack kills at least six people and wounds nine others at an apartment building in northeast Ukraine. Russia launched more than 80 drones overnight, according to Ukrainian officials.
Panama's president says there will be no negotiations with the United States over ownership of the Panama Canal. Jose Raul Mulino made those comments today. Secretary of State Marco Rubio is scheduled to meet with Mulino Sunday and visit the canal. President Trump claims China is operating the waterway and says U.S. ships using it are being treated unfairly.
And this is a live look at London. One of the big stories there tonight, the Princess of Wales visits children in hospice care. Kate Middleton spending time with the kids and their families, taking part in a stay and play session as the children enjoyed activities while receiving that care. Middleton is gradually getting back into her public role following news earlier this month she is in remission from cancer.
Just some of the other stories Beyond our Borders tonight. We'll be right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BAIER: Breaking news from Capitol Hill, Doug Burgum has received confirmation from the U.S. Senate, the vote 79 to 16. It's still open, but he has the votes to be confirmed. That means North Dakota governor will become the interior secretary for the Trump administration, getting a lot of Democratic support on the floor.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, (R) U.S. PRESIDENT: We want fast confirmations, and the Democrats, as you know, are doing everything they can to delay them. They've taken too long.
TULSI GABBARD, NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE DIRECTOR NOMINEE: My commitment to the president, to you, and to the American people is this -- I will do my very best to find the truth no matter where it leads.
KASH PATEL, FBI DIRECTOR NOMINEE: The public trust can only be restored if there is full transparency. And I am committed to that full transparency.
ROBERT F. KENNEDY JR., HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES SECRETARY NOMINEE: Many in the hearing yesterday have claimed that I'm anti-vaccine and anti- industry. Well, I'm neither. I'm pro-safety. I'm pro-good science.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: Some of those hearings pretty fiery. Meantime, those nominees defending themselves. Kash Patel for the FBI in "The Wall Street Journal", "How I'll rebuild public trust in the FBI. I believe two foundational steps are necessary to rebuild public confidence in the FBI. First let cops be cops. Leadership means supporting agents in their mission to apprehend criminals and protect our citizens. And second, transparency is essential. Members of Congress have hundreds of unanswered requests to the FBI. If confirmed, I will be a strong advocate for congressional oversight."
Let's start there with our panel, Trey Gowdy, former congressman from South Carolina, Leslie Marshall, democratic strategist, and Josh Kraushaar is a FOX News Radio political analyst. Josh, your assessment of, let's start with Kash Patel, how that hearing went today, and his performance. Obviously, some of the questioning was fiery, as I mentioned.
JOSH KRAUSHAAR, FOX NEWS RADIO POLITICAL ANALYST: Yes, these were all some of the toughest hearings from Trump's cabinet nominees, or the FBI director in the case of Kash Patel. Look, Patel really tried to soften his image. He portrayed himself as the son of immigrants, a rags-to-riches story. He pledged to follow the rule of law, even criticized subtly the decision by President Trump to pardon all of the January 6th rioters.
But look, there was a lot of comments he made in the past. There is a lot of incendiary rhetoric he has offered that Democrats really honed in on. Look, Republicans, it sounds like he's going to have the vast majority of Republican support in the committee. I didn't get the sense that there was any worries about maintaining that partisan support. So Democrats are very much against him. You could hear the hostility in a lot of the questioning. He has made incendiary comments that have come back to bite him. But I think of the three nominees on the hot seat today, Patel is in the best position.
BAIER: Trey Gowdy, you come to this panel with a little bit of a bias on this particular nominee in that your endorsement of him early on kind of set the table for this. How did you think he did today, and where do you think this stands?
TREY GOWDY, FORMER SOUTH CAROLINA REPRESENTATIVE: I thought he acquitted himself very, very well. He showed independence. It's hard to disagree with a person who nominated you for a position, but he was pretty clear he would not have issued some of those pardons.
I love Josh. Josh described Kash in a certain way. That is the only Kash that I have ever known. The one that you saw today is the one that I worked with. The one that issued incendiary comments, that's not the guy that I worked with. The one we had today is the one that Ratcliffe and I worked with for two years. So I think he will be confirmed. I think Democrats know it. You could tell by Durbin saying let's work together on fentanyl. You don't work together if you are not the FBI director. So he will be confirmed.
BAIER: Tulsi Gabbard, Leslie, one of, as Chad Pergram mentioned, perhaps the most controversial, and a question whether Republican will line up behind her nomination for Director of National Intelligence. She was asked numerous times about Edward Snowden. Take a listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. MARK WARNER, (D-VA): Do you still think Edward Snowden is brave?
TULSI GABBARD, NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE DIRECTOR NOMINEE: Mr. Vice chairman, Edward Snowden broke the law. I do not agree with or support with all of the information and intelligence that he released, nor the way in which he did it.
SEN. JERRY MORAN, (R-KS): I want to make certain that in no way does Russia get a pass in either your mind or your heart or in any policy recommendation you would make or not make.
GABBARD: Senator, I'm offended by the question, because my sole focus, commitment, and responsibility is about our own nation.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: Leslie, your thoughts on her hearing today and where that stands?
LESLIE MARSHALL, DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST: I think there were a couple of problems that I saw Republicans wince at, and one was not just her response to Snowden but completely not admitting that he is a traitor. And that's how the majority of American people see him, and I think the majority of people in our government, and she couldn't say that.
She also could not answer and would not answer if she were asked to do something by the president, President Trump, when it comes to foreign funding and foreign funds. And that's very uncomfortable, especially if you are looking for somebody to hold this role, not just to be responsible but to be responsible in their role to the Constitution, and in the United States on an international level with our allies.
And then thirdly, the elephant in the room that I don't think was talked about enough is comments that she had regarding the former dictator Assad from Syria. Of course, Russia was touched upon.
I think she is going to have a difficult nomination. I think you will see some Republicans vote no. And I would agree with Josh that Patel probably has it easier of these three. And I'm shocked I am even able to say that, to be honest.
BAIER: All right, let's turn to the tragedy over the skies in Washington, and "The New York Post" has it on the front cover, and 67 people believed dead. They haven't recovered all of the bodies as of yet. Horror in the sky. More reporting tonight from "The Washington Post." "Tuesday night," they write, "the 24 hours before this deadly collision near Reagan National Airport, a different regional jet coming in for a landing had to make a second approach" after a helicopter appeared near its flight path. The investigation, Josh, is still ongoing. But that tells a signal that there may be pointing one direction here.
KRAUSHAAR: Yes, look, there has been a lot of partisan finger pointing from both sides. I think we need to gather the facts. There's still a lot of reporting to be done. I thought Tim Kaine made an important point in the interview you did with him, Bret, that there is a real worry that there are so many flights around a fairly small airport like Reagan National Airport. This is something that a lot of local lawmakers have been warning about for some time. So we're going to look at the staffing levels of the FAA, we're going to look at, Trump brought up DEI. I'm not sure if that's the biggest issue, but that will come into play. But the biggest issue, I think, may be level of traffic in a fairly small airport.
BAIER: Yes, and be able to handle all of that together at the same time. Panel, thanks so much.
Finally tonight, a SPECIAL REPORT salute.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MAYOR MURIEL BOWSER, (D) WASHINGTON D.C.: I do want to thank the first responders who acted quickly last night, who ran towards danger, went into a very frigid river, and have worked throughout the night.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: D.C.'s Mayor Muriel Bowser. We want to take a moment, too, to recognize the tireless and heroic efforts of the first responders to last night's tragedy on the Potomac River. About 300 first responders were on scene dealing with those frigid waters, desperately searching for signs of life, and now remains. When tragedy struck, they answered the call. So a salute to you all.
Tomorrow on SPECIAL REPORT, President Trump's designated special envoy for Ukraine in Russia, retired Army Lieutenant General Keith Kellogg, on the Trump administration approach going forward to the war in Ukraine. He's going to speak to the president about that. He will speak to us. You can see that here on SPECIAL REPORT.
Thanks for inviting us into your home tonight. As always, we've got you covered, fair, balanced and still unafraid. THE INGRAHAM ANGLE starts now.

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
