




Targeted News Service
January 22, 2025 Wednesday 8:47 PM  EST


Copyright 2025 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved


Length: 776 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: CHICAGO, Illinois 
Body


[Category: Libraries] -- The American Library Association posted the following news release:
* * *
New ALA Initiative Asks Advocates to "Show Up for Our Libraries"
Washington - Today the American Library Association (ALA) launched Show Up for Our Libraries, a campaign to harness the collective power of library advocates to influence elected leaders and policymakers.
ALA President Cindy Hohl said, "Many library advocates are rightfully concerned about what the next four years hold for our nation's libraries. Libraries - and many people we serve - are facing unprecedented challenges and uncertainty.
"The Show Up for Our Libraries campaign is a deliberate and well-thought-out plan that calls us to move from awareness to action. Our call is not a knee-jerk response to imminent threats. We must face whatever threats come our way by showing up together - library workers and public supporters in our communities - to advocate for our patrons, our profession and our core values."
ALA kicked off the campaign with a proactive call for library advocates to get their elected leaders on the record about how they plan to protect the freedom to read and how they will support federal funding for libraries. An email from ALA's Public Policy and Advocacy Office urged advocates to personalize their communications with legislators, noting "Research shows that individualized messages are five times more likely than commonly used templates to influence a legislator's decision."
Show Up for Our Libraries was launched on the heels of new leadership in the White House and the start of the 119th Congress. President Trump has already issued numerous executive orders, including those related to DEI, such as "Ending Radical And Wasteful Government DEI Programs And Preferencing." ALA is analyzing them for possible action, preferably in conjunction with national partners. While the president has wide latitude in issuing these orders, many already are being challenged in the courts, and others may require Congressional action.
Hohl said, "ALA is actively working directly and in coalition to focus on the most significant threats where we might have influence and impact. Showing up as a united front and engaging strategically with Congress is the best way to protect libraries and library workers."
In the first Trump Administration (2017-2021), libraries faced four consecutive attempts to eliminate the Institute of Museum and Library Services and funding for the Library Services and Technology Act, the only library-specific funding in the U.S. government. Library advocates overcame four consecutive attempts to eliminate the agency, and Congress increased funding for IMLS by $26 million.
"If libraries learned anything from gains made during the first Trump Administration, it's that library advocacy works," said Hohl. "But we are in a different environment now, and Congressmembers on both sides of the aisle are feeling pressure from a vocal minority of citizens who want control over what's available for everyone in their communities to read.
"The good news is that millions of Americans love their libraries, and every one of them can be an advocate. Just ask anyone who uses a library, such as parents in every corner of the nation who depend on our reading programs to make lifelong learners of their children. Just ask learners of all ages, who rely on school and college libraries to identify credible sources of information, develop research skills and even find community."
With an emphasis on storytelling, the Show Up landing page includes a template for telling a library story and a form to submit library stories to ALA for use in publications and for other purposes, including referrals to journalists. The campaign offers a range of other free resources for advocates, from social media assets (hashtag #ForOurLibraries) to a guide for setting up a congressional tour of a library as well as ALA member-exclusive videos on advocacy best practices.
About the American Library Association
The American Library Association (ALA) is the foremost national organization providing resources to inspire library and information professionals to transform their communities through essential programs and services. For more than 140 years, the ALA has been the trusted voice for academic, public, school, government, and special libraries, advocating for the profession and the library's role in enhancing learning and ensuring access to information for all. For more information, visit .
***
Original text here: 
Copyright Targeted News Services
MSTRUCK-9011762 MSTRUCK

Load-Date: January 27, 2025


End of Document
