




Fox News FOX SPECIAL REPORT WITH BRET BAIER 6:00 PM EST
February 19, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7249 words
Byline: Bret Baier, Eric Shawn, Brit Hume, Peter Doocy, Chad Pergram, David Spunt
Guests: Sabrina Singh, Byron York, Doug Burgum
Body


DANA PERINO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: That's it for us everyone, have a great night.
BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: All right, Dana, Happy Black History Month, Harold.
Good evening. I'm Bret Baier. We are coming to you tonight, live from the headquarters of the Department of the Interior. We are in the Sidney R. Yates auditorium, named after the Illinois Democrat who championed conservation causes during his 24 terms in the house. Workers here at the headquarters manage the country's natural resources, cultural heritage and, of course, national parks.
We will speak with Interior Secretary Doug Burgum in just a few minutes, but first, breaking tonight, the war in Ukraine becomes the subject of a war of words between President Trump and Ukraine's leader. Volodymyr Zelenskyy says the American president is living in a Russian made disinformation space. President Trump calls Zelenskyy a dictator without elections. An exchange comes after President Trump dismissed complaints by Zelenskyy that he was not invited to talks in Saudi Arabia between the U.S. and Russia about the Ukraine conflict.
Senior White House Correspondent Peter Doocy starts us off tonight live from the North Lawn. Good evening, Peter.
PETER DOOCY, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Good evening, Bret. When President Trump got back to the Oval Office last month, he said he thought Putin was destroying Russia because he thought with the Ukraine war, Putin wasn't doing so well, but now that Ukraine is moving slower than Trump wants with a rare earth minerals deal that has been flipped. Now, President Trump says is Zelenskyy to blame for millions of deaths.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Other parts of the world, not so good.
DOOCY (voice over): President Trump is trashing Volodymyr Zelenskyy as a modestly successful comedian and a dictator without elections. Writing, Zelenskyy better move fast, or he is not going to have a country left. The relationship frayed.
MIKE WALTZ, NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR: Well, it's one that's frustrated right now, and clearly is going in the wrong direction.
DOOCY (voice over): Because after Trump blamed the Russian invasion on Ukraine.
TRUMP: He should have never started it. He could have made a deal.
DOOCY (voice over): And Democrats condemned Trump.
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): It's disgusting to see an American president turn against one of our friends and openly side with a thug like Vladimir Putin.
DOOCY (voice over): Zelenskyy did too.
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): President Trump, with great respect for him as a leader, unfortunately lives in this disinformation space.
DOOCY (voice over): A warning in the Daily Mail from Vice President Vance. The idea that Zelenskyy is going to change the president's mind by bad mouthing him in public media. Everyone who knows the president will tell you that is an atrocious way to deal with this administration.
Russian diplomats say there may or may not be a Trump Putin meeting next week.
VLADIMIR PUTIN, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): It needs to be prepared so that it brings a result.
DOOCY (voice over): Trump's predecessor kept his criticism private.
In 2022, NBC reported President Biden raised his voice to Zelenskyy on a phone call, telling him the American people were being quite generous, and Zelenskyy could show a little more gratitude. A lot has changed in 2.5 years.
TRUMP: There's no better place on Earth than the current and future United States of America under a certain president named Donald J. Trump.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
DOOCY (on camera): And more news ahead tonight, President Trump plans to sign another executive order, this one telling federal agencies to stop providing federal financial benefits to illegal aliens, including in sanctuary cities. The plan is for him to sign that on his way back here aboard Air Force One, Bret.
BAIER: Peter Doocy live in the North Lawn. Peter, thank you.
Here are some other stories making headlines tonight. Top military officials are being ordered to cut eight percent from the defense budget in each of the next five years. These will be offsets and will not impact the bottom line. Defense budget comes from each of the branches. Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth wants each of the branches to draw up these cuts by Monday.
A powerful winter storm that slammed communities from the plains in the Midwest to the Tennessee Valley is setting its sights on the Mid Atlantic and southeast tonight. Fox weather reports snow and ice could wreak havoc on travel into the evening hours. Winter weather alerts are in effect for millions of people in the area.
The Trump administration has terminated approval of New York City's congestion pricing plan. The Transportation Department saying the score -- the scope, rather, of the pilot project exceeded the city's authority. Transportation Secretary Sean Duffy calling it a slap in the face to working class Americans and small business owners.
Stocks were up today, the Dow gained 71, the S&P 500 finished ahead 15 to another record close today, the NASDAQ rose 15 as well.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Here is an executive order establishing the National Energy Dominance Council so that will be chaired by the Secretary of the Interior, Mr. Burgum and the Vice Chair, Chris Wright.
TRUMP: And this is a big deal. We have more energy than any other country, and now we're unleashing it, to put it nicely.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: Well, as we mentioned at the top of the show, we are at the Interior Department headquarters. Joining us now is the new Interior Secretary, Doug Burgum. Mr. Secretary, thanks for having us here.
DOUG BURGUM, U.S. INTERIOR SECRETARY: Bret, great to have you here at Interior, fantastic.
BAIER: You know, you wear these two hats, you're interior secretary, which comes with a lot of responsibilities, but you're also the chair of the National Energy Dominance Council, which is tasked with putting together this plan in the first hundred days for energy. Talk about that and where we are on that front.
BURGUM: Well, first of all, we should say to President Trump, he understands, like no other leader, that national security means energy security and prosperity for America means having affordable energy.
So, he's tied these two concepts together and understood, he understood that the Biden administration had a whole government approach to trying to shut down U.S. energy.
And of course, that was the wrong headed approach driven by climate extremists, because when you shut down American supply, you didn't drop any demand. You just shoved the production to countries that produce it less cleanly than we do.
So, it was bad -- the Biden plan was bad for the economy. It was bad for the world environment, and it was good for who? It was good for our adversaries, including Iran, who were funding terrorism with their oil sales against us.
But President Trump said, no, I'm going to unleash American energy. I need a whole of government approach to the National Energy Dominance Council created by President Trump. His council has got everybody in government, including about 10 cabinet secretaries that all have an opportunity to help increase U.S. energy production.
And I'm not just talking about liquid fuels, but I'm talking about the future innovation of nuclear. I'm talking about the electricity which we need and is at great risk right now.
BAIER: How soon do you think you can open up federal lands to oil and gas leasing, not just onshore, but offshore?
BURGUM: Well, we're moving very quickly. And I tell you, President Trump, it's been unbelievable, as you've reported here many times, as you know, you know him well, but the speed at which he is moving right now as a leader in driving and opening this up and turning things around is fantastic.
BAIER: The Biden effort at the end of his administration. Can you get around that by executive action, or does it take Congress?
BURGUM: Some of it we can do by executive action, and some of the most egregious acts by the Biden administration in the last weeks that they had 625 million acres of offshore land that could have been the public resource, that could have been leased, that money would go to the public, go to pay down debt for our country, was taken off by Biden with the stroke of a pen, but President Trump signed an executive order directing me, as the Secretary of Interior, to un-ban the ban. We've done that.
Biden administration had banned LNG exports, Secretary of Energy Chris Wright has got that going.
BAIER: Who you work very closely with.
BURGUM: Very closely with. And of course, Sean Duffy, who is also the Director of Secretary of Transportation, announced last Friday, he's going to be turning back the CAFE standards that are affecting our whole auto industry. And Lee Zeldin from EPA, also a key member on the council, had all kinds of announcements, and he's going to be working with us on deregging -- cutting the red tape associated with energy production, which has choked the flow of capital to American energy.
BAIER: Once you get the offshore let's say, or the Arctic open, leases create an opportunity, but not an obligation, to drill and produce.
So, what can interior do to make U.S. production more attractive to oil companies. You know this business well. BURGUM: Well, part of what we can do is what President Trump is doing. He's met with more foreign heads of state in a month than some presidents meet within a year. Secretary Wright and I had an opportunity to be front and center in the meetings with both the Prime Minister of India and the Prime Minister of Japan.
Both of those prime ministers expressed their dismay. Hey, we want to buy more energy from America, but the Biden administration had shut down LNG exports.
I mean, inexplicably hurting -- again, hurting America, helping our adversaries. President Trump, they know is going to open that up, and President Trump in those meetings, it's remarkable. I mean, you know he wrote the book on The Art of the Deal. He's rewriting the sequel right now in real time.
And when he's with these prime ministers, we have a trade deficit with Japan, and he's like, hey, we can solve that. Buy energy from us. We're building a new pipeline in Alaska. It's a seven day transportation from Alaska to Japan. Japan is 120 million people in the size of North and South Dakota, with no energy production.
BAIER: So, he's selling all the time?
BURGUM: He's selling all the time. And when he sells -- when he's selling U.S. energy, he's helping (INAUDIBLE).
BAIER: So what does that mean? So let's look at the national average of gas prices. The current average is $3.16 tonight. A month ago, $3.12. A year ago is $3.28.
If you look at oil prices, crude oil today, 72.25, up 40 percent -- $0.40 rather for the day. As you look at those numbers, do you envision a major drop because of what's happening with the plan here?
BURGUM: Well, the goal is to get it to drop prices for Americans a lot, and that's the goal. I mean, that's the affordability, make America affordability vision that President Trump has.
But part of what we can do is the cost that goes into producing a barrel of oil. Today, a significant part of that is the red tape. A significant part of that is the cost of capital, because of the high interest rates and the inflation that we had.
And so, when we can create economic certainty, a stable tax and regulatory environment, and the capital starts flowing back to the U.S., people know that they can make us -- if you're going to build a refinery in this country, if you're going to build a pipeline in this country, you need to know that you're going to get a return on that, not for four years, but for the next 20 years.
And President Trump, making these changes, making them permanent. We're seeing that right now, capital flowing to the U.S., flowing into U.S. energy, bringing manufacturing jobs back, all the things that are happening.
BAIER: What about Keystone XL Pipeline? It was kind of sheltered or put away in the first days of the Biden administration. Is it coming back?
BURGUM: I think the key infrastructure that President Trump is focused on right now, and he's spoken about these, is that in Alaska, an 800 mile pipeline that would help deliver LNG for export to South Korea, the Philippines and Japan, huge advantage for our partners, and from a national security standpoint, those countries today are buying their energy from the Middle East. China's got a 300 ship navy. They closed down the Taiwanese straits in the South China Sea. Those guys are out of there -- they're out of energy in three or four days. We can give them a secure supply line that's only seven days long.
Another one that he talked about on Friday, the Constitution pipeline, bringing that back across New York, where New York had blocked a pipeline, we've got enormous natural gas resources. In Pennsylvania, we have 80 percent of the homes in the state of Maine are still burning heating oil at the time of the -- to heat their homes.
At the time of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, this country was offloading 400,000 barrels of oil a day, equivalent of dirty Russian heating oil into New England because the state of New York was blocking an LNG pipeline. President Trump says we're building that pipeline.
BAIER: Let's start -- you know, you mentioned Russia and Ukraine, and obviously Secretary Rubio went over to Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, had these discussions, initial discussions, with Russia. And obviously we'll talk about Ukraine.
But are there other aspects of that Russia-U.S. relationship that are dealing with oil and gas and rare minerals in Russian controlled areas, is that part of this deal too?
BURGUM: Well, and part of it goes back to price, because Russia basically ran an operation for 10 years convincing Germany, whether it's through, you know, cyber operations, misinformation.
You know, the Green Party in Germany, let's shut down all of our fossil fuel, shut down all of our base load. We'll buy all of our energy from Russia. When Russia invaded Ukraine, they knew the price was going to go up, and they made tons of money. They were making money off that war, whether they wanted or not. And part of what President Trump understands is we get the price of oil down, that's hard for Iran to fund terrorism, hard for Russia to fund the war.
BAIER: It seems like there's a warming up to Russia. Is there deals in the works as far as natural gas, oil? I mean, is that part of this thing?
BURGUM: I think that what the deals are to be made is to sell energy to our friends and allies so they can stop buying from adversaries.
BAIER: You know, as governor, when you were running for president, you were pretty bullish against Russia, and you were pretty supportive of Ukraine.
Today, you heard Peters piece leading off. I mean, it's really tense here between President Trump and President Zelenskyy. What do you make of that? I mean, from where you see it?
BURGUM: When I say this, President Trump wants to stop the killing, and he wants to stop the wars. He wants to stop them all over the world, and he knows that we can do that, again, part of that, the way we accomplish that, is with energy dominance.
Iran, they -- the Biden administration turned a blind eye on sanctions on Iran. They said they had sanctions. Iran sold $200-300 billion of oil through ghost ships and front companies to people around the world at a discount. And then they had -- the Biden administration had 68 executive orders just against Alaska. They were sanctioning Alaska more than we were -- than we were Iran.
So president knows, if we unleash Alaska, if we actually sanction Iran, that's one of the ways that we stop wars and bring peace this world. Peace abroad, prosperity at home. That's the plan. They both tie back to energy dominance.
BAIER: OK? I want to put on the other hat. This is the National Park Service hat. There's a national park ranger. He was fired from what they called the dream job on Valentine's Day, wrote this viral letter saying things are not OK. This is, according to news, about 3400 recently hired employees with the U.S. Forest Service. 1000 employees with the National Park Service were fired from their jobs over the weekend under the Trump administration, accounting for 10 percent, five percent of those work forces, respectively.
Here is a woman discussing losing her park ranger job.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The people that make those decisions, they don't know or care to realize the impact of those decisions that they are making and all the lives that they are affecting.
They are the ones that obviously clean the vault toilets, plow parking lots, plow the roads, fix trails, fix signs, law enforcement.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: So, what do you say to them? Obviously, there is this cost cutting effort. Are you -- are you concerned about those folks?
BURGUM: Well, on a personal level, of course, I've got great empathy for anybody that loses a job, whether private sector or government, but I think we have to realize that every American is better off if we actually stop having a $2 trillion -- $2 trillion a year deficit. I mean, that's -- are like --
(CROSSTALK)
BAIER: But do you assure people, I guess, that the parks are going to be OK with the -- with the numbers that you leave?
BURGUM: Yes, absolutely. And again, we -- as we work to, you know, reinvent government and right size government to the right size. That's a mandate that the Americans are fully supportive of President Trump doing.
But at the same time, I would just say to anybody listening, we're just in the process right now, posting 5,000 summer jobs.
I mean, if you want a fantastic job working the National Park, go check the web site. Whether you want to be a wildland firefighter, you wanted to -- you want to start a career in the park service, go apply for a job, because we want to make sure that we're giving a great experience for citizens that are national parks this summer.
BAIER: And quickly, as far as DOGE, and you know, you hear all the criticism of what's happening and all the pushback. What's your take of it, and what does it mean for you here at Interior? Will they be in here looking for waste, fraud, and abuse?
BURGUM: Well, they are in here on day one, and I welcome them. When I became governor in North Dakota, we were in a financial crisis at the state at that time, and we cut 27 percent of our general fund budget in the first four months I was in office, and every train still ran on time.
There is an opportunity here with the federal government to right size it, and in the process, part of it is the federal government is so outdated on the technology. As you know, Bret, I spent 30 years in technology businesses before I got into this public service side of my life. And we're decades and decades behind and we've got, still got people that are -- that are absolutely pushing paper. We've got people that are taking faxes off fax machines and then doing the data entry.
There's just basic things we can do. We can create more meaningful, more purposeful jobs for people that want to have a life of service, and we can deliver lower cost, more efficient government for the citizens.
And we can do both, and we have to do both of those together.
BAIER: You've been a tech entrepreneur, you've been a governor, and now you are the secretary of the interior and the head of this energy council. It's a different job. How do you look at it?
BURGUM: Well, I look at it the same way. I'll never be a senator. I'll never be a congressman. I don't think of myself as a politician at all. It's a -- I'm an operating guy, and part of what I've always focused on is that -- and you come -- if you're a CEO in technology, where there are no protections, that every day, you've got to build a product that's better, faster, cheaper tomorrow than it is today, and a new technology from a new competitor can put you out of business, you're always evolving and changing.
And those competitive pressures haven't existed for government. Government often is a monopoly. But we need to bring some of those pressures, like things through DOGE that actually start driving the efficiencies and driving the innovation.
And I would invite everybody listening, interior, we've got -- there is a site on X, send us your ideas about how we can do a better job serving. I know people are frustrated waiting in line to pay to get into a national park, and we are paying an employee to collect dollars when they come in the door. And that should all be on an app, and people should have a reservation and roll right in.
Make it, you know, lower cost for the government, better service for the citizens.
There is thousand ideas out like that, and we're ready to get going on them.
BAIER: Mr. Secretary, we appreciate the time and being here. We're going to take a tour a little bit later. Thank you.
BURGUM: Great. Thank you. Look forward to it.
BAIER: Up next, the U.S. Supreme Court considers the first challenge to one of President Trump's second term policies. And then, the president tells the House and Senate to get together and pass one big, beautiful budget bill. We'll take you to Capitol Hill.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BAIER: We are awaiting a decision from the U.S. Supreme Court regarding the first challenge of one of President Trump's actions to make it that far since his second term began. And there is plenty of other legal activities surrounding the new administration.
Correspondent David Spunt has details tonight. Good evening, David.
DAVID SPUNT, FOX NEWS CHANNEL JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: Bret, good evening to you. Federal courts across the country are dealing with the fallout from the president's executive orders. Around 70 pending lawsuits right now and counting.
A federal judge today in Baltimore hearing arguments over whether to stop the president's push to end Diversity Equity and Inclusion or DEI programs across the government, including in education and workplace programs.
The city of Baltimore and pro-DEI groups won a 60-day pause on the executive order. Arguing that funding for DEI programs is authorized by Congress and cannot be unilaterally nixed by the black pen of President Trump. The judge said he's not in a position to rule today, but will move as quickly as he can.
Meanwhile, a federal judge here in Washington heard arguments from the Justice Department and LGBTQ groups for a second day in a row over the president's directive to stop transgender people from enlisting and serving in the military. A ruling on potentially freezing the order is expected early next month, after the Pentagon releases its report complying with the president's executive order.
And the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, Bret, suing over the government's abrupt halt to funding refugee settlements, a program that Congress has already funded, and we could get an order from the Supreme Court at any time regarding the former head of the Office of Special Counsel, Hampton Dellinger.
He is fighting to keep his job overseeing the agency that protects federal whistleblowers. He says he was fired last week without cause. His case is the first major case of the current administration to make it to the Supreme Court.
The Court's ruling will, perhaps, set the tone for whom the president can fire and under what circumstances. Bret?
BAIER: David, thank you.
The president's pick to run the Labor Department took some tough questions today up on Capitol Hill about her positions on unions, the minimum wage, and data protection.
Also tonight, President Trump is urging the House and Senate to get together and pass his so-called big, beautiful budget deal, one of them.
But right now, lawmakers are not on the same page concerning the president's agenda. Least so far.
Senior congressional correspondent Chad Pergram on Capitol Hill tonight.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
CHAD PERGRAM, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): President Trump undercutting Senate Republicans, endorsing the House GOP's "big, beautiful bill to enact his agenda.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He is going to get what he wants. And so, he wants one bill --
PERGRAM: But Senate Republicans forging ahead with their own plan, which bolsters the border and military, but lacks tax cuts.
SEN. JOSH HAWLEY (R-MO): I just hope that leadership is going to sort this out and not just stick fingers and ears, and say, well, we're just going to do what we want.
PERGRAM: Senate GOP brass not budget.
Are you defying the president by going ahead with your own budget plan?
SEN. JOHN THUNE (R-SD): We believe that the president also likes optionality.
PERGRAM (voice over): The president called out Budget Committee Chairman Lindsey Graham for failing to craft a comprehensive bill.
Writing that the House approach, "implements my full America First agenda."
Mr. Trump dispatching Vice President Vance to talk with Senate Republicans.
SEN. LINDSEY GRAHAM (R-SC): J.D. says, we prefer one bill. I prefer one bill, but go forward.
PERGRAM: House Republicans want their bill on the floor next week. Confirmations continue. Labor Secretary nominee Lori Chavez-DeRemer appeared at her confirmation hearing. Kentucky Republican Rand Paul initially opposed her. But is now reconsidering, after Chavez-DeRemer walked back her support for a plan making it easier for workers to organize.
SEN. RAND PAUL (R-KY): This is a sort of a death bed reversal, or whether or not she actually truly is for this.
PERGRAM: Would that switch your vote potentially?
PAUL: I'm going to think about her answers and think about whether or not a conversion at this last moment is sincere.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
PAUL (on camera): A vote to confirm Chavez-DeRemer is at least two weeks away. The Senate confirmed Kelly Loeffler as SBA administrator today, the Senate confirms Kash Patel as FBI director tomorrow. Bret?
BAIER: Chad Pergram, live on Capitol Hill. Chad, thank you.
Up next, New York Mayor Eric Adams asked to judge to drop corruption charges against him.
Bring you back to the Interior Department in just a bit.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Welcome back to the Interior Department. A high profile aviation law firm has filed the first legal action related to the collision of that commercial plane and military helicopter in Washington. It happened near Reagan National Airport January 29th. The lawsuit seeks $250 million on behalf of a passenger's wife and children. A total of 67 people died.
Meantime, authorities in Arizona say a midair collision involving two small planes today has left two people dead. Federal officials say each plane had two people aboard when they collided near a regional airport on the outskirts of Tucson. One plane landed safely, no one was hurt there. The other hit the ground and caught fire. Both people aboard that plane were killed. The collision comes a week after a plane crash in Scottsdale killed one of two pilots of a private jet owned by Motley Crue singer Vince Neil. It also follows four major aviation accidents in North America in the lost month, as we have been bringing you.
Embattled New York City Mayor Eric Adams was back in court this afternoon. He is asking that corruption charges against him be dropped. Senior correspondent Eric Shawn is in New York tonight.
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
ERIC SHAWN, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: He gave a thumbs up when he arrived in court, but protesters gave him a loud thumbs down.
(SHOUTING)
SHAWN: New York City Mayor Eric Adams hoping to have the corruption case against him dropped. He told Federal Judge Dale Ho that he is innocent and has made no deal with President Trump. Acting Deputy Attorney General Emil Bove argued the federal charges Adams faces of bribery, fraud, and accepting foreign campaign should be scrapped. Bove told the court, quote, "The continuation of this prosecution is interfering with national security and immigration enforcement initiatives being carried out by the executive branch."
But critics accuse Adams and the president of making a deal, a quid pro quo -- Trump dropping the charges in exchange for Adams doing what Trump wants. At least seven federal prosecutors have resigned rather than drop the charges, and a growing number of New York elected officials are calling on Adams to quit.
We can't have a mayor who is compromised, who works for Trump and Musk but not for us.
SHAWN: But Adams lawyer and Bove told Judge Ho there was no quid pro quo. The judge reserved a decision for now, saying he is giving the matter careful consideration. And as Adams left court he flashed another thumbs up and sported a wide smile on his face despite those protesters.
(END VIDEO TAPE)
SHAWN: New York Governor Kathy Hochul, Adams fellow Democrat, said she will wait for Judge Ho's ruling before she decides whether or not to possibly remove Adams from office. The governor of this state does have that power. Bret?
BAIER: Eric Shawn live in New York. Eric, thanks.
Federal officials say they have charged seven migrants from Chile in connection with a nationwide spree of burglaries that victimized high profile athletes. Among those affected are Kansas City Chiefs stars Travis Kelce and Patrick Mahomes. The complaint says the suspects were members of a South American theft group. They allegedly targeted the athletes' homes when they were away competing in games.
Up next, the panel joins us with reaction to my interview with the Interior secretary Doug Burgum. But, first, office politics at the Interior Department, let's bring you there.
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
BAIER: The view from the patio off of the Interior Department, the secretary's office. Joining us, the secretary of the Interior, Doug Burgum. Thanks for this. This is quite something.
DOUG BURGUM, (R) INTERIOR SECRETARY: It is, and, of course, it's quite a responsibility as well because the secretary of Interior, the Department of Interior, and the National Park Service actually manage the mall and all the monuments. And so we've got the second largest police force in Washington D.C. is the National Park Police, and they do a fantastic job.
BAIER: President Trump wants everybody to come back into the office. You've said Monday everybody has got to be in, 70,000 workers at Interior?
BURGUM: They are. But they're, of course, spread all over the country. But there's about 3,500 that would be in this building, so we are looking forward to having people come back.
BAIER: So this is move-in day on the office. You've got stuff that you brought from governor of North Dakota. Let's start over here with this saddle here.
BURGUM: We do have some touches from home. And back home, of course, we've got a great ranching farming culture.
BAIER: Rough rider state.
BURGUM: Yes, absolutely. And I have enjoyed the opportunity over my lifetime to be able to go to spring brandings with friends and family, bring your horse, bring your saddle, and do some roping. And so that's the saddle from North Dakota.
BAIER: So what about this big guy over here?
BURGUM: This is a special thing. And I think this could be the highlight of the whole interview, and I thought maybe this is why you came, because Bret Baier, I would like you to meet Bret Bear. He has been officially named Bret.
(LAUGHTER)
BURGUM: And so we're going to have Bret Bear permanently while I'm here as the secretary.
BAIER: Excellent. That's ominous.
What about this up here?
BURGUM: Well, this is a beautiful North Dakota elk. In North Dakota we have got a terrific elk herd, but it's not large like some of the other states. So as a resident you get a once in a lifetime tag. Fortunately, I drew my elk tag before I became governor, and then had a fantastic hunt in the badlands, and now Pete (ph) is his name, short for wapiti, which is the Indian name for elk. But Pete (ph) was in the governor's office in North Dakota for eight years. He made the trip to D.C. and is here with us.
BAIER: That's great. And then what about this piece of art right here?
BURGUM: Well, this has got a great throwback to the history of North Dakota. You can see it's a painting of bison over the top of a map of North Dakota. So it's in homage to the history of the state, this also hung in our governor's office. It was a piece that Kathryn and I had commissioned, and we had 200 prints made. And we gave those 200 prints to the people that believed in us when we were down 69-10 in the polls running for governor.
BAIER: You eventually won, and now you are here. So congratulations.
BURGUM: Yes. Well, thank you.
BAIER: SPECIAL REPORT continues after this.
(END VIDEO TAPE)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: It's really tense here between President Trump and President Zelenskyy. What do you make of that, I mean, from where you see it?
DOUG BURGUM, (R) INTERIOR SECRETARY: From where I see it, President Trump wants to stop the killing, and he wants to stop the wars. He wants to stop them all over the world. And he knows that we can do that. Again, part of the way we accomplish that is with energy dominance. If we unleash Alaska, if we actually sanction Iran, it's one of the ways that we stop wars and bring peace to the world. Peace abroad, prosperity at home, that's the plan.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: Interior Secretary Doug Burgum here. This comes as this war of words, if you will, between President Trump and President Zelenskyy of Ukraine, just a few moments ago at a business conference down in Miami, President Trump has asked about this. Take a listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, (R) U.S. PRESIDENT: I love Ukraine, but Zelenskyy has done a terrible job. His country is shattered, and millions and millions of people have unnecessarily died. And you can't bring a war to an end if you don't talk to both sides. You've got to talk. They haven't been talking for three years. So we hope to see a ceasefire soon and to reestablish stability in Europe and the Middle East.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: And this comes, obviously, after a Truth Social post earlier in the day in which he called Zelenskyy a dictator without elections.
Let's bring in our panel, FOX News chief political analyst Brit Hume, Sabrina Singh, former Pentagon press secretary to the Biden administration, and Byron York, chief political correspondent of "The Washington Examiner." Brit, what do you make of this and where it's headed?
HUME: Well, the president said that Zelenskyy was to blame for the -- started the war, basically. He did not start the war. Vladimir Putin started the war. And his criticism of Zelenskyy is a result, I think, of impatience with Zelenskyy, because I think the president believes that he has what his treasury secretary called an elegant plan to settle the war, but Zelenskyy so far hasn't been very enthusiastic about it. And I'm sure he is annoyed with him. My only thought would be that if the president is going to go on attacking him, that's music to the ears of Vladimir Putin, and it will enhance worries here and elsewhere that the president is prepared to make a deal with Putin to the great disadvantage of Zelenskyy who, I think, many people believe has bravely rallied his country against what appeared to be overwhelming odds in this war started by Russia.
BAIER: Up on Capitol Hill, lawmakers are piping in, Democrats louder than Republicans, but they are. Take a listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. CHRIS COONS, (D-DE): President Trump seems poised to betray Ukraine and abandon Europe. That would make him the biggest loser of the 21st century.
SEN. JOHN KENNEDY, (R-LA): To the extent that the White House said that Ukraine started the war, I disagree. I think Vladimir Putin started the war.
SEN. RICHARD BLUMENTHAL, (D-CT): Our president has so disregarded the truth and the sacrifice of brave men and women who are upholding their freedom and ours, their fight is our fight, and the president's surrender is pathetic and weak.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: Byron, what do you make of this and where it's headed?
YORK: This is kind of a classic Trump controversy here in which a lot of his adversaries are talking about all the terrible things that might happen if he does this. And the fact is we don't know what is in the president's plan. In your interview with the treasury secretary yesterday, Scott Bessent really praised the plan to the skies but he didn't tell you what it was. So we'll have to see.
Look, the fact is Russia invaded Ukraine. That's just the fact here. Why is the president saying otherwise? My feeling is it is part of his plan. I do not know what he intends to do, but he -- this is the kind of thing that Trump does to irritate some parties while he is appealing to others.
BAIER: Here is the national security adviser Mike Waltz.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MIKE WALTZ, NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER: I don't think anyone should be really, I don't know, criticizing the president for trying to drive this to a diplomatic solution. And what he said yesterday and today is, why hasn't President Zelenskyy tried to end this war for the betterment of his country?
Some people may not like the order that it is happening, but you have to talk to both sides to get both sides to the table, and that's what we are doing.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: Trump people, Sabrina, are saying they are going to continue to press forward to try to get a deal to stop the killing.
SABRINA SINGH, DEPUTY PENTAGON PRESS SECRETARY: I mean, I think conversations with Russia have to include Ukraine, and that's part of the problem that we're seeing. And those talks in Saudi clearly left Ukraine out of the conversation, out of the dialogue. You're seeing this administration continue to push these ideas that it's somehow Ukraine's fault when it's very clear that the aggressor here, Europe's largest military, invaded its sovereign neighbor. And I think we have to remember that.
And I think it's also pretty clear that the Trump administration came in with this idea that they could end the war on day one. I mean, they can end the war -- like right now. They could force Putin -- they have such a great relationship with Russia, to withdraw his troops. Again, this war could end if Russia withdrew and withdrew from Donbas, withdrew from the Crimea. But again, you're seeing this administration pushing these talking points that almost seem like they are coming from the Kremlin. And I think that's why you are seeing lawmakers on both sides of the aisle raising their concerns and voicing their concerns to allies as well.
BAIER: Brit, talking to the Interior secretary who, obviously, is also the chairperson of this energy dominance council saying how they are going to - - the Trump administration are going to open up things that have not been open up when it comes to energy. Take a listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DOUG BURGUM, (R) INTERIOR SECRETARY: Part of what we can do is what President Trump is doing. He has met with more foreign heads of state in a month than some presidents meet with in a year. Secretary Wright and I had an opportunity to be front and center in the meetings with both the prime minister of India and the prime minister of Japan. Both of those prime ministers expressed their dismay. Hey, we want to buy more energy from America. But the Biden administration had shut down LNG exports, inexplicably. Again, hurting America, helping our adversaries.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: Brit, what did you make of the interview and their plans on energy?
HUME: An interesting interview, Bret, and I think it's very important what he talked about opening markets and getting into markets, Japan and India being a couple of examples where we have not been exporting energy because there is a little problem with this -- with anybody, this administration or anyone else, trying to drill, baby, drill to get prices down. And that is simply this -- nothing attracts drilling and investment in energy production more than high prices. So if you want to get prices under control and still have people interested in drilling, you better open up new markets, and you better try to shut down some of the markets around the world that are selling into the world market such as, for example, Iran. So, it's -- the energy economics are complicated. And sometimes it's the price that determines the supply. And if you get it down too far, it's hard to get people to drill for energy or produce it.
BAIER: Quickly, Byron, it seems like we are in still a battle about one bill, two bills. The Senate is going their own way.
YORK: They are. But they are portraying this as sort of being the backup for if the House can't pass the one big, beautiful bill because, obviously, the Republican margin in the House is so small they can't afford to lose more than one vote and pass this bill. It makes it seem kind of difficult to bet everything on. And I think that's why Leader Thune and the Senate is coming up with another bill, saying, hey, we'll have this just in case.
BAIER: Just in case. All right, panel, thank you so much.
Up next, hoop dreams at the Interior Department. But, first, the natural beauty and history of the United States forever immortalized inside this building.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: We're here at the Interior Department Museum. This place opened in 1938 under the Franklin Delano Roosevelt administration. It displays all kinds of things about the Interior Department, different Indian tribes, and a lot of artwork, including by American artist Thomas Moran. He is famous for paintings, especially his painting on Yellowstone. Moran went on expedition in 1871 and he went to Yellowstone, and he came back and he painted this mural. In 1871 he joined this expedition. When he returns, this mural actually helps convince Congress that it was a place that needed to be preserved. In 1872 Congress makes Yellowstone the first national park. Pretty amazing if you go all the way back there. Kevin Costner knows it well, "Yellowstone to Yosemite" on FOX Nation.
SPECIAL REPORT will be back after this.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BAIER: All right, we are in the Interior of the department. This is the bottom floor, the basketball court. It has played host to some hoopers, The 44th president, President Barack Obama played, here with Education Secretary Arne Duncan. And this secretary of the Interior plays some hoops, too. I remember before our debate in Milwaukee, you had a little Achilles thing.
DOUG BURGUM, (R) INTERIOR SECRETARY: I think I took them a little too literally when they said go to Milwaukee and break a leg.
(LAUGHTER)
BURGUM: I was playing at Marquette and I blew my Achilles less than 24 hours before the debate.
BAIER: Have you played at this court yet?
BURGUM: I haven't. But happy to be here to introduce you to it and break it in.
BAIER: Let's do an inaugural three.
BURGUM: And I would say, part of the Interior, there's a $1.2 trillion outdoor recreation industry based on public lands in America. And, of course, at Interior, our mission is to help support that, get every American outdoors and playing.
BAIER: Nice. All right, let's see what you got.
BURGUM: OK, here we go. First shot since the broken Achilles.
BAIER: OK. All right, Mr. Secretary, nice shot. Appreciate the time.
BURGUM: Thank you.
BAIER: Thanks very much.
All right, tomorrow on SPECIAL REPORT, I will talk to Arkansas Republican Senator Tom Cotton about the news of the day and his new book about China.
Remember, if you can't catch us live, set your DVR, 3:00 p.m. in the west, 6:00 p.m. on the east coast.
Thanks for inviting us into your home tonight, from the Interior Department. I'm Bret Baier, fair, balanced, and still unafraid.
THE INGRAHAM ANGLE starts now.

Load-Date: February 20, 2025


End of Document
