




The Daily Caller
January 31, 2025 Friday 08:27 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: DAILY-CALLER-NEWS-FOUNDATION; energy
Length: 546 words
Byline: Nick Pope, Contributor, 
Body



Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Lee Zeldin told reporters at agency headquarters Friday that bureaucrats resisting or undermining President Donald Trump's EPA agenda have no place at the agency.
Zeldin - who was  by the Senate on Wednesday by a 56-42 vote - emphasized that he hopes to work together with career agency staff to produce positive results for the country in his comments, but added that those who look to stymie Trump's agenda from within should not be working for the EPA. 

(L-R) Former Rep. Lee Zeldin (R-NY), Donald Trump's nominee for Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Kash Patel, President Trump's nominee for FBI Director, Pete Hegseth, nominee for Secretary of Defense and Linda McMahon, nominee for Education Secretary, depart Trump's inauguration ceremonies in the Rotunda of the US Capitol on January 20, 2025 in Washington, D.C. (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/POOL/AFP via Getty Images)
“I think there's going to be a headcount reduction in agencies all across the federal government,” Zeldin said. “For us, we have to closely monitor who is deciding to stay and who's deciding to go, and make sure that we're filling all of our most important positions with urgency if any vacancies are created. Quite frankly, I'd want anyone who is currently working at the EPA to view their job as essential and important. That sense of pride in their job is something that will increase their productivity and it'll enhance the agency, and will make the American public proud. We want to be able to work with all of the talented career staff here in the building.”
“I don't believe that anyone should be here at EPA who is not committed to the agency, mission and the lawful directives coming from the duly-elected President of the United States,” Zeldin added.
The EPA was a hotbed of bureaucratic  during the first Trump administration, with  agency employees delaying and undermining some of Trump's policy priorities while others used  to communicate discreetly with each other about efforts to impede the Trump agenda, for example.
Zeldin will have his work cut out for him at EPA, an agency that the Biden administration used to route huge sums of cash to   and , enact a de facto “” and crack down on fossil fuel-fired . Among other campaign promises, Trump has promised or already moved to essentially cancel the Biden administration's spending on green energy subsidies, scrap the regulations that force EVs on consumers and re-evaluate the EPA's 2009 endangerment finding that determined greenhouse gases to be dangerous for public health.
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Graphic

 
Former Rep. Lee Zeldin (R-NY), U.S. President-elect Donald Trump's nominee to be Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, speaks during his Senate Environment and Public Works confirmation hearing on Capitol Hill on January 16, 2025 in Washington, D.C. (Photo by Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 26, 2025


End of Document
