




The Associated Press
January 27, 2025 Monday 8:30 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: WASHINGTON DATELINE
Length: 636 words
Byline: TARA COPP, LOLITA C. BALDOR and ZEKE MILLER, Associated Press
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump was expected to sign a flurry of executive orders focused on the military Monday, including to reinstate troops booted for refusing COVID-19 vaccines, assess transgender forces and further outline , just as  began his first day on the job.
The orders could further clarify initial directives Trump issued shortly after his inauguration last week, when he  put in place by former President Joe Biden and banned DEI initiatives at federal agencies.
Trump had tried to impose a ban on transgender troops during his first term, but it was tangled up in the courts for years before being overturned by Biden shortly after he took office.
The new order on transgender troops does not impose an immediate ban, but directs the Pentagon to come up with a policy on their service in the armed forces based on military readiness, a person familiar with the matter told The Associated Press.
Hegseth told reporters as he arrived at the Pentagon that his first official day would be busy, with additional executive orders expected “on removing DEI inside the Pentagon, reinstating troops who were pushed out because of COVID mandates, Iron Dome for America — this is happening quickly."
Trump promised during the campaign to build an Iron Dome, the advanced .
It was not immediately clear what the additional order on DEI — diversity, equity and inclusion — would be, but Trump's initial action  already has had far-reaching consequences. Without clearer direction,  at removing any content that seemed to run afoul of Trump's ban.
That temporarily included  and World War II Women's Airforce Service Pilots, or WASPs, which were part of DEI training courses for the Air Force's basic military training. Videos on both the Tuskegee Airmen and WASPs were removed as the courses were taken down last week, causing an uproar.
WASPs were vital in ferrying warplanes for the military. The Tuskegee Airmen were the nation’s , who served in a segregated WWII unit, and their all-Black 332nd Fighter Group had one of the lowest loss records of all the bomber escorts in the war.
On Sunday, the Air Force clarified that the DEI courses had been removed to be edited but that the Tuskegee Airmen and WASP content would continue to be taught.
“The revised training which focuses on the documented historic legacy and decorated valor with which these units and Airmen fought for our Nation in World War II and beyond will continue on 27 January,” the Air Force said in a statement.
Hegseth said in a post on X on Sunday that any move to cut the Tuskegee Airmen content was “immediately reversed.” But the swirl of confusion reflects an ongoing struggle as leaders across the Defense Department try to purge diversity mentions from their websites and training.
Hegseth didn't mention the issue as he  on Monday morning accompanied by Gen. CQ Brown Jr., chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. But in other comments, Hegseth said that “military training will be focused on the readiness of what our troops in the field need to deter our enemies.”
Hegseth is also continuing to focus on the border, and told reporters gathered on the steps of the Pentagon that “whatever is needed at the border will be provided,” using active duty, National Guard and state-activated Guard troops.
Hegseth was  on Friday night in a tie vote that had to be broken by Vice President JD Vance.
___
Follow the AP's coverage of the U.S. Department of Defense at .

Load-Date: January 27, 2025


End of Document
