




The Independent (United Kingdom)
January 23, 2025 Thursday 5:34 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Independent Print Ltd  All Rights Reserved


Section: US NEWS
Length: 452 words
Byline: Justin Baragona
Body


Gushing over  "shock and awe" ,  host Rob Finnerty excitedly declared on Wednesday that the president was indeed a "dictator on day one," but one "that the American people voted for."
During his presidential campaign, Trump  that if he were once again elected president, he would  and use his executive powers to enact sweeping changes to "take care of the border" and roll back actions taken during the Biden administration.
After taking the oath of office, the president  that included an effort to upend the Constitution and end birthright citizenship, deny the existence of transgender people, expand the death penalty, and axe DEI programs in the government.
He also issued  to the nearly 1,600 people charged with crimes related to the violent January 6 Capitol riots, , who were both convicted of seditious conspiracy.
Over on Newsmax, a MAGA cable channel that has built its audience by running to the right of Fox News, the president's authoritarian reshaping of the federal government is being loudly celebrated.
"I have no idea how Donald Trump does what he does. The man who was made for this job is doing exactly what he said he would do," Newsmax primetime anchor Rob Finnerty exclaimed on Wednesday night. "Yes, Donald Trump was dictator on day one, but a dictator that the American people voted for!"
Adding that the American public "asked for this and voted for this," Finnerty continued to heap praise on the early decisions and moves made by the president's new administration.
"And according to our border czar today Tom Homan, over 300 criminal illegal aliens were arrested on day one. It took one day. And did you hear anything negative about it? I didn't," Finnerty proclaimed.
Finnerty also commended Trump for flooding the zone with his executive actions since it made it difficult for the mainstream press to properly analyze and report on all of the changes taking place.
"Donald Trump took the oath of office just about 55 hours ago, and so far, it has been a complete show of force," the conservative anchor stated. "The new administration, again, doing exactly what they said they were going to do."
Finnerty added: "In fact, they're moving so fast that it's been impossible for the rest of the media to keep up, and they're doing that on purpose. If you go quickly, the legacy media doesn't have time to criticize every little thing you do. It's been total shock and awe, and it's moving too fast for them."

Load-Date: January 24, 2025


End of Document
