




States News Service
February 9, 2025 Sunday


Copyright 2025 States News Service
Length: 762 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


The following information was released by the office of Minnesota Rep. Michelle Fischbach:
Dear Friend:
This week, the White House exposed the abuse of taxpayer dollars taking place at the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID). Things like transgender coloring books in Peru, DEI in Serbia's workforce, transgender operas in Colombia, and DEI musicals in Ireland. Does anyone even consider Ireland a developing country? It doesn't take a genius to see that none of these programs are in America's best interest.
Republicans in Congress and in the White House are committed to putting America first and I am proud the President took swift action to put a stop to such ridiculous programming. There are those out there that say he's taking a sledgehammer to a problem where a scalpel is needed. To that I say that the federal government has been claiming to cut waste fraud, and abuse for years with no results. We cannot afford the status quo. President Trump understands that and is going to do what it takes to deliver for the American people.
Newsletter - Newsletter -Protecting Women and Girls in Sports
One of the first pieces of legislation passed in the House was the Protection of Women and Girls in Sports Act, which amends Title IX to protect the law's intent - to ensure equal opportunity for women in sports - and the integrity of women's athletics. My House Republican colleagues and I know that there are biological differences between men and women and ignoring these differences in sports puts women and girls at an inherent disadvantage, robbing them of rewards for their hard work and perseverance. This legislation states that, in the athletic context, sex must be recognized based only on a person's reproductive biology and genetics at birth.
I also had the honor of joining my fellow defenders of women and girls at the White House when President Trump signed his Executive Order to keep men out of women's sports. The order reverses the previous Administration's illegal Title IX rewrite that would have dissolved single-sex spaces and opportunities.
Newsletter - Newsletter -HALT Fentanyl Act Passes in the House
Fentanyl is now the leading cause of death for Americans ages 18 - 49. Just a few milligrams - which can fit in the ear of Lincoln on a penny - can be lethal. And, since small doses are extremely potent, it is easier to illegally smuggle small batches across our borders. It affects every income level in every demographic in every corner of the country. Even in Minnesota's rural and relatively safe 7th District, one of the top issues I hear from law enforcement officers is about the dire need to get a handle on fentanyl overdoses. It is a heartbreaking epidemic that must be stopped.
Currently, fentanyl - and anything mixed with it - has a temporary classification as a Schedule I drug. This classification is set to expire in March, which would make many fentanyl-related substances street-legal and law enforcement would lose the authority to seize these lethal drugs.
House Republicans and President Trump are committed to ending this tragic crisis in our families. This week, the House passed the Halt All Lethal Trafficking of (or HALT) Fentanyl Act to make the Schedule I classification permanent. This bill would supply law enforcement and U.S. Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) with the tools needed to keep these dangerous drugs off the streets. And, it would support research efforts to understand the effects of fentanyl-related substances on people's health.
Newsletter - Newsletter -Humphrey School Fellows
This week, I was honored to speak to the Humphrey School Policy Fellows when they were in D.C. as part of their nine-month program. It was great speaking with these mid-career professionals and take their questions on my career, what's happening in D.C., and what Congress is doing to support greater Minnesota and our rural areas.
Newsletter - Newsletter -Mobile Office Hours in Gaylord Feb. 26
My office is holding mobile office hours at the Gaylord Public Library on Wednesday, February 26, from 10:00 AM to 1:00 PM. No appointment necessary!
If you have questions or feedback for my office, now is your chance to talk with my congressional staff directly. They can help you with issues such as passport processing, veterans' needs, tax refunds, Social Security benefits, and also connect them with federal agencies (FEMA, the FSA, and more).
If you aren't able to make this one, keep an eye out for future mobile offices hours across the Seventh District. For any questions, please call my office at 320-403-6100.

Load-Date: February 10, 2025


End of Document
