




States News Service
February 2, 2025 Sunday


Copyright 2025 States News Service
Length: 919 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


The following information was released by the office of Minnesota Rep. Michelle Fischbach:
Dear Friend:
President Trump has signed dozens of executive orders to get this country back on track, including orders to begin securing our border, strengthening our military, and putting a stop to Washington's runaway bureaucracy. With so much rapid change can come confusion, especially in a time when the media is still hoping to paint this Administration and the Republican agenda in the most negative light. This happened this week regarding an Office of Management and Budget memo that was released, intending to help agencies comply with the President's executive orders.
In the last Trump Administration, bureaucrats across federal agencies in Washington ignored his executive orders and continued to spend federal dollars on pet projects that went against the Administration's agenda. That is not going to happen this time around. Agencies and Departments must comply with the President's orders. Federal grant programs are under review and will have to prove that they are in the best interest of the American people in order to continue. These orders are targeting programs, projects, and activities related to DEI, the Green New Deal, and nongovernmental organizations that undermine America's interests.
Despite what some in the media continue to claim, direct aid payments were never at risk of being frozen, even temporarily. Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, and SNAP were never going to be impacted. The White House even went to far as to clarify in a second memo that funds for small businesses, farmers, Pell grants, Head Start, rental assistance, and other similar programs are and were not at risk of being paused.
I look forward to working with this Administration to take a good, hard look at what federal bureaucrats have been spending taxpayer dollars on and making sure any future spending supports this country's best interests.
Newsletter - Newsletter -Laken Riley Act is Signed Into Law
The Laken Riley Act honors the nursing student who was murdered by an illegal alien who had previously been cited for shoplifting. It requires detention of illegal aliens who commit theft and allows a state to sue the federal government for not enforcing border laws. Had the policies in this bill been in place before Laken Riley's tragic murder, local authorities would have reported her killer to ICE before he had the opportunity to commit this heinous crime and Laken would still be alive today.
I am pleased to say President Trump has now signed this commonsense bill into law. I am so grateful to be working with a President who understands the importance of protecting our communities from dangerous criminals and is willing to take swift and decisive action.
Newsletter - Newsletter -Standing with Strong, Conservative Women of Minnesota
I was honored to deliver the keynote address for the Minnesota Excellence in Public Service (MEPS) Series graduating class.
Their organization aims to empower conservative women to take on greater roles in public service, and I was very impressed by this graduating class. I am so glad to have met you all and that you have become a part of a community where you can grow into the leaders you were meant to be. And I look forward to working with you all someday soon!
Newsletter - Newsletter -Recommending Strong Minnesotans to Serve Our State in the Trump Administration
The Minnesota Republican delegation (Majority Whip Tom Emmer, Representatives Pete Stauber and Brad Finstad, and myself) have sent President Trump our recommendations for key federal positions in Minnesota.
For U.S. Attorney for the District of Minnesota, we recommended Ronald Schutz, Daniel Rosen, and Erica MacDonald. For U.S. Marshal, we recommended James Stuart and Robert Kroll. My colleagues and I followed a rigorous process in selecting these individuals and we are confident they would honorably serve this Administration and the American people, uphold the rule of law, and prosecute crime to the fullest extent of the law - something that has been in short supply in recent years.
We also put forward recommendations to fill state roles within the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA).
FSA State Director:
- Kurt Blomgren, Watonwan County
Rural Development State Director:
- Dave Ladd, Dakota County
State Executive Committee:
- Jim Kukowski, Roseau County
- Scott Winslow, Fillmore County
- Joel Mathiowetz, Redwood County
- Pamela Uhlenkamp, Sibley County
- Charlie Radman, Dakota County
- Jason May, Chisago County
- Cody Suter, Chippewa County
- Rob Casey, Scott County
These are all people that will represent Minnesota's farmers and producers faithfully. Each of them has a wealth of experience and we are confident they are qualified to reliably administer the statewide programs so many in Minnesota depend on.
Newsletter - Newsletter -Mobile Office Hours in Gaylord February 26
My office is holding mobile office hours at the Gaylord Public Library on Wednesday, February 26, from 10:00 AM to 1:00 PM. No appointment necessary!
If you have questions or feedback for my office, now is your chance to talk with my congressional staff directly. They can help you with issues such as passport processing, veterans' needs, tax refunds, Social Security benefits, and also connect them with federal agencies (FEMA, the FSA, and more).
If you aren't able to make this one, keep an eye out for future mobile offices hours across the Seventh District. For any questions, please call my office at 320-403-6100.

Load-Date: February 3, 2025


End of Document
