




MailOnline
February 4, 2025 Tuesday 6:58 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NFL; Version:1
Length: 561 words
Byline: Oliver Salt
Body


READ MORE: NFL fans call for Super Bowl boycott over black national anthem
The NFL has reportedly chosen to remove 'End Racism' messages from end zones at the Super Bowl for the first time in four years this weekend.
According to The Athletic, Sunday's showdown between the Kansas City Chiefs and Philadelphia Eagles in New Orleans will be the first Super Bowl since 2021 to not include the statement at each end of the field.
Instead, NFL chiefs have opted for 'Choose Love' and 'It Takes All of Us' to be emblazoned across the back of end zones at Caesars Superdome.
The reported decision, which was conveyed internally to 'high-level employees', comes after it was revealed that president Donald Trumpis expected to attend this weekend's game in the Louisiana city.
Trump, who returned for a second term at the White House last month, has been highly critical of Diversity Equity and Inclusion (DEI) initiatives in the US since his reelection; describing the programs as 'discrimination' while calling for 'merit-based' hiring to be restored.
It is believed the NFL's decision to axe the 'End Racism' messages from the Super Bowl led one high-ranking official to express concern in light of the president's controversial comments on DEI.
The Athletic's report went on to suggest that the move could well be considered 'a nod to the current political climate'.
However, earlier this week NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell said he was 'proud' of the league's diversity efforts while refusing to backtrack despite several organizations abandoning DEI programs in light of Trump's stance.
'We got into diversity efforts because we felt it was the right thing for the National Football League,' Goodell said on Monday. 'And we're going to continue towards that, because we've not only convinced ourselves, I think we've proven ourselves that it does make the NFL better.'
'We're not in this because it's a trend to get into or a trend to get out of it,' Goodell continued. 'Our efforts are fundamental in trying to attract the best possible talent into the National Football League both on and off the field, as I've said previously. 
'We see that. We see how it's benefitted in the National Football League. I think we'll continue those efforts. I think it's also clearly a reflection of our fan base and our communities and our players.'
NFL spokesperson Brian McCarthy also claimed that the switch to 'Choose Love' and 'It Takes All of Us' was made in light of recent tragedies in the US - including the New Orleans terror attack and the Los Angeles wildfires.
 'We felt it was an appropriate statement for what the country has collectively endured, given recent tragedies, and can serve as an inspiration,' said McCarthy.
Those messages appeared in the end zones for last month's AFC Championship game between the Chiefs and the Buffalo Bills at Arrowhead Stadium. The NFC Championship game between the Eagles and Washington Commanders, meanwhile, still included the 'End Racism' statement.
The NFL first launched its 'Inspire Change' platform in 2018 before inspirational slogans started appearing on end-zone borders two years later as part of an effort to promote diversity and inclusion.
Super Bowl end zones had included 'End Racism' messages since 2021, one year after the murder of George Floyd by a Minneapolis police officer sparked nationwide protests against police brutality.

Load-Date: February 4, 2025


End of Document
