




thetimes.co.uk
February 14, 2025 Friday 8:15 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 1631 words
Byline: Tom Witherow | Eleanor Hayward, Health Editor
Highlight: Trusts are continuing to recruit for highly paid EDI roles despite concerns about the cost and effectiveness of such programmes
Body


NHS trusts are hiring equality and diversity staff on twice the salary of a junior doctor as the health secretary attacked “misguided” agendas, The Times can reveal.
Wes Streeting said that “ideological hobby horses need to go” after stating that one NHS staff member had boasted of holding an “anti-whiteness” stance.
There have been a slew of recent job postings offering roles in equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) at salaries that exceed specialist junior doctors.
They include an NHS England EDI secondment position covering the southwest of England offering a pro rata salary of £122,000 per year, and a head of EDI role at a London trust with a salary of £91,336. 
Junior doctors earn a basic salary of between £36,616 and £70,425, while consultants receive between £105,504 to £139,882 per year.
The Times also found that trusts were offering training to staff on unconscious bias, white allyship and 

. A 60-hour course from NHS England on inclusive workplaces teaches healthcare leaders about the history of British slavery and colonialism.
Trusts spent £13.5 million on equality and diversity roles in 2022-23, according to freedom of information requests filed by the Taxpayers’ Alliance, with one trust spending close to £500,000 on 11 staff. In total, trusts overspent by £1.2 billion last year.
Streeting has ordered the NHS to end its “culture of overspending” and 

 of 7.5 million. 
Responding to the findings, the NHS said that trusts should not be making “tokenistic gestures that don’t ultimately improve patient or staff experience”.
President Trump has taken an axe to such programmes in the US, where they are known as DEI (diversity, equity and inclusion). While companies such as BT, Accenture and Amazon have ditched EDI policies, the public sector has continued to recruit, with research conducted in 2022 suggesting that there are 10,000 EDI roles, setting the taxpayer back £427 million a year.
Some 
                   NHS EDI staff paid more than doctors                   
For some senior EDI staff in the health service, the job is better paid than clinical roles requiring years of training and professional development.
North East London Integrated Care Board advertised a job last month for a new head of equality, diversity and inclusion, on a salary of up to £91,336 a year.
NHS England posted a job in December for an “associate dean with responsibility for equality, diversity and inclusion” in the southwest of England. 
The job, which was listed as a secondment opportunity for an “experienced clinician”, would entail the holder spending eight hours per week away from their core role to “explore and implement initiatives” around equality and diversity. It was advertised with a salary of £122,470 pro rata, equivalent to a senior consultant.
It is one of several posts with salaries well above 

, who can have ten years of medical experience or more.
A job opening for the head of strategy, engagement and inclusion at the NHS’s National Institute for Health and Care Research in London closed last week, offering the successful candidate a salary of up to £80,465 a year.
The NHS was ordered to stop recruiting for EDI jobs in 2023 by Steve Barclay, the Conservative former health secretary, after he uncovered a £96,000 job advert for a diversity role.
Barclay also told trusts to stop paying consultancies and external organisations to provide diversity training for staff, but he said that his edict was ignored by NHS bureaucrats, who are now recruiting “even more on eye-watering salaries”. 
                   Controversial concepts                   
 on EDI programmes
Staff working in EDI roles are responsible for drawing up strategies and programmes to encourage diversity in the workforce and improve the experience of minority groups using the NHS.
However, critics say campaigning staff go beyond the requirements of the Equality Act and push controversial concepts around race and gender identity.
Imperial College NHS Trust’s EDI team offers a 49-slide “microaggressions toolkit”, which tells staff that “white people, as a collective group, have unearned advantages over other races or ethnicity groups”.
“Microaggressions are one of the most common forms of discrimination in the workplace,” it adds, listing one example as asking a female colleague: “So when are you having children?” Other examples include “interrupting a person mid-sentence”, “not giving someone your full attention during a conversation” or “passing over someone’s idea in a meeting”.
It also states that staring at a trans woman in a female toilet sends the message that “trans women are not real women”, and that failing to allow people to “self-describe” their gender is an “environmental microagression” that tells people “gender is binary”.
The trust offers a 24-slide toolkit on how to be “an ally”, which suggests staff must “accept there is a problem” and “understand your privilege”. It advises: “Instead of saying ‘ladies and gentlemen’, consider saying ‘everybody’; instead of asking about someone’s husband/wife, ask about their partner.”
The Imperial toolkit documents were supported by a management consultancy, called Sea-Change, which is led by Tinu Cornish, a diversity psychologist.
The firm won a similar contract in 2023, to conduct “primary research to understand the diversity of talent pipelines, and how to improve diversity, for which it received just over £24,000.
The NHS’s diversity strategy for the Midlands has a section on the importance of being a “white ally”, and recommends that “organisations should implement a white ally programme”.
NHS England’s London regional team has also funded “active bystander training”, delivered by a private company, with an offer for courses extended to all the health service’s regional teams.
Research by the Taxpayer’s Alliance revealed that NHS employees spent 26,000 hours a year attending staff networks, and the groups used £1 million of taxpayers’ money to put on non-clinical activities between 2019 and 2022.
                   NHS bosses taught history of British slavery                   
The NHS leadership academy offers a six-part course on “inclusive workplaces”, with sessions adding up to 60 hours.
One six-week, 18-hour course, helps senior managers “lead with inclusion and allyship”. In the course leaders “reflect upon our own privilege” and study “the history of British slavery and colonialism”.
The NHS page says 8,832 people have been enrolled on this course segment alone. If they all completed it, that would consume 83 years of full-time work.
Among the five other courses are 16 hours of lessons on “noticing and challenging microaggressions” and “effective allyship”.
Dr Sandie Dunne, the lead educator for the NHS Leadership Academy course on allyship, runs a consultancy, which banked tens of thousands of pounds in fees in its first two years.
                   The health secretary’s concerns                   
Streeting highlighted “some really daft things being done in the name of equality, diversity and inclusion”, and pointed to a member of NHS staff “who was merrily tweeting a job ad online and saying part of her practice was anti-whiteness”.
He was responding to a post by Dr Florencia Gysbertha, an NHS psychologist, who wrote in a social media advert for a job placement: “The trainee will be supervised by myself, a counselling psychologist, who integrates anti-whiteness/anti-racist praxis into supervision and approaches to clinical work.”
Streeting added: “And I just thought ‘what the hell does that say to the bloke up in Wigan who’s more likely to die earlier than his more affluent white counterpart down in London?’. We’ve got real issues of inequality that affect working-class people.”
However, he is not preparing to sweep the roles away even though he said it would win him “quite a lot of plaudits”.
“Ask black nurses about their experiences of being bullied in the workplace,” he said. “You look at outcomes: prostate cancer, black men twice as likely to die of prostate cancer than white men; black women three times more likely to die in childbirth than white women. We’ve got some real racial inequalities here.”
Since Labour came to power about three dozen EDI jobs have been advertised with combined salaries of more than £750,000 — enough for 600 new hospital beds.
East London NHS Foundation Trust, which employs Gysbertha, said her post “does not in any way represent the views, values or recruitment practices of the trust and this matter was addressed internally”.
An NHS spokeswoman said the health service “needs to take action to reduce health inequalities” and that a “diverse and inclusive workforce that better reflects the patient population leads to improved patient care”.
She added: “But equally we cannot make tokenistic gestures that don’t ultimately improve patient or staff experience — specialist roles and training to address equality, diversity, and inclusion should be focused on boosting staff retention and helping all NHS staff to be effective in their work.”
The Department of Health and Social Care said: “Equality, diversity and inclusion initiatives should not be box-ticking or time-wasting exercises but should be targeted at tackling the very real health inequalities that exist in Britain today, and the need to tackle the bullying that BAME NHS staff face.
A spokesman for Sea-Change Consultancy said: “We are proud of the evidence-based support we provide to the NHS and other organisations to help them meet their equality, diversity and inclusion requirements.”
A spokesman for Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust said its EDI programmes are needed to ensure patients and staff in “some of the most diverse communities” in the UK “feel safe, supported and respected”.

Load-Date: February 17, 2025


End of Document
