




The Daily Caller
January 27, 2025 Monday 09:34 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: BIG-TENT-IDEAS; daily-caller-news-foundation; daily-caller-news-foundation
Length: 930 words
Byline: Nicole Kiprilov, Contributor, 
Body



President Donald Trump's first week in office was nothing short of revolutionary. Trump         in office than  in history.
From reining in the crisis at our southern border to traveling the country to address lapses in aid from the previous administration to communicating with the press every single day, Trump is already delivering on his campaign promises, which explains why his net approval rating has    .
Defined by competence and strength, this new administration has accomplished more in its first week than Biden has in the past four years. 
Here are five takeaways from the past seven days:
1: Trump is stronger, tougher and more respected than he's ever been.
Yesterday, after Colombian President Gustavo Petro     , Trump threatened tariffs and sanctions. Secretary of State Rubio and Speaker of the House Johnson swiftly   on Trump's threats.
Only a few hours later, Petro       .
The White House then released the following statement:                                   
2: Trump knows exactly what to do to fix our country, and he's doing it.
On his first day in office, Trump     at the southern border. He is       which is       . Immigration and Customs Enforcement raids have detained    violent illegal aliens - rapists, perpetrators of sexual assaults, pedophiles, terrorists.
Trump killed the   , a major tool that Kamala Harris used to facilitate illegal immigration. Trump initiated deportation flights, brought back    ended catch and release,   , and    .
As a result of these efforts, the number of Border Patrol encounters at the southern border in the first three days of the Trump administration is   than the final three days of the Biden administration.
3: We are winning the culture war.
Trump signed an   making it this country's official policy that there are only two genders and he is due to sign an executive order     from serving in the military. Similarly, the State Department just adopted a new policy that      from flying pride and BLM flags.
Eight years ago, similar cultural actions were met with sharp criticism and backlash. Today, the American people are relieved to know their President has their back.
This past weekend, young Americans peacefully marched in our nation's capital in support of life. For years, pro-life activists have been persecuted, prosecuted, attached, harassed and smeared for doing life-saving work.
In stark contrast, today, they are getting the support they deserve from those in power. In fact, Trump signed an executive order    . Today,     support legal limits on abortion.
4: There is a novel energy and pressure to listen to the will of the people.
Not only have corporate business leaders and companies swiftly moved to   because of its unpopularity and harm to American workers, but members of Congress are also realizing that they actually have to represent their constituents.         voted in support of the Laken Riley Act.
These Democrats are feeling the pressure to follow the will of the people, and this energy will continue.
5: Authenticity and relatability are in.
After four years of inauthenticity, the American people are ready for a change. On Friday, Trump had a frank       , calling her out on her gaslighting and incompetence in dealing with the devastating California fires.
This is not usual protocol for the President, but it is in true Trump fashion to criticize Democrats to their faces.
Trump has been ruthlessly investigated, indicted, impeached, and mercilessly targeted, and he was almost assassinated several times. He has nothing more to lose and he's getting down to business. He is organized, disciplined and experienced, and his staff is working in unison to accomplish his America First agenda.
It has never been more obvious that the only reason Trump is putting himself through this again is because he loves this country and its people.
Nicole is the Executive Director of The American Border Story, the President of the Coalition for Military Excellence, and a Portfolio Manager at The America Fund. She is a Fellow at Independent Women's Forum and Club for Growth Foundation. Nicole frequently appears on Newsmax, One America News, and Real America's Voice. 
The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of the Daily Caller News Foundation.
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Graphic

 
TOPSHOT - US President Donald Trump greets supporters upon arrival at Asheville Regional Airport in Fletcher, North Carolina, on January 24, 2025, to visit the region devastated by Hurricane Helene. (Photo by Mandel NGAN / AFP) (Photo by MANDEL NGAN/AFP via Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
