




Forbes.com
January 29, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Forbes LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 906 words
Byline: Jabari Young, Forbes Staff
Highlight: Measurement firm's annual intelligence report suggests Black Americans averaged more hours of media consumption and remain on track to spend $2.1 trillion by 2026.
Body


<figure>
<figcaption>
In 2024, Black Americans spent an average of 84 hours per week consuming digital media, TV, and radio, according to Nielsen. This marks a year-over-year increase of three hours.
getty
</figcaption></figure>
As several leading brands reconsider their DEI commitments, a new report published on Wednesday highlights the significant buying power of Black Americans, who are on pace to spend more than $2 trillion by 2026.
Global measurement company Nielsen released its annual report,Engaging Black Audiences: How brands impact, grow and win with inclusion, which pushed the figure. The diverse intelligence series has been published since 2011 and used by top advertisers for insights on trends and behaviors of U.S. consumers, in this case, Black Americans. The report notes that in 2024, Black Americans consumed an average of 84 hours per week of media (digital, television, radio). That s up from an average of 81 hours in 2023.
In comparison, the overall U.S. population consumed an average of 72 hours and 39 minutes of media in 2024 and approximately 69 hours the year prior.
The 2025 report arrives in time for Black History Month, which begins Saturday, and as diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) measures are under attack. Top companiesincluding Walmart, Target,Amazon, and McDonald s, have walked back DEI initiatives implemented in 2020 after the murder of George Floyd. Making matters worse, hours after President Donald Trump s inauguration on Jan. 20, he delivered another significant blow to DEI initiatives by signing executive orders that ceased funding and disbanded staff within federal agencies.
DEI changes aside, companies shouldn t take policy changes as a cue to slack on attracting and retaining Black consumers, says Charlene Polite Corley, VP of Diverse Insights and Partnerships at Nielsen.
 It s not necessarily business as usual,  Corley tellsForbes.  But there are opportunities to still do business.  For a consumer base set to control $2 trillion in buying power, she adds,  It s worth continuing to deepen our understanding of how to connect with Black folks in this country. 
YouTube And Radio Consumption 
In 2018, Black Americans surpassed $1 trillion in buying power, according to Nielsen. That s a jump from $984 billion in 2010. The company uses internal data and insights from the University of Georgia s Selig Center for Economic Growth 2022, The Multicultural Economy, for its figures.
A quick look at what Black consumers are purchasing: In 2024, beauty products, mainly fragrances and hair care, accounted for $10.2 billion, according toNielsenIQ, which tracks consumer packaged goods at the point of sale. Regarding essentials, last year, Americans spent $886.6 billion on groceries; of that amount, Black Americans accounted for $101.9 billion. That includes nearly $14 billion spent on meat products (beef, chicken, pork, turkey, and bacon), $3.4 billion on soft drinks, and $2 billion on bottled water   the very items sold at big box stores reneging on DEI and could take a nosedive in sales should Black consumers boycott.
<figure>
<figcaption>
Javoris Hollingsworth, Graceyn Hollingsworth, and Arlene Gordon-Hollingsworth speak onstage during the 'YouTube s Gracie s Corner: Live Performance and Photo Op' panel at the 9th Annual Bentonville Film Festival Led By Geena Davis June 2023 in Bentonville, Arkansas.
Getty Images for Bentonville Film Festival
</figcaption></figure>
On the media front, Black adults average 46 hours per week watching TV, according to the report. In comparison, the overall U.S. population consumes roughly 35 hours per week. Streaming is the top preference, with YouTube seeing 13% of Black audiences TV time, compared to 10% for all U.S. viewers. Nielsen also notes that YouTube reaches 63% of Black adults with shows likeGracie s CornerandClub Shay Shay, and the platform has outpaced word of mouth among many Black consumers.
<figure>
<figcaption>
YouTube accounts for 13% of Black audiences TV time, compared to 10% for all U.S. viewers. Nielsen also notes that YouTube reaches 63% of Black adults.
Nielsen
</figcaption></figure>
Netflix is the second most-used streaming platform for Black audiences, accounting for 7.2% of TV time. Tubi makes up 4.8%, Amazon 4% and Hulu 2.4% of TV time. Additionally, Black audiences average roughly 32 hours per week on smartphones and tablets, two hours more than the U.S. population overall. And the audiences average nearly 9 hours per week on social media.
The thing is, traditional media outlets remain a powerful way to reach Black consumers when advertising. That s because broadcast and cable channels make up more than 43% of TV time in Black households. And though podcasts are gaining traction, especially among younger Black men, radio remains strong, reaching an average of 27.4 million Black adults weekly.
For context, Black America s population is 48.2 million.
 It s a hidden gem when it comes to connecting with diverse Black audiences,  Corley says of radio s reach.  There s just a connection and a level of trust that still remains there as a part of the culture that maybe isn t always present for other audiences.
 Black America,  Corley adds,  is more diverse than ever, and we have some real differences (in media consumption). If companies want to reach a certain piece of (Black) culture, a certain piece of our community, then you might have to move a little bit differently. 
Read Nielsen s .

Load-Date: March 9, 2025


End of Document
