




MailOnline
January 22, 2025 Wednesday 9:08 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: DEBATE; Version:1
Length: 1392 words
Byline: Nile Gardiner For The Daily Mail
Body


The atmosphere in Washington DC has been transformed this week. It is as if a gigantic generator has suddenly been activated in the heart of the capital.
Disillusion has given way to hope, paralysis has been replaced by dynamism. After the last four years of incompetence, inanity and inertia under the Democrats in the White House, the advent of Donald Trump's second presidency feels like a powerful electric current surging through American politics.
A new era of renewal beckons for the USA - and for the Free World. At his inauguration on Monday, Trump, aged 78 and seven months, became the oldest figure in history to take the oath of office.
But he is far more energetic and ambitious than many other presidents, particularly his immediate predecessor Joe Biden, whose visible accelerating decline turned him into a national embarrassment.
The contrast between the two men was highlighted by Trump's whirlwind of activity from the moment he took power, so different to Biden's shuffling indolence and incoherence. 
It is only a slight exaggeration to say that Trump achieved more in his first couple of days as president than Biden did during his whole time in office.
As a Brit in Washington, working at a conservative think-tank, I have also been struck by the difference between America's current upbeat mood and the gloom that accompanied Labour's landslide election victory last July.
Not only was there little enthusiasm from the British public for the new government but, just as importantly, Sir Keir Starmer and his Chancellor Rachel Reeves persisted in wallowing in despair as they talked down the country's prospects in their first few months.
Trump's approach has been the opposite. In his inaugural speech, he declared America is about to enter 'a golden age' that would see the county become 'great again'. 
All elections are important, especially in the world's most powerful democracy. But 2024 was perhaps the most consequential of modern times.The very future of Western civilisation was at stake. 
A victory for Kamala Harris would have represented the triumph of the self-loathing, progressive ideology that despises our heritage, judges every policy through the prism of race, derides the concept of nationhood and thinks that borders and defences belong in the same dustbin of history.
Trump's critics are fond of calling him a 'fascist' but that just illustrates the emptiness of their thinking in which any manifestations of national pride are portrayed as indicators of 'far right' sympathies.
In truth, Trump is a classic US patriot who passionately believes that his government should put the needs of his country first. 
If only Britain and Europe had more leaders with a similar mentality, rather than the current breed of globalists with their worship of international governance.
The eagerness of the Labour cabinet to hand over the Chagos Islands to Mauritius, then fork out £9billion for access to the military base there that we currently possess, is a classic example of this pattern.
Trump's belief in America's destiny, combined with his tremendous self-confidence in his own abilities, has long been a key ingredient of his outlook.
It is an attitude that reflects both his own bullish nature and also the influence of the 1950s American self-help guru Norman Vincent Peale, author of the colossal best-seller The Power Of Positive Thinking, which sold more than seven millioncopies worldwide.
Peale was also a preacher and the young Trump was mesmerised by his oratorical gifts. 'You could listen to [Peale] all day long,' Trump once said. 'And when you left the church you were disappointed that it was over. He was the greatest guy.
'The new President's positivity is combined with a host of other qualities that make him such a formidable political force.Contrary to the Left-wing caricature of him as an architect of chaos, he is highly self-disciplined, has a powerful work ethic and a sharp brain that fastens on to the main points of any issue. 
I have been fortunate to meet him on several occasions so can testify to his intellectual acuteness, as well as his natural charm.
But he is also remarkably tough. It is doubtful if anyone else in American public life could have showed the same resilience under constant attack that he has displayed in recent years.
Despite hysterical abuse, a flood of often spurious law suits and an assassin's bullet, he survived to enter the White House yet again - a feat not achieved since Grover Cleveland won a second non-consecutive term as president in 1892.
Trump provokes ferocious controversy partly because he is so unorthodox. Central to his appeal is his showmanship, as reflected in his hugely popular rallies or his adoption of the Village People's 1970s anthem YMCA as his campaign song in 2024.
When the Democrats were accused of calling his supporters 'garbage' during the election campaign, he brilliantly exploited the row by hiring a refuse truck and donning a hi-vis uniform.
He is also the master of social media, with a gift for nicknames, slogans and compelling imagery. His sense of theatre has shone through the events of this week, like the moment he had a huge inauguration parade crowd at the Capital One Arena cheering as he lobbed at them the pens with which he had just signed a host of executive orders.
Trump is the only president who never served in any kind of political, public or military office before his election, so he is no worshipper of convention.
Because he does not play by traditional rules, he is regarded as dangerous and unpredictable, though unpredictability can be an advantage, especially in foreign policy where the enemies of America will have their work cut out trying to guess how the Trump White House will react.
In fact, a political outsider like this is exactly what the USA - and the West - needs. The orthodoxy of the progressive establishment has failed miserably.
If Trump fulfils his promises, on the other hand, he will bring about another American revolution that will ensure the Free World flourishes once more, filled with confidence once more.This revolution will have three broad themes. 
The first is the defence of national integrity, which means strengthening the borders, reinforcing the military and restoring sovereignty by ending interference by supranational bodies. Tellingly Trump admires Brexit and dislikes the EU more than most British politicians.
And he has already made a start on the protection of nationhood by signing executive orders that create a state of emergency at the southern border with Mexico, through which porous frontier so many migrants stream, and by announcing the USA's withdrawal from the dysfunctional World Health Organisation.
The second strand is the end of the woke dogma's malignant stranglehold on civic culture. 
The obsession with identity politics has poisoned life in the West for too long, epitomised by ugly, divisive theories like 'white privilege'.
Again Trump is acting quickly, instituting orders that require schools to uphold the scientific reality that there are only two genders. 
In the same vein, Trump declared he will block federal spending on Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) initiatives and yesterday ordered the closure of all government DEI offices and for their employees to be placedon leave.
The third theme is to promote economic growth by reining in the frontiers of the state, with reduced state expenditure enabling tax cuts and thereby boosting enterprise.
The world's richest man Elon Musk will have a vital role here in heading the Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE), which could transform the way services are delivered.
Much of the broadcast media likes to create a climate of foreboding about Trump but this kind of knee-jerk, ill-founded hostility no longer has much traction. 
From encouraging European nations to pay more towards their own defences to leading technological innovation, Trump's America could lead Britain and Europe towards broad sunlit uplands.
We have a great advantage here in that Trump is an instinctive Anglophile, partly because of his affection for the Royal Family and partly because of his Scottish heritage on his mother's side. 
But to capitalise on that advantage, we would need to have a government that respects Trump's three-pronged agenda. And sadly, Starmer's doctrinaire socialists do not fit the bill.

Load-Date: January 23, 2025


End of Document
