




TheHill.com
February 12, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 NEXSTAR MEDIA INC.  All Rights Reserved


Section: RUSSIA NEWS, US news, Europe news, Israel news, Belgium news, Middle East news & MILITARY NEWS
Length: 1199 words
Byline: Ellen Mitchell
Body


{beacon} Welcome to The Hill’s Defense & NatSec newsletter {beacon}
a>
Defense &
National Security
Defense &
National Security
The Big Story
No plans to draw down US forces in Europe, for now
Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth on Tuesday said the Trump administration doesn’t anticipate cutting U.S. troop levels in Europe any time soon, but that could change later.
© AP Photo/Manuel Balce Ceneta
Hegseth, who was visiting U.S. Africa Command headquarters in Stuttgart, Germany, told reporters that while the United States is committed to keeping a footprint in Europe, “We would be remiss in not reviewing forced posture everywhere .”
He also pressed that the responsibility of keeping the region free of aggression should not solely fall to Washington, D.C., and that European countries must increase their defense spending .
“The European continent deserves to be free from any aggression but it ought to be those in the neighborhood investing the most in that defense,” Hegseth told reporters. “That’s common sense. You defend your neighborhood, and the Americans will come alongside you in helping in that defense.”
For the time being, the U.S. military doesn’t plan to cut U.S. forces in Europe.
“It would be the wrong planning assumption to say, ‘Oh, America is abandoning something or America’s leaving,'” he said. “No, America’s smart.”
Roughly 100,000 U.S. troops are deployed across Europe , with more than one-third of them based in Germany, according to the Pentagon.
But President Trump towards the end of his first term sought to significantly reduce American forces in the country over disagreements with German officials, a move his military leaders were able to slow walk and ultimately avoid.
Hegseth’s remarks come ahead of his participation in the Ukraine Defense Contact Group at NATO’s Brussels headquarters, which would make him the first major Trump administration official to visit NATO.
The visit is significant as many within the military alliance waiting to see how Trump plans to approach Russia’s ongoing war in Ukraine, including whether he will continue to fund Kyiv’s troops with weapons and equipment as President Biden did.
And after Belgium, Hegseth plans to visit Poland as a part of the weeklong trip.
Read more on the Trump administration and Ukraine at TheHill.com .
Welcome to The Hill’s Defense & National Security newsletter, I’m Ellen Mitchell — your guide to the latest developments at the Pentagon, on Capitol Hill and beyond.
Did someone forward you this newsletter? Subscribe here.
Essential Reads
How policy will affect defense and national security now and in
the future:
Shapiro: Trump’s Gaza proposal ‘deeply disrespectful,’ ‘unserious’
Pennsylvania Gov. Josh Shapiro (D) said President Trump’s Gaza proposal is “deeply disrespectful” and “unserious.” “I thought it was an unserious proposal,” Shapiro told sports media personality Stephen A. Smith on his show, in a clip highlighted by Mediaite. “I thought it was a proposal that if he actually carried it out the way he said he was, violates international law.” “I thought it was deeply disrespectful to the Palestinian …
Full Story
Zelensky proposes swap of seized territory with Russia
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky is proposing an exchange of seized territory with Russia as part of any potential negotiations to end the war. Ukraine holds control of a small pocket of Russian territory, parts of Kursk Oblast, captured during a surprise incursion in August. Zelensky, in an interview with The Guardian, said he planned to offer Russia control of Kursk in exchange for Ukrainian territory under Russian …
Full Story
Israel amassing troops in and around Gaza ahead of Hamas hostage release deadline
Israel is amassing troops in and around the Gaza Strip ahead of the upcoming Hamas hostage release, which the Palestinian militant group threatened to delay after accusing Israel of violating the ceasefire agreement. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu warned that the Gaza ceasefire will end if Hamas does not release the remaining hostages this upcoming weekend. “In light of Hamas’ announcement of its decision …
Full Story
Pentagon changes Fort Liberty’s name back to Fort Bragg
The Pentagon will change the name of the North Carolina military base Fort Liberty back to Fort Bragg, fulfilling a campaign pledge by President Trump while honoring a different eponym. Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth on Monday signed an order to restore the name of the sprawling Army base to Fort Bragg after it was renamed Fort Liberty in June 2023 as part of a congressionally mandated rule to rename installations honoring …
Full Story
On Our Radar
Upcoming things we’re watching on our beat:
Vice President Vance was in Paris Tuesday at the Artificial Intelligence Action Summit . Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth will participate in the Ukraine Defense Contact Group at NATO’s Brussels headquarters Thursday followed by a visit to Poland. The 61st Munich Security Conference will be held Friday through Sunday in Munich, Germany.  
In Other News
Branch out with a different read from The Hill:
Senate tees up final vote on Tulsi Gabbard nomination to be nation’s intelligence chief
The Senate voted largely along party lines Monday evening to advance Tulsi Gabbard’s nomination to serve as President Trump’s director of national intelligence (DNI), putting her on a glide path to confirmation later this week. The 52-46 vote brings the Senate’s two-month debate over Gabbard’s …
Full Story
On Tap Tomorrow
Events in and around the defense world:
The Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee will hold a hearing on “Nuuk and Cranny: Looking at the Arctic and Greenland’s Geostrategic Importance to U.S. Interests,” with testimony from outside experts at 10 a.m. VA officials and outside advocates will testify before a House Veterans’ Affairs subcommittee on the availability of medical appointments for veterans , at 2:15 p.m.  
What We’re Reading
News we’ve flagged from other outlets:
Defense Secretary Hegseth booed and heckled by military families protesting against DEI push ( NBC News ) In one of the Marines’ most iconic jobs, a stunning pattern of suicide ( Military.com )  
Trending Today
Two key stories on The Hill right now:
Musk defends DOGE alongside Trump in striking Oval Office moment
Elon Musk on Tuesday defended the work of the Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) alongside President Trump, who invited Musk to speak and sat … Read more
6 hidden messages in Kendrick Lamar’s Super Bowl performance
Kendrick Lamar’s Super Bowl halftime performance is growing in viewership hours after the big game, gaining more 11 million views since it aired Sunday … Read more
Opinions in The Hill
Op-eds related to defense & national security submitted to The Hill:
Federal employees deserve respect — not Elon Musk Irony: Might Trump become Ukraine’s liberator? In Ukraine, Trump and Kellogg must avoid the road to Yalta    
You’re all caught up. See you tomorrow!
Close
Thank you for signing up!
Subscribe to more newsletters here
The latest in politics and policy.
Direct to your inbox.
Sign up for the Defense and National Security newsletter Subscribe
For the latest news, weather, sports, and streaming video, head to The Hill.

Load-Date: February 11, 2025


End of Document
