




USA Today Online
February 10, 2025 10:26 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Section: US NEWS
Length: 788 words
Byline: Katie Smith , USA TODAY
Body


The claim: Transgender pilot was flying Black Hawk helicopter that collided with American Airlines jet
A Jan. 31 Instagram post (, ) claims a transgender pilot was involved in a deadly mid-air collision in Washington, D.C.“Breaking Black Hawk pilot identified as transgender officer with strong anti Trump views," the video claims. “The pilot of the Black Hawk helicopter involved in the deadly mid air collision with an American Airlines flight at Reagan National Airport has been identified as Chief Warrant Officer Joe (sic) Ellis of the Virginia National Guard.”
The post received nearly 3,000 likes in 10 days, and similar posts spread on  .
More from the Fact-Check Team: |  | 
Our rating: False 
Virginia Army National Guard pilot Jo Ellis was not flying the Black Hawk helicopter involved in the collision. The Army identified the soldiers killed in the crash as Staff Sgt. Ryan Austin O’Hara, Chief Warrant Officer 2 Andrew Loyd Eaves and Capt. Rebecca M. Lobach. Ellis also posted a video statement to her Facebook on Jan. 31 confirming she was not involved.
'It is insulting to the families' 
An Army Black Hawk helicopter  with an American Airlines passenger jet over the Potomac River on Jan. 29. ,  O’Hara, Eaves and Lobach, the three-person helicopter crew, .
During a , President Donald Trump . He presented no evidence to support that claim.
The cause of the collision is under investigation. It will be included in a final report expected within the next one to two years, 
Fact check: 
It is clear, however, that , who is transgender, was not piloting the Black Hawk at the time it crashed.
Posts claiming Ellis was flying the Army helicopter began circulating shortly after the incident, prompting her to  confirming she wasn’t on board.
“I understand some people have associated me with the crash in D.C., and that is false,” Ellis said in the recording. “It is insulting to the families to try to tie this to some political agenda. They don’t deserve that. I don’t deserve this, and I hope that you all know that I am alive and well, and this should be sufficient for you all to end all the rumors.”
Addressing diversity policy claims 
Ellis denied claims alleging she was hired because of the military's diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives, sometimes referred to as DEI policies. She came out as transgender and transitioned after completing and passing her flight training evaluations, Ellis told USA TODAY.
“There’s no way any DEI policy could have benefited me if one exists,” she said. “I don’t know of any DEI policy that changes pilot standards. The standards are the same regardless of race, gender, etc."
Several posts also claimed Ellis has “anti-Trump views.”  The Army pilot, however, said she “only oppose(s) the ." Trump signed an  barring transgender people from serving openly. 
“I swore an oath to defend my country, and as an officer in the U.S. military, I will honor that oath regardless of who the president is,” Ellis said. “I don’t believe any personal political opinions impact the ability to do my job. I’ve served for 15 years under presidents and governors of both political parties without issue.”
USA TODAY reached out to the user who shared the post for comment but did not immediately receive a response.
 and  also debunked this claim.
Our fact-check sources
Army, Jan. 31, 
Army, Feb. 1, 
The White House, Jan. 30, 2025, 
National Transportation Safety Board, Feb. 3, ​
Jo Ellis, Jan. 31, 
, Feb. 4, Message exchange with USA TODAY  
Thank you for supporting our journalism. You can .
USA TODAY is a  of the International Fact-Checking Network, which requires a demonstrated commitment to nonpartisanship, fairness and transparency. Our fact-check work is supported in part by a .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: February 11, 2025


End of Document
