




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 9, 2025 Sunday 9:51 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 670 words
Byline: Andrew Freedman
Body


February 9th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
The Commerce Department has sent NOAA officials a broad set of keywords to search grants in ways that would cover most  
Why it matters: NOAA is one of the world's top weather and climate agencies, and provides funding to universities and researchers to improve the understanding and prediction of extreme weather and climate change.
Any potential challenges to NOAA's peer-reviewed grants are "myopic and misguided," said Rick Spinrad, who led NOAA during the Biden administration.
Driving the news: The search is related to President Trump's recent executive orders, some of which were signed on his first day in office.
It appears to be separate from DEI-related searches of internal NOAA websites  
Zoom in: The list of keywords, a copy of which was seen by Axios, includes DEI-related language and terms pertaining to a range of Trump's executive orders to date.
Commerce's interpretation of Trump's orders on  
Reality check: It isn't clear what the administration intends to do with information gathered from the keyword searches or whether any funding may stop flowing to grants underway.
Commerce officials and the White House didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
Instructions contained with the keywords caution that funding cannot be cut off  
Yes, but: Steep funding cuts reported to be    
According to a NOAA source who spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of retribution, each of NOAA's divisions - referred to as line offices - have been tasked with searching their grants and any other outside funding support for the same set of keywords.
This includes the Office of Atmospheric Research, as well as the National Weather Service, National Ocean Service, National Marine Fisheries Service, National Environmental Satellite, Data, and Information Service and other entities.
Information within the document indicates authorship was at Commerce, which oversees NOAA, including a career staff member and a politically-appointed official.
The intrigue: The potential effects of the keyword searches are illustrated by an example of funding directed to NOAA for grants under the Biden climate law known as the Inflation Reduction Act.
That law funded a $575 million program of climate resilience grants, according to Spinrad.
"If anything, these investments should be increased, not threatened," Spinrad said.
The applications far outstripped demand, to the tune of billions of dollars, he told Axios.
"By virtue of the name of the program, every grant undoubtedly includes the word "climate,"" Spinrad said.
What they're saying: "A grant with the words 'climate' or 'carbon dioxide' in it is most likely tied to improving our ability to predict sea level rise, precipitation and temperature extremes, hurricane patterns, drought intensity, or flood frequency," Spinrad said.
"These are not esoteric academic exercises but 'real world' applications focused on saving lives, protecting property, and ensuring economic viability."
The bottom line: The executive orders are being interpreted in ways that will provide the administration with a thorough accounting of NOAA's climate-related grants programs.
How it uses that list remains to be seen.
Go deeper:




Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 9, 2025


End of Document
