




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 5, 2025 Wednesday 3:59 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 525 words
Byline: Andrew Freedman
Body


February 5th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
DOGE representatives at NOAA are combing through IT databases to find employees associated with  
Why it matters: How Elon Musk's Department of Government Efficiency handles NOAA's information resources and workforce is critical for Americans since the agency provides  
Employees were told DOGE is looking for "DEI content," the person familiar stated.
DOGE has searched for similar content at other federal agencies, and the  
Zoom in: Two agency sources who requested anonymity for fear of retribution identified a DOGE employee at NOAA who is in the agency's  
A request for comment to that person's NOAA email address wasn't immediately returned.
According to one source, who works for one of NOAA's multiple line offices, employees were emailed late Tuesday night and told to give this person edit access to internal intranet sites.
Axios viewed a copy of the email that cited instructions from acting secretary of Commerce Jeremy Pelter and acting NOAA Administrator Nancy Hann.
The intrigue: These sites would include employee resource groups, such as Pride at NOAA and Women at NOAA.
The information would include their membership, internal newsletters, training documents and personnel management information, they said.
DOGE has searched for similar content at other federal agencies, and the virtual closure of USAID via DOGE representatives and the State Department has employees across the federal government on edge.
NOAA's workforce has experienced whiplash in the past 24 hours as its next administrator, Neil Jacobs, was  
At nearly the same time, word came that DOGE representatives had arrived at the agency.
Yes, but: The content turned over wouldn't encompass the agency's vast climate and extreme weather data or operational weather and climate forecasts.
Anxiety levels among the workforce there are high in part because the influential Project 2025 report calls for the agency's climate work to end, the National Weather Service to privatize, and the agency to be broken up overall.
Both Jacobs and  
What they're saying: Reps. Jared Huffman and Zoe Lofgren of California blasted Trump and DOGE for bringing the cost-cutting group into NOAA at all.
"Now they have reached NOAA where they're wreaking havoc on the scientific and regulatory systems that protect American families' safety and jobs," they said in a statement. "Americans rely on NOAA's services, day in and day out."
Go deeper:





Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 5, 2025


End of Document
