




Northwestern Missourian: Northwest Missouri State University
February 3, 2025 Monday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 305 words
Byline: ANNA BAILEY
Body


Northwest's Office of Diversity and Inclusion is to be dissolved, according to an email sent to Northwest faculty at 4 p.m. Feb. 3 by University President Lance Tatum.
In alignment with the academic restructuring Tatum has been pursuing during his term, this elimination will allow the University to further support students, as stated in the email.
"Northwest is dissolving its Office of Diversity and Inclusion and transitioning to a model that broadens our holistic approach to student achievement," Tatum said in the email.
Following this change, Northwest has plans to adjust the Northwest website and social media platforms.
Multiple other Missouri colleges have also eliminated their diversity, equity and inclusion programs includingMissouri State University and theUniversity of Missouri.
The changes made at these other institutions are in response to the anticipated nationwide actions regarding diversity programs.
Anexecutive order issued by U.S. President Donald Trump Jan. 20 outlines plans that would affect public institutions in the country. It is titled, 'Ending Radical And Wasteful Government DEI Programs And Preferencing.'
Included in this executive order, any federal funding provided to advance or continue diversity programs will no longer be available.
The Northwest ODI does not rely on state funding. However, it is funded by theCampus Climate Fee which is issued along with tuition to students.
Regardless of where the money for the ODI comes from, the office is not immune to the effect seen post-Trump's inauguration.
Tatum said he is excited about the opportunities ahead as these changes proceed.
"Our focus at Northwest is now and will always be on student success, but as higher education evolves, we must also evolve so our students have every opportunity to realize their dreams," Tatum said in the email.

Load-Date: February 4, 2025


End of Document
