




The Daily Caller
February 18, 2025 Tuesday 08:12 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: DAILY-CALLER-NEWS-FOUNDATION; education
Length: 575 words
Byline: Thomas English, Contributor, 
Body



The University of Notre Dame's top academic officer told faculty that hiring women and minorities is “equally important” to the school's mission as hiring Catholics.
John McGreevy, the university's provost, outlined the hiring priorities in a faculty-wide Jan. 17 email  by the National Catholic Register. The provost argued the “complexity of our mission” called for Notre Dame to implement a new hiring guide, slated to go into effect July 1, to “evaluate candidates equitably.” 
“One important goal is to hire Catholic faculty and other faculty deeply committed to our mission to ensure continuity with our past and our future as the world's leading global Catholic research university,” McGreevy wrote. “A second overlapping and equally important goal is to increase the number of women and underrepresented minorities on our faculty so that we become the diverse and inclusive intellectual community our mission urges us to be.”
 The  school seeks to “educate a different kind of lawyer.” Part of that process is training in the realm of diversity, equity, and inclusion. talks to DEI director Max Gaston about how his new podcast gives a window into his work. LISTEN:  
 - University of Notre Dame (@NotreDame) 
The email prompted Scott Yenor, a political scientist at Boise State University, to write an extensive  of diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) policies at Notre Dame for the Claremont Institute. His report estimated the university hosted 167 DEI-related events and spent roughly $6 million on diversity personnel salaries in 2024.
In announcing the university's DEI “task force” in 2021, Father John Jenkins, Notre Dame's president until 2024,  “only in this way can we live up to our Catholic mission.”
McGreevy reportedly sent the email just days before President Donald Trump signed an  threatening to cut federal funding to universities promoting DEI policies. The Department of Education's acting assistant secretary for civil rights, Craig Trainor, also warned universities to eliminate DEI practices or risk losing federal funds. It remains unclear whether these directives will affect Notre Dame, which receives millions in  annually.
In his executive order, the president said such policies “undermine our national unity, as they deny, discredit, and undermine the traditional American values of hard work, excellence, and individual achievement in favor of an unlawful, corrosive, and pernicious identity-based spoils system.”
Trump also promised to “forge a society that is colorblind and merit-based” and end government programs that “socially engineer race and gender into every aspect of public and private life,” in his .
The University of Notre Dame did not immediately respond to the Daily Caller News Foundation's request for comment.
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Graphic

 
SOUTH BEND, IN - SEPTEMBER 29: The Word of Life Mural is seen on the Hesburgh Library on the Notre Dame campus before the Notre Dame Fighting Irish versus Stanford Cardinal game at Notre Dame Stadium on September 29, 2018 in South Bend, Indiana. (Photo by Michael Hickey/Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
