




The Daily Telegraph (London)
February 4, 2025 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: FEATURES; Pg. 4,5
Length: 1235 words
Byline: James Ball
Body


Presidential responses to national disasters and tragedies tend to follow a familiar pattern. The commander-in-chief pays his respects to the dead, pledges to investigate the cause and seek justice, and offers thoughts and prayers to those affected.
This is a practice that has usually transcended political divisions, with politicians of all stripes more or less following the convention.
Not Donald Trump. Within hours of the collision of a US Army Black Hawk helicopter and a passenger plane over Washington DC, which left 67 people dead, the President had posted on his preferred social media site, Truth Social, that "this is a bad situation that looks like it should have been prevented. NOT GOOD!!!"
"  It seemed that the Federal Aviation Authority (FAA), the agency that oversees US air trffic control, was in his sights. The trouble was finding a figurehead to blame. The agency's top job had been left vacant 10 days previously after the FAA administrator, Michael Whitaker, stood down on the day of Trump's inauguration, and the job had not been filled by the time of the collision. (Chris Rocheleau has since been appointed as acting head.)
The following morning, while bodies were still being recovered from the Potomac river, the President speculated that so-called DEI (Diversity, Equity and Inclusion) policies may have contributed to the incident.
"People with severe intellectual and psychiatric disabilities" could be hired by the FAA, he said, despite the fact that an air traffic controller needs to be a "genius" - and that was before any official investigation into what happened had even begun. Trump has since shifted focus slightly and said the helicopter was flying too high "by a lot", and far above a "200ft limit" set by air traffic control, but he has still ordered an immediate assessment of the FAA to ensure that "the federal government is maintaining the highest personnel in policy aviation safety standards".
It is, by and large, the first time that Trump has shown a studied interest in the FAA or its operation.
The same cannot be said of his "First Buddy" and Department of Government Efficiency chief Elon
Musk, who has been a fierce public critic of the agency for some time.
the FAA' is the agency that governs SpaceX, Musk's space launch and flight company, and the two entities have often clashed. The FAA seems to guard keenly its role as safety monitor of the skies. Musk, however, is on a mission to advance the pioneering spirit of humanity.
The two approaches don't mix. The FAA has complained about environmental damage and safety issues by SpaceX - it alleges Musk's company launched an uncrewed satellite without its approval, failed to conduct routine safety polls of f light controllers, used rocket fuel from unauthorised suppliers and caused damage to the launch pad and sensitive environments nearby.
Consequently, it has imposed penalties of more than $630,000 (£508,000) on SpaceX, with the FAA's chief counsel Marc Nichols saying: "Safety drives everything we do at the FAA? Failure of a company to comply with the safety requirements will result in consequences."
"  Musk and SpaceX have accused the agency of maliciously targeting it over petty and minor violations. "The fundamental problem is that humanity will be forever cofined to Earth unless there is radical reform at the FAA!" tweeted Musk last September.
That month, allies of Musk in Congress grilled Michael Whitaker, then the FAA's administrator, over his agency's scrutiny of SpaceX and its launches, suggesting they were the result of political bias or targeting - even as SpaceX received billions in federal funds during Joe Biden's presidency for its role in getting US satellites and other equipment into orbit.
After the Congress showdown, Musk posted a tweet under a picture of Whitaker that said, "He needs to resign." So when Musk was given broad oversight of regulatory agencies under Trump, it was clear Whitaker's role would be untenable. He stood down on January 20, several years before his term was due to end.
But Musk and Trump are right that US air traffic control has its issues: Congress voted just months ago to increase the number of planes allowed to take of f and land at DC's Ronald Reagan airport - overriding objections from federal legislators that the city's airspace was already too "congested" and posed a safety risk to passengers.
DC airspace is particularly difficult to manage owing to security restrictions around the President and Congress, and the existence of numerous military bases in the area which mean planes have to share the airspace with a large number of helicopters.
Military aircraft frequently conduct training flights in and around the congested and heavily restricted airspace over the US capital. Military helicopters and passenger planes are common sights along the Potomac river.
There has been a recruitment crisis among air traffic controllers, too, leading to complaints of understaffing and controllers having to work overly long shifts, potentially risking safety.
Some, though by no means all, of these issues stem from a bizarre and misguided attempt, starting in 2014, to improve diversity among air traffic controllers, which saw the addition of a personality quiz to other formal tests. Candidates were asked, among other things, how many hours they had studied music and dance at college, and were rewarded for having got poor grades in science at school (in an effort to ensure not all successful candidates were scientists).
The test, dropped in 2018, remains the subject of continuing litigation by rejected applicants.
But the early actions of Trump and Musk appear to have exacerbated ongoing difficulties for the FAA. The agency was not exempted from an executive order on January 20 this year which froze all hiring across the federal government for 90 days - and required agencies to rescind job offers from candidates who had received them but not yet started.
The Office for Management and Budget (OMB), reportedly at Musk's direction, sent an email to all federal employees with the subject line "Fork in the Road" - of- ofering to pay their salary until September if they resigned within the following eight days, with no strings attached. Several independent experts have said the ofer is unlawful, as it would breach laws setting limits on severance pay for federal employees.
Air traffic controllers were among those who received that email, suddenly presenting them with the apparent offer of more than seven months of pay for no work. "I will tell you that everyone at the Indianapolis Air Route Traffic Control Centre was talking about that email Wednesday," one air traffic controller said in a letter to The Washington Post.
The day after the crash, controllers across the US arrived at work with tragedy hanging over them, and a political blame game that is surely only just beginning. That evening, they received something else, too: a further email to all federal employees, apparently confirming the OMB's redundancy offer.
It's not clear yet exactly what's in store for America's airways following such a tragic incident; the families need to mourn and the facts need to be unearthed. But it would seem the FAA is lined up for a spring clean. And Elon Musk - who has aspirations to colonise the skies and beyond - is wielding the broom.
'Humanity will forever be confined to Earth unless there is radical reform at the FAA'

Graphic

 
Disaster: emergency crews examine wreckage from the passenger

Load-Date: February 4, 2025


End of Document
