




Business Insider
February 12, 2025 Wednesday 05:56 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Insider Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 774 words
Byline: pkafka@insider.com (Peter Kafka)
Highlight: The list of big media companies that have drawn Donald Trump's ire keeps getting bigger.
Body


Brendan Carr, Donald Trump's pick to head the Federal Communications Commission, is investigating Comcast.
Carr says he's concerned about Comcast's embrace of DEI.
This is just one of several media companies Trump and his administration have either sued or investigated.
After last fall's election, .
He is keeping his word.
On Tuesday, Carr told Comcast - the giant cable and broadband company that also owns media properties including NBC, Peacock, and the Universal film and TV studio - that he's going to start investigating the company to make sure it's not promoting "discrimination in violation of FCC regulations and civil rights laws."
We can get back to Carr's letter in a minute. But the big picture here is most important: Last fall, Carr, who at the time was an FCC commissioner, announced that he'd be scrutinizing big media companies once he started running the agency.
Now he's doing that.
Earlier this month, , ostensibly because it's concerned about "." This is the same interview that's the focus of a lawsuit Donald Trump filed against CBS owner Paramount, which . That lawsuit is theoretically separate from the FCC approval . In the real world, the two seem very intertwined.
Now, Carr has added Comcast to the list of Big Media companies that need scrutiny. It's worth noting that , via a lawsuit he filed last year - and got Disney to settle once he'd been elected. At this point, the only media company I'd be surprised to see Trump and his administration target would be Rupert Murdoch's Fox Corp., which owns Fox News, Trump's favorite channel.
In theory, Carr is scrutinizing Comcast because he thinks they may be violating civil rights laws because "there is substantial evidence that your companies are still engaging in the promotion of DEI," per the letter he sent to Comcast this week. (I've asked Carr for comment, as well as the full text of the note, which was summarized by .)
Why does the head of the FCC, which is supposed to enforce communications law, get to weigh in on whether a media conglomerate does or doesn't promote DEI? Carr has an answer: The FCC has oversight over several of Comcast's businesses, from "cable to high-speed internet and from broadcast TV stations to ... wireless offerings." (Carr does not mention , which shouldn't require FCC approval - but could conceivably get held up by a different Trump-appointed regulator.)
In theory, this may be connected to a  instructing his agencies "to enforce our longstanding civil-rights laws and to combat illegal private-sector DEI preferences," and for each agency to find "up to nine potential civil compliance investigations" at places like publicly traded companies, non-profits and colleges." (Last week, on her first day on the job, US Attorney General Pam Bondi put her office to work on the same task, and said she would also look at "" to stop DEI.)
In a statement, Comcast acknowledged it received Carr's letter and said it "will be cooperating with the FCC to answer their questions. For decades, our company has been built on a foundation of integrity and respect for all of our employees and customers."
But it would be naive to think that Carr is going after Comcast because he has a problem with the company's HR practices alone.
Right before the election, for instance, Carr was complaining about the way Comcast's ", which he said violated the agency's " rules. Carr said that could conceivably put the broadcast licenses Comcast owns at risk: "in my view, every single remedy needs to be on the table, at least as an initial matter."
In other words, there seem to be lots of things a big media company can do that will earn the ire of the Trump administration. Maybe it's an interview. Maybe it's a comedy skit. Maybe it's the way they hire and promote people.
And if you're worried that the next thing you do could upset the president of the United States, maybe you'll think carefully before you do that thing. No matter what it is. Which seems to be the point.
Read the original article on


Load-Date: February 12, 2025


End of Document
