




Fox News THE STORY WITH MARTHA MACCALLUM 3:00 PM EST
January 23, 2025 Thursday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Length: 7584 words
Byline: Martha MacCallum, Aishah Hasnie, Bill Melugin, Katie Pavlich, David Spunt, Jonathan Hunt
Guests: Victor Avila, Jose Aristimuno, Kevin O'Leary
Body


MARTHA MACCALLUM, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: All right. We've got a lot of breaking news this afternoon. I'm Martha MacCallum, and this is THE STORY.
Breaking right now, the Senate voting to advance Pete Hegseth nomination for defense secretary, there's a couple of steps that are in between on this, as you just heard John Roberts mentioning there. This is a test vote.
We have had word that Lisa Murkowski, Senator Murkowski of Alaska, will be a no, but, of course, it would take at least three no's, which it does not sound like they have, against Pete Hegseth in the Senate in order to even need the J.D. Vance as vice president tie-breaking vote, but it doesn't sound like that's even going to be necessary at this point. He has cleared the hurdle. That is the main hurdle before this vote for secretary of defense.
I should also mention that we are waiting for the swearing in of John Ratcliffe. So things are starting to move a little bit faster today as we see some movement on this, and we do expect that we'll see a swearing in for John Ratcliffe as CIA director.
As you remember, he was, of course, the DNI, director of National Intelligence, in the first Trump presidency and will have an intelligence role as head of CIA in this presidency as well. We wait for that swearing in, and also another E.O., executive order, coming from the White House, a lot to watch this afternoon.
Let's check in with our Senior National Correspondent Aishah Hasnie reporting live from Capitol Hill on all of this. Hi, Aishah.
AISHAH HASNIE, FOX NEWS SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Martha. Well, this is a big deal for Pete Hegseth, the defense secretary nominee, because this means that he may have the 51 votes that he needs for final confirmation without the help of Vice President J.D. Vance. And that's because Mitch McConnell came forward today and voted yes on cloture. This is overcoming the filibuster to get to that final confirmation.
Two senators that we expected to vote no voted no on culture, and that was Susan Collins and Lisa Murkowski. And both of them put out pretty lengthy statements on X, Susan Collins putting her out just a few moments ago. And they're both pointing to a couple of different things. They both say that they don't believe that Hegseth is prepared to manage such an enormous sized department like the Pentagon and then also pointing to those past allegations of infidelity, and they just don't feel comfortable saying that he's just not ready for that role. So, that's the two senators that are out. Mitch McConnell is in, as are all the other senators in the conference.
Roger Wicker, the Armed Services Committee chairman, had told me right before this vote, I'd asked him, do you think you still have the 50? That was when Lisa Murkowski came out, that she was a no, and he said, yes. So, they walked into the room here feeling confident. They had whipped the votes for quite some time and they knew that they had these votes and they would not need J.D. Vance to come in.
What happens next is a lot of waiting. It's a waiting game because Democrats are going to jam the Senate again, invoke that 30-hour debate rule, and we won't see a final confirmation vote on Hegseth until probably late Friday night. Martha.
MACCALLUM: All right. Aishah, thank you very much on Capitol Hill, a lot going on there.
And meanwhile, in other parts of the country, it is like night and day, dramatic change, of course, literally just two days into the Trump 2.0 presidency, Fox News embedded with ICE in Boston witnesses firsthand the apprehension of scores of migrant violent offenders, many of whom had been picked up by the police for these criminal offenses and then were released due to sanctuary rules in the cities.
So, these are just part of hundreds of arrests that are going on across the country right now as they target, quote, the worst first. Watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're going to be targeting some extremely violent offenders today.
PATRICIA HYDE, ERO BOSTON ACTING FIELD OFFICE DIRECTOR: We are targeting very violent threats to our community.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: This is part of Pete's ride along. The president's Homeland Security adviser, Stephen Miller, telling Jesse Watters last night that what we are witnessing is just the beginning.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
STEPHEN MILLER, HOMELAND SECURITY ADVISER: In the coming days, you're going to see a massive scale up in enforcement activities all across the country to dismantle these criminal networks. So, not only is it going to be ICE engaging these raids, but also they're going to have support from their law enforcement partners in FBI, ATF, DEA, and U.S. Marshals.
We're going to leverage the full power of federal law enforcement.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: Correspondent Bill Melugin reporting live from Boston. That was some of his clips from his ride along that you just saw. Hi, Bill.
Hey, Martha. Well, sanctuary policies here in Boston can make ICE's job more difficult and more dangerous, but it cannot stop them from doing that job. There are a whole lot of egregious, dangerous criminal aliens here in this Boston area, and we got to join ICE out here yesterday as they went out there on the streets and started trying to take some of those criminals out of this area. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Good morning, everyone.
MELUGIN (voice over): It's a frigid five degrees in the predawn hours, just outside of Boston, where this team of elite ICE officers is briefing on their targets for the day.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're going to be targeting some extremely violent offenders today.
MELUGIN: Within moments, the officers are on the move, with eyes on their first target.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Looks like we got a movement target vehicle coming up.
MELUGIN: They quickly take him into custody. He's an MS-13 gang member wanted in El Salvador for aggravated murder, and he has an Interpol red notice out for his arrest.
HYDE: We are targeting very violent threats to our community.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'm not going back to Haiti.
MELUGIN: One of those threats is this illegal alien from Haiti. ICE says he's a gang member with 17 criminal convictions in recent years.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (BLEEP) Trump, you feel me? Yo, Biden forever, bro. Thank Obama for everything that he did for me, bro.
MELUGIN: ICE Boston quickly takes down its next targets, including this illegal alien from Brazil who has an Interpol red notice for armed robbery. This Salvadoran illegal alien charged locally with rape and released by a sanctuary jurisdiction, and this Dominican illegal alien, charged with assault with a deadly weapon and heroin trafficking.
Officers also arrested this Guatemalan MS-13 gang member, facing gun charges. ICE says he was released from local custody just the day before their detainer request was ignored because of sanctuary policies. And in a sign of shifting priorities with the new Trump administration, this man who was in the same apartment as the target was also arrested after ICE determined he's also in the U.S. illegally. This is what ICE calls collateral.
So, you guys got your main target just now, but you got somebody else. What just happened?
HYDE: So, our main target was released by a sanctuary jurisdictions, not honoring a detainer. That person was released back into the community. And when we went to go find him, he's with somebody else who was previously removed from the United States. So, he's going to go today to him.
MELUGIN: And that is exactly what Border Czar Tom Homan has warned would happen.
TOM HOMAN, BORDER CZAR: When we find the bad guy, he's probably with others, others that are in the United States illegally. They may not be a criminal priority, but we're not walking away from them.
MELUGIN: ICE Boston says they will continue to go into sanctuary jurisdictions and do their job.
HYDE: Today was a good day. Today we took several significant public safety threats out of our communities. Unfortunately, a lot were released by sanctuary policies, but we're here to tell the commonwealth and the rest of the country that we're going to find them, whether they're released or not.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
MELUGIN (on camera): And, Martha, I didn't stop there. After our embed was over, ICE Boston told us they picked up two more targets here in the Boston area, one of which previously deported Honduran illegal alien now charged with raping a woman while putting a gun in her mouth. The other a Haitian man who flew into the country under former President Biden's controversial migrant flights mass parole program now charged with sexual assault. Martha, back to you.
MACCALLUM: Extraordinary, incredible coverage, Bill, and a really great window into what's going on.
Just a quick question, Bill, did the mayor of Boston or the governor of Massachusetts who have said in the past that they would not allow ICE to do this kind of work, have they complained about any of this?
MELUGIN: They haven't. And the governor of Massachusetts actually started softening her tone yesterday. She came out and said she's not going to get in the way of federal law enforcement or federal immigration enforcement. That's a little bit different from what she was saying before.
MACCALLUM: It sure is. I don't think anybody's going to miss these folks who have been accused and convicted of some heinous crimes. And then they were in the country illegally to begin with.
Bill Melugin, thank you. Extraordinary, thank you very much.
Let's put up on the wall to show our panel as we go to them, everybody, some of the migrant arrests that we have seen so far, just to give you a feel for this. You have an alleged MS-13 gang member, someone arrested for child porn, sex crime conviction, aggravated sexual abuse of a child, second-degree assault of a child. These are some of the other gems who have now been asked and will be leaving the country.
And we want to bring in Victor Avila, a former ICE agent himself who survived a cartel ambush that killed his partner in Mexico in 2011, so he has served in this capacity and has a lot of experience, Katie Pavlich, Town hall.com Editor, and Fox News contributor, and Jose Aristimuno, a former DNC deputy press secretary, now media director for Latino Wall Street. Welcome to all of you.
When you watch that, Victor, let me start with you, Victor Avila, what goes through your mind as you see your former fellow ICE members doing their job?
VICTOR AVILA, FORMER ICE AGENT: Well, it brings a smile to my face. I'll tell you that first. It's incredible. What I go back and think is they've always wanted to do this, Martha. They've always wanted to enforce the law. So, the Biden administration wasn't allowing them. They had him handcuffed to their desk. And so that's why you're going to see this activity.
By the way, if you notice the individuals, these are targeted individuals, what we call with packets. We have a packet on them. We have the information. We know where they're at and they just hadn't been able to go get them because they weren't allowed to. So, you're going to see this is only the beginning of what you're going to see. And these task forces -- and Stephen Miller was right. You're going to see task forces made up of a lot of federal agencies. I already heard it from HSI, Homeland Security Investigations, the special agents are going to join them, and there's going to be a surge, if you will, across the country with these type of operations where the numbers of illegals will be picked up and removed.
MACCALLUM: Yes, there's 1.4 million people, I believe is the right number, who already have deportation orders. So, that's why this is easy. This part not easy. Obviously they take on a dangerous position, going to apprehend these people. But as you say, Victor, they already know where they are, they already know the charges against them, and they know that they committed the first crime by entering the country illegally.
Jose, I want to play this. This is a montage of some of the former -- the president and the vice president talking about this issue. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOE BIDEN, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT: I've done all I can do. Just give me the power.
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE, FORMER WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: The president has said he wants to get work done and they keep getting in the way. House Republicans keep getting in the way.
KAMALA HARRIS, FORMER U.S. VICE PRESIDENT: Trump, on the other hand, has been talking a big game about securing our border, but he does not walk the walk.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: So, obviously, Jose, Congress hasn't changed anything at this point. What's happening right now are the powers that the president has. Well, I'm just -- what goes through your mind when you watch those voices and you see what's happening.
JOSE ARISTIMUNO, FORMER DNC DEPUTY PRESS SECRETARY: Well, look, if we look, Martha, at the rates were only on day three here, right, really, so three full days, right? So we know it's been about, we're looking at 300 to 500 daily raids, ICE raids. Those are the same numbers that Biden was doing on a daily back in 2024. So, nothing has changed really.
Now, I will tell you this, it's a bipartisan issue. If you belong to Tren de Aragua, if you belong to MS-13, we want you deported. We want you out of our country. So, let me be very clear.
MACCALLUM: Jose, you cannot possibly say with a straight face that nothing has changed. You just heard that one of those people that they apprehended was released.
ARISTIMUNO: Martha, look at the numbers, 300, it's been the same amount of deportations, okay, since 2024.
Now that might get bigger. That might escalate, and I'm happy for that. If you're a criminal and looking at the worst first, if you're a criminal in this country and you committed a crime, we want you out of this country.
Now, the real challenge here, Martha, I think it's what are we going to do with the other 10, 9 million undocumented immigrants in this country that don't have any crime, right? That's going to be the real issue on the challenge that I think President Trump is going to face. But I do -- I am happy to see, you know, things like the immigration bill that just got passed in the House and the Laken Riley Act, right, it got passed in the House, it got passed in the Senate, bipartisanship. So, I think Democrats understand that the election was very clear. Americans want more security and they want to get our economy --
MACCALLUM: Yes. Believe me, the people who live in these neighborhoods are feeling a little bit safer tonight.
Katie, respond to Jose's suggestion that nothing has really changed.
KATIE PAVLICH, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Everything has changed. And Democrats have tried to change their attitude on this, but it should not be lost on anybody that Democrats at the federal level, including former President Biden, who said that these types of criminals you're seeing arrested today over the course of the last couple of days by ICE agents who've been begging to go out and do these dangerous jobs, he said they were the best of our society.
Democrats haven't distinguished, made any distinguishing between themselves what types of illegal aliens until now, and they've been harboring these people for years inside of their communities as they had a record in their home country, brought it to communities in the United States and then carried out heinous crimes against American citizens.
And now that there are consequences, Tom Homan says they're going to prosecute Democrats who continue to harbor these illegal aliens inside of these cities. They're all of a sudden changing their tune.
But make no mistake, Democrats invited this. The local officials allowed -- they harbored them, didn't cooperate with ICE. There're still a number of them still not doing it. And the federal government let in millions more to harm Americans, and the Trump administration is changing that today.
MACCALLUM: All right. I thank you guys. Thank you all. I think it tells you so much that the mayor of Boston and the governor of Massachusetts are not getting in the way of this at all after saying that they would be protecting or they would stand between ICE and individuals who they wanted to remove.
Victor Avila, Katie Pavlich, Jose Aristimuno, thank you all very much for being here today.
So, President Trump is expected any moment now to sign another executive order from the White House. Remember, there are 200 on the list. We have no details yet on what this one is going to be about. We saw a very big order come down yesterday during this program, so we will bring you there as soon as it happens. Also, we'll be back on the hill watching these confirmations.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
MACCALLUM: So, right now, we are waiting for President Trump's next move after a judge in Seattle has blocked the executive order ending automatic birthright citizenship for babies born here in the United States. It requires at least one parent to be a citizen or legal permanent resident.
Now, the judge called the order, quote, blatantly unconstitutional. We did expect that there would be challenges here to bring this into the forefront and have a legal battle over it. I think it's part of what the president set out to do here.
Justice Correspondent David Spunt reporting live from the DOJ on that and another lawsuit that is challenging the executive order. Hi, David.
DAVID SPUNT, FOX NEWS JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: Hi, Martha. Good afternoon. It is a marathon, not a sprint for the White House and the DOJ, the Trump administration, whatever you want to call it, and all of those agencies know that. But, clearly, this was a loss in round one for the Trump White House and the Justice Department after this federal judge, a Reagan- appointed judge, called this executive order blatantly unconstitutional.
Washington State, and the hearing was in Seattle today, Washington State is one of 22 states asking for this temporary restraining order to stop this executive order that redefines birthright citizenship. The hearing was quick. It was 30 minutes.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
NICK BROWN, WASHINGTON STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL: This is step one. We have a long way to go. You are an American if you were born in the United States.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
SPUNT: Earlier today, House Republicans announced an end to birthright citizenship. We'll see what that happens in the House of Representatives. But right now, this is a loss, but it's a long game, as they know. Back to you.
MACCALLUM: Yes. No surprise that Reuters is reporting, we're working to confirm this, that the Trump team is appealing that decision, as expected. David, thank you very much.
MACCALLUM: So, fascinating this morning watching all of this play out as President Trump told world business leaders that America will always come first. He also said, you know, come make your stuff here. And if you make your stuff in America, we're going to give you a great deal. If we buy it from you, you're going to have a tariff.
So, Mr. Wonderful Kevin O'Leary joins me with his analysis of this very interesting Davos speech this morning by President Trump when we come back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
MACCALLUM: All right. There's a lot of stuff popping that we want to get to. But earlier today, President Trump said that his historic victory launched a, quote, revolution of common sense. This is a theme that we have heard since the inaugural speech. He was speaking remotely to the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.
And during this, you know, very interesting set of comments, in the past, he has gone to Davos. He said, I couldn't go because I just was inaugurated two days ago, but he spoke to them and got a very interesting response, warm response, I would say in general from the crowd. But he had a warning for companies around the globe. Watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: My message to every business in the world is very simple. Come make your product in America, and we will give you among the lowest taxes of any nation on Earth. We're bringing them down very substantially, even from the original Trump tax cuts. But if you don't make your product in America, which is your prerogative, then, very simply, you will have to pay a tariff.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: All right. Let's bring in Kevin O'Leary, chairman of O'Leary Ventures and Shark Tank star and investor. Kevin, good to have you with us today. A lot to ask you about, there's also some things that are crossing the wires that are coming out from the White House with regard to the Fed that I want to ask you about as well.
But let's start with that. What did you think about what the president had to say about U.S. manufacturing and what companies can expect if they don't make it here?
KEVIN O'LEARY, CHAIRMAN, O'LEARY VENTURES: Well, the key to translating Trump language is to understand noise and signal. So what he basically saying there is look -- and these messages are different for different countries. For example, Mexico, we're going to build a wall, it's coming for sure, but we also want you to make sure you stop sending illegal immigrants from yours and other countries or you're going to be tariffed. That's the message to the Mexicans. To the Canadians, start spending on security at the northern border and pay your 2 percent to NATO and stop sending fentanyl from China over the border into the United States, or you're going to face tariffs. That's the signal there. To the Germans, if you don't start making more cars in America, we're going to tariff the you know what out of your cars coming here, and on and on for each country. It's the tariff signal, if you want to call it that, is a negotiating leverage tool because Trump is commands the largest market on Earth. There's no market larger than United States.
For China, it's a whole different kettle of fish. We're in an economic war with China, and that's going to be the most interesting negotiation, whether it's a combination of tariffs and threat of military control, all kinds of stuff there. But he's starting with a message that's very clear. Get in line, do what you said you were going to do, or you're going to face a wicked barrier to come into the world's largest market, and it's going to affect your economy. I heard it loud and clear.
MACCALLUM: Yes. It was interesting. At one point, he scolded Brian Moynihan at Bank of America for not doing business with conservative companies. And Jamie Dimon also responded to that, pushing back on it a little bit. What did you think about that?
O'LEARY: You really have to -- you know, we've been listening to Trump for 12 years. It's just the way he is. And if you don't understand that at this point, he's not going to change. So, he'll pick someone out of a crowd, out of a sector, and he'll say something like that.
It's -- he's trying to send a signal and yet there's a lot of noise in it. But he's bombastic, he's controversial.
I've gotten used to it now. It doesn't bother me anymore, and I've had a fair amount of time to talk to him about the things that matter to me. And I've seen that same kind of narrative. So it is what it is. Everybody relax.
MACCALLUM: You're right. He gets everybody on their toes in these moments as well. I thought the response was really interesting today there.
Kevin, thank you very much. We'll talk more next time about TikTok and the future there, which I know you're very interested in as well. Thank you, sir. Good to see you.
O'LEARY: Take care.
MACCALLUM: So there's a lot of news that is popping this afternoon, so stick around after the break and I will tell you what's going on. In the meantime, this debate is just heating up, actually over the pastor who injected her own politics into an inauguration day church service that was supposed to be a blessing on the administration and their families.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
LORENZO SEWELL, 180 CHURCH SENIOR PASTOR: Instead of using the authority of the word of God to preach the message of Christ and to draw our president closer to Jesus, she used it to practice what I call theological and spiritual malpractice. She is the worst preacher I have ever in my life heard.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
MACCALLUM: All right. As I mentioned, news made in the Oval Office, there was a pool reporter in there. We expect we're going to get playback in a couple of minutes, probably right around two or three minutes from now.
But what we can tell you is that, Reuters is reporting that President Trump wants to meet immediately with Vladimir Putin and that President Zelenskyy has told President Trump that he is ready to make a deal to end the war. So obviously a very big development on that front, and we'll play it out for you as soon as we get it. A number of other items crossing the wires and making news, we're going to bring you when we get that playback in just a moment. So stick around for that.
In the meanwhile -- in the meantime, I should say, some new wildfires are burning now near Los Angeles, putting thousands of people under new evacuation orders and warnings. Let's go live to chief correspondent Jonathan Hunt reporting from Castaic, California. Hi, Jonathan.
JONATHAN HUNT, FOX NEWS CHIEF CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Martha. And the winds have been blowing very strongly for hours now here in Castaic, about 40 miles north of downtown LA, making the job difficult again for firefighters as they battle to stop the flames spreading as they did yesterday across here. And as you look at the burn sky, it just gives you a real idea of how fast those flames move and how destructive they are.
Earlier today, we watched a flare of new fire break out across the lake, a new pop up fire. And the super scoopers brought in the aircraft to try to bat down those flames as best they could. An extraordinary sight as the pilots brought those planes over Lake Castaic. They made contact with the water for about 15 seconds each as they loaded up and then they flew round after round over those new flames before eventually dousing them.
We've also seen Hotshot Crews up on the ridge tamping down any hot spots, hoping that they can keep the flames from once again threatening the thousands of homes that they did yesterday in the Castaic area. We also had one other fire pop up overnight that's called the Sepulveda fire. That was near the famed Getty's center and also threatened a lot of homes in the ritzy Bel-Air neighborhood.
So it's a constant battle for these firefighters and these winds, Martha, that we're just getting severe gusts of once again now are due to continue like this until something like 10:00 AM Local Time, that's 1:00 PM Pacific time tomorrow afternoon. So that is really going to be a long battle for the thousands of firefighters on the front lines who are absolutely exhausted, Martha, after more than two long weeks of this constant battle. Martha?
MACCALLUM: Yes. Obviously these fires move very quickly with wind like that. And this one popped up and just exponentially grew over a couple of hours. It's a stunning development. Thank you very much, Jonathan Hunt. Thanks for keeping us up to speed.
He'll stay in California. We'll take you back there as we learn more.
So as I mentioned moments ago, President Trump has just spoken with reporters at the White House wide range of issues. We are getting a news conference every day, if not twice a day at this point. So a lot for these reporters to adjust to after getting almost no news conferences from the former president.
So from Russia and Ukraine, to Iran and China, he is making very big statements with regard to his approach to these adversaries and countries. We're going to bring that tape to you live. Very quick playback just moments from now. Stay with us.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
MACCALLUM: OK. As promised, we are about to hear a wide ranging newsmaking -- news conference meeting with some of the members of the press in the Oval Office just a short time ago. And we will take you there right now. Watch this.
(BEGIN LIVE COVERAGE)
DONALD TRUMP, UNITED STATES PRESIDENT: Some executive orders. They were very important in just about every case. And it will go through the first one, please.
DAVID SACKS, AI CRYPTO CZAR: Do you want to -- yes. Mr. President, this is an executive order on crypto. We're going to be -- oh, sorry. This is an executive order on AI. We're forming -- we're basically announcing the administration's policy to make America the world capital in artificial intelligence, and to dominate and to lead the world in AI.
TRUMP: Do you want to say your name, your full.
SACKS: David SACKS, AI crypto czar.
TRUMP: David is one of the greatest in the world at AI. Most respected, probably, there is. So that should take us to the forefront, right?
SACKS: Absolutely. We got (inaudible).
TRUMP: OK. Thank you. And this, David, is?
SACKS: Yes, this is the Crypto EO. We're going to be forming an internal working group to make crypto -- to make America the world capital in crypto under your leadership.
TRUMP: Which is really going up, right?
SACKS: Absolutely.
TRUMP: David, that's for you.
SACKS: Thanks.
TRUMP: You find them exciting? They might not be excited, but they're going to make a lot of money for the country.
SACKS: Thank you, sir.
TRUMP: And so is David. You have to check him out. There's nobody like this guy. He said, how did you get David Sacks? How did you do that? And he's doing it for the country more than anything else. So we appreciate it, David. Thank you very much.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is an executive order establishing a presidential commission, an advisory commission on science and technology.
TRUMP: Do you want to explain that a little bit?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The basic idea is to get together top people from government, the private sector, technology industry, as well as educational institutions to make sure that America maintains its leadership position with respect to science and technology development in the years ahead.
TRUMP: Good. That's great.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Next, sir, we have a presidential memorandum encouraging departments and agencies in your government, including the Department of the Interior, to promote federal recognition of the Lumbee Tribe of North Carolina.
TRUMP: I love the Lumbee Tribe. So this is their first big step, right?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This would be a huge step for them, sir.
TRUMP: Yes, they were with me all the way. They were great. North Carolina, Lumbee Tribe. OK, we'll send -- you'll send them a copy of that?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, sir.
TRUMP: They were great. OK?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If you'd like, I could get them that pen, sir, as well.
TRUMP: Yes, let's do that.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Next we have a set of pardons for peaceful pro-life protesters who were prosecuted by the Biden administration for exercising their First Amendment rights.
TRUMP: Do you know how many?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I believe it's 23, sir.
TRUMP: Twenty three people were prosecuted. They should not have been prosecuted. Many of them are elderly people. They should not have been prosecuted. This is a great honor to sign this.
They'll be very happy. So they're all in prison now?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Some are. Some are out of custody.
TRUMP: Ridiculous. OK.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Lastly, sir, we have an executive ordering the declassification of files relating to the assassinations of President John F. Kennedy, Senator Robert F. Kennedy, and the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.
TRUMP: That's a big one, huh? A lot of people are waiting for this for a long -- for years, for decades. And everything will be revealed, OK. Give that to RFK Jr.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, sir.
TRUMP: OK? OK. Thank you.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Mr. President? Mr. President, a US judge temporarily blocks the birthright citizenship order. Do you have any reaction?
TRUMP: No. Obviously, we'll appeal it. They put it before a certain judge in Seattle, I guess, right? And there's no surprises with that judge.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Mr. President, Senators Collins and Murkowski have now said they will vote against Pete Hegseth. Are you worried about his confirmation and your reaction?
TRUMP: No surprises there. Too bad, you know. That's the way it is, too bad.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: And when would you adjourn Congress to make recess appointments, Mr. President?
TRUMP: Well, take a look at that. I listen to John Thune. He's doing a fantastic job. We're moving along.
The Democrats are trying to delay government, as they always do. They can't help themselves. Even John Ratcliffe, who's very, very strong, very popular and liked by the Democrats. I guess he gets a lot of Democrat votes. That's taking a long time and it shouldn't be taking a long time.
They're maxing everything out so they can delay everything as much as possible.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Does Senator Flynn support an effort to use recess appointments if you choose to do that?
TRUMP: I'd be willing to use recess appointments. It's up to John, and we'll see. John Thune's a great guy, great senator, knows his stuff inside out and backwards. But I would use appointments if he wants to do that, absolutely.
The Democrats are just delaying. They always delay.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Mr. President, you spoke with the Saudi crowned prince yesterday.
TRUMP: Who?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The Saudi crowned prince. How was the cost?
TRUMP: Right.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: They said $600 million -- billion dollar they can invest --
TRUMP: Six hundred, I'll ask him for a trillion.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You said you can ask for a trillion. Will Saudi Arabia be the first foreign country you will visit since they invest in that much?
TRUMP: Well, if they do that, I would. Yes, I would be glad to do that. As you know, four years ago we did $450 billion, meaning the money all goes to American companies. And they purchase jets and they purchase computers and everything else. And we did $450 billion and I guess we're at $600 million, $650 million. And I'll see if I can talk him into it again.
(CROSSTALK)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You showed great confidence in Steve Witkoff. Why you said that you doubt that the ceasefire in Gaza will hold since you appraised his --
TRUMP: Well, no. I think he -- but it's a very tricky place. It's very tricky and we'll see. And if something does happen, they will not be happy.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Sir, follow up on that one. In terms of Steve Witkoff, are you going to put him in charge of Iran's strategy and do you want him talking directly with the Iranians?
TRUMP: No, but he's certainly somebody I would use. He's done a fantastic job. He's a great negotiator. He's a very good person, a very popular person, gets along with people.
I have great negotiators. They have no personality whatsoever. And then, I have some that Steve has a wonderful way about him and people like him and even in this case, both sides like him. And he was able to make a deal.
That deal would have never been made without Steve. The Biden people couldn't make the deal. They were working on it for a year and a half. They couldn't make a deal. We got it done prior to the inauguration. We said it has to before the inauguration.
I mean, the deal should hold, but if it doesn't, there'll be a lot of --
(CROSSTALK)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: -- your AI EO, just hours after you made that big star date announcement Elon Musk tweeted that they don't actually have the money. Is that true?
TRUMP: I don't know if they do, but you know, they're putting up the money. The government's not putting up anything. They're putting up money. They're very rich people, so I hope they do. And I mean, Elon doesn't like one of those people, so.
(CROSSTALK)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Is AI going to replace many American jobs
TRUMP: No, no. It's going to create tremendous numbers of jobs. It's going to also create a lot of benefits medically for cancer research and other things. It's going to have a huge positive impact.
And you know, we want to be ahead of China. We're right now way ahead of China. David Sacks is one of the all time experts. You know, the people are amazed that he, you just met him. I don't know if he's still here. There he is.
But one of the most respected people in that world. It's a world -- it's a whole different world. And we're ahead of China now because of what I'm doing. And I think it's going to be very successful.
(CROSSTALK)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Mr. President, you just asked the Davos Forum, again that NATO countries should spend 5 percent of GDP on defense.
TRUMP: Yes.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The United States don't spend 5 percent. It should also apply to the United States?
TRUMP: We're protecting them. You know, they're not protecting us, we're protecting them. So I don't think we should be spending. I'm not sure we should be spending anything. But we should certainly be helping them. But they should up their 2 percent to 5 percent, yes.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Mr. President, you said earlier during your speech at Davos that you would like to see interest rates come down. How much would you like to see them come down?
TRUMP: I'd like to see them come down a lot and oil prices will come down. And when oil prices come down, everything's going to be cheaper for the American people and actually for the world, but for the American people. So I'd like to see oil prices come down and when the energy comes down, that's going to knock out a lot of the inflation. That's going to automatically bring the interest rates down.
(CROSSTALK)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Are you worried that there's too much going on at once if you're trying to bring interest rates down --
TRUMP: No.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: -- get the economy back that way?
TRUMP: It just works that way. I mean it just economically works that way. When the oil comes down, it'll bring down prices, then you won't have inflation, and then the interest rates will come down.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You said that you would demand that the interest rates come down. Well, do you expect --
TRUMP: I would put in a strong statement.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Do you expect the Fed to listen to you?
TRUMP: Yes.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Are you going to talk to Powell about this and bringing the rates down?
TRUMP: At the right time, I will.
(CROSSTALK)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: -- people you pardoned that were participated in the January 6, 2021 that you plan to meet with of them or meet with them at the White House?
TRUMP: I don't know. I'm sure that they probably would like to. I did them something important. But what they did is they were protesting a crooked election. I mean people understand that also and they were treated very badly. Nobody's been treated like that.
So I'd be open to it certainly. I don't know of anything like that, but I think they're going to meet in some of the congress people, congressmen, women want to meet. But I'd certainly be open to.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Have you spoken to them since you issued the parties?
TRUMP: I haven't spoken to any of them yet, but I know they're very happy.
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: I gave them their life back. Their life was taken away from them unnecessarily and unfairly. I gave them their life back, so I can imagine they probably would like to.
(CROSSTALK)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Mr. President, what does it mean when you said that Biden took bad advice and not pardoning himself yesterday?
TRUMP: Well, he did. I think he did because he pardoned all these people that are crooked as hell. Look, the congressmen, they're crooked. What they did is they destroyed evidence.
When you destroy evidence, especially criminally like that, they did it criminally. And the reason they destroyed the evidence is because it proved that I was right. They didn't destroy evidence for no reason. They destroyed it because they found many documents saying that I offered 10,000 soldiers -- if they had 500 soldiers or National Guard, there would have been no problem. If they had 200. That would have been. I offered 10,000 if they needed it. There would have been no problem.
That's been now totally disproven. And it's also been disproven by Nancy Pelosi's daughter, who has her on tape saying it was her fault, that she has full responsibility for this. And they have all that stuff.
They destroyed everything. And they go through a year and a half, two years of nonsense. They come up with tremendous evidence. And they destroyed evidence.
And Schiff knew about it. That's why he's on there. He knew all about the destruction of evidence. A lot of people said he's the one that got him to do it. And he's a crooked guy, totally crooked politician. And so, he's pardoned, and some other people are pardoned.
And these are crooked politicians, every one of them. Benny Johnson, what he did is incredible. I mean, he was the leader of the committee, and he did it. Cheney crying, Adam Kinzinger, all of them, they destroyed evidence and deleted everything.
There's nothing. There's no evidence now. They're crooked politicians, and they should be punished.
You know, that's even in a civil trial, you go to jail for a thing like that. They destroyed every document, from what I understand, every document, because it proved that I was totally innocent.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Do you plan to send up to 10,000 troops to the southern border?
TRUMP: Yes. Southern border?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes.
TRUMP: When you say southern border. When I said 10,000 troops, I was referring to the Capitol.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Oh, I see. And when do you plan doing that?
TRUMP: I offer 10,000 troops to the Capitol before January 6th.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: And as for the 1,500 at the southern border, sir, to clarify, what exactly do you want them to be doing right now?
TRUMP: Making sure that the border is safe and secure, and that criminals don't come into our country.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Sir, you think that sanctions on Russia will cause President Putin to negotiate?
TRUMP: I don't know, but I think he should make a deal.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Mr. President, does it bother you that Elon Musk criticized a deal that you made publicly? That he said that he tweeted that?
TRUMP: No. He hates one of the people in the deals.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Have you spoken to him since then?
TRUMP: No, no. Well, I've spoken to Elon, but I've spoken to all of them, actually. No, no. People in the deal are very, very smart people. But Elon, one of the people he happens to hate, but I have certain hatreds of people, too.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Sir, with China, what do you think Xi Jinping can do on the Ukraine-Russia war?
TRUMP: Which one?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The Ukraine-Russia war, what can Xi Jinping do about that?
TRUMP: China?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.
TRUMP: They have a lot of power over Russia. They supply energy to Russia, and Russia supplies energy to them. They supply other things too. You know, it's really a very big trade. It's a very big trading partner.
But Russia supplies a lot of energy to China, that China pays them a lot of money for that. And I think they have a lot of power over Russia. So I think Russia should want to make a deal.
Maybe they want to make a deal. I think from what I hear, Putin would like to see me and we'll meet as soon as we can. I'd meet immediately. Every day we don't meet, soldiers are being killed on a battlefield. And that battlefield is like no battlefield since World War II.
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: And I have pictures that you don't want to see. Soldiers are being killed on a daily basis at numbers that we haven't seen in decades. And it would be nice to end that war. It's a ridiculous war.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You said that Ukraine is ready to make a deal. Did President Zelenskyy tell you that personally?
TRUMP: No. He's ready to negotiate a deal. He'd like to start. He's somebody that lost a lot of soldiers and so did Russia lost a lot. Russia lost more soldiers. They lost 800,000 soldiers, would you say that's a lot? I'd say it's a lot.
(CROSSTALK)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You said that you wanted to make Dr. King's dream a reality. What's your response to his children and civil rights leaders who say that your DEI orders are a contradiction of his dream and could further drive racial?
TRUMP: Well, I haven't heard that.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Mr. President, you put the Houthis back on the terror list. How do you see the war in Yemen?
TRUMP: Well, we'll see what happens. But they can't shoot down our ships. The Houthis?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes.
TRUMP: They can't shoot down our ships or any ships. And that's what they've been doing. So they're on the terror list. That's not good for them.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Sir, why does it revoke security protections former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Brian Hook?
TRUMP: Well, the same reason when you have protection, you can't have it for the rest of your life. Do you want to have a large detail of people guarding people for the rest of their lives? I mean, there's risks to everything.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: So would you support Israel striking Iran's nuclear facilities?
TRUMP: Say it.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Would you support Israel, for example, striking Iran's nuclear facilities?
TRUMP: Well, obviously, I'm not going to answer that question. We'll have to see. I'm going to be meeting with various people over the next couple of days, we'll see.
But hopefully that can be worked out without having to worry about it. It would be nice -- it would really be nice if that could be worked out without having to go that further step.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: And who are you going to meet with or something like that?
TRUMP: Well, I'd rather not say that, but very high level people. But hopefully that could be worked out. You know, look, Iran, hopefully we'll make a deal. And if they don't make a deal, I guess that's OK, too.

Load-Date: January 23, 2025


End of Document
