




MailOnline
February 25, 2025 Tuesday 4:49 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:2
Length: 899 words
Byline: Stephen M. Lepore For Dailymail.Com
Body


Director of National Intelligence Tulsi Gabbard was irate and promised to root out National Security Administration agents who held lurid sex chats in sensitive government chat rooms in the name of DEI. 
The revelations of chats about 'polyamory and castration' came as President Donald Trump and Elon Musk's DOGE continue their effort to purge the federal government of woke gender ideology. 
A report by journalists Christopher Rufo and Hannah Goodman claimed that NSA agents engaged in wild chats on the NSA's Intelink messaging program 'featuring wide-ranging discussions of sex, kink, polyamory, and castration.'
These chats, according to Rufo and Goodman, were 'legitimized as part of the NSA's commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion.' 
They quote agents who have claimed to have undergone feminizing gender affirming surgeries or gender reassignment surgery, including one who called their artificial genitals 'everything.' 
Others casually referred to how much they enjoyed having sex upon having the surgery in their work chat, saying 'I've found that I like being penetrated (never liked it before GRS), but all the rest is just as important as well.'
Another bragged that having the surgery allowed them 'to wear leggings or bikinis without having to wear a gaff under it.' 
Others discussed laser hair removal, with one saying: '[G]etting my b***hole zapped by a laser was . . . shocking.' 
Another wrote bluntly about estrogen injections: 'Look, I just enjoy helping other people experience boobs.' 
Others talked about engaging in polyamory or ethical non-monogamy, with one claiming they were part of a nine-member polycule. 
Rufo and Goodman said their sources claim that left-wing activists 'used LGBTQ+ employee resource groups to turn their kinks and pathologies into official work duties,' with the full support of their superiors at the NSA.
Gabbard, who oversees the 18 American spy agencies, responded to the report promising to clean house and confirmed the existence of the chats, which have been destroyed.
'This behavior is unacceptable and those involved WILL be held accountable. These disgusting chat groups were immediately shut down when @POTUS issued his EO ending the DEI insanity the Biden Admin was obsessed with. Our IC must be focused on our core mission: ensuring the safety,' she wrote. 
Elon Musk also had a crack at the news and referenced his email asking workers to explain their duties each week: 'Well... at least we know what they did last week.'
Ironically, Gabbard is one of the many agency heads who have told employees to ignore Musk's requests. 
An NSA spokesperson told Rufo that the chats were real and that they're 'taking actions against any and all employees who abused this system.' 
DailyMail.com has reached out to both DNI and the NSA for comment. 
Trump has targeted 'woke' social policies enacted by his predecessor, including getting rid of diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) practices and declaring that there are only two genders.
He quickly made good on his pledge to sever diversity, equity and inclusion policies in the federal government as he is set to lay off all DEI hires within 24 hours. 
The new Trump administration sent a letter to all heads and acting heads of government agencies on Tuesday, informing them all federal employees in DEI roles must be placed on paid leave. 
All DEI offices in federal agencies are also being shuttered in the move, which comes after Trump signed an anti-DEI executive order in front of a cheering crowd at his inauguration.
In a letter first obtained by CBS News, the agencies were ordered to 'take prompt actions' against all departments 'focusing exclusively on DEI initiatives and programs.' 
The letter also demands all public DEI focused webpages be taken offline, and orders employees within the departments to report 'any efforts to disguise these programs by using coded or imprecise language.' 
Any employees that are aware of 'coded or imprecise language' intended to keep DEI programs alive but do not report them within 10 days are warned of 'adverse consequences.' 
Trump's executive order, titled 'Ending Radical and Wasteful Government DEI Programs and Preferencing and Initial Rescissions of Harmful Executive Orders and Actions', directly reverses a DEI executive order enacted by President Biden on his first day in office four years ago. 
The order concludes: 'These programs divided Americans by race, wasted taxpayer dollars, and resulted in shameful discrimination.' 
After all DEI hires are placed on leave, agencies are ordered to develop plans to lay off each employee that was hired under DEI policies, with a deadline given to develop a list for a 'reduction in force action.' 
The executive order slammed the 'infiltration' of DEI programs into the federal government, and cited the executive order signed by Biden on the first day of his presidency that aimed to tackle racial inequalities in government. 
He also signed an executive order that claims federal supervisors are afraid to fire incompetent staff members and requires that more accountability be brought to those who work for the government.
'Accountability is essential for all federal employees, but it is essentially important for those who are in policy-making positions,' the executive order reads.
'These personnel are entrusted to shape and implement actions that have a significant impact on all Americans.'

Load-Date: February 26, 2025


End of Document
