




The Daily Caller
February 10, 2025 Monday 06:12 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: US
Length: 584 words
Byline: Eireann Van Natta, Intelligence State Reporter, 
Body



The National Security Agency (NSA) is reportedly scrubbing its website content of newly banned terms, including “gender identity,” “allyship,” and “anti-racism.”
NSA websites and internal network pages containing any of the 27 banned terms will be deleted Feb. 10, according to a memo sent to staff obtained by . 
Anti-Racism, racism, DEI, equity, feminism, sexuality, and a litany of other terms are also banned, according to Popular Information, which first reported on the memo Monday. The memo notes that some of the banned words are used in other contexts not pertaining to diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI), the report added.
 1. EXCLUSIVE
 Today, the NSA is planning a “Big Delete” of websites and internal network content that contain any of 27 banned words, including “privilege,” “bias,” and “inclusion,” a NSA source tells Popular Information.
 The massive purge is creating chaos, taking down... 
 - Judd Legum (@JuddLegum) 
The “Big Delete” also affects internal network pages like project management software.
The NSA is working to identify “mission-related sites” before the directive goes into effect and is expecting some of those sites to unintentionally go down, according to the report.
 “NSA is working to ensure consistent application of the Executive Orders related to diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI),” an NSA spokesperson told the Caller.
“We are closely following the guidance provided and ensuring alignment with presidential priorities. We used DEI and Gender Ideology keywords as part of the review process of content. This is not a 'banned words' list, but rather it was meant to serve as a way to assist in identification of material that may need to be updated or removed per the Executive Orders.”
Some website content containing the banned terms seems to have been removed. A press release  “50 Years of Pride” in June 2020 no longer , for example, although it is not immediately clear if that change was made Monday.
Additionally, a press release  Asian American Pacific Island Heritage Month also appears to have been . The document said members of the community have “experienced mistreatment and racism associated with the origins of COVID-19.” However, it is not clear if the press release was removed Monday.
 Big news: An NSA whistleblower has alerted me that the NSA is attempting to hide their DEI program by renaming it the Equal Employment Opportunity and Accessibility group.
 As you can see, the training is the same and within it you find “DEIA as tradecraft.”
 This must be... 
 - Robby Starbuck (@robbystarbuck) 
President Donald Trump  DEI on his first day in office with his  targeting “radical and wasteful government DEI programs and preferencing” in federal agencies. Multiple agencies have complied with Trump's directive and have begun scrubbing their sites of DEI references.
The Department of Education deleted hundreds of  from its website in January, and the Department of Justice (DOJ) also zeroed-in on  and DEI programs. 
The FBI  to the Caller it closed its DEI office in December.

Graphic

 
Bush to the agency's installation in Fort Meade, Maryland, January 25, 2006. (Photo by Brooks Kraft LLC/Corbis via Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
