




Fox News THE STORY WITH MARTHA MACCALLUM 7:00 PM EST
January 30, 2025 Thursday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; International
Length: 8149 words
Byline: Martha MacCallum, Kerri Urbahn, Jennifer Griffin, Trace Gallagher; John Roberts
Guests: Thom Tillis, Brandt Anderson, Daniel Elwell
Body


TODD INMAN, NTSB: -- be discussing fatalities or names that will be handled by them is the proper authority.
[15:00:04]
So, we want to talk a little bit about our process. We will analyze the facts and determine the probable cause of the accident and then issue a report of those determinations.
I also want to talk a little bit about some additional people that are here with us and they're very important to us, and that is our family assistance group. Later today we will be briefing the families. We normally try to do this before a media event, but in this case, they're still arriving. Our family assistance specialists are already working closely with local officials and others to help assist them in their efforts to support everyone that's affected by this accident.
And let me just reiterate what the chair said. A loss of life in an aviation accident is very unusual in the United States, and our heartfelt sorrow goes out to everyone that's affected. It affects us. It affects everyone around us. There are a lot of people hurting today. We will help find out what happened. We will do it factually, and we will do it accurately.
As part of this, we are going to be standing up some specific working groups. Those working groups will be operations. They will be looking at the history of the accident flight and crew members duties for as many days before the crash as appears relevant.
We'll be forming a structures group, which will be the documentation of the airframe wreckage and the accident scene, including calculation of impact angles to help determine the plane's pre-impact course and altitude. We'll have a power plants group. They will do the examination of the engines and the engine accessories. We'll have a systems group. They will study the components of the plane's hydraulic, electrical, pneumatic, and associated systems, together with the instruments and elements of the flight control system.
We'll have an air traffic control group that will do reconstruction and review of air traffic control systems provided to and including acquisition of pertinent flight track surveillance information, what you might typically think of as radar, or ADSB, along with controller pilot communications. We will also have a survival factors group. They will be doing the documentation of impact forces and injuries, community emergency planning and all crash and fire rescue efforts.
Also, due to the unique nature of this crash, we will be having a helicopter group as well. Lastly, we will have a human performance group. And this will not be its own group. It will actually be a part of the operations, air traffic control and helicopter groups. They will study the crew performance and all before the actors and factors that might be involved in human error, including fatigue, medication, medical histories, training, workload, equipment design and work environment.
Now, we're going to take a few questions, but I will again stress we don't have a lot of information now. We will continue to gather that. We will try to release it as we can, but we will only talk about the facts of the case that we know right now. So, I'm going to ask -- we're calling a few people. I'm going to ask that you state your name, the affiliation.
REPORTER: James Matthews from Sky News. So, we've heard from talking about DEI hiring policies and associating that with the cause, what do you say to that?
INMAN: Well, unfortunately, I didn't hear the remarks. I was briefing House and Senate numbers, but I believe, chair, would you take that?
JENNIFER HOMENDY, NTSB CHAIR: As part of any investigation, we look at the human, the machine and the environment. So, we will look at all the humans that were involved in this accident. Again, we will look at the aircraft. We will look at the helicopter. We will look at the environment in which they were operating in. That is standard in any part of our investigation. I'll turn it back --
REPORTER: Chairman, can I ask you, has the flight data reporter been recovered yet? And what is the difficulty in a water disaster like this, which presents a very difficult environment for your investigators and the people out of the water?
HOMENDY: Well, the question was on the flight data recorders, and we have not recovered the flight data recorders yet. We know they're there. They are underwater. This is not unusual for the NTSB. We have many times recovered flight data recorders in water. We have our lab right here that it's about a mile from the NTSB, so it's not unusual. And once we get those, we'll be able to get those read and information from them to be able to provide further information to you.
[15:05:03]
I'm going to turn it back over to Member Inman.
INMAN: Yes, sir?
REPORTER: (INAUDIBLE) with CBS News. Earlier today, Defense Secretary Pete Texas said a mistake was made last night. Based off of you all's initial investigations of preliminary findings, have you all been able to tell whether this was human error or mechanical failure?
INMAN: The question was, has there been human error or mechanical failure? We don't know what we know just yet. We do not know enough facts to be able to rule in or out. Human factor, mechanical factors, that is part of the NTSB investigative process where all of these groups will come together. It's one of the reasons why the NTSB is known as the gold standard. We will take the time that's necessary.
But I'd also like to reiterate, if we find something that is a significant issue that warrants immediate action, we will not hesitate to make those recommendations and make them public. We have a good track record on that and we want to continue doing so. Sir?
REPORTER: Hello, sir, Tom Costello with NBC News. Does a tertiary investigative process -- maybe for the chairman, does a tertiary investigative process (INAUDIBLE) already suggesting possible causes here as you try to keep an open mind and begin this investigation?
INMAN: Chief?
HOMENDY: Tom, with all due respect, I think the press also likes to state what probable causes before we get to the probable cause. So, what I'm going to say is you need to give us time. You need to give NTS -- it's not that we don't have information. We do have information. We have data. We have substantial amounts of information. We need to verify information. We need to take our time to make sure it is accurate, that's best for you, that's important for the families. It's important for legislators who are seeking answers to try to figure out what they're going to do about this. And so it will take time. We do have a lot of information, but we need some time to verify that.
INMAN: Yes?
REPORTER: (INAUDIBLE) from Fox Business. I'm wondering about the conditions in the tower last night. Were there any performance issues in the past with any of these controllers, anything of that?
INMAN: The question is about controllers. As I said, we're just now forming the groups. The controllers do have union representation, which they're entitled to. They'll be working with our party system and our party groups. They'll be conducting interviews. Those interviews will need to be analyzed, transcribed, and other team members will need to look over it. It'll be a long process, but we will go through the entire history.
REPORTER: (INAUDIBLE)?
HOMENDY: Sure. So, the question was about my briefing for the president and the vice president. As a standard, we offer briefings on our process and what we know. And this was a briefing with the president and vice president and with Secretary Duffy and Secretary Hegseth and also the acting administrator of the FAA. There were discussion on what we know so far and our process, and that was about it.
REPORTER: (INAUDIBLE). The president has stated what may have caused the crash, stating common sense. Does that affect your progress at this early stage?
HOMENDY: Yes. So, the NTSB, we conduct a mission where we take a very careful approach. I'm sorry, the question was on speculating during investigations, which is we often hear about. What I will say is we look at facts on our investigation, and that will take some time. And at some point, we'll be able to provide that factual information, as Member Inman, and provide that hopefully tomorrow.
INMAN: Yes, sir. Go ahead.
REPORTER: (INAUDIBLE). Have you been able to retrieve the black boxes from the helicopter? Will the military decide whether they're going to read those (INAUDIBLE)?
INMAN: So, the question was about black boxes, which are referred to as black boxes, which typically orange. We have not recovered any of the boxes involved yet. We feel comfortable and confident that we will be able to right now. Recovery of life is probably most important in those that were involved. I mean, there are still ongoing recovery efforts involving the fatalities involved, along with some debris is coming out as well.
[15:10:03]
We will make sure that that perishable evidence is maintained. We have a great process for that. We will probably have more than one black box, so to speak. It's our understanding that the Sikorsky helicopter is equipped with some form of recording devices and those will be read either by the DOD or by us. We have a good starting relationship with them and we've already made agreements in order to be able to do that. So, I feel comfortable in what we're going to be doing.
The other question was about air traffic control. We received a very large package of information from the FAA at about 3:00 A.M., I believe, this morning that is still being reviewed and analyzed. I would say there's a lot more information that usually comes in that than what you might find online and people might speculate about. And that is part of that overall process where we take the time to get the information correct and to make sure all the parties are engaged, involved and can fact-check that information.
Go on.
REPORTER: (INAUDIBLE) from CNN. Can you tell me if the NTSB has reviewed this FAA internal board that has been cited by The New York Times indicating that the controller that was on view (ph) at the time of the crash was doing their job, and it was done by two people?
INMAN: We have not reviewed any specific reports about the controllers at this time, at least from the leadership team. Our investigators are continuing to pull all that information, their personnel records, their files, where they were at, whether they were fatigued. All that information will be part of that investigative process. But right now, we can't speculate on anything that may have been reported in the media until we get the opportunity to validate and understand how it impacts the investigation.
We're going to take just a few more questions. Sir?
REPORTER: (INAUDIBLE). What's processing with this (INAUDIBLE) bringing the family in? Are they coming into the airport? And how are you going to put the sensitivity of bringing them to this place where this tragedy happened?
INMAN: So, the question is about the families and many of those families are still in route. Some are still being notified from both the military and from the commercial crash. There is a family assistance facility that's being stood up by American and PSA Airlines in Bethesda, Maryland. They've already been working on that, standing it up. Our team from our disaster assistance team has also been coordinating with them and finally briefing them.
It is customary that at some point if the families wish to go to a part of the accident site that we would arrange such a thing, but it will only be when we know that it's safe, we have the correct perishable evidence, and we can do it in the proper modesty that should be for those family members. It will be a little bit of a process, but it will take some time.
REPORTER: Sir, to follow up on the air traffic control --
INMAN: No. Sir, or you.
REPORTER: (INAUDIBLE). We've heard from some witnesses that they saw people able to come down the slide of the plane. Has there been any indication that people made it off the plane to the water?
INMAN: Well, again, we will not speak to the fatalities. The D.C. medical examiner will. But I think the D.C. Fire chief this morning very succinctly said correctly that we believe there are no survivors.
REPORTER: (INAUDIBLE) get out?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Last question.
INMAN: So, hang on a second. Right now we're going through the debris fields. Nothing we've seen would indicate that maybe slides or shoots were deployed. It was a very quick, rapid impact. But we've seen nothing in that regard so far from the evidence we have, but we still need to verify all of that information.
One more question.
REPORTER: (INAUDIBLE). Are you looking at the family member's cell phone?
INMAN: Go ahead.
REPORTER: (INAUDIBLE) from ABC News. What do you think about the altitude of the helicopter (INAUDIBLE)? Can you talk about the (INAUDIBLE)?
INMAN: The question is about the helicopter procedures. And in D.C., it's kind of a unique environment. We've been getting briefed more and more by the FAA. I'm not an air traffic control specialist, but there are actually helicopter zones, if you will, or tracks, and this one was transiting, I believe, from track one to four as part of their normal procedure.
If you live in D.C., you see a lot of helicopters going down into this area. So there's a very well defined system in that regard.
As far as altitude, until we get the additional information, we can't validate or basically collaborate any of that until we get more of the electronic data and the data that's on the plane.
I do want to clarify one question that also came about cell phones. You know, in today's age and time, a lot of electronics and other devices do contain a lot of different information. We've found on a number of our accidents that we actually are notified through a smart phone that made sense that. As part of our process, we will obviously treat the -- all of the effects of the deceased with dignity.
[15:15:03]
We are already starting to pull that information together. If we feel that it's necessary to find or pull some of that information, we will work with the families and make sure we do it in a manner that's respectful for them and their privacy. But right now, we don't have any plans specifically on that amount on that area until we need to.
Thank you very much.
TRACE GALLAGHER, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Well, good afternoon, everybody. I'm Trace Gallagher in for Martha MacCallum, and this is The Story. That was our first briefing from the NTSB at the Reagan National Airport, of course, after the midair collision between an American Airlines plane with 64 people on board, 60 passengers and four crew members and an Army helicopter carrying three service members. The D.C. fire chief says he does not expect to find any survivors.
And you heard the NTSB right there kind of reiterating that that they do not expect to find any survivors. They also kind of went into a little bit of detail about the fact that when you look at the wreckage live on the left hand side of your screen, there was no indication that any shoots or slides were displayed. In other words, no indication that any emergency precautions were taken giving people a chance to maybe get out of the fuselage.
They also went over things like the black boxes, saying the cockpit voice recorder and data recorders have not been removed from the crash site on either the airplane or the helicopter. They are just talking now about the investigative process. They will not go into -- and this is standard NTSB operating procedure, they will not go into the details of the crash and speculation about the crash. They will only for now talk about the investigative process.
And they did say at the end, which is somewhat interesting. The question was asked, will you consider using some of the cell phones of the passengers who were on board? And the answer was possibly, that they want to go through the belongings with dignity. But if the cell phones might play a part in solving what happened, they might utilize that as well.
President Trump calling this an hour of anguish for our nation. Let's go to America Reports co-Anchor John Roberts. He's in Washington. John, it seems to me like the total investigation here is about the route of the helicopter and what it was doing at 400 feet when it should have been a 200 feet. It seems like that would be the initial focus and why it was in that area and why for some reason the three people on board, the six eyes on board that Black Hawk helicopter apparently did not see. They saw an aircraft but did not see the proper aircraft, John.
JOHN ROBERTS, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Yes, that's a good question. And it's one of many questions that will be asked and potentially answered in the days and weeks ahead. You heard the NTSB board members saying that there is a well-defined system for handling traffic like this. There are plenty of helicopters in this area, whether they be military, whether they be park police, whether they be military aircraft that are assigned to ferry the president around.
They often are in the same airspace as these commercial aircraft that arrive at and depart from DCA. Very tight flight restrictions, too, in terms of landing and taking off from Reagan following what happened back on 9/11. They have to follow a very defined corridor to get up and get out of the area and get back in it as well.
When you were landing from the north there is what's called the river route that the pilots have to follow. And that is a meandering route that really just kind of takes them down the twists and turns of the Potomac River before they turn a hard right final over Gravely Point to get onto the 19 south or 15 south runways. But when you're coming up from the south it's not quite as twisty and turny. You just follow the Potomac River up. Then if you're landing on runway one, it's just a straight in over Alexandria. Or if you're coming in 33, you swing over Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling, and then into 33. And it was right at that moment, turning short final for 33, where that helicopter and the regional jet with American Airlines came into tragic contact with each other.
And what the NTSB is going to be looking at, because these are, again, well-defined systems for handling this air traffic is, was the helicopter on the proper course, was it at the proper altitude? The helicopter had been told by air traffic control to watch out for a regional jet. There happened to be another American Airlines jet that was departing Runway 1 just before the regional jet coming in from Wichita was turning short final.
There's been some talk as to whether or not the helicopter pilot might have mistaken that regional jet for the one that it was supposed to look out for, but that doesn't appear to be on any of the transcripts of the comms between the air traffic controllers and the helicopter, defining where exactly the helicopter pilot should look for the traffic.
[15:20:04]
It just said, be aware of the regional jet. Do you have it? Yes, I have it. But was it at 2:00, was it at 12:00, was it 11:00? There didn't seem to be any specific orientation as to where that jet was going to be.
So the NTSB has got its work cut up for it, Trace. We've never seen anything like this in the Washington D.C. area before. And so this one's really got a lot of people scratching their heads as to how this happened.
GALLAGHER: John Roberts, exceptional reporting at the scene, as always. John, thank you.
Let's bring in Daniel Elwell, former FAA deputy and acting administrator. He's also a former Air Force and commercial pilot who flew out of Reagan National for 15 years. Dan, great to see you again. We talked late last night when this happened.
John was making a very good point there, and I want to bring this up to you because this whole conversation between the air traffic controllers and the helicopter, we now have kind of specifics and John makes a good point. And I want to read this to you, Dan, you probably have seen this, but it's the air traffic controller saying a priority air transport, Pat 25, do you have the CRJ in sight? Pat 25 pass behind the CRJ. The helicopter pilot did not respond on that channel, but did respond on a UHF channel saying, Pat 25 has aircraft in sight request visual separation. The air traffic controller comes back separation, American 472 Washington Tower, and that was the moment of the collision.
Are you surprised in the initial air traffic control instructions to or notification might be a better term here, Dan, are you surprised that the helicopter pilots were not given a do you have the CRJ inside at 9:00? Do you have it off your is some kind of specific considering how busy Reagan DCA is?
DANIEL ELWELL, FORMER FAA ACTING ADMINISTRATOR: Yes. I mean, optimally as a pilot, it's good to get traffic notifications with an azimuth to look for. In this case, at night, looking at the top from the tower, it's possible that the proximity was apparent but not the azimuth, meaning the direction from the helicopter to the traffic. And having done and flown at D.C. for many years, in my mind, it's possible, in fact, likely that neither airplane saw each other.
I think with the instruction, do you have the CRJ on final or do you have the CRJ traffic? Well, 90 percent of the time, the traffic that the tower would be warning them about would be coming up from the south to Runway 1. And it's conceivable that the helicopter pilot trained his eyes directly to final on one rather than immediately above him.
And then if you look, it's a perpendicular impact and the CRJ was descending, so -- and possibly in a turn to line up on 33, and there's probably a little chance he saw the helicopter underneath him.
GALLAGHER: Can I just stop you right there, Dan, because I know it's important, this whole 33 switch from 1 to 33? Should the regional jet have been switched to 33? Is it standard operating procedure? Does it happen all the time? And does ATC make sure that the path from switching from Runway 1 to Runway 33 is cleared of any other traffic?
ELWELL: Yes. So, ideally, pilots and controllers like to give advanced notice to a crew to land on a runway that they're not expecting. So, a 33 is landed -- the regional carriers land on 33 all the time. The bigger airlines and the bigger aircraft do not. Optimally, you would want to tell an aircraft as it's maybe crossing the Wilson Bridge, say, expect runway 33, so that they can get themselves geared up for what they have to do to line up the 33.
I don't know when that question was asked of the American flight. Can you do 33? And, you know, having done this a number of times, I prefer to be asked further out than closer in, but it doesn't mean it's unsafe. It doesn't mean that it's abnormal. And no matter when a pilot agrees to do it or is asked to do it, the maneuver is a safe maneuver. It's moving the airplane to the east side of the river, maybe even over land a little bit so that they can then bank and make the 40, 50-degree correction to land on runway 33 and align with the proper visual landing conditions.
[15:25:00]
GALLAGHER: Yes. It's the questions a lot of these people are wondering about.
Dan Elwell, great to have you on again, we appreciate it.
Meantime, we also have breaking right now, a confirmation hearing for Kash Patel, the Trump disruptor tapped to shake things up at the FBI has just wrapped on Capitol Hill. Senator Thom Tillis, who introduced Patel today, will join us next.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. JOHN KENNEDY (R-LA): You've made a lot of people mad, haven't you, Mr. Patel?
KASH PATEL, FBI DIRECTOR NOMINEE: It seems so, Senator.
KENNEDY: You think maybe you've made the right people mad?
PATEL: As my FBI agents, the BRIC agents told me when I was running cases with them across this country and on the world, if you're not taking off some people, you're not doing your job right.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GALLAGHER: Well, Tulsi Gabbard, one of several controversial cabinet picks, facing confirmation hearings on the Hill today. She is considered one of the most vulnerable of President Trump's nominees. She was repeatedly pressed on her past statements surrounding Russia, Syria, and Edward Snowden as the nominee for director of National Intelligence. She slammed prior administrations and their, quote, faulty, inadequate and weaponized intelligence.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TULSI GABBARD, DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE NOMINEE: The American people elected Donald Trump as their president, not once but twice, and yet the FBI and intelligence agencies were politicized by his opponents to undermine his presidency and falsely portray him as a puppet of Putin.
[15:30:08]
(END VIDEO CLIP)
TRACE GALLAGHER, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: And moments ago, Kash Patel, Trump's disruptor, pick to lead the FBI. Patel has railed against what he called the weaponization of the federal government and has vowed to, quote, annihilate the deep state. A lot of questions zeroing in on those statements like this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. SHELDON WHITEHOUSE (D-RI): Warnings that the FBI could become Trump's enforcer, use the powers of law enforcement to stifle speech and dissent.
SEN. CHRIS COONS, (D-DE): If confirmed, are you going to follow through on these previous statements that Director Wray needs to be prosecuted?
KASH PATEL, NOMINEE FOR FBI DIRECTOR: There is enough violent crime in this country and enough national security threats to this country that the FBI is going to be busy going forward preventing 100,000 overdoses, 100,000 rapes and 17,000 homicides.
SEN. AMY KLOBUCHAR (D-MN): He asked him to be head of the FBI and he said that their headquarters should be shut down.
PATEL: If the best attacks on me are going to be false accusations and grotesque mischaracterizations, the only thing this body is doing is defeating the credibility of the men and women at the FBI.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Well, Fox News legal editor Kerri Urbahn was in the room today as Patel was questioned by lawmaker. She joins us now. Kerri, great to have you on the show.
You were there. I wanted to play a little bit more sound some of the things that you thought were interesting in there, one of them being Senator Adam Schiff accusing Patel of bragging essentially about a song that January 6th inmates saying, here's the back and forth between Schiff and Patel. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. ADAM SCHIFF (D-CA): Tell them you're proud of what you did, Mr. Patel. They're right there. They're guarding you today. Tell them how proud you are.
PATEL: That's an abject lie and you know it. I never --
SCHIFF: How proud you are?
PATEL: -- never ever accepted violence against law enforcement. I've worked with these men and women --
SCHIFF: Oh no, no. You've been --
PATEL: -- as you know --
SCHIFF: -- accepted, you glorified --
PATEL: -- my entire life.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Yes. What did you think about that? Back and forth, Kerri?
KERRI URBAHN, FOX NEWS LEGAL EDITOR: That was probably the tensest exchange that we saw throughout the whole hearing. There was a lot of -- there was a fixation on that January 6 song which, by the way, I had never heard of until today. And even Senator Durbin at one point said, you may wonder why we keep talking about this and it may feel a little silly.
And then he went on to explain why they were getting at it. But to be honest, it did feel a little silly because the senators did have a lot to work with given Kash Patel's colorful statements from the past. But I have to tell you, Trace, what really stood out to me was Kash's experience as a lawyer he was very careful in his comments.
And I thought to myself, and I've watched a lot of these hearings over the years, I thought, you know, he is as craftiest as some of the craftiest senators on that dais. So he gave them a real run for their money. I also was surprised, actually, at how smooth it went overall.
There were no protesters. There were no disruptions. In fact, if anything, sitting in that room, it felt Kash friendly.
GALLAGHER: Yes.
URBAHN: There was laughter at some of the things he had said in the past. There was, you know, sympathetic nods and sighs when he talked about some of the racism he had experienced. And so overall, I thought he did a great job, and I think he'll get through just fine.
GALLAGHER: Yes, it's interesting. Kerri Urbahn, great to have you. Great analysis as always, we appreciate it.
Meantime, Republican Senator from North Carolina, Thom Tillis is on the Judiciary Committee. He introduced Patel at today's hearing. Senator, it's great to have you on there.
I just wanted to put this up so you can talk about this and you can talk about the Patel hearing. But I thought this was fascinating. It's the FBI approval. Gallup poll says the FBI, since 2019 to 2024, their approval rating dropped 16 points in that period. I mean, this is an agency in desperate need of a makeover. And maybe Kash Patel is that person, sir.
SEN. THOM TILLIS (R-NC): I believe he is. I've spent three months really getting to know Kash very well. He has been great to work with. And he demonstrated his poise, his discernment, and his confidence in full display today in the hearing.
There were a lot of cheap shots taken. Some of my friends, many of them are my friends on the other side of the aisle, but held firm, and that's the sort of steady leadership we need. We also need to stop this cycle.
I have supported FBI directors and I've supported -- I voted for Merrick Garland, but there's no doubt that they disappointed me. They failed to actually root out the agency of people who have political motives and unfair prosecutions. I believe that Kash Patel is that man. And I hope, and I told him in my final comments, go back and listen to what John Kennedy said.
John Kennedy and I, who are discerning, when we vote for nominees and we voted for Democrat or for Biden nominees. We'd hoped that they were going to break the cycle. I believe that Kash Patel will break the cycle. He will forcefully support the Constitution and the law, and he will stand behind every law enforcement officer for their safety, their protection, and their professional development.
GALLAGHER: If I hear you correctly, here, senator, are you disappointed that your colleagues are putting politics ahead of what's really best for the country and for the agency itself?
TILLIS: Yes, it's a shirts and skins game. You know, I put this bingo card out as really, I guess, it is a bit of a caricature, but it was -- I was fully anticipating how it was going to go. And it was a serious caricature of what I anticipated the behavior to be. They did not disappoint.
I think Kash Patel is going to go in there and he's going to give advice to the President. If the President is thinking along one lines, I believe that Kash Patel has the courage and the obligation to the President to tell him how he should lead the FBI and how Pam Bondi will lead the DOJ.
GALLAGHER: Yes. And while I've got you sir, would you give us any indication on how you plan to vote for Robert F. Kennedy Jr.?
TILLIS: Out of the -- I was in -- I'm on finance hearing and I thought he did very well yesterday. He -- I have -- because I was in the judiciary hearing all day today. I haven't been debriefed on how well he did and help committee.
But I'm a lean yes coming out of the Finance Committee. I'll take a look at what he did and make a final decision before we have the vote in Finance. He will not be voted out of help. The only committee that will vote on him to advance his nomination is my committee, Finance Committee.
GALLAGHER: Senator, great to have you on. Thank you.
TILLIS: Thank you.
GALLAGHER: Well, Pentagon chief Pete Hegseth says promising a swift investigation into the army training flight that ended in tragedy.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PETE HEGSETH, DEFENSE SECRETARY: There was some sort of an elevation issue that we have immediately begun investigating at the DoD and Army level. Army CID is on the ground investigating.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GALLAGHER: While Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth says the Pentagon is investigating the deadly mid air collision between an army helicopter and a passenger plane near Washington --
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
HEGSETH: The military does dangerous things. It does routine things on the regular basis. Tragically, last night a mistake was made. I think the President is right, there was some sort of an elevation issue that we have immediately begun investigating at the DOD and Army level -- to get to the bottom of it so that it does not happen again because it's absolutely unacceptable.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: The chief national security correspondent Jennifer Griffin is live for us at the Pentagon with more on this. Jennifer.
JENNIFER GRIFFIN, FOX NEWS CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: The co- pilot of the Black Hawk army helicopter was a female pilot with 500 hours of flying time. The instructor who was also being evaluated on this routine nighttime training mission had logged over 1,000 flight hours. Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth described them as fairly experienced. He ordered a 48 hour operational pause for the Army Aviation Battalion involved in the crash.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
HEGSETH: Three soldiers, young captain staff sergeant and CW2 chief warrant officer (inaudible). Routine annual retraining of night flights on a standard corridor for a continuity of government mission. I think the President is right. There was some sort of an elevation issue.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GRIFFIN: Flight ceiling for helicopters in the DC Capital region is 200 feet. It's not clear how high they were flying. Jonathan Koziol, the Army Aviation Directorate chief of staff, told reporters here at the Pentagon the pilots and crew were familiar with the route and area, and had been with the unit for some time. This was a routine training mission.
Military helicopters and other government helicopters fly this route on almost a daily basis. The President's choice for army secretary was asked about a 2024 army aviation report that suggested last year had the most severe aviation incidents in more than 10 years.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DAN DRISCOLL, ARMY SECRETARY NOMINEE: If confirmed and working with this committee to figure out the facts, I think we might need to look at where is an appropriate time to take training risk and it may not be near an airport like Reagan.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GRIFFIN: This video shows the moment of the crash. Officials say there was no sign of terrorism or criminality. The Black Hawk helicopter took off from Fort Belvoir, Virginia. We're told the pilots had night vision goggles at the time of the crash. It's not clear whether they were wearing them and whether the lights from the city may have impacted the use of that night vision.
A lot of attention will now be paid to their elevation and the communication coming from the Air Traffic Control. Trace?
GALLAGHER: Jennifer Griffin live for us from the Pentagon. Jen, thank you.
Let's bring in retired US Army Captain Brandt Anderson, a former combat helicopter pilot. Brandt, great to have you on the show.
Pete Hegseth, you might have heard him say there was an elevation problem. Simply saying, listen, the helicopter was too high. We know the airplane crash happened between 300 feet and 400 feet, at least that's what the radar tells us. Was the helicopter too high?
BRANDT ANDERSON, RETIRED US ARMY CAPTAIN: Well, yes. Hey, thanks so much for having me. You know, first off, my condolences go out to everybody involved.
GALLAGHER: Sure.
ANDERSON: It's a really -- a real tragedy that we as army aviators always try to prevent at every turn. To answer your question, yes, we know that 200 is the ceiling along the Potomac River, and that rotary wing traffic operating in that area may not fly above that.
It's very clearly labeled on FAA maps and so, you know, it's one of the things the American Airlines flight may not have even been expecting to see a helicopter operating at that altitude. And it's certainly something that if they were, if they investigation were that high, then that's something they will find as a fault on the army aircrew.
GALLAGHER: So from the air traffic control perspective on this, when they are giving these instructions and they're talking to the helicopter pilots saying do you see the regional jet and go to the rear pass behind the CRJ, do they know at the time that the helicopter is too high and should there have been a warning and lower your altitude?
ANDERSON: They certainly could have, and most ATC will say that, you know, army helicopter check altitude and maintain visual separation. You know, that's certainly something ATC could have said in that scenario. And I think one of the other big points to raise here is that, it is a congested airspace as many have talked about already today, and that the army air crew certainly could have been looking at the wrong airplane.
Night vision goggles, they pull out all kinds of light. They're looking at, you know, blinking lights on towers around the DMV on the approach into DCA. It's certainly possible that just got lost in the noise, as is often the case in congested areas.
You know, the investigation will play out if they were wearing those night vision goggles or not. Certainly that can be a judgment call on the part of pilots. Sometimes when it's bright enough, they can go unaided, in which they -- in which case they're just flying with the naked eye.
But as if this was a training flight and annual night evaluation called APART, those are things that usually occur under night vision goggles to evaluate how the aircrews are doing. And I think one of the other worries here is if they're looking down the Potomac River, they could have been looking further south and not even seen the American Airlines jet coming around for the 33 Runway, which puts them a little bit further east than they might -- than the aircrew might have been expecting.
GALLAGHER: Yes.
ANDERSON: And so when they responded to the air traffic controllers, it's possible they said affirmatively, but we're just looking at the wrong airplane.
GALLAGHER: Yes. And when you talk about night vision goggles, and again, we don't know if they were wearing them or not, but this was a night vision goggle training mission, do you expect or anticipate that all three of the people on board that -- aboard that training mission would have been wearing night vision goggles?
Could one of them been wearing it? Could it be two out of three? What do you think about that?
ANDERSON: It certainly could have. So there's mixed cockpits when folks will wear night vision goggles and some will not. They'll do that routinely as a part of training, but that is something that's closely coordinated. And I think one of the points to consider here with night vision goggles, your peripheral vision is reduced when you're wearing those.
So it's incumbent upon those who are wearing the goggles to scan, to maintain a constant scan, looking left and right, because you don't have the same periphery available as you do with the naked eye or as you and I are walking around today in daylight. And so, one of the problems that can rise with night vision goggles is folks can get fixated.
GALLAGHER: Yes.
ANDERSON: They can fixate one thing and all of a sudden miss something that's happening right out their left door or right out the right door.
GALLAGHER: You know the scenario better than I do. I want to just play this for you because this is the ATC conversation with the Blackhawk helicopter. PAT 25, do you have the CRJ in sight? PAT 25 pass behind the CRJ. The helicopter pilot responds 25 has aircraft insight request visual separation.
So it appears like, yes, they've got this in sight, but there's no direction that the ATC, Brandt, never gives the helicopter pilots any direction. 11:00 o'clock, do you have the CRJ at 11:00 o'clock pass behind. So, would you anticipate something a bit more from ATC?
ANDERSON: I would say yes and no. You know, I think one of the other things in these busy airspaces is ATC can be very short with pilots. They communicate very fast because they have to keep the radios clear. They're managing a variety of incoming aircraft and they speak very quickly and not always as fulsomely or completely as you might expect in a quieter airport.
And so sometimes when they do that -- and one of the reasons they will give visual separation is to reduce ATC workload. So by handing off the onus of the responsibility onto that army air crew to avoid, that's one less thing for that air traffic controller to worry about.
And so, I think there's another wrinkle here where the air traffic controllers can be saturated. They're speaking quickly short and handing off responsibilities to the pilot and air crew. They have to watch out for themselves at that point once that confirmation is received.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Brandt Anderson, really good insight, great information. Thank you for coming on. We appreciate it.
ANDERSON: Thanks much for having me.
GALLAGHER: Well, the moments you miss from day two of Robert F. Kennedy Jr.'s battle to become HHH secretary, that's next.
(INAUDIBLE)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
ROBERT F. KENNEDY JR, HHS SECRETARY NOMINEE: Nation is ready for change and recognizes that this is a unique inflection moment. I promised President Trump that if confirmed, I will do everything in my power to put the health of America back on track.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Another big day on Capitol Hill for Robert F. Kennedy Jr., President Trump's controversial pick to lead the Department of Health and Human Services, battling to convince critics his position on vaccines is not extreme.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (I-VT): There have been, as I understand it, dozens of studies done all over the world that make it very clear that vaccines do not cause autism.
SEN. RAND PAUL (R-KY): All this blather about the science says this and the science says that, no, it doesn't. There's such a belief in submission. Submit to the government, do what you're told.
SEN. MAGGIE HASSAN (D-NH): I am the proud mother of a 36-year-old young man with severe cerebral palsy. So please do not suggest that anybody in this body of either political party doesn't want to know what the cause of autism is.
KENNEDY: Almost all the members of this panel are accepting, including yourself, are accepting millions of dollars from the pharmaceutical industry.
SANDERS: Oh, no, no.
KENNEDY: Protecting their interests.
SANDERS: Oh, I thought that would -- no, I ran for president like you. I got millions and millions of contributions. They did not come --
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Well, moments ago, President Trump signing an executive order and a memo. Here's the video of that. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF UNITED STATES: Good. I'd ask Will to explain the first, but really more importantly, explain the second and we'll start signing. Go ahead, please.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, sir. Just two items for your signature today. The first is the formal commission appointing Chris Rocheleau to be the deputy administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration. And since the commissioner position is -- excuse me. Since the administrator position is currently vacant, he will act as the administrator since he's now been appointed deputy.
TRUMP: And he's a very capable guy.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Extremely experienced in aviation and highly regarded in the industry and in government.
TRUMP: OK.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you, sir.
TRUMP: Thank you.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Second for your signature, we have a presidential memorandum titled "Immediate Assessment of Aviation Safety." In light of the damage done to aviation safety by the Biden administration's DEI and woke policies, what this presidential memorandum orders is for your Secretary of Transportation and FAA administrator, in this case, acting FAA Administrator, to basically ensure that we are actively undoing all of that damage, that we are assessing how much damage was done, and that we're ensuring that people hired within the FAA, in keeping with your memorandum of January 21st, are only the most outstanding, capable people for the jobs that they are being hired into.
TRUMP: In other words, competence.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, sir. Elevating competence over everything else instead of the DEI policies that were pursued by the Biden administration.
TRUMP: I think everyone understands that. And Obama.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.
TRUMP: Both of them. OK, but Biden, much worse. Not even a contest. What they've done is just crazy in so many other ways. OK?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Mr. President, to be clear, are you saying race or gender played a role in this tragedy?
TRUMP: It may have, I don't know. Incompetence might have played a role, we'll let you know that. But we want the most competent people. We don't care what race they are. We want the most competent people, especially in those positions.
And, you know, you're talking about extremely complex things, and if they don't have a great brain, a great power of the brain, they're not going to be very good at what they do and bad things will happen.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Mr. President, there's long been concerns about the amount of congestion out of DC airport, do you think that there's too many flights coming out of that airport?
TRUMP: No, I think we need very smart people running the flights and doing it. You know, the ones that aren't good, they'll either do one of two things. They'll have too many coming in and they can't handle it, or they'll have the people waiting up in the air, which everyone's been caught in that situation and circling the airports for an hour, and that's no good either.
(CROSSTALK)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Mr. President, military helicopter training flights that are flying around national airport all the time. What's your view? Should they told --
TRUMP: It is fine if they're in the right locations, and if they're not at the same level. I mean, if a plane coming in is at 300 feet or 400 feet and helicopters training at 300 feet or 400 feet, why wouldn't they be up 500 feet higher? So I certainly want -- and that to a certain extent is the air traffic controller.
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: Wait, please, wait just a second.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You feel like what happened last night was preventable?
TRUMP: I do, yes. Oh, absolutely. And obviously that was something that should not have happened and we're not going to let it happen again. Yes, please.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Mr. President, on a slightly different subject, under Canada and Mexico tariffs, will oil be included or excluded from those tariffs?
TRUMP: So we'll be announcing the tariffs on Canada and Mexico for a number of reasons. Number one is the people that have poured into our country so horribly and so much. Number two are the drugs fentanyl and everything else that have come into the country.
And number three are the massive subsidies that we're giving to Canada and to Mexico in the form of deficits. And I'll be putting the tariff of 25 percent on Canada and separately 25 percent on Mexico. And we will really have to do that because we have very big deficits with those countries. Those tariffs may or may not rise with time.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Will oil be part of that? Because we get oil from Canada?
TRUMP: Oil is going to have nothing to do with it as far as I'm concerned. Oil has nothing to do with it.
(CROSSTALK)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (Inaudible) and you want 30,000 new beds. Is there is there a possibility that will increase with 30,000?
TRUMP: It could increase, yes.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What would be the maximum --
TRUMP: It depends. But countries that won't take back their criminals that they sent into us. You know, they sent them to us, they put them into the caravans and they came in. As sure as you're standing that they were sent by those countries. Then they're going to be met very harshly with sanctions, et cetera.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Are you hoping to help Guantanamo Bay this new facility up and running? Can it be a --
TRUMP: Pretty quickly.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: How much do you think it's going to cost?
TRUMP: Not very much. A lot of the structure is already there as you know.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Mr. President, you said that incompetence may have played a role. Are you aware of any performance issues or disciplinary actions that were taken against anyone who was working the tower last night or flying the plane or?
TRUMP: No, and I hope that's not the case in this case, but certainly over the years it's been the case. And it's the case with respect to close calls and it's the case with respect to circling for hours on end.
Planes circle a lot and they circle because the people bringing them down, these people that have to be very, very smart. And it's not based on anything other than the brain. We need the smartest people. We need both psychologically smart and just brilliant, period. And we are going to have them in our control towers.

Load-Date: January 30, 2025


End of Document
