




Fox News INGRAHAM ANGLE 7:00 PM EST
January 30, 2025 Thursday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6989 words
Byline: Bret Baier, Laura Ingraham, Mark Meredith
Guests: Scott Pattillo, Michael Pearson, Lara Trump, Mike Lee, Kristi Noem, Vivek Ramaswamy, Drew Pinsky
Body


BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS HOST: -- administration approach going forward in the war of Ukraine. He's going to the speak to the President about that and he speak to us. You can see that here on Special Report. Thanks for inviting us into your home tonight. As always, we've got you covered. Fair, balanced, and still unafraid. The Ingraham Angle starts now.
LAURA INGRAHAM, FOX NEWS HOST: Good evening, everyone. I'm Laura Ingraham. This is The Ingraham Angle from Washington tonight. The Washington Post is reporting that 24 hours before last night's tragedy that killed 67 Americans, another jet had to abort its first landing after a helicopter appeared near its flight path. So America shocked to learn that the U.S. military does U.S. flight training missions so close to a busy commercial airport.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Fire command, the accident happened in the river. Both the helicopter and the plane crashed in the river.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: And fireworks on the Hill today as Democrats rant and rave against Trump nominees including FBI pick Kash Patel.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. CORY BOOKER (D-NJ): That's a yes or no question.
KASH PATEL, FBI DIRECTOR NOMINEE: I am not aware.
BOOKER: Thank you.
PATEL: Senator.
SEN. ADAM SCHIFF (D-CA): We, we, we, and you're part of the we right?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: And Operation Return to sender is getting even more pushback.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Because you're not an alien in our city, you're a neighbor.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: DHS Secretary Kristi Noem is here tonight to react. But first, again, we're learning new details about that deadly crash that happened just outside Reagan National Airport last night between a passenger jet and a Black Hawk. We're just learning the details that one of the data recorders from the American Airlines flight was recovered. Fox's Mark Meredith is in the Potomac Park near the crash site and is standing by with all the details. Mark, a lot of stuff breaking late tonight.
MARK MEREDITH, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Laura, it sure is. Good evening. The big headline, as you just mentioned, that one of the black boxes or data recorders from the CRJ700, the American Airlines jet has been recovered. That's coming from congressional sources have been demanding answers all day long from federal investigators about what happened. You brought up such a good point that this airport here in D.C. is used by so many in Washington, including those who serve in Congress, so they are very interested to know exactly what happened.
However, the NTSB says it's way too soon to jump to any sort of conclusions here, because there are so many pieces of this puzzle that they are simply trying to piece together. Video taken last night showing Reagan airport also shows the moment of impact as that CRJ700 was colliding with the Army Black Hawk helicopter, the Sikorsky that happening just about 08:47 last night. The search is still underway for other debris that may have floated even away from where the majority of this crash was.
But as investigators said today, they know that this is going to take some time to figure out. A preliminary report still at least a month away, and it's only one piece of the puzzle.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JENNIFER HOMENDY, CHAIR, NTSB: I'm going to say, is you need to give us time. You need to give NTS -- it's not that we don't have information. We do have information. We have data. We have substantial amounts of information. We need to verify information; we need to take our time to make sure it is accurate.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MEREDITH: American Airlines has dispatched its crisis team as well as its CEO to Washington. We have not gotten a passenger manifesto. Instead, some of the names Laura have been trickling out one-by-one. We're learning there are multiple people tied to the U.S. figure skating community who are on board, as well as students from a school district just outside D.C.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEAN DUFFY, TRANSPORTATION SECRETARY: What happened yesterday shouldn't have happened. It should not have happened. And when Americans take off in airplanes, they should expect to land at their destination.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MEREDITH: We're learning more about some of the people who were piloting the aircraft. Cadet Ryan O'Hara was the Black Hawk's Crew Chief. He's a husband and father. We heard from some of those who knew him back in Georgia, where he grew up. They remembered his time in the Junior ROTC, as well as the rifle team. We're also learning about Sam Lilley; I apologize I don't know the pronunciation. He was the first officer on flight 5342, he was planning his wedding, Laura, began flying in 2019 like his army veteran father and these stories, Laura, just going to keep coming out one-by-one as we learn more about each of the 67 people who were killed last night.
We can also hear some of the air traffic that's continued to flow in and out of the airport. But Laura, it's nothing like what we saw on a normal night. We haven't seen really any helicopters above, an indication, just so much less air traffic tonight, as investigators piece together what happened. Laura.
INGRAHAM: It is just heart shattering, Mark. Thank you so much. These are crushing losses for families across the country and all the way to Russia. And all of us want to know how this could have happened. 67 Americans dead and others born in other countries, but it's one of the busiest airports in the country. I fly out of it all the time. Everyone around here does. It's just a few miles from the White House and the Capitol.
So again, is it really necessary for military aircraft to conduct nighttime practice runs so close to a busy commercial flight path? To the layperson, that seems I don't know, really, I'm sorry, but this sounds stupid. And of course, the obvious questions like, why didn't the Black Hawk pilot heed the flight warning? But then the other question, did he even receive it, or was it even transmitted to him? Or did it come on another channel?
And then what was the staffing like in the tower? Were there enough eyes on the skies? But there is disturbing new information out tonight that may shed light on the situation. The New York Times was first to report that the staffing at Reagan during that time of night in the tower was, quote, not normal.
An internal FAA report is revealing many unsettling facts, but perhaps this is the most disturbing. The controller who was handling helicopters and the airport's vicinity Wednesday night was also instructing planes that were landing and departing from its runways. Those jobs are typically assigned to two controllers rather than one. So let that sink in for a minute. Should we assume that since the controller shortage exists coast-to-coast, all across the country, there's controller shortages in the towers, that these controllers nationwide are now doing double duty under extreme pressure, with thousands of lives on the line every day?
More from the report, this increases the workload for the air traffic controller and can complicate the job. One reason is that the controllers can use different radio frequencies to communicate with pilots flying planes and pilots flying helicopters. While the controller is communicating with pilots of the helicopter and the jet, the two sets of pilots may not be able to hear one another. OK, this is insane.
The staffing in the tower at Reagan National last night was nearly a third below targeted staff levels, we read. Again, until they find and analyze all the black boxes, we won't know what caused this crash. But it's also worth remembering that along with the staffing problem -- problems are the upticks in the number of close calls on runways and near mid-air collisions. Just a few weeks ago, we had one. And this has spurred warnings from aviation experts that would only be a matter of time before tragedy struck.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We've got current and former air traffic controllers telling The New York Times that close calls were happening so frequently, they're really scared. It's only a matter of time until a deadly crash occurs. We don't want to scare people out there. We just want to let them know that this is what's going on behind the scenes.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Clearly, this is a job where there's no room for error, and even if we have the best of the best in place, which we should, we can't expect them to handle double the workload. Now, the new Trump administration is committed to fixing this mess, which requires getting the FAA back to a singular focus, which is his primary mission, to keep our skies safe, not to keep the workplace diverse.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I went into a meeting, and I was the junior, most junior person there, and I looked around the table and it was full of women. And that's when I really realized this is an agency that can empower women and grow them and make them and have them become leaders.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Now, all that nonsense, diversity, that has to go, just back to common sense. These air traffic controllers should be hired and paid extremely well, and the towers, they should be well-staffed, excellence all around.
Joining me now, Scott Pattillo, who is retired commercial airline pilot who has flown into Ronald Reagan, Washington National Airport several times, and Michael Pearson, Aviation Attorney, law professor and former Air Traffic Controller himself. Scott, I'll start with you. Your reaction to this new reporting that another plane had to abort landing at Reagan a day before because of a helicopter.
SCOTT PATTILLO, RETIRED COMMERCIAL AIRLINE PILOT: It's not surprising, Laura, because the pilots are trained that in situations like this, rather than continue to press down, they will execute a go around, either directed by air traffic control, or the captain will command a go around if they see something that is questionable at any level. And it's not surprising, but as you mentioned, the frequency of these are going to continue to happen and increase, as industry continues to do -- push more and more capacity in these airports and demand more and more.
And the system is at a breaking point, the antiquated equipment that's being used, the staffing levels that have already been highlighted, training, we've got a lot of inexperienced pilots out there right now that are coming along and getting trained and getting up to speed, but the breaking point is approaching, and last night, it was absolutely tragic, and from an aviation professional, our hearts, our prayers and condolences and thoughts are with the victims. The souls lost and the first responders and the controllers in the tower. Now it's just absolutely tragic, and I'm afraid until the system gets fixed, it's going to continue.
INGRAHAM: Well, again, Michael, it's not like this hasn't been -- we haven't had near mid-air collisions and near runway collisions documented. I mean, we've done stories on the Angle about this. I mean, this has been going on for years. I worked at DOT ages ago, and we call them NEMACs, near mid-air collisions. And when that happens, when there is a near mid-air collision, that's a warning sign that someone either made a mistake or there's a flaw in the system.
And again, The New York Times is reporting that the controller who was handling the helicopters was also instructing the planes, at the same time. So again, I already, I already made note of this, but I'm raising it again because they're already overstretched in the tower, and now they're doing double duty. Scott, take away, take a swing at that one.
PATTILLO: That's a -- that's a hard miss, Laura.
INGRAHAM: I'm sorry, Michael. Sorry, Scott. Michael, for that one. Michael, go ahead.
MICHAEL PEARSON, FORMER AIR TRAFFIC CONTROLLER: No worries. Hi, Laura. This is a preventable disaster. This is -- the system has been under attack due to DEI and the FAA bowing to wokeness since 2010, since the Obama administration.
The lack of staffing is directly attributable to the Obama administration terminating the list of eligible, well-trained air traffic control statements in 36 universities across the country in 2013, because they were too white.
The FAA also, at the same time, implemented an immunity program. So you think you're seeing legitimate statistics, you're not. In the old days before 2010, the immunity program, air traffic controller got two airplanes too close too many times, it would be decertified and retrained. Now they're not. All they have to do within 48 hours of being noticed or being investigated for a potential separation error. They're called operational errors in the FAA, the controller this simply has to avail themselves of this program that gives them immunity. And when I say immunity, I mean immunity, the FAA cannot retrain these people.
If somebody has a repetitive instance of malfeasance or lack of competency, the FAA because of this immunity program, cannot rectify the situation, they have to basically allow the person to remain in the same position. It's very, very difficult for the FAA to retrain a controller, and it's attributed to, quite frankly, the union and the FAA working together to basically use this program to gerrymander the statistics of near mid-air collisions, you mentioned that you're absolutely correct.
INGRAHAM: Yes, Scott, do you agree that that, I mean, that that's a problem in the skies. I mean, you've got the issue with understaffed towers. You have the issue with, you know, there's some, some diversity element to this. We don't know fully how much it impacted this, if at all, but we do know that's clearly an undercurrent at the very least here, and a lot of people retiring, they're just like, I'm not doing this anymore.
PATTILLO: Yes, and that's tragic to lose that experience level at a time right now where the hiring in the airlines is very, very robust, and they're bringing in people as quickly as they can, and to lose the experience at air traffic control levels and the airlines as well, with the mandatory retirements of pilots at such an early age when there's still a lot of life left in them to continue to contribute. But the mandatory retirement impacts that as well.
Another aspect of this, Laura, is the antiquated MEL system in the airlines and across the industry, the minimum equipment list that in a lot of cases was developed years and years ago before the separation standards begun to be reduced to such levels as they are today. And the system was never intended to handle the separations, the continued reduced separations that we're looking at coupled with the antiquated equipment and poor training of the controllers is just tough.
INGRAHAM: Yes, we're going to have you both back, because there's so many, so many elements to this and so many layers to it. I don't want to give it short shrift, but we touched on it tonight. Both of you, thank you so much.
All right, when we have a tragedy like this, we realize as a nation that we need leadership. So today we saw Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth, obviously Sean Duffy, new Transportation Secretary. They were just sworn in days ago, and of course, President Trump, everybody was front and center. But we still have a problem in that the cabinet is still not filled. We're still waiting for votes on several important roles.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We want fast confirmations. And the Democrats, as you know, are doing everything they can to delay them. They've taken too long. We're struggling to get very good people that everybody knows are going to be confirmed, but we're struggling to get them out faster. We want them out faster.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Joining me now, Lara Trump, former RNC co-chair. Lara, any delay to me at this point is ludicrous. Today, just reminded us of that.
LARA TRUMP, FORMER RNC CO-CHAIR: Absolutely. We need to get these people confirmed. We need a government that's working alongside the President. You know, the American people made it very clear on November 5, they want Donald Trump in that White House, and they want a team of people alongside of him who are going to be able to assist him and get a job done. And you saw today, Laura, how important that was.
To your point, we saw Defense Secretary Hegseth. We saw Transportation Secretary Sean Duffy out there, and we saw 15 hours after this horrific incident that you had the President of the United States with these two important members of his team, they're alongside him able to talk to the American people, able to give them all the information that they had at that moment, but also able to say, we are going to get to the bottom of this. We are not going to let this go on for years and years. We are going to work quickly and we're going to get answers for the American people and for these families who have been so devastated in the past 24 hours.
And I think that you need to really take this into consideration when you look at the people he's trying to get confirmed. We need a robust government. We need him to work alongside Donald Trump. And you're right, Laura, anyone who's delaying that for the reason of politics ought to be ashamed of themselves.
INGRAHAM: Well, he -- the President took a lot of heat today, that's to put it mildly, for bringing up the issue of DEI when you know the folks out there said, we just need the consoler-in-chief. We need information, not speculation, but he wasn't pulling that from thin air. I want to -- I want to show everyone what Biden's FAA Deputy Administrator had to say back in 2023. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We need a diverse group of air traffic controllers to bring distinct perspectives to handle the ever-changing aerospace landscape. I'm calling on students and alumni from HBCUs, Hispanic serving institutions and tribal colleges to apply now. We need a diverse next generation air traffic workforce.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Lara, I think people today looking at that, going, why does that have anything to do with competence to secure our safety in the skies?
L. TRUMP: Yes, and your previous guest just dictated the fact that, you know, we have these, these universities that, at one time were the best at training air traffic controllers, and many of them are no longer even functioning because they were apparently too white. That is, that's outrageous.
You had Donald Trump today sign a presidential memorandum, and it's shocking he had to do it. But this shows you, Laura, where we are in the grand scheme of things in America to say that we ought to base hirings off of competence and merit, and that's it. And it's crazy that we even have to say that sort of thing.
INGRAHAM: A novel concept.
L. TRUMP: Right. But you look at the way that this sort of stuff has impacted our society, and obviously it's been a huge problem. Obviously it's negative. When you are hiring someone for any other reason, then you are doing a disservice to the public. And so we want the best people. We want the most competent people. And we should never be hiring anyone for any job other than the best person for that job, that should be the number one reason.
INGRAHAM: All right, Lara, as always, thank you very much. And ahead, shaking up the deep state, Trump's cabinet picks battle with the Dems today on Capitol Hill. Fireworks.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
INGRAHAM: Kash Patel, President Trump's choice to head the FBI squared off of Democrats on Capitol Hill today, and remember Cory Booker and company, all the liberals on the committee, they need a narrative to set, and it's about the vendetta.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BOOKER: Are you aware of any plans or discussions to punish in any way, including termination FBI agents or personnel associated with Trump investigations?
PATEL: Senator, just to be clear, I did not participate in any of those DOJ --
BOOKER: Sir, that's a yes or no question. Are you aware of any plans or discussions to punish FBI agents or personnel associated with Trump investigations?
PATEL: I am not aware.
BOOKER: Thank you.
PATEL: Senator.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: That went on and on and on. And then Tulsi Gabbard, of course, she had to face the usual smear machine.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. MARK WARNER (D-VA): It appears to me, you have repeatedly excused our adversary's worst actions instead, often blame them on the United States and those very allies. For example, you blame NATO for Russia's 2022 invasion of Ukraine. I don't know if your intent in making those statements was to defend those dictators, or if you were simply unaware of the intelligence and how your statements would be perceived. In either case, it raises, at least for this senator, serious questions about your judgment.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: He's so serious. Joining me now, Utah Senator Mike Lee. Senator, let's start with Kash Patel. The Democrats are very worried about him. You saw the vendetta narrative beaten to death today by several of the senators. How did Patel fare under this fusel out of questioning.
SEN. MIKE LEE (R-UT): Kash Patel knocked it out of the park. I've been in the Senate for 14 years, on the Judiciary Committee the entire time, I don't think I've ever seen a nominee facing so many headwinds performed so masterfully, handled himself so flawlessly, as Kash Patel did today. Look, they threw everything at him they had, and every single time he proved up to the task.
Here's the thing, Laura, there's so much pearl clutching going on here. These are the same people who looked the other way for the last four years, as a campaign of politically motivated lawfare has been underway, wreaking havoc on the American constitutional form of government. Not a peep out of them, not a worry in the world about the political weaponization of the FBI. Now you've got somebody coming in promising to clean it up, and they hate him for it. They're irate about the fact that somebody is going to be doing that. They're the ones now panicked about lawfare when Kash Patel, all along, has said it's wrong. He's not going to engage in it, and they don't want to take yes for an answer.
INGRAHAM: Well, and then you had Susan Collins, who, of course, is going to vote no against most now, not most, but a lot of Trump's picks, at least the controversial ones, and she brought up the issue of Hezbollah. Let's watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. SUSAN COLLINS (R-ME): There has been speculation in the press that you met with Hezbollah, a terrorist organization affiliated with Iran. Have you ever knowingly met with any members, leaders or affiliates of Hezbollah?
TULSI GABBARD, DNI NOMINEE: No, and it is an absurd accusation.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: That continued those types of questions as well from Democrats and a few Republicans Senator, people are wondering whether that nomination is going to get through. What's your call?
LEE: Look, I don't know whether it will or not. I don't serve on the Intel Committee. I was in the Judiciary Committee all day, so I haven't had a chance to review the tape yet. But here's what I do know, Tulsi Gabbard is a hero. She's a patriot. She's a lieutenant colonel, one who, by the way, until has maintained her security clearance throughout the entirety of the Biden administration.
So for all these Biden lovers who are now wondering whether they can trust Tulsi Gabbard with America's national secrets, they never raised a peep during the Biden administration about that. Why are they so panicked now? Well, I can't speak for any individual, but I do know this. They fear her because she stands with the American people and not with the Intel bros.
INGRAHAM: I'm going to say it again, she is going to overturn the rocks and all the, you know, the creepy crawlies are going to crawl out, and people are going to see what really happened here. They don't want that. Senator, thank you. When we come back, liberals blocking ICE from actually arresting criminals. So is the Trump administration actually going to make good on the threat to arrest them. Kristi Noem is here to react. next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
LAURA INGRAHAM, FOX NEWS HOST: So why are Democrats still putting illegal immigrants first?
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNKNOWN: I want to speak directly to people who are undocumented. We love you. We care about you. We will do anything in our power to help. Because you're not an alien in our city, you're a neighbor.
UNKNOWN: We welcome all individuals and families who want to work, live, and thrive here in our beloved city.
UNKNOWN: Within our domain, we're very clear. We don't ask about immigration status.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Look like a billion people probably want to go to Minnesota. Hope they're ready. Well, maybe they should care a little bit because if they did their cities would be a lot safer. And thanks to the Trump administration, they will be.
Cesar Agosto Palanco from the Dominican Republic was just picked up by ICE after getting paroled in Massachusetts. He was serving a life sentence for killing his pregnant girlfriend. Then there's Edgar Dela Cruz Monzo, a Mexican national and convicted child rapist. He was arrested in Seattle. And then there's Yared Geremew Mekonnen an Ethiopian national and convicted sex offender. He was arrested in New Orleans. And more than 5,500 criminal aliens have been arrested since Trump took office. Where they headed? Well, Gitmo.
Joining me now, Kristi Noem, Secretary of Homeland Security. Secretary Noem, thanks for joining us. How soon will Gitmo be ready? We kind of floated this idea a couple of nights ago because, obviously, they had all the Haitian refugees there. But how soon will the facility be ready to take in these illegals?
KRISTI NOEM, U.S. SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY: You know, it won't be long at all. We already have some dangerous criminals there that are illegal aliens, and so the facilities can be stood up quite quickly. They're soft-sided. We have the space. We just got to get to work.
INGRAHAM: What do you think of these officials from blue cities like Minneapolis, St. Paul, that are essentially saying, don't even think about worrying, we got you, to the aliens?
NOEM: Well, they're not taking care of their people. Clearly, we want to come in and help make their streets safer. It was amazing to me the other morning when I was in New York City, it was 5, 6 o'clock in the morning, and the community members were walking past us on the streets and saying, thank you. Thank you for being here. Thank you for getting these folks out of these apartment buildings, these dangerous criminals. They're walking their kids to school at 7 o'clock in the morning.
I can't imagine doing that when these drug dealers and weapons dealers and rapists and murderers were on the streets.
INGRAHAM: You have 15 million, at least, people to remove from the country, 5,500, there's a lot of really bad people in that group. But that pace is going to have to be picked up by about 15-fold in order to remove that many people. Can you do that?
NOEM: We can. But we're going to need partnerships. And we've got a lot of folks coming out of retirement that want to be a part of these task forces. We've got retired sheriffs, law enforcement officers. We've got a lot of folks that are coming back because of what President Trump has done to inspire them to be a part of Keep America Safe.
INGRAHAM: But to that point, Madam Secretary, we have these blue city mayors. I want you to hear from Brandon Johnson about whether they're going to comply. If you go to the trouble of getting a subpoena to pick up a child sex offender, this was his response.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MAYOR BRANDON JOHNSON (D), CHICAGO: This oversight committee, of all the things that they want to have psyched over, they should look at the White House right now. That White House is being ran in one of the most raggedy forms of government that I've ever seen.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: It's being ran by, OK. Well, it looks like some of these mayors aren't going to comply with any subpoenas. And President Trump, I believe you said there will be repercussions. Are you all going to follow through and what are those repercussions going to be?
NOEM: Yeah, we're still going into their communities. We're still going into their communities.
INGRAHAM: But how about the officials that interfere with federal law enforcement?
NOEM: You know, they will, but the federal government has the authority to go in and to make their communities safer, especially these that are perpetuating dangerous crimes.
INGRAHAM: What about these officials who get in your way? Will there be repercussions for them personally?
NOEM: The reality is these sanctuary cities their laws have caused us problems. I mean they are limiting some of our tools that we want in our toolbox, but we're going to continue to go in and use our operations. And then show in other cities how it's working. And tell our story to the American people.
The people in their community need to hear how their mayors, their elected officials are protecting the criminals.
INGRAHAM: But will you go after them personally? I'm going to ask for the third time. Will you go after them? I'm asking a question because I expect an answer. Will you go after these individual mayors who are saying, essentially, they're going to thwart federal authority? You guys have the authority over immigration enforcement, they don't.
NOEM: Listen, Laura, nobody's above the law. Of course we will. But that's up to President Trump. President Trump gives us a direction. I don't sit here and make up a decision on what I do. I follow the law. That's my job. So, we treat everybody the same in this country. Now that we have President Trump in the White House, and he's going to give us direction on how we're going to go after these individuals.
INGRAHAM: You were up north, you were in New York, where are you going next?
NOEM: I was in Vermont today, and on the Canadian border, talking about some of the challenges that we've had. I think most people are worried that we're going to steal resources from the northern border in order to secure the southern border, and that's not what we're going to do.
INGRAHAM: You're going to seal it all down.
NOEM: Yeah, we'll reinforce.
INGRAHAM: You have your work cut out for you. We'll be watching every step of the way. Thank you so much for coming in, great to see you.
NOEM: Thank you, you bet.
INGRAHAM: All right, coming up, a damning new report shows how Democrats have made our kids dumber. Yeah, Vivek Ramaswamy has it and that's next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNKNOWN: To the many transgender students across the country listening on this Trans Day of Visibility, we in the Biden-Harris administration want you to know that we see you.
UNKNOWN: So, the argument with books like this, you're meaning to indoctrinate young people into being gay.
UNKNOWN: Well, that's the argument. But if that was true, I would be a very hungry caterpillar.
KAMALA HARRIS, FORMER U.S. VICE PRESIDENT: And as you may know, I am a proud product of public education.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Now we tried to warn everyone that the left was wrecking education, thank you, Kamala, from woke educators who worry more about pronouns and performance to extended COVID shutdowns that rob kids of learning.
Reading comprehension skills across the country are hitting all-time lows. According to the nation's report card, for eighth grade reading scores, not a single state had an increase. And eight states even saw a decrease in reading comprehension, including Illinois. The news for fourth graders, that's no better. Test scores reveal only 31 percent are reading at grade level. And yeah, that's lower than before COVID.
Now this brain rot is a national emergency. We need to fix this. And that requires a return to basics. And cut the fat and eliminate harmful influences in our schools. And with that goal in mind, President Trump issued an executive order defunding K through 12 public schools that waste taxpayer money on CRT and radical gender ideology.
And joining me now is Vivek Ramaswamy, former presidential candidate, founding member of DOGE. Vivek, great to see you. This is such a disturbing, but I guess not surprising report. What can be done to turn this tragedy around?
VIVEK RAMASWAMY, FORMER PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: The fact of the matter is, it's even worse than you might imagine. Seventy-five percent of eighth graders, Laura, are not math proficient according to international standards. We're in number 26 out of 38 developed countries. There are kids in other countries where English is not even their first language, out beating our own students on English proficiency. And I just think, speaking as an American and as a parent myself, that's unacceptable.
President Trump is leading the way. I think that's great at the federal level. Shut down that Department of Education and give the money back to the states. But then it has to be the states that lead the way in improving education. Merit-based pay for teachers, something we don't do today. Universal school choice, so everybody is able to achieve the best education starting at an early age.
And then, Laura, I think more deeply, lighting a fire under the feet of our educational culture, not teaching our kids to be victims, but to be victors, rewarding excellence instead of victimhood. I think that's a cultural change we need in our educational system too. And if we don't fix it, China is going to be eating our lunch if they already aren't.
INGRAHAM: Yeah, you retweeted another tweet today that I caught, Vivek, on how China has adopted, obviously, the more -- the Soviet education approach, which is really based on competition, that competition is good for you. But in our schools, competition is seen as, kind of, in some ways, dangerous because it hurts people's self-esteem. And they got rid of class ranking. And a lot of schools, including some of the ones I'm very familiar with, and that's just -- I mean, that's just lowering the bar for kids.
RAMASWAMY: Sure. I don't think we need a Soviet style system. I think we need a return to the true American system based on achievement and winning. Fewer participation trophies, more championship trophies in every area of life, from sports to the arts to music, but yes, also to math and science and reading.
And I am worried. I think this is in the long run, Laura, I don't think I'm exaggerating when I say this, this is a national security risk to the future of the United States if we have an entire generation that's dependent on China. It's unacceptable.
And yes, the woke left is responsible for a lot of this. You and I have been critics in that direction, but it goes beyond that too. Well, we got to just light that fire under the feet of a generation and teach them that achievement is actually worth working for. Hard work is an American virtue, and that doesn't start in college. It doesn't even start in high school. It starts young.
And so, President Trump is leading the way with that culture, but it's going to take the states to really lift us up.
INGRAHAM: You bet. And your family has been an unbelievable example in that regard. Vivek, thank you so much. Great to see you.
All right, ahead, the reason Democrats want to stop RFK Jr. What is the real reason? Dr. Drew Pinsky has a theory, and he's next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
INGRAHAM: Trump HHS nominee RFK Jr. spent three more hours in the hot seat today, facing off against lawmakers that are in the pocket of Big Pharma.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNKNOWN: Bernie, you know that the problem of corruption is not just in the federal agencies, is in Congress, too. Almost all the members of this panel are accepting, including yourself, are accepting millions of dollars from the pharmaceutical industry.
UNKNOWN: No, no. I ran for president like you. I got millions and millions of contributions. They did not come from the executive's --
UNKNOWN: Single largest --
(CROSSTALK)
UNKNOWN: Yeah, out of 200 million.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: According to OpenSecrets, Big Pharma spent more than $293 million on lobbying, both parties, gave more than $25 million to senators and congressmen. That was just in 2024. Joining me now is Dr. Drew Pinsky, host of Ask Dr. Drew on Rumble. Dr. Drew, great to see you.
Again, this isn't just one party here. I want you to tell us why this influx of money from Big Pharma into politics might be causing some of the public's distrust of the way this hearing has unfolded.
DR. DREW PINSKY, HOST, ASK DR. DREW ON RUMBLE: Well, there's no doubt that it is causing. It's really not a might, and it's coming in many different zones. We had advertising on television., not because they expect to sell products, these are obscure monoclonal antibodies. It's so they can control the media as the customer of the particular media outlet.
They're just contributing, as Bernie says, to campaigns. Are you kidding? Just contributing? You don't think that a -- I can't accept a pen from a pharmaceutical company. They cannot walk into my office because of the belief that it would adulterate my prescribing practices. But they can accept millions of dollars.
And then the FDA has a terribly cozy relationship with pharma, people moving from pharma, back to FDA and back again to the pharmaceutical agencies in multi-million-dollar positions. This is absolutely outrageous.
And finally, the major medical journals themselves, and this is something RFK Jr. has told me he's going to go after right away, also have adulterating influences of money from the pharmaceutical companies during COVID. We did not see one publication in medical journal that ran afoul of the narrative being pushed by the government and by the pharma agencies. This is really a problem.
INGRAHAM: Yeah. They didn't dare cross Anthony Fauci. And by the way, people who did raise questions, like my late friend Ramin Aski. Well, they basically, in one way or another, put him on notice. And he was one of the top cardiologists in the Washington, D.C. area. I'll never forget what they did to him.
And Kentucky Senator Rand Paul, Dr. Drew, raised questions about vaccines and babies. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. RAND PAUL (R-KY): You're telling -- my kids are -- vaccines. He's one day old. You get through drug use and sexually transmitted -- it's not all or nothing. I chose to wait on my hepatitis B vaccine, and we did it when they went to school. That made me an awful person? Is that made me an anti- vaxxer because I questioned that government dictate?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Well, he's sitting there next to Senator Bill Cassidy, who said tonight that he's struggling to vote to confirm RFK Jr. because of his responses on whether vaccines can cause autism. He wouldn't disavow old comments because I think he's focused on the number of vaccines that are given at one time. So, Cassidy may be out. You know, it's not a big surprise coming from someone like him.
But, Dr. Drew, what should we know about this ongoing controversy?
PINSKY: There's so much to know about this. Rand Paul brings up exactly the exact right point, which is, why must it be thus sayeth the Lord? Why can't these decisions be made between a patient, a family, and the physician?
As it pertains to hepatitis B, I've treated 10,000 drug addicts in my career in the United States. I didn't see one hepatitis B. I saw plenty of hepatitis C. There are about 600 cases a year. Is that why we must vaccinate every single child in the country as they emerge from the birth canal? This is the World Health Organization manning that, essentially, in the name of equity.
Look, we've got a problem. We have a problem here with people being able to practice medicine without government overreach, without families being able to be presented the proper risk analysis, risk reward of what's being presented to them, because doctors are afraid to speak. This is changing.
RFK, look, he said it himself today. He has the unique set of talents because of his career of litigating these regulatory agencies. He is uniquely positioned to unravel the adulterating influences that we have been discussing. I've known him for a while, I've worked with his campaign, I just kept saying this man needs to be in Washington, so we can restore the trust in the public health organizations, which have been deeply adulterated.
INGRAHAM: Yeah. So, Senator Cassidy, again, like, he's run afoul against President Trump many times on his agenda. He voted with the Democrats on ridiculous bills that he shouldn't have, and it's just infuriating. But we're struggling to confirm him. I'm still trying to understand why the people of Louisiana would appreciate that kind of resistance from a senator whose state voted overwhelmingly for a commonsense agenda on health, on hiring, on government bloat, on wars, on all of this stuff.
So, again, it seems like a reflexive response that without any real coherent thought, Dr. Drew. And this is really across the old establishment that, frankly, has taken in a lot of money over the years from the big pharma.
PINSKY: Yes, they are afraid to let go of the reins and it is reflexive. It's anything that President Trump suggests they push against. And you're absolutely right. Commonsense is what the American people are asking for.
Listen, if we had a Ford Motor Company was told, listen, you can go ahead and produce cars, will be normal liability for all your construction, except the Mustang. The Mustang, we're going to leave that one out. That's what we've done with vaccines. It doesn't make sense.
INGRAHAM: No, it does not. Dr. Drew, always great to spend time with you. Thank you so much.
All right, that's it for us tonight. Make sure to follow me on social media. We continue to pray for all of the families and of the victims of this horrific crash. It hits close to home here in Washington and across this country. Thank you for watching. Remember, it is America now and forever. Jesse Watters, he takes it from here.

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
