




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 29, 2025 Wednesday 5:06 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 402 words
Byline: Sam Allard
Body


January 29th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
Members of Ohio's congressional delegation are scrambling to track the potential statewide impacts of President Trump's attempted funding freeze that was  
Why it matters: Democratic leaders say the chaos and confusion of the order,  
Government agencies and nonprofits across Ohio are now in a state of uncertainty, if not peril, as they rapidly develop contingency plans for funding that they've received for decades in some cases.
The latest: U.S. District Judge Loren L. AliKhan temporarily  
What they're saying: Rep. Emilia Sykes (D-Akron), said in a press call Wednesday that Ohio's congressional leaders are gathering as much information from constituents as they can to put a human face on their contention that the freeze would be harmful.
The call was one of a number organized by Democratic elected leaders across the country - the first  
Zoom in: Rep.Shontel Brown (D-Cleveland) said 21% of residents in her 11th district are living in poverty, along with 30% of children.
"We need federally supported child care, federally supported community health care providers, education programs like Head Start," she said. "This is playing politics with people's lives.
Rep. Joyce Beatty (D-Columbus) called the move "thoughtless" and a "deliberate attack on our nation's democracy" in  
"The chaos and confusion it has caused is intentional and meant to divide us," she said.
Between the lines: The White House said in a  
Yes, but: Sykes said a number of federally funded projects have equity components baked in, like the innerbelt bridge project in Akron that  
The project is designed to reconnect communities displaced by the bridge's original construction in 1970, through what was a vibrant area in Central Akron home to many families of color.
"I'm very concerned that we won't be able to deal with the massive concrete sitting in the middle of Akron," she said.


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
