




USA Today
January 23, 2025 Thursday
1 Edition


Copyright 2025 USA Today All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. A2
Length: 300 words
Byline: By, Mary Walrath-Holdridge, USA TODAY
Body


Donald Trump's first day in office was eventful, with the new president signing more than 20 executive orders covering topics from gender and TikTok to immigration and environmental regulation.
Monday's directives were only the beginning, as the new administration continued to announce new plans on Tuesday, some of which clarified or built on earlier orders.
Some notable second-day actions and orders
Ordered executive branch agencies to close all "diversity, equity, inclusion and accessibility" offices by close of business Wednesday.
Placed all DEI employees on paid administrative leave.
Agencies have been directed to submit plans by Jan. 31 to fire the employees permanently.
Also, it was ordered that all DEIA-related training be canceled and ordered employees to report any "disguised" diversity programs.
On Tuesday evening, Trump directed the Federal Aviation Administration to stop using diversity, equity and inclusion hiring authorities.
He singled out disability hiring authorities, in particular.
Fired and/or revoked security clearance and secret service protections for Biden Administration appointees, including National Security Adviser John Bolton, chef Jose Andres and former top general Mark Milley, former Iran envoy Brian Hook and former Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms.
Revoked a 1965 civil rights executive order, rolling back authorities long used to prevent employment discrimination by federal contractors, subcontractors and grant recipients.
Gave a "full and unconditional" pardon to Ross Ulbricht, the founder of Silk Road, an online black market that enabled users to buy and sell illegal drugs.
Announced a private sector investment of up to $500 billion to build artificial intelligence infrastructure, aiming to outpace rival nations in the business-critical technology.

Load-Date: January 23, 2025


End of Document
