




MailOnline
February 10, 2025 Monday 7:35 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 501 words
Byline: Rob Crilly, Chief U.S. Political Correspondent For Dailymail.Com In Washington, D.C.
Body


J.L. Partners polled 1000 registered voters for their views on Sunday
President Donald Trump's approval rating is at a historic high three weeks after taking office and even one in five Democrats think he is doing a good job.
That is the extraordinary finding of a new J.L. Partners/DailyMail.com poll.
To be sure, his numbers are still poor for a newly inaugurated commander in chief, but his whirlwind start-cutting a swath through government agencies, deporting migrants and threatening trade wars with countries from Colombia to Canada-has not proved as divisive as it might have been.
To test his job rating, J.L. Partners polled 1000 registered voters across the country on Sunday.
It found that 53 percent of respondents approved of the president's performance so far. 
That includes groups that he has struggled to attract in the past.
Almost half of women approved of his performance and 41 percent of black voters agreed (compared with 16 to 20 percent of black Americans who voted for Trump in November.) 
James Johnson, co-founder of J.L. Partners, said Trump had long had a reputation for dividing the country. 
'But Trump's popularity has this week reached new heights, at 53 percent, including winning over one in five Democrats,' he said. 
'That comes after policies of this first few weeks, which again we've been led to assume are divisive: From deportations and DEI, to tariffs. 
'It's not always that a cheer from a crowd matches the reality, but this time around the public looks a lot like the Super Bowl audience that cheered the president last night.'
When Trump strode out on to the field in New Orleans on Sunday night, he was met by a generally positive response, although there was a smattering of boos and jeers.
The whole game was a reminder of how Trump in 2024 cuts a different figure to the start of his first term.
Athletes use his dance moves to celebrate scoring and the NFL has dropped its 'End Racism' logo from end zones. 
Tech titans, such as Mark Zuckerberg, who opposed him in 2017, are now visitors to the president's Mar-a-Lago home and have wound down factchecking operations, for example. 
The poll shows he now has support across almost all age groups. Only voters over the age of 65 give him an overall negative rating.
And a string of other polls shows a similar honeymoon. 
A rolling average maintained by Real Clear Politics put Trump on 49 percent approval compared with 45.3 who disapproved of his performance. That gives him a net positive score of 3.7 points, the highest it has ever been since Trump entered politics in 2015.
A CBS poll mirrored the DailyMail.com results, finding that 53 percent of voters approved and 47 percent disapproved.
Respondents used words such as 'tough,' 'energetic,' 'focused' and 'effective' when asked to explain their views. 
When J.L. Partners asked respondents last month why their view had become more positive they used terms that suggested voters were ready to rally around a new leader.
They used words such as 'country' and 'president. 

Load-Date: February 10, 2025


End of Document
