




Business Insider
February 14, 2025 Friday 01:35 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Insider Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 384 words
Byline: ewebb@insider.com (Effie Webb)
Highlight: A URL that previously directed to a page about OpenAI's commitment to DEI now redirects to a page called "Building dynamic teams."
Body


OpenAI appears to have removed a page from its website about its commitment to DEI.
The URL now redirects to a page called "Building dynamic teams," which does not mention DEI.
It comes amid a trend of Big Tech companies, like Google and Meta, scaling back DEI initiatives.
OpenAI appears to have removed a page from its website outlining its commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion - and now redirects the URL to a page titled "Building dynamic teams."An archived version of the old DEI commitment page, seen by Business Insider, referenced OpenAI's pledge to "continuously improve" its diversity efforts and acknowledged the importance of addressing bias in AI systems. 
The new page does not mention diversity, equity, or inclusion. Instead, it refers to fostering collaboration among people with "different backgrounds, experiences, and ways of thinking."
It is not clear exactly when OpenAI made the change. The last available version of the previous DEI commitment page on the Wayback Machine - a tool for accessing archived web pages - is dated September 7. 
TechCrunch, which first  the change, pointed to the diversity commitment page being cited as available in an  published on January 22.  "Our investment in diversity, equity, and inclusion is ongoing, executed through a wide range of initiatives, owned by everyone across the company, and championed and supported by leadership," the , archived on September 7, states. "We take this work seriously and are committed to continuously improving our work in creating a diverse, equitable, and inclusive organization."
OpenAI did not immediately respond to a Business Insider request for comment. 
Tech's DEI shift
Corporate America, including tech companies, has been rolling back DEI initiatives. Earlier this month, , according to an internal memo obtained by Business Insider. The company also announced a review of its DEI programs. In January, , while Target scaled back .The shift away from DEI efforts began before President Donald Trump's reelection, with companies like Walmart, Ford, and Lowe's scaling back similar programs last year. 
Read the original article on


Load-Date: February 14, 2025


End of Document
