




TheHill.com
February 17, 2025 Monday


Copyright 2025 NEXSTAR MEDIA INC.  All Rights Reserved


Length: 941 words
Byline: Juan Williams, Opinion Contributor
Body


Yes, “The Daily Show,”is a comedy show. But host Jon Stewart made a serious point after President Trump, with no evidence, blamed a fatal air crash on diversity, equity and inclusion or DEI efforts to bring women and racial minorities into the federal workforce.
Trump is making a deliberate effort, Stewart , to “make the default setting on competence in America a white guy.”
Pointing to Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth and Secretary of Transportation Sean Duffy, Stewart  the television personalities got their jobs “purely based on merit. And smarts.”
Stephen A. Smith, the ESPN sports commentator, was not trying to be funny when he made a similarly stinging point about Trump’s promotion of Hegseth to Fox’s Sean Hannity. 
Hegseth’s rise to “defense secretary of the United States overseeing 3.5 million people — that’s not qualified,” . He implied that Hegseth was a classic example of identity politics benefiting unqualified white men, such as those in Trump’s cabinet.
Trump’s preference for white men, even those with glaring flaws, was evident when he recently hired a white man  that “competent white men must be in charge if you want things to work.”
Darren Beattie, now at the State Department,  after speaking at a conference that had drawn white nationalists. Now, he is back in the Trump administration after all diversity efforts as “coddling the feelings of women and minority and demoralizing competent white men.” 
Can anyone imagine Trump hiring a black man who made such a prejudiced statement about whites?
It is hard not to see racism in Trump’s unrelenting attack on diversity programs at the start of his second term. His assault comes despite  that shows a 52 percent majority support diversity, equity, and inclusion programs to give men and women of all races an equal opportunity in a multi-racial nation.
In 2019, amid his first term as president, two polls, one by  and the other by , found 54 percent and 51 percent of Americans had concluded that Trump is a racist.
Since then, Trump has talked about immigrants as “” of the nation,  “Black Lives Matter” a hate symbol and recently .
That has led to a stark racial divide in Trump’s approval rating. A  underscored this, giving Trump a net minus-59 point rating with Blacks, minus-26 points with Hispanics Americans, but plus-12 points with whites.
This racial split among Americans is reflected in the polarization between Republicans and Democrats over Trump. Two-thirds of Republicans, in a , said that paying attention to diversity “means that America is in danger of losing its culture and identity.”
Over the last few weeks, I have traveled across the country promoting my new book, . From Seattle, to San Francisco, Cleveland, St. Louis, and Philadelphia, I’ve listened to Americans talk about race relations with Trump back in the White House.
What I heard is that even for Trump’s supporters it requires blinders not to see racism in Trump’s actions.
It is disappointing for many Trump loyalists when he  to reform police departments facing charges of racist brutality. Blindness to racism is a must to look away as Trump wipes out  calling for government contractors to end discrimination in hiring against women, blacks, Latinos, and other minority groups.
President Lyndon Johnson had signed that order the year after Congress passed the Civil Rights Act, because  blacks remained burdened by a history of not being given equal opportunity.
Sixty years later, Trump ordered all federal workers tied to diversity programs to be put on leave. His call for “,” led the  to stop showing  the historic work of the black pilots during World War II. Despite segregation, they fought for the U.S. as the Tuskegee Airmen. That order was so outrageous that a Republican senator from Alabama , and it was quickly reversed.
Then there’s Marko Elez, a Department of Government Efficiency staffer whom Elon Musk said he would reinstate  allegedly from Elez advocating to “normalize Indian hate” and institute a “eugenic immigration policy.”
Incredibly, Vice President JD Vance — who is wed to an Indian American — leapt to Elez’s defense: “I don’t worry about my kids’ making mistakes or developing views they later regret,” .
Fair point. No one deserves to be judged solely by the worst thing they’ve ever said. However, as a confidante of Musk, this man wields enormous power. Will his self-proclaimed racial biases influence his use of power?
The iconic conservative writer William F. Buckley Jr. recognized the dangers of reactionary politics  of the John Birch Society, which attempted to hijack the Republican Party in the 1960s.
Where is the Bill Buckley of this generation — willing to call out these racially incendiary games as a danger to the republic?
Juan Williams is senior political analyst for Fox News Channel and a prize-winning civil rights historian. He is the author of the new book “.”


Load-Date: February 17, 2025


End of Document
