




The Eagle: American University
February 10, 2025 Monday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 1105 words
Byline: Mari Santos
Body


The following piece is an opinion and does not reflect the views of The Eagle and its staff. All opinions are edited for grammar, style and argument structure and fact-checked, but the opinions are the writer's own.
My American accent is the first thing people hear when I open my mouth to speak in class. As a political science student studying abroad for the semester in Scotland at the University of Glasgow, I am currently enrolled in a course that focuses on the down-spiraling signals of democracy and the passive vacuums of authoritarian regimes. I guess it's a fitting time to take the class, as both the United Kingdom and the United States are struggling politically. I'm the only American in the seminar, and when chatting in small groups, I'm often asked funny questions like "Why is America, America?"
I was at urgent care when my doctor noticed my accent and said, "Interesting time to be an American, I suppose." I never mind these comments, but I find them extremely interesting because, between former President Joe Biden's and President Donald Trump's administrations, America is facing unprecedented changes. The president's recent decisions are scorned by everyone I talk to on the subject of American politics.
Since coming to Scotland, I've tried not to worry about U.S. politics to better enjoy my time and study the politics of another country. However, listening to the news and discussions regarding new administrative orders and efforts has rendered my efforts futile. I listened in horror as Trump described thetragic deathsof the passengers of the Washington, D.C. plane crash, saying they were the results of diversity, equity, and inclusion policies and blaming Biden, former Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg and even former President Barack Obama.
There is zero evidence to conclude that DEI policies are the direct cause of the plane crash, and to cite this on international television was an utter travesty. When asked why diversity hiring practices were the potential cause for the crash,Trump said, "Because I have common sense. And, unfortunately, a lot of people don't."
Watching the Senate confirmation hearings for Trump administration appointees feels like watching my job prospects, rights and safeties wither away. Due to Trump'scronyism, individuals such as Pete Hegseth, Tulsi Gabbard and Robert F. Kennedy Jr. have been granted or considered for positions of immense power without qualifications and leadership experience that is necessary for high positions of power. Hegseth, our new Secretary of Defense, has alarmingcriminal accusationsthat did not stop Republicans from confirming him for the position.
What I find most symbolically disturbing is that when asked to acknowledge the simple yet indisputable fact that Biden won the 2020 presidential election, many Cabinet nominees refuse, despiteoverwhelming evidenceand the rejection ofnumerouselection fraud lawsuits for lack of standing. Their unwavering allegiance to Trump, even at the expense of objective truth, is a chilling display of loyalty to a regime above all else and a demoralizing display to the American people.
Being a political science major and having a deeper understanding of government functions can be overwhelmingly frustrating. Many Americans have a general, or sometimes inaccurate,perceptionof how government works and often direct their frustrations at the most visible figure in leadership with whom they disagree. They then blame people like Biden for systemic or legislative issues that are often beyond the direct control of the executive branch. Biden is not innocent of all blame, but the complexities of federalism, congressional gridlock and judicial constraints frequently go unrecognized, leading to misplaced anger and unrealistic expectations about what any president can unilaterally achieve.
More from The Eagle
When we're finished: Lessons from The Eagle that last a lifetime
BREAKING: New strategic plan to be developed over the next year
Come write for The Eagle (again)
Being an American, living in D.C. and as a left-leaning political science major, studying abroad offers an interesting perspective, as all aspects of my identity clash against my current reality: I'm in a foreign country that does not fight against the principles of the American left nor is as politically polarized as the U.S. It is certainly a culture shock because I don't have to guess whether or not someone believes in democratic values, I can just assume.
Watching such political turmoil unfold from my dorm room in Scotland is a paradox because this country has one of the fiercest fights for independence in the Western Hemisphere. From my experience here, observing and speaking with locals, I have developed the understanding that Scottish nationalism islargely progressiveand seems to lean into self-determination, European Union membership and social democracy. Trump's nationalism, on the other hand, leans into isolationism, anti-globalism and hard-right populism.
While Scottish independence supporters seem to reject Trump's version of nationalism, they share some of his core rhetoric: frustration with acentralized government, calls for self-rule and distrust of the political establishment. The difference is that Scottish nationalism frames itself as inclusive rather than exclusive and rooted in civic identity rather than ethnic or cultural supremacy. I've had people here pity me for being an American; I've been told Scots think we're political idiots.
I'll admit, watching the news from here leaves me feeling powerless. I'm sure many Americans back home share this sentiment. Yet, despite these overwhelming feelings, I refuse to give up on America. Being an international student has only strengthened my pride in my country. It has reminded me that being American is an identity I must never be ashamed of.
In times like these, when division is everywhere and democracy seems fragile, we can't afford to lose hope. The America I believe in - the one I love - is defined by kindness, acceptance and, above all, resilience. We must continue to believe in its people and fight the good fight for the next four years. It's up to us to embody these values and to fight for a future where these ideals thrive. We cannot sit back and let the new administration's shock wave pass, because America's greatest strength has always been its people.
Mari Santos is a junior in the School of Public Affairs and a columnist for The Eagle.
This piece was edited by Quinn Volpe, Alana Parker and Abigail Turner. Copy editing done by Luna Jinks, Olivia Citarella and Nicole Kariuki.


Load-Date: February 10, 2025


End of Document
