




The Daily Athenaeum: West Virginia University
February 19, 2025 Wednesday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 830 words
Body


Following the election and the first few weeks of President Donald Trump's second term, we have heard the word woke being used by politicians and supporters on the left and right. While some argue the importance of the word and what it represents, others disagree with these views or reject the word completely. 
West Virginia Gov. Patrick Morrisey has spoken publicly about the "woke virus" numerous times and how he applauds West Virginia University for its recent closure of its Division of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion, which aligns with his plan to "eliminate the woke virus from the schools." But what exactly does the word woke mean?
The word woke is defined as "aware of and actively attentive to important facts and issues (especially issues of racial and social justice)," and is identified as U.S. slang by the Merriam-Webster dictionary. The word was added to Merriam-Webster in 2017, following its increased usage on social media about current events. However, the term has been traced back to movements in the 1930s and 40s. 
Following the shooting of Michael Brown in 2014, woke and staying woke became part of a wider topic of discussion within the Black community, according to Merriam-Webster. Woke signifies action, injustices and prejudices of society and has been used this way for over a century to empower the Black community. 
Being woke is generally favored by the liberal left, viewed as being woke or woken up to injustices in the United States. Many believe our government and laws vindicate inequality and injustice based on an individual's race, gender or sexual orientation. Being woke is about empowering people to speak out against and fight these inequalities in our government systems. 
However, as with many things, the definition of the word is different in the eyes of many. 
In recent years, many conservatives have adopted the term, expressing their disapproval of many progressive policies on the left and viewing wokeness as a threat to their ideologies. Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis was quoted in his 2022 election night speech saying "We reject woke ideology. ... We will never surrender to the woke agenda." 
Through the "Stop WOKE Act" and the Parental Rights in Education Law, DeSantis has implemented policies restricting education on topics such as race, oppression, gender and sex in Florida classrooms. 
Florida is not the first state to implement such policies. Conservative-led legislation across the country has begun restricting classes and programs relating to these issues, which leads to the question: Why is being woke such a bad thing?
Among conservatives, the term woke is used to ridicule the left and its progressive social justice issues, which they view as threatening to society. In his inaugural speech, Morrisey focused on many things, one of them being "ending wokeness." One thing republicans can't seem to do is give a legitimate reason why being woke is such a bad thing that requires elimination, especially when this country has much bigger issues at hand. 
In a recent poll by WalletHub, West Virginia ranked at No. 43 in quality of education and No. 50 in education attainment. In 2023, West Virginia had the fourth-highest poverty rate in the country, with over 280,000 people, including 70,000 children, living in poverty. In 2022, West Virginia led the country in drug overdose mortality by state, according to the CDC. 
These are serious issues affecting the lives of hundreds of thousands of West Virginians and issues our legislature and government should be working tirelessly to fix. Yet, their focus is on eradicating the "woke virus," which in their eyes is more dangerous to Americans than poverty, education and health. 
The "woke mind virus" is not what our country needs to be worried about. We should be worried about corruption in our government and the injustices that Americans face every day at the hands of our leaders. Eliminating Diversity, Equity and Inclusion from our schools is not going to save children from poverty or provide them better education. Removing institutions such as DEI will divide us further, not bring us together.  
West Virginia University's DEI office existed because "WVU is always striving to create the safe, diverse, welcoming community we all deserve," the former website stated. Now that the division has been rebranded, the former message of a "welcoming community" does not hold the same meaning. 
Being woke is not a bad thing. Being aware of the inequalities and injustices in our society and actively taking action against them is not a bad thing. Our country is riddled with injustices, and the only way to fight them is to be aware of them and stand up for what is right, not eliminating institutions and educational material relating to our history and our society.
Instead of worrying about Americans who are educated on societal issues, we should worry about Americans who actively dismiss them and fail to acknowledge the real issues facing our communities.

Load-Date: February 20, 2025


End of Document
