




TheHill.com
February 6, 2025 Thursday


Copyright 2025 NEXSTAR MEDIA INC.  All Rights Reserved


Section: PUBLIC HEALTH NEWS
Length: 1054 words
Byline: Scott A. Rivkees, opinion contributor
Body


Two weeks into the Trump administration,  from federal health agencies, including the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, with the nation and world has gone dark.  
In the latest information flow restriction, public health data and guidance on several  have disappeared.     
Seeing this massive communication shift, we must ask if the limits, even short-term, endanger American lives. Active, serious public health risks are here now.    
Highly pathogenic avian flu caused by the H5N1 virus is of foremost concern and has the . H5N1 is  and the number of human cases in the U.S., although low, is rising. Yet  and guidance from the CDC about highly pathogenic avian flu is now arrested.  
This virus has found its way into commercial dairy and poultry farms. It is also found in backyard birds and is the source of infection for a recent . Fortunately, no human-to-human transmission has been seen, which, if it occurs, will lead to .   
Infectious disease surveillance requires global and national collaboration. Yet, the  with longstanding partners, including the World Health Organization.  
The . Over the last year, the CDC held briefings about H5N1 and posted real-time surveillance data. Yet, federal guidance for the public has stopped. Control now falls to states, with varied public health capacities. The fate of the recently allocated  in federal funding for bird flu control is in question, too.    
The public in the blind can now rightfully ask, how do I know if the milk my child drinks is safe? Can I get sick from my backyard chickens? Is H5N1 mutating, making it spread person-to-person? What is the status of H5N1 vaccine development?     
The answer to these questions ordinarily rests with CDC, but not now.    
On the fifth anniversary of the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, we can reflect on the consequences of inadequate testing and political imperatives aimed at minimizing testing and case reporting. Four months into the COVID-19 pandemic,  that if America reduced COVID-19 testing, “we’d have very few cases, if any.” Yet, more than 800,000  happened afterward.  
Although we are only five years removed from the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, 45 years have passed since the beginning of the HIV epidemic. There are more than  of HIV per year in the U.S. HIV appeared in the U.S. in 1981. Rather than focus on solutions, members of President Ronald Regan’s administration and others stigmatized it as the “.” Funding for control was , contributing to its spread and mortality.
Thankfully, we can now  through point-of-care and home testing, antiviral agents that can dramatically reduce the risk of infection spread and public health outreach. 
Yet, valuable information about HIV is no longer on CDC websites, caught up in anti-LGBTQ politics. The fate of the long-standing  is in question, too, as the Trump administration .  
 is a pillar of public health and healthcare and is based on understanding the risk factors of illness.  
In the U.S., nearly 50 percent of children, more than , are on Medicaid or related federal insurance. Children qualify for Medicaid if the income of their parents or guardians is within about 130 percent of the federal poverty level, which is about  for a family of four. Another  in the U.S. are on Medicaid, which saw significant expansion during the Obama administration.   
Because Medicaid spending was more than , it is rightfully under scrutiny. Yet demographic and lifestyle data need to be analyzed to understand healthcare utilization and illness risks. Thus, Medicaid programs involve examining racial, ethnic and economic disparities.  
Yet, with the current  position of the Trump administration, such programs will be peeled back, leading to increased medical costs as  are ignored. 
Children, too, will bear the consequence of data elimination.  
Children are struggling in , , and these issues vary by gender, race, ethnicity and socioeconomic factors. The CDC  is a critical survey conducted since 1991. It provides insight into many issues, including pediatric mental health, tobacco and illicit substance use, and sexual activity.   
The system’s results show alarming rates of depression and suicidal thoughts among children and substantial rates of risky behaviors. However, if you try downloading , you will see they are no longer available.    
Information about vaccines and vaccine-preventable illnesses is being curtailed, too.   
The federal Vaccine for Children Program just celebrated its 30th year and has  32 million hospitalizations,1,290,000 deaths and $540 billion in direct costs. With the rising influence of anti-vaccine organizations and, to doctors’ regret, fewer children are being vaccinated. Thus, we will inevitably see outbreaks of vaccine-preventable diseases, including measles and polio.    
Despite all this, some vaccine-related information has  too.    
Considering the antivaccine statements made by , one can wonder if the CDC will be able to show local vaccination rates. Will the CDC show measles outbreak data?  
When it comes to healthcare and public health, one can suppress facts, data, collaboration and expert guidance for only so long. These tactics may make some politicians feel better, shielding them from our imperfect world and complex health problems.  
Yet, curtailing CDC communication with the public will only put us at risk for the looming public health threats.  
Scott A. Rivkees, M.D., is a professor of Practice at the Brown School of Public Health. He is the former state surgeon general and secretary of Health of Florida.


Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
