




The Daily Titan: California State University - Fullerton
February 17, 2025 Monday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION; Pg. 1
Length: 798 words
Body


A major news source barred from the White House, Immigration and Customs Enforcement allowed into schools and churches and the richest man in the world suddenly holding the position of a politician.
Books, songs, art and every other form of media have been warning us of times like these for decades.
We are far past the time as a country for the bulk of citizens to be passively aware of politics. The plea for political awareness is a pressure that falls heavier on Southern California residents, and as Titans, we need to carry our weight.
While a lot of headline news across the country has an outward ripple effect, issues that have the attention of the nation have been extremely concentrated on diverse social ecosystems, such as our campus. Most notably, these issues include executive orders seeking to increase deportations of undocumented immigrants and the abrupt deconstruction of diversity, equity and inclusion frameworks.
Shortly after his inauguration last month, President Trump issued an executive order to cut back federal DEI initiatives, meaning all institutions that fall under federal administration now must roll back resources provided for historically marginalized groups.
"[Because of its] diversity in terms of income, national origin, ethnicity, gender identity, profession, social class; yes, every single executive order coming out of Washington, D.C. will impact the majority of Californians," said Alexandro Gradilla, an associate professor of Chicana and Chicano studies at Cal State Fullerton.
As of Jan. 20, the Trump administration rescinded a policy protecting spaces such as schools, churches and hospitals from ICE raids. As a university system with an open campus policy, ICE officers are legally allowed onto Cal State Fullerton's campus, something which has sparked concern across the school's board, eliciting a new website, information cards and other resources that outline students' rights regarding the topic.
This sudden intensification by the hand Trump is playing with immigration exposes the fact that his goals did not change from his previous presidency, but his aggression towards reaching them has. This is even more evident in his disregard for the 14th Amendment and its outlining of birthright citizenship, which he has been trying to pass an executive order to end.
"Particularly for Southern California, having a much larger immigrant population, there's sort of the national implications of 'This is a President who does not care about the Constitution,'" said Matthew Jarvis, the chair of the academic senate and associate professor of political science at CSUF.
At a university where a significant portion of the student population is made up of first-generation and undocumented students, this puts a big part of the Titan family at risk. These are not faceless names on your screen, these are your classmates, your peers and their families.
This comes hand-in-hand with the conversation of DEI and the local effect of such.
"That's the scariest thing for me, that people aren't catching on yet, with all this elimination of DEI has absolutely shut down things that I think people didn't intend," Gradilla said.
Gradilla said this shutdown, like many others under Trump's administration, caused collateral damage the people did not plan or ask for.
We already see changes in the Cal State System in Cal Poly San Luis Obispo admissions department, as the Department of Education falls under the scope of the executive order.
Do not fall into the narrative that these changes to our expression of the celebration of diversity are simply accidental or subsequent collateral damage of a bigger purpose; they are indicative of the purpose.
These seemingly minor changes are nothing short of a strategy made to curate the American people and their freedoms. It echoes the meaning of the simultaneous massive changes in our nation and local areas.
Southern California is being "bombarded" with different majorly impactful issues, in Gradilla's words.
"I mean, it's just like, "Wow, do I want to get kicked in the cheek or kicked in the stomach? This is a tactical strategy that the conservatives are using," Gradilla said. "It's really important for folks to understand what's going on and how they understand the news."
Don't stop at just the headline or social media's regurgitation of news - actively consume the world around you and have those topical conversations necessary to reflect on the current political climate. In order to sow seeds for a better future, there must be direct and intentional actions now, and the path to such starts at awareness and education.
As residents of such a highly affected area, it is our duty as citizens to be informed in order to create a safer space in the face of such imminent threats to our democracy.

Load-Date: February 17, 2025


End of Document
