




USA Today
February 27, 2025 Thursday
1 Edition


Copyright 2025 USA Today All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS; Pg. B2
Length: 551 words
Byline: By, Betty Lin-Fisher, USA TODAY
Body


Consumers are preparing for a 24-hour economic blackout on Friday, one of several boycotts planned by groups of consumers or activists to protest what they call corporate greed, companies that have rolled back their diversity, equity and inclusion efforts and President Donald Trump's efforts to eliminate federal DEI programs since taking office.
On Friday, those groups are encouraging consumers to not spend any money anywhere for one day. If they have spend, they are encouraged to buy from a local business.
Why do organizers seek a spending boycott?
The organizer of the boycott goes by TheOneCalledJai on Instagram, but his real name is John Schwarz. He told USA TODAY he started the "bold" idea because the time was right and people are frustrated with what he calls corporate greed and other frustrations.
The one-day action has since been expanded by The People's Union, the organization Schwarz started. It includes boycotts of various companies and retailers during different time periods including Amazon (March 7-14), Nestle (March 21-28), Walmart (April 7-14) and a second broader one-day economic blackout on April 18.
Do boycotts work?
Conservative activists have successfully rallied in recent years to force retailers and companies to rein in their diversity, equity and inclusion efforts by staging boycotts to hurt sales.
Professors have told USA TODAY that boycotts can be successful in shaming a company into reversing decisions or taking action, but they don't always work. There needs to be clear actions outlined, they say. But consumers do like being able to take action against something they feel strongly about.
What other consumer boycotts are happening?
Friday's boycott is one of several. A national boycott of Target started Feb. 1 to coincide with Black History Month. It was launched by civil rights activists in Minneapolis upset that Target has rolled back its DEI programs. Another boycott that lasts through the end of the year was outlined on Instagram by comedian and actress Leslie Jones. It encourages consumers to buy directly from Black-owned businesses and outlines planned protests in certain months against Amazon, Target and Walmart.
The faith community also plans a 40-day fast or boycott of Target because of its retreat from DEI initiatives starting March 5. A website, targetfast.org, has been created with more information.
The Latino community has also been active on social media using the hashtag #LatinoFreeze, encouraging supporters to "hold your money" amid freezes on DEI initiatives, reduced funding for the National Institutes of Health and actions on immigration.
The movement encourages Latino Americans to shop only for essentials and to be thoughtful about where to buy with a focus on supporting "Latino American, Black American and Allied American Businesses that are supportive to this movement."
The Rev. Al Sharpton and the National Action Network also have held a few "buy-cotts" to bring supporters to Costco to spend money in support of the company's board of directors, which voted down an effort to drop DEI initiatives.
The National Action Network also said in a news release that it would lead "a strategic boycott in the next 90 days of two companies that have dropped their DEI commitments amid public pressure." No details have been released.

Load-Date: March 3, 2025


End of Document
