




MailOnline
January 24, 2025 Friday 10:14 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:2
Length: 1487 words
Byline: Natasha Anderson
Body


The Oscars have gone to war with President Donald Trump by nominating a transgender star for an acting award and two trans dramas for 21 awards just days after he signed a law declaring the US will only recognize two sexes.
The Academy has nominated Emilia Pérez, a musical crime drama focusing on a Mexican drug lord and his transition from male to female, for an astonishing 13 awards, including Best Film and Best Director.
The film also earned trans star Karla Sofia Gascon a nomination for Best Actress in a Leading Role. Gascon has openly condemned Trump's gender identity law, branding it 'shameless'.
She has also expressed concerns about the challenges the LGBTQ community could face under Trump's Administration, arguing in interviews that America is 'going backwards' and warning that 'giving power to the intolerant' will 'erode the little tolerance we have'.
Tackling similar themes of gender identity, the Edward Berger directed political drama Conclave picked up a total of eight nominations, including Best Film, Best Director. 
The movie, about scheming cardinals deciding who to elect as the next pope, was branded by leaders of the Catholic church as 'anti-Christian propaganda' that also 'checks every woke box'.
The Academy appeared to doubled down on its anti-Trump crusade by including the Trump biopic The Apprentice - which features a controversial marital rape scene - in its nominations. Trump has called those involved with the film 'human scum' and dismissed the project as a 'disgusting hatchet job'. 
Gascon has become the first-ever transgender star to be nominated for an Oscar. She was also nominated for a Golden Globe, Screen Actors' Guild award, and BAFTA for her work in Emilia Perez.
The actress, during her acceptance speech at the Golden Globes, condemned intolerance and pillared a message of hope to the LGBTQ community: 'The light always wins over darkness.'
Although she has publicly slammed Trump, Gascon has claimed she wants the narrative surrounding her historic Oscars nomination to be about her performance in the film - not her gender identity.
'It's time to focus on my performance and move beyond labels like ethnicity, sexuality, or hair color,' she said of her nomination Thursday, The Statesman reported. 'Art transcends hate. My work speaks for itself.' 
However, she has not shied away from criticizing Trump and his two-sexes law. She also last year filed a lawsuit against conservative French politician Marion Maréchal after he criticized her winning a best actress award at Cannes Film Festival.
'A man has won best actress. Progress for the left means the erasure of women and mothers,' Maréchal quipped after her win, prompting Gascon to file a legal complaint for 'sexist insult on the basis of gender identity'.
The actress added Thursday that being put forward for an Academy Award was 'completely crazy', telling reporters: 'I didn't sleep all night. What an illusion, what an honor, what love.'
This year's Oscars announcement saw Emilia Perez lead the way with 13 nominations while director Berger's film about cardinals voting to elect the next pope, secured eight nods. 
Conclave has sparked outrage among the Catholic church, with the former prefect for the Dicastery for the Doctrine of the Faith last week branding it 'anti-Christian propaganda' that he says could have been produced 'in the time of Hitler or Stalin'.
'I've seen some clips and read some reviews and that is enough for me,' Cardinal Gerhard Müller said of the film, according to the National Catholic Register.
He said the plot revealing a Cardinal to be an 'intersexual person' was 'stupid, ridiculous, and idiotic' and claims it 'shows more their own corruption - that of the film's producers - than the Church'.
Other clergy have also spoken out against the film, urging Catholics not to see it. 
But Ralph Fiennes, who starred in Conclave as Cardinal Lawrence, has said he is 'thrilled' to see the film put forward for Oscars. He received a best actor nomination for his role in the film. 
'I'm thrilled to be nominated and to be celebrating the other nominations for Conclave,' Fiennes said. 'Edward Berger brought an extraordinary cast and crew together - he is an inspirational director with rare insight and a unique vision which lies at the heart of this film.'
Also nominated is his co-star, Italian actress Isabella Rossellini, who reflected on how filmmaker David Lynch, who died earlier in the month, made an impact on her understanding of acting.
'Our collaboration was key to my understanding of the art of acting,' she said. 'It is my past, all that I have in me, that I brought to my interpretation of Sister Agnes in the film Conclave, working under the clear, sharp direction of Edward Berger his incredible cast and crew, especially the incomparable Ralph Fiennes.
'Thank you to the Academy. I am very honored.'
The Academy also appeared to snub Trump by including The Apprentice - which has been one of the bigger awards season question marks, especially after it failed to resonate with moviegoers in theaters - in its nominations.
Leading man Sebastian Stan earned a Best Actor nomination for his portrayal of young Trump during his formative years in New York City real estate.
Succession star Jeremy Strong also secured a Best Supporting Actor nomination for his role as controversial NYC lawyer Roy Cohn, a Trump confidante and mentor before his death to AIDS in 1986.
But Trump is not pleased with the film or his portrayal in it. Last year, a lawyer for the President sent a cease-and-desist letter to the filmmakers behind the movie.
'The Movie presents itself as a factual biography of Mr. Trump, yet nothing could be further from the truth,' the letter from Trump attorney David Warrington said, per The Hill.
Director Ali Abassi revealed his intentions behind telling Trump's story at the Cannes Film Festival in May 2024.
'I think in the time of turmoil you know, there's this tendency to look inwards, to sort of bury your head deep in the sand, and look inside, and hope for the best and hope for the storm to get away,' Abbasi told Variety at the time.
'But the storm is not going to get away,' he continued. 'The storm is coming, actually. The worst times are to come.
'When we did this movie, everyone said, "Why do you want to make a movie with Trump? You know, if you want to tell something about the world, do it in a nice way, in a metaphorical way."
'There is no nice, metaphorical way to deal with the rising wave of fascism,' Abassi said. 'The messy way, the banal way, is only the way of dealing with this wave on its own terms, at its own level.
'It's not going to be pretty,' he added, 'But I think the problem with the world is that the good people have been quiet for too long.'
Trump on his first day back in office signed an executive order ruling the federal government to define sex as only male or female.
The order declares that there are just two sexes and rejects that people can transition from one gender to another or be considered something other than male or female such as nonbinary or intersex.
The order calls for passports, visas and Global Entry cards to reflect the administration's definition of sexes. It also calls for the definition to be reflected in policies such as federal prison assignments.
Trump also rescinded an order from the administration of former Democratic President Joe Biden that allowed transgender people to serve in the military. 
Although the order has been signed, much of it requires more federal action. Trump's executive order tells one White House staff member to draft a bill for Congress within 30 days that would codify the definitions into law.
Federal agencies must tell the president within 120 days what they've done to comply with the order. Some parts might require going through the regulatory process or passing new laws.
Trump quickly made good on his pledge to sever diversity, equity and inclusion policies in the federal government by laying off all DEI hires within 24 hours.
He signed an order calling for the elimination of government diversity programs, including the ending of all federal offices and jobs related to diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI). 
The executive action calls for the termination of DEI programs, mandates, policies, preferences and activities in the federal government along with the review and revision of existing federal employment practices, union contracts and training policies or programs.
Agency, department and commission heads have 60 days to terminate to the maximum extent allowed by law all DEI, DEIA and 'environmental justice' offices and positions, action plans, equity-related grants or contracts as well as end all DEI or DEIA performance requirements.
It also targets federal contractors who have provided DEI training or materials, and grantees who received federal funding to provide or advance DEI programs, services or activities since Biden took office in 2021.

Load-Date: January 24, 2025


End of Document
