




East Carolinian: East Carolina University
February 20, 2025 Thursday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: THEEASTCAROLINIAN; Pg. 1
Length: 340 words
Body


DEI education should be prioritized 
We, the editorial staff of The East Carolinian, believe that the removal of Diversity, Education, and Inclusion classes under Trump's new executive order is a step towards the wrong direction. DEI courses are crucial for enhancing student understanding about history, culture, and social situations. Allowing politics to decide what can and can't be taught is a very dangerous pathway to walk on. 
DEI courses help students explore different perspectives and expand their views that extend beyond what they see around them. They help students understand systematic issues plaguing the nation. Cutting these courses out of a student's education will simply leave students unprepared for the real world. 
Education should revolve around growth and increased understanding. DEI courses help students recognize racial, gender, and economic disparities and think about ways to fix them. 
Without these discussions, we risk raising a generation that doesn't understand or acknowledge the fact that inequality is something that exists and inhibits people from reaching their true potential. 
DEI promotes increased understanding, awareness, and acceptance of issues related to oppression of many groups of people. If these programs and classes are removed, what will become of our country? Will the pillars of equality and freedom that our nation has been fighting to achieve for so long be torn down?
Students, faculty, and community members must speak up, push back against policies that erase important discussions, and support institutions that value inclusivity. We should advocate for policy changes, support organizations fighting for educational equity, and ensure DEI education remains a priority in schools and workplaces. 
Especially in a time like this, where our nation is as divided as ever, DEI education should be prioritized. 
This executive order is one for the history books for all the wrong reasons and we, as a community of students, faculty, and leaders need to put our feet down and fight back.

Load-Date: February 20, 2025


End of Document
