




Fox News LIFE, LIBERTY, LEVIN 8:00 PM EST
February 1, 2025 Saturday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6450 words
Byline: Mark Levin, Ben Domenech, Alicia Acuna
Guests: Larry Arne
Body


TODD PIRO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL ANCHOR: I would just like to say one more time. Welcome to the goodie room. Come on, Chaffetz, get in on it.
DR. NICOLE SAPHIER, FOX NEWS CHANNEL MEDICAL CONTRIBUTOR: We got Jason again.
ALICIA ACUNA, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: That does it for us. We will see you back here tomorrow at 6:00 PM Eastern for another "Big Weekend Show."
Remember always DVR, if you can't catch us live.
LIFE, LIBERTY & LEVIN, it's up next.
MARK LEVIN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST, "LIFE, LIBERTY & LEVIN": Hello, America. I'm Mark Levin, and this is LIFE, LIBERTY & LEVIN Saturday.
Well, what took place in the Potomac was horrendous. And all of our minds go to, my God, what if that was us or a member of our family? What must it have been like when that plane went down and those -- when that chopper hit it, and those propellers went through the fuselage, and then you want to close your eyes saying, I don't want to think about it.
I'm sure it was horrendous. Now, what the families are going through really is unimaginable. You know, you're happy, you're excited, family members are coming home, or they're coming to visit, and you're at the airport, and then you hear this.
I personally am so proud of our first responders, all the states, all levels of government, they jumped right into action, not the usual stuff we see outside of the first responders, that is all the nit-picking and attacking and competition. It was united and they had one mission in mind, to save as many lives as they could and unfortunately, there weren't any lives to save, and we will get to the bottom of this. I feel certain of it, especially with President Trump, where he is, he's not going to tolerate it.
But I think there's certain professionals who would want to get to the bottom of it as well, no matter what. So this will be done.
But you know what, ladies and gentlemen, I've got a real problem here.
We have a massive government, we have a massive society, and we have a right to expect that our government is to conduct itself in a way that is responsible, in a way that is professional, in a way that can save as many American lives as possible. And what am I talking about?
Every one of these areas of our society has been assigned a Cabinet to do what? To manage them? No, it's not supposed to -- to provide advice to a president, so a president can make decisions and then execute decisions, or Congress passes certain laws so the bureaucracy, you know, executes those laws and so forth, that is to do what is necessary on behalf of the American people.
The legislative branch, the executive branch, and this fourth branch of government, this bureaucracy.
Now, if you're going to create this fourth branch of government, this massive Leviathan, and you're going to populate it with two-and-a-half million civil servants, then shouldn't these departments have Cabinet Secretaries of the choosing of a president the United States who just won a landslide election.
I want to show you a headline here from POLITICO: Sean Duffy confirmed as Transportation Secretary despite Democrat protest votes.
Sean Duffy was confirmed the day before that horrific accident in the Potomac River. If he hadn't been confirmed, we wouldn't have had a Transportation Secretary. We would have had some acting Transportation Secretary and the vote was 77 to 22. There was a cloture effort. What's a cloture effort? It is an effort to stop a filibuster, or a potential filibuster, against the nominee.
The Democrats, there had to be a cloture vote to prevent them from preventing Sean Duffy from getting a vote, and it happened, it turns out, that he got a vote and was sworn in the day before this accident.
Now you might say, okay, Republicans do that, too. We have a bigger problem than that. Republicans don't do it like this. They don't do it like this and I know what the Democrats are doing, because the media have told us, at least some of the media. Here's one from CBS News the other day: Senate Democrats worked to delay speedy confirmation of Trump nominees. Senate Republicans are trudging through the process to confirm President Trump's picks for his Cabinet and top administration posts facing delays by Democrats who are pushing back on their speedy approval.
Senate Majority Leader John Thune filed cloture on John Ratcliffe. John Ratcliffe was just confirmed -- non-controversial -- to be the CIA director, but the Democrats have said, we support a peaceful transition of power, we just oppose the transition altogether.
So what are they doing? They're using guerrilla tactics. This is systemic to block almost every one of Trump's nominees, except some of the more liberal ones, or some that they're friendly with, like Rubio. They'll put them through, and then they'll say, see, we're bipartisan. But the majority of them, that's not what's happening. They're not just allowing an up and down vote. In the committees, you have your hearings, you make your decisions, because they're in the minority.
And so they're using the powers, the rules of the Senate, to try and scuttle from day one the Trump presidency, to try and sabotage it, to try and kneecap his ability to manage the government right out of the box and it is crucial, the first hundred days that he'd be able to do so. They are trying to stop him.
So Thune filed cloture on John Ratcliffe's nomination for CIA director, Kristi Noem's nomination for Homeland Security Secretary, of course, for Pete Hegseth. Can you imagine Pete Hegseth is Secretary of Defense today because of the tie vote broken by the vice president United States, the president of Senate, JD Vance, otherwise we'd be without a Secretary of Defense with the Communist Chinese on the move, with Iran trying to get nukes.
This isn't a game. You want to build this massive bureaucracy, Democrats? Well, when a Republican is elected, they have a right to try and run them the way they want to run them, and the people have a right to voice their positions, too. You don't own the bureaucracy. You don't own the Appointments Clause of the Constitution, and yet you're obstructing and sabotaging.
The Advice and Consent Clause is Article II, Section II, Clause 2, and it says in part: "He shall nominate (the president) and by and with the advice and consent of the Senate..." they talk about certain officials who become senior officials in the executive branch, but there's another provision, "The president shall have power to fill up all vacancies that may happen during the recess of the Senate by granting commissions which shall expire at the end of their next session."
I know all the history. We've discussed all the history. But what the Democrats have done with the Appointments Clause, that is advice and consent, they are not using it to advise and consent, they're using to try and scuttle the first hundred days of a Trump presidency, and they did it before.
It's systemic, it is systematic. They're not really interested in a nominee, per se. They'll go after a nominee at Pete Hegseth, at Kash Patel, at Gabbard or whomever, in order to try and damage the president, but that's just not enough for them. They're trying to take the advice and consent clause, as we call it, and use it to prevent a president from having his senior Cabinet official sit around a table so he can run the executive branch as he promised the American people when he was elected.
So it's one thing to have this kind of systemic strategy, because the Democrats do not accept the election. They do not accept the will of the people. They do not accept what Donald Trump ran on versus picking a nominee here and there who you think is unqualified.
Now, how do we know this? Not only from that CBS article, the Democrats did this in 2018. I want to read you something from POLITIFACT, which is a left-wing organization that pretends to really check the facts. But here they have the facts. I'm ignoring their commentary on it, their left wing bias, but I'm getting to the numbers because they rely on another group to get the numbers. Now listen to this, this is important, because the Democrats are doing it again: "Compared with recent presidents, Trump has had the fewest nominees confirmed to date according to the White House." this is in 2018. "Trump has also had the smallest percent of nominees confirmed by the Senate at this point in his presidency relative to recent predecessors, only 57 percent of Trump's nominees have been confirmed." Just over half.
"Below that of Presidents Barack Obama, 67 percent; George W Bush, 78 percent; Bill Clinton and George HW Bush, 81 percent. The Partnership for Public Service, a non-partisan group that tracks political appointees, also found that Trump had seen fewer confirmations than recent presidents at this point," again, this is 2018.
"At an average rate of 81 days per confirmation." Now why do you need 81 days? You don't'.
"Trump's nominees have also experienced significantly more lag time than those appointed by recent presidents. Of the roughly 1,200 positions that require Senate confirmation, the Partnership for Public Service has identified 640 key positions, excluding traditional military appointments, 640, its latest data shows 144 key Trump nominees currently awaiting Senate confirmation."
The Democrats are shredding the Constitution, the intent of the founders. The Democrats are shredding this last election, the intent of the voters, the will of the people, because they want to stop Trump from implementing effectively the policies that he ran on.
Oh, they don't want him to exercise the power of a president. They don't even want him to have his cabinet.
You know, my position has been this. There's a couple of these nominees I'm not that excited about. The Labor secretary is kind of a lib. You've got the Deputy Secretary that was just nominated for Education Department, she's kind of a lib. But I have a different view.
I wasn't elected president of the United States. Is there something about them that is so horrendous that I should use my platform to convince as many people as possible to stop them? No, let them go through the confirmation process and if one doesn't make it, that's fine. Maybe Donald Trump will fight them. That's fine. That's not what's going on here.
Let me go through some of this with you.
Trump set a historic pace in the initial nomination of his Cabinet, beating all modern time presidents with his slate of candidates in these Cabinet positions. He named all 15 before Obama or Bush 43 named one. He's ready to go. He's given this a lot of thought.
So we've taken a look at this, and let's see what's been going on, waiting a committee markup. That is a vote in the committee. Who is waiting? Brooke Rollins for Agriculture Secretary, Howard Lutnick for Commerce Secretary, RFK, Jr. for HHS Secretary, Kelly Loeffler for SBA administrator. Who else? Daniel Driscoll for Army Secretary, Kash Patel for FBI director, and Tulsi Gabbard, Director of National Intelligence -- all being held up because the Democrats really don't want them to get to the floor and if they get to the floor, they're going to require cloture vote in order to get past a filibuster.
So Thune, to his credit, they're working at night. They're working over the weekend. They're going through this damn double process in order, hopefully, to get most of these people through.
And I want to talk about three Republicans in a moment, but I'm not done. Voted out of committee, but then they wait for a floor vote. Who were they? Russ Vought for OMB Director. Why? Why? Because he's a fiscal conservative. They don't want him. You know, I guess they want some leftist in there under Donald Trump. Who else? Elise Stefanik for UN Ambassador. What's the wait for? What else? Awaiting procedural floor vote on nomination, Scott Turner, HUD Secretary, holding up the HUD Secretary? Pam Bondi for attorney general. Attorney General of the United States, federal law and order, criminal investigations and prosecutions, massive responsibilities. I say this as a former chief of staff there, and they're holding her up, and they're holding her up.
What else? Thune has filed cloture, in other words, got them to the floor. The Democrats won't agree to an up or down vote. Now, they have to go through hours and hours of this cloture process. We don't need to get into the weeds on what it is. But in order to get around a potential filibuster.
Who is there? Chris Wright, the Energy Secretary; Doug Collins, the VA Secretary to be, so they have to deal with that and get a procedural vote and overcome with that, and we have final confirmation votes, actually finally occurred for Rubio Ratcliffe. Ratcliffe had to get through the process, the filibuster process. Hegseth, who they tried to knock out; Noem, she had to go through the cloture filibuster process.
Scott Bessent, Treasury Secretary, he had to go through the same process. Sean Duffy, he had to go through the same process. Lee Zeldin, he had to go through the same process. And Doug Burgum, for Interior Secretary. He had go through all this in order to get confirmed.
This is what the Democratic Party is doing. So all of these departments of government which they say, don't cut them, don't change the rules, every person there is essential. No, no, no. But when it comes to choosing a Cabinet Secretary, they apparently don't want any.
Oh, they'll say, we will pick them if they're rational and they're reasonable. In other words, rational and reasonable? Like Buttigieg? I can go through the whole list, the whole conga line of reprobates that these Democrats have appointed to one Cabinet position or another.
But Republicans do this, actually, they don't. They don't. We have Republicans who vote for Democrats all the time. Like three of them. You may have heard their names, Mitch McConnell, Susan Collins, and Lisa Murkowski. They vote for Democrats all the time. It's the Republicans that those three have problems with and they're not the only ones we got.
We've got the senator from Indiana, his last name is Young, and we've. Another senator, a Romney wannabe from Utah, and they're threatening to block, you know, Kash Patel or RFK or others, Gabbard.
Right here, "The Daily Caller": Senate Republicans undecided on Tulsi Gabbard voted to confirm Biden's nominee for the same role. Got that? That would be McConnell, Collins and Murkowski. Oh yes, yes, we've got Republicans who say, look these Democrats, they deserve the nominee. But when it comes to Trump, when it comes to Trump, they have a screw loose. They have a screw loose.
McConnell, it's all personal with him. Collins, she wants to be able to run for Senate again in Maine and say, I'm an Independent. You see, I vote against Republicans all the time. Murkowski, I think she's just a whack job. That's just my opinion, but I think she likes to say that too, and she is the favorite senator, Democrat or Republican, with the National Education Association and the American Federation of Teachers, the teachers unions. Because, man, when it comes to election time, they load up her precincts. They man the precincts, they get her the votes.
By the way, no you know why I'm never invited to the Republican National Convention. I don't want to be. If I wanted to be there, I would be. I'm right here with you, but I'm making a point.
What happened in that Potomac was horrendous. Sean Duffy stepped up. He grabbed the reins. He's going to work with all the other jurisdictions. He's going to work in the Department. Most of all, he's going to follow the orders of the president. He's going to get to the bottom of it and improve the situation.
Most of our departments do not have a Cabinet Secretary right now. It's not because they're not qualified. It's because the Democratic Party does not want them to have a Cabinet Secretary.
So let me make this point, because I've proven the case. The Democratic Party is unpatriotic. They're not interested in an efficient, well-running government. They're interested in undermining the Republican opposition, even if it means the health and safety of the American people.
I'll be right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
LEVIN: Welcome back, America.
We have our friend, Ben Domenech with us. He's the editor-at-large of "The Spectator" and just a very brilliant man.
So Ben Domenech, it is my contention that the Democrats are playing a very dangerous game with this strategy, which they tried in the first Trump administration, they are doing it again, which is obstructing his nominees to various Cabinet positions.
You know, Sean Duffy, the new Secretary of Transportation, became Secretary of Transportation about 13 minutes before the accident in the Potomac. Now I am stretching a little, but not by much, 24 hours.
They tried to block Pete Hegseth. It took JD Vance to break the tie vote. Can you imagine not having a Secretary of Defense in a timely manner under these conditions? They tried to block Ratcliffe over at the CIA.
They have a systematic game, not really because they're interested in advice and consent, they are interested in sabotage and subterfuge.
This has an effect on the American people, does it not? They create this massive Leviathan with millions of employees, but they don't want Donald Trump to have somebody in charge of it.
BEN DOMENECH, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: Well, Mark, I think that what you've hit on there is the ultimate hypocrisy at the heart of what the Democrats do in this context, which is that when you look back at the Joe Biden appointees to his Cabinet, many of them were underqualified political partisan hacks, but only one of them, Xavier Becerra, had to be confirmed in a vote that was so narrow as to be comparable to Pete Hegseth's.
He was someone obviously in charge of HHS who had no background in health policy whatsoever. He was just an aggressive and, by the way, very anti- Catholic attorney general when he was in charge in California, and he was someone who was basically picked to conduct all kinds of partisan attacks on Catholic Charities, on other religious groups across the country in a way that was going to be very aggressive. That's why it was as narrow as it was.
Everyone else got a rubber stamp, including from Republicans on Capitol Hill, and you mentioned several of them in your monologue, the worst actors on this point, from my perspective, though, occasionally, Collins can be swayed just because she's a unique figure, but it's one of these situations where the Republicans, when they are raising questions about nominees from their own party, they're held up by the media as being brave and courageous, and, you know, oh, so committed to the importance of advice and consent, and it's absolute balderdash. It's completely ridiculous.
The flip side, of course, is that so many Republicans are willing to go along when Democrats say they want to have their Cabinet nominees, even if they are not people who are qualified.
You don't even have a DNI, for instance, in this moment, who is actually qualified, from my perspective, in any way, shape or form. She's never served. She was not someone who had a top secret clearance beforehand, you know, and yet, she was someone who was approved by the Biden administration for that role.
Now, you have all of these questions about Tulsi Gabbard, who served for 20-plus years in uniform for the nation. She's had approvals Secret, Top Secret clearances, et cetera, during all of that time, served on the House Armed Services Committee and in key roles where that was something that mattered deeply and has never been someone who, from my perspective, questioned in terms of her patriotism and love for this country, and yet they are smearing her this week as being something that she is not.
And by the way, there are a lot of people doing it who sound ridiculous along the way, like Michael Bennet, who is again, someone who is held up by the media as being some kind of centrist, moderate Democrat. He's nothing of the kind. He is just a partisan hack.
So look, I think that what's going on here is they are committed to that partisan hackery more than they are to what the country has actually asked of them, which is to work with this president, to work across partisan lines, and that's why I think that people like John Fetterman and some of the other newer Democrats are more in touch with what's going on here.
It is why you had the support for the Laken Riley bill that you saw. It's why you saw Gary Peters and Jon Ossoff and others move in that direction, because they understand what's really going on in their states.
I just wish that more Democrats were committed to that, as opposed to this partisan hackery and complete obstructionism that actually puts the American people at risk and does not serve them well.
LEVIN: It's well said, and I want the American people to understand those who dare to watch some of these hearings, when you watch these Democrats, how they take words out of context and then rearrange them and paste them together. They used to attack John McCarthy for doing that and accusing people of being communists and so forth. At least John McCarthy was trying to take out communists.
These people are trying to take out individuals who are pro-American, who happen to be on the other party and the other team and they will use anything, even an affidavit from an ex-sister-in-law who the ex-wife says is not correct, and they will wave it around, and the media will use it.
When we come back, let me ask you this Ben Domenech, are these tactics going to work or are the American people, not just you and me, the audience, but are the American people just sick and tired of this?
We'll be right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
ALICIA ACUNA, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Welcome to "Fox News Live." I'm Alicia Acuna in New York.
The NTSB continues to investigate what caused a medical jet to crash into a busy Philadelphia neighborhood Friday night. Officials say it had just taken off. All six people on board and one person on the ground were killed. At least 19 others were hurt.
Right now, investigators are searching for the plane's black box amid a vast debris field spanning about six blocks. They hope it can give clues about what caused the jet to go down. The NTSB classifies the crash as an accident.
The United States has imposed tariffs on Mexico, Canada, and China, a 25 percent tax now applies to all goods from Mexico and Canada, except Canadian energy, which faces a 10 percent tax. Chinese imports are also facing a 10 percent tariff.
The move comes amid curbs on illegal immigration and fentanyl traffic.
LEVIN: Welcome back, America.
These Democratic Party tactics that started with Bork, but that really, even before Bork and Clarence Thomas and Kavanaugh and just on and on and on, where they take these honorable people and they try and turn them into monsters or sex fiends or whatever it is which is really sick.
Now, it works with the media. They and their media love it. They work together. One leaks to the other, and then they quote each other and so forth and so on.
But what about the vast majority of the American people? When they see the countries has problems, when they see that things aren't going right, they see something like what happened in the Potomac River, don't you think they are getting sick and tired of what these Democrats are doing?
DOMENECH: You know, Mark, I think that the American people when they see what's going on here on Capitol Hill, if they spend any time watching these hearings, I think it's really easy to see right through what's going on.
The Elizabeth Warren line of questioning against RFK the other day was just laughable. You know, her going after him and suggesting it was something horrible if he was going to be suing Big Pharma over various issues. You know, of course, saying that, as someone who is one of the biggest recipients of Big Pharma dollars over the course of her career, I think that puts to the lie to the idea that the Democratic Party even cares about the working class or the Little People of America anymore. They're entirely beholden to their big money donors.
And you know, one of the things that I think is so infuriating about what they've done to so many of these nominees, and you really, I think, got on to a point here is they will seize on anything to use against you.
They were going after Pete Hegseth, keep in mind over the tattoos that he has. You know, I have, you know, a brother, a sister and brothers-in-law who have served in, you know, multiple different branches of the American Armed Forces. Guess what they all have in common? They've all got tattoos, all right. And guess what? It's just something that comes with this generation of people who serve in the military as so many others have had before, and yet they were trying to use that to suggest that Pete Hegseth is some kind of White Nationalist, or something of that nature.
It's absolutely offensive to anyone with a brain, and yet they're totally willing to do it, because they are willing to lie and smear to the nth degree to try to prevent an agenda that's in favor of putting America first actually advance.
LEVIN: How do we know, by the way, that Elizabeth Warren doesn't have a tattoo, but she just is hiding it to the rest of us, so we don't know that.
DOMENECH: Well, maybe -- maybe she got it from her family history.
LEVIN: Could it be, Elizabeth?
DOMENECH: You know what, it could be.
LEVIN: Yes, exactly.
DOMENECH: It could be a couple of feathers.
LEVIN: You never know.
DOMENECH: You brought up, of course, this horrible disaster that we saw happen in the Potomac. Where my house is in Alexandria, where I've lived for the last almost two decades, I see the planes that go on that track every single day, all day long, who take that route to land there at Washington Reagan, okay. It is something that's, you know, deeply close to me, and it's the airport that I've flown out of most of my life, more than any other.
And for them to jump to and their media allies to jump to politicizing this while there -- you know, peoples' bodies are still being pulled out of the river, it's just astonishing to me. I mean, come on, show a little restraint.
And also, shouldn't we be questioning the kind of policies that happen if we're going to bring up any political questioning under the Biden administration that led us to this point of not having enough air traffic controllers, of being behind the eight ball when it comes to that issue over lawsuits related to DEI programs and the like.
This is not a moment, I think, in which the Democratic Party can be trusted in any way, shape or form, to come at these stories with anything but a perspective of, how do we make this about Donald Trump?
LEVIN: I'll give you my pedestrian two cents worth as somebody who also goes in and out of that airport a lot. I could be dead wrong about this. I watched it over and over again. I heard one expert say, heard a lot of experts, but I heard one saying, and it made a lot of sense to me, we'll know one day.
I think the helicopter tracked the wrong plane, the one that was taking off.
DOMENECH: Yes.
LEVIN: Because as soon as we saw the video, my wife and I, she said, wait a minute, there's another plane there, and he was taking off, the other one was landing.
DOMENECH: Yes.
LEVIN: They were using eyesight, apparently, and that was it.
DOMENECH: Yes. When you're that low to the ground, Mark and the system that they have on those helicopters cuts off at a thousand feet, you know, you don't have the benefit of that. You're using your eyes, and I think that it probably is going to end up being human error, and it's a very sad and tragic event, but we do need to get to the bottom of it, and I think that we can have confidence in someone like Sean Duffy, who you know the media will describe as being, you know him from MTV, but I know him as being the guy who, you know served in multiple roles in Wisconsin and then in the US Congress for more than a decade.
And that's something that I think, you know, we should have confidence in, in these new nominees who are going to bring, I think, a respect for transparency to their role, as opposed to the kind of attitude that so many Biden appointees had where they were just hiding things from the American public, even when they didn't need to be doing it.
LEVIN: It'll be nice if more of the culture, more of the people in the culture that have microphones, who have powerful positions, would act like the first responders and put the American people first.
Thank you, Ben, and God bless you for everything you do, my brother. You take care of yourself.
DOMENECH: You too, Mark.
LEVIN: We'll be right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
LEVIN: Welcome back, America.
We're here with a mentor of mine, a man I've known, Good God, how long has it been? Over 40 years? Dr. Larry Arne, president of Hillsdale College. He's just a terrific thinker and writer and scholar.
Dr Arne, it hasn't been a long time since Donald Trump has been inaugurated. It's not even two weeks, by my calculation, but he's done an awful lot, and you're a man who looks at the scope of history, especially American history, and so I wanted your input right up front. How do you think he's doing?
DR. LARRY ARNE, PRESIDENT, HILLSDALE COLLEGE: Well, people love it or hate it, people think it's a really big thing and I think it's a bigger thing than that.
I think if you put it in context, you will see that our age, our century, our decades, it's a question what kind of country we're going to live in.
Churchill like to make the distinction, countries where governments own people and countries where people own governments and that's the issue before the American people.
There's been a revolution, according to new ideas that started more than a hundred years ago, and that revolution has moved what -- in 1930, twelve percent of the gross domestic product was in the government. Now, it's a little over 50 percent.
In 1930, twenty-three or twenty-four percent of the government was at the federal level; now, that's over 63 percent, and that means that we've moved money and resources and authority and sovereignty away from the people.
And this last week is the most direct and coherent assault on that movement that I've ever seen and it is consequential, because when that kind of government began, you know, the early -- the beginnings of it, in thought, or in the late 19th Century, everywhere it has been planted, it has grown without interruption.
And so can it be stopped? And it's a very -- it's the fundamental question, and it turns out Donald Trump was saying a mouthful, and I think he might have been saying more even than he knew in 2016, draining the swamp.
What does that take? The swamp is very powerful, and its claim -- its claim is that we need professional standards and tenured officials and expertise in every decision that people make, and where does that end up? That ends up with people being told how to raise their children, and their children being treated in ways that will affect the rest of their lives, and that hidden from their parents.
And then if the parents protest, the Justice Department comes after them.
So I think that the dangers that America faces are fundamental, like the dangers in the American Revolution or the Civil War, and I think the decision that is pending is as fundamental as the decisions that were made in those two episodes, the most signal episodes in the whole history of America.
So it's a very remarkable time and I think Donald Trump likes to use superlatives, and he uses them more than I do, but I will say that if he achieves all of this, just setting out to do it so coherently is itself a great achievement.
If he actually does it, this will be remembered that the American people have done good for their country and this generation, as much as the founding generation and as much as the Civil War generation. I think that's how serious this is.
LEVIN: Let me underscore your point. You're saying that what Donald Trump is trying to do is as significant as the two biggest events in American history, certainly two of them.
ARNE: I've been saying for a decade, this is like the 1850s. The intensity of politics, the fierceness of it, the fundamental questions that are debated and I think now that this is not so different from 1860, I think, an attempt now has been -- and you know, then, if he doesn't do anything else, the clarity with which Donald Trump is approaching this is defining.
And see, I don't even mean this to be a partisan statement. In other words, the first thing to establish is, this is a different kind of thing than the American Constitution, and if you can make the distinction between the two, and there are enormous efforts, academic and political, to obscure the difference, but if you can make the distinction, then the people can choose what kind of thing do they want, and that is what the politics of Donald Trump have revealed.
And I think it's very beneficial and I don't claim that I know how it's going to come out. I think it's going to be very difficult, a fierce fight, you know, the Civil War generation and the American Revolution generation did not have a light and easy time.
LEVIN: This is very profound, because you're saying what Donald Trump is doing is bigger than what most people realize.
Let's explore that when we come back, because I think the American people voted this time, and they understood, as a book I once read, that we're at the precipice here between liberty and tyranny, at a point at which we would not be able to return, but for the election of this man.
And what you seem to be saying is that's right, and this man is off to a great start. I want to pursue that with you.
We'll be right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
LEVIN: Welcome back, America.
We're here with Dr. Larry Arne, president of Hillsdale College.
So, it's not just the moment you're explaining, Dr. Arne, which is a life and death moment for the Republic, as you're pointing out, as was the Civil War, as was the Revolutionary War, but it's the man who's taken up the position of leadership and the American people who voted for him to do exactly that.
What do you think makes Donald Trump so unique in this regard, that he is able to be the leader at the time when we need a leader like him?
ARNE: Well, he is -- Donald Trump is, you know, a very resolute and courageous man. He is stubborn. And, you know, think what's happened, right? He set out to drain the swamp. Of course, the people in the swamp wouldn't like that, and they're very powerful.
I want to interject, by the way, I'm not saying that these people are evil. I'm saying that a system has been built up under the influence of a bad principle over generations in America and I'm saying that they're wrong about something. And what they think is, if you get professional, tenured, scientifically managerial class and put them in charge of most things, the society will improve.
And you have to compare that to James Madison, who says, what is government but the profoundest of all reflections on human nature. If men were angels, we would not need control on the government. If angels were to govern men, you wouldn't need that either.
And what that means is it's not that they're bad, it's that it's a bad -- it's a bad system and it has led to dysfunction in the society, and it punishes people who oppose it. You know, you and me, for example.
But all I'm saying is, I'm not even saying vote for Donald Trump. He'll never run for election again. Well, I don't know what he could run for, something else, I guess. Don't put anything by him.
But what I'm saying is, this is a moment of clarity, and it required clear thinking and resolution, because the attempt was made simply to drive him out of politics and to put him in jail and take his assets, and his reaction to that was to double down.
And so kudos to him. Well done.
You know, I'm -- you know, there may be another college president who has supported Donald Trump three times. But if there is, I don't know who it is, and it's a controversial thing to do, but I did it like, you know, I met Donald Trump in 2015 first time. We were speaking at an event, I was the keynote speaker. He was stuck in before me.
I've actually mentioned this to him. I don't think he remembers it. It wouldn't be important enough to him to remember, but he just -- he just dominated the thing. He upstaged me the way he does everybody else. I didn't mind. I'm not in competition with Donald Trump.
My wife said at one point, Larry, he's going too long. And I said, yes, look around. It's pretty good, you know? And I thought, you've got to take this guy seriously. And I started taking him seriously. And I looked him up, and I find out that the main things that he's saying in politics, he's been saying at least since 1990 and that means he's serious about it.
And then I -- you know, I have thought sometimes, because you know you and I are students of politics. I have thought he's been a little naive, sometimes. I thought maybe, in the beginning, he thought maybe this was like corporate wars, and it's much harder than that, right?
But never mind that. Watch him go, watch him grow, watch him figure out like the work that's gone into being ready for this first seven days That, by itself, is a major political achievement, and you know, I know some of the people who are key to that, and they're great, and they're serious.
LEVIN: All right. Dr. Arne, we much appreciate you, my friend. You run the finest college in America, that's for sure, and I've been there, and I really love it, and I want to thank you for everything that you do. God bless you, my friend.
ARNE: You too. Always good, Mark. Good friend and admired friend.
LEVIN: Thank you.
We'll be right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
LEVIN: Welcome back, America.
Many years ago, as I was listening to talk radio as a kid, there was a gentleman in New York, I think he was on WABC by the name of Jean Shepherd. Very cerebral with wonderful stories and one sticks in my mind, and he ended one of his stories by saying something to the effect that 500 years from now, you didn't exist. Why? Because nobody's going to remember you, not even your family.
But there's basically a couple hundred, maybe a thousand human beings who will be remembered for eternity.
I want the Senate Democrats to know that in 20 years, nobody's going to know that you ever existed. That's how pathetic you are. But in a thousand years, whether it's in the Middle East, whether it's in the Far East, or whether it's in the United States, Donald Trump will be remembered.
Don't forget to set your DVRs. Don't forget to watch our wonderful show tomorrow night on Sunday, LIFE, LIBERTY & LEVIN. I'll see you then.

Load-Date: February 2, 2025


End of Document
