




telegraph.co.uk
February 8, 2025 Saturday 3:30 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:2
Length: 901 words
Byline: By Jake Wallis Simons
Highlight: Trump’s America is doing the ‘undoable’ – reversing the DEI juggernaut. But the UK remains a bastion of wokery
Body


Whether we’re talking baseball caps, rock ’n’ roll or the verbing of the common noun “impact”, America has a habit of seeping into the pores of Britain.
Normally, what my grandmother used to sniffily call “PLU” – People Like Us – view this sort of thing as ghastly. (“Step up to the plate?” “My bad?” Ugh. Or as she would say disdainfully, “darling”.) This week, however, it became clear that we should be praying for the opposite. . 
Donald Trump 2.0 has been wasting no time in .  On Wednesday, surrounded by ruddy-cheeked girls in their sports kit, he signed an executive order to ban men from competing in female sports, even those who claim to be women.
He also summarily evicted four-star Admiral Linda Fagan, the first woman to lead the United States coastguard, from her grace-and-favour apartment, after sacking her as a useless DEI hire.
One shouldn’t laugh. But even more hilariously, White House spokesmen have been relishing cutting Biden-era spending on ridiculous projects, including $2 million to fund sex changes in Guatemala, $1.5 million to “advance diversity, equity and inclusion” in Serbia, $70,000 for the production of a DEI musical in Ireland and $32,000 for a transgender comic book in Peru, not to mention cash for printing “personalised” condoms for poor countries.
If only Britain would follow suit. This is the week when it emerged that  ”, when even a moment’s critical thought reveals that all the bricks are gay. Or maybe intersex. But certainly not straight.
One resents even having to think about this stuff. The government has handed over tens of thousands of taxpayers’ cash to the transgender charity Mermaids. According to a Charity Commission inquiry last year, Mermaids wrongly claimed that puberty blockers were reversible and gave chest binders to children as young as 13, against their parents’ wishes.
One of its trustees had previously spoken at a conference organised by what the commission described as a paedophile support group. This is the point at which progressive ideology enters the realms of depravity.
It’s not just the ideology. It’s the waste. Take the Arts and Humanities Research Council. That august body has funded studies on “ ” (£841,830), “Comics and Race in Latin America” (£759,293) and “Decolonising South-east Asian Sound Archives” (£123,470).
Then there’s the Department for Business, which has handed £200,000 to Shanghai to “foster creativity in Chinese communities”, plus the same sum again to fund all-female Yue opera performances for urban viewers on social media.
Here’s the kicker: Shanghai has a higher GDP per capita than we do. (Similarly, we doled out £244,061 to alleviate congestion in Kuala Lumpur, where the GDP per capita outstrips that found in much of Britain.)
This year, we are also handing £133 million to deeply corrupt Pakistan and £57 million to India – which can famously afford its own space programme – plus £13 million to South Africa (I’ve heard Cape Town is nice this time of year).
Is that a glimmer of orange light? There have been some early signs that the Trump effect is changing the weather in Britain. Meta, Amazon and other multinationals   with the alacrity of so many reversing ferrets, which will affect their operations in this country.
There are rumours that even Sadiq Khan has got the memo. Last weekend, the idiotic “he/him” pronouns mysteriously vanished from his Twitter bio. Following widespread mockery, he reinstated them, blaming a “technical error”. But it’s a start. May I suggest reverse/ferret? Petty, I know. But as a society, we are facing death by a thousand pettinesses.
Speaking of which, the National Farmers Union (NFU) in Scotland, which has branded the use of the phrase “farmer’s wife” as “inappropriate”, definitely hasn’t got the memo. Nor have the civil servants who have threatened to go on strike   for a mere two days a week. Nor has Sir Keir Starmer, who has ditched Tory reforms to end Britain’s “sicknote culture”. Only now we are supposed to call them “fit notes”.
By contrast, Oliver Freeston, a Reform councillor for North East Lincolnshire, got the memo long ago. At a meeting last month, he said “anxiety and depression” were used as an excuse to claim out-of-work benefits because it was “hard to disprove”. Mental health complaints were “the 21st-century version of the bad back”, he said.
Absolutely. But Freeston received an official reprimand from a “compliance officer”, warning him to “temper” his comments to avoid disciplinary proceedings.
Bring on the Trump effect. Britain needs it. What about adverts? I have no objection to marriages between black and white people, but every single time? It’s like being beaten up by a social engineer.
Following the US election, Apple’s Christmas commercial featured a traditional white family that mirrored the vast majority of Americans. We have yet to see that here. But then, Reform –   – is surging on its platform of common sense. Support the party or not, it bodes well for the decline of DEI.
It’s cathartic to mock it all, of course, but I’m being deadly serious. This ideology is trying to kill us.

Load-Date: February 8, 2025


End of Document
