




Fox News FOX NEWS @ NIGHT 11:00 PM EST
February 24, 2025 Monday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7540 words
Byline: Trace Gallagher, Mark Meredith, Bill Melugin, Ashley Strohmier
Guests: Thomas Corbett-Dillon, Tiffany Marie Brannon, Brianna Lyman, Jeff Vaughn, Julian Epstein
Body


(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Tom Shillue, Michele Tafoya, Dr. Drew, Charly Arnolt, our studio audience.
FOX NEWS @ NIGHT is next. I'm Greg Gutfeld. I love you America.
TRACE GALLAGHER, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CHIEF BREAKING NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Good evening. I'm Trace Gallagher. It's 11:00 p.m. on the East Coast, 8:00 here in Los Angeles, and this is America's late News, FOX NEWS @ NIGHT.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We're trying to find out if people are working, and so we're sending a letter to people, please tell us what you did last week. And we said, if you don't respond, we assume you're not around.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Breaking tonight, the clock is ticking. The deadline is near. Federal workers now have 59 minutes to answer one simple question, what did you do last week. DOGE giving employees 2-1/2 days to provide a five bullet point list of what they've accomplished in the last week or risk being fired. Seemed pretty basic, but accountability in the federal government is anything but standard.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MT SNYDER, FEDERAL WORKER: I felt absolutely infuriated getting this e-mail with a demand within 48 hours to provide a response on what I did within the last week or face termination.
CHRIS JANSING, MSNBC HOST: The new level of panic and confusion gripping the federal workforce.
JOY REID, MSNBC HOST: This regime that we find ourselves living under, is producing massive chaos and trauma in the lives of federal workers.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This is just a poke in the belly and an attempt to look tough, but actually just harass and harangue.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Meantime, ICE agents in Texas raiding Colony Ridge, one of the nation's largest illegal immigrant settlements and a hub of cartel activity. The raid comes on the heels of finding a massive load of methamphetamine. An anti-ICE activist in Los Angeles appear to be outing and endangering both ICE agents and Homeland Security investigators.
Bill Melugin has the breaking information on that in moments, but first to Mark Meredith live for us in D.C. with the newest demands from DOGE. Mark, good evening.
MARK MEREDITH, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Trace, good evening to you. Elon Musk certainly sparked a lot of emotion and backlash after demanding federal employees e-mail out what they've been working on.
As you mentioned, Musk's deadline for employees to respond is fast approaching by the end of this hour, but it appears most government agencies told their employees not to bother, at least for now. And Musk himself appeared angry with the lack of the response.
Tonight, he posted, the e-mail request was utterly trivial, as is the standard for passing the test was to type some words and press send. Yet so many failed, even that inane test, urged on in some cases by their managers.
National security leaders had urged their employees not to say anything. Still today, President Trump says he was ready to praise Musk's efforts.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: I think it was actually -- there was a lot of genius in sending it. We're trying to find out if people are working.
MEREDITH (voice over): The American Federation of Government Employees, one of the big unions says, it's cruel and disrespectful to hundreds of thousands of veterans who are wearing their second uniform in the civil service to be forced to justify their job duties to this out of touch, privileged unelected billionaire who has never performed one single hour of honest public service in his life. That's how the unions feel.
Trump spent much of today also meeting with French President Emmanuel Macron. Macron saying he believes Russia is the aggressor against Ukraine, and in a direct challenge to Trump, is accusing Ukraine's president of being a dictator.
Tonight, Macron telling Fox News, he is eager to work with the U.S. to bring peace.
EMMANUEL MACRON, FRENCH PRESIDENT: It's positive to re-engage. My point is just, let's work very close -- very closely together. Why? I mean, because we've always been together in this very -- in hard time.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MEREDITH (on camera): This week, the British Prime Minister Keir Starmer also scheduled to meet with the president, the meeting may be the British leader's biggest diplomatic test yet, Trace.
GALLAGHER: Indeed, Mark Meredith live for us in D.C. Mark, thank you.
Well, the FOX NEWS @ NIGHT Common Sense Department is simply astounded by the response to Elon Musk for asking federal workers to give, "five bullet points of what you accomplished last week." Musk went on to say he will accept anything that makes sense and Common Sense thinks that makes sense.
For example, you can say, I called a client, read a report, e-mailed a manager, recommended a project, ran numbers on a different project, five things, easy peasy, done, finished. Leave me alone.
And yet, the left is imploding. Minnesota Senator Tina Smith says the list is akin to writing, "Prove to me your worthiness by Monday, or else."
Worthiness? If you can't name five things you did in a week, maybe taxpayers shouldn't be paying your salary. Because Common Sense is pretty sure the people paying your check are going above and beyond the five thing limit.
But the American Federation of Employees, a federal union, calls the e mail, quoting here, cruel and disrespectful.
So, is not accomplishing five things kind and dedicated? Hakeem Jeffries calls it, "traumatizing." Al Sharpton calls it, "a bare knuckle approach." Meaning, Musk is now the mafia.
Common Sense thinks federal workers should not have to worry one bit, because accomplishing fewer than five things a week sounds a lot more like a state job.
Let's bring in political strategist and podcast host Tiffany Marie Brannon, along with political consultant and former U.K. Prime Minister advisor Thomas Corbett-Dillon, thank you both for coming on.
Thomas, to you first. Donald Trump, he said this about these reported rifts between Elon Musk and various other agencies, watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: Only things such as perhaps Marco at State Department, where they have very confidential things, or the FBI, where they're working on confidential things. And they don't mean that in any way combatively with Elon. They're just saying there are some people that you don't want to really have them tell you what they're working on last week.
But other than that, I think everyone thought it was a pretty ingenious idea.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: What do you think about that, Thomas?
THOMAS CORBETT-DILLON, POLITICAL CONSULTANT: I think it's just mind blowing that these Democrats complaining. Do you know what's happening across Europe? European leaders are looking around their rumored advisers and thinking, where's my billionaire, genius moon man? Do you know how jealous leaders around the world are that we've got Elon Musk helping the United States? He's helping President Trump. They're all thinking, why don't we have it? And the Democrats are complaining that he's doing these sorts of things.
You know, the United States is very lucky to have someone like Elon Musk helping them, and I think they should be more grateful. The Democrats complaining over and over. In reality, he's doing great stuff.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Meantime, you have South Carolina Congressman Ralph Norman asking, is it really, Tiffany, too much for these federal government -- federal workers, watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. RALPH NORMAN (R-SC): The price tag that the taxpayers pay is right at $271 billion a year. Is it too much to ask for them to verify why they're making an average salary of $106,000 a year?
I guess the arrogance of the workers who says that's a heavy lift is what's wrong with the -- that's what the Americans are sick and tired of. It's not their money.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: He's asking five things. Tell me what you did five things in the week.
TIFFANY MARIE BRANNON, POLITICAL STRATEGIST: I could tell you five meetings I had this morning. I could tell you five things I've eaten today in the last I don't know, three hours.
But what this comes down to is complete confidence. He's 100 percent correct. It should be very basic competency level skills to tell the employer who is paying your salary what you did.
GALLAGHER: It really should be. Meantime, the French President Macron calls Trump a game changer. He said this, Thomas.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MACRON: The arrival of President Trump is a game changer. And I think he has the deterrence capacity of the U.S. to re-engage with Russia, so I think it's feasible. My concern is that we have to go fast, but we need something first, a truce which could be assessed and checked, and full- fledged negotiations.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: And I think it's fair to say that Macron has disagreed with Trump in the past, Thomas, and this time he agrees with him. Thinks he's a game changer and thinks he might be the one to be able to pull this Russia- Ukraine peace deal off.
CORBETT-DILLON: Well, that's right, because all the Europeans are finally happy that there's, you know, adults back in charge of the United States. This war really ended two years ago. Not much has changed. All that's changed is that poor men, thousands of men have lost their lives in this war unnecessarily.
So, I think Europe are very happy that President Trump is being the president of peace, and he's leading the charge on solving this crisis, and Macron is a great speaker. I don't think we'll see the British Prime Minister being as eloquent when he comes over. We'll see. Commie (ph) Keir is not our favorite person, but we'll see how those two get on.
GALLAGHER: Yes, we shall, indeed.
Meantime, kind of off topic a little bit. I wanted to put this up because there was word the Eagles might turn down a visit to the White House. The Philly Inquirer says the following, quoting here, the Eagles declined to comment Monday on the validity of the Sun report. And according to a White House official, no invitation has yet been formally extended to the Eagles.
The Eagles didn't make a visit to the White House after winning Super Bowl LII, the birds became the first team in NFL history to be uninvited to the White House in 2018. We're talking about this in the Nightcap as well. Should the White House invite the Eagles turned him down, kind of stood him up one time, and then they were leaking word that they might do it again.
BRANNON: Yes, I do think that they should be invited. I think that we should be the bigger person. And, you know, it's a long standing tradition, and just because they were kind of, you know, sore losers, and there's been some stuff being said, but I saw Ian Rapoport said that the Eagles are actually excited, and we're really looking forward to it.
So, I'm crossing my fingers that we can all be, you know, grown ups --
GALLAGHER: Because you would think after the round of applause, I was in the stadium at the Super Bowl, the round of applause that Trump got.
BRANNON: He was a star.
GALLAGHER: Yes, exactly. That's exactly right. Now, I was in -- that was surrounded by Philly fans, and they went crazy, and they were -- there were around of applause that was pretty strong.
BRANNON: And the fact that he was the first president to actually attend a Super Bowl. I mean, it was historic. It was very patriotic. And I think let bygones be bygones, and let's just -- let's just celebrate.
GALLAGHER: All right. Tiffany Marie Brannon, Thomas Corbett-Dillon, thank you both.
Well, new developments today in what so far has been a losing battle by the Associated Press now banned from the White House after refusing to acknowledge the brand new Gulf of America. Ashley Strohmier is live in New York with the breaking information on this. Ashley, good evening.
ASHLEY STROHMIER, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Hi, Trace. The federal judge says the Trump administration does not need to allow the Associated Press back in the White House or on Air Force One anytime soon. The Wire Service was denied access after refusing to adopt Trump's new name for the Gulf of Mexico, what is now being called the Gulf of America.
Judge Trevor McFadden told the court that he is not inclined to act precipitously and has requested a full briefing before he makes any decision about what the AP says is a violation of their First Amendment rights.
So, according to reports, a Paris-based AP reporter did ask a question at President Trump and French President Emmanuel Macron's joint press conference today. And meantime, we are now learning just how much time the mainstream media news networks are spending on DOGE's budget cuts, and it doesn't amount to much at all.
According to the Media Research Center, in just 16 days of coverage, ABC, CBS and NBC spent a combined whopping one minute and 53 seconds citing specific dollar amounts that DOGE has claimed to save taxpayers. So it's no wonder White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt had this to say about her job.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: Unfortunately, the mainstream media has been blinded by this bias, this anti-Trump bias, and it's actually quite sad, because rather than dealing with people who are truly interested in journalistic integrity and finding out the truths and the facts, they're coming into that room with a preconceived narrative and bias.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
STROHMIER: And Trace, the next hearing on the Associated Press is access to the White House is set for March 20th. So, of course, we're watching out for that and report back on what we hear.
GALLAGHER: Indeed. Ashley Strohmier live for us in New York. Ashley, thank you.
Let's bring in The Daily News Drop Anchor Jeff Vaughn and The Federalist Elections Correspondent Brianna Lyman, great to have you both.
Brianna, to you first. I mean, Ashley kind of touched on this, but I want to put these up on the screen because it's kind of fascinating. Newsbusters, censored is the headline, and it goes on to say here, ABC, CBS NBC, spent less than two minutes on DOGE taxpayer savings. Deeper it says, in 16 days of coverage, February 8th, February 24th, ABC, CBS, NBC, on their evening and morning shows spent a total of a minute 53 seconds citing specific dollar amounts that DOGE or President Donald Trump claimed to have saved the American taxpayer.
So, the strategy here is you get people all ginned up, right, Brianna? And then, you don't offer any facts or any context.
BRIANNA LYMAN, THE FEDERALIST ELECTIONS CORRESPONDENT: Yes, there's a lot of reasons why the propaganda press wouldn't want to cover these DOGE numbers, and one of them is that the DOGE is uncovering waste and fraud that has been going on for years that the propaganda press chose to ignore. OK?
And the second reason is that they are part of upholding the status quo. In order to uphold that status quo, if they report on these numbers and one highlights the fact that they were derelict in their job about finding easily discoverable information on USA spending about waste and fraud.
And two, it undermines the credibility of the institutions and the people that they seek to protect who are involved in this waste and a fraud.
GALLAGHER: Yes, it's kind of interesting, because, you know, we touch on this, you can -- you can screw up the news by omitting, Jeff, as much as you put in there, right?
JEFF VAUGHN, THE DAILY NEWS DROP ANCHOR: Sure can. But, you know, the cats out of the bag, everybody knows where the mainstream media is now. They have an ax to grind.
So, I really think we're going to have to see the administration take their own story to the people. If I want to find out information on DOGE, I go to X and I go to DOGE. I go to the DOGE website. That's what people are doing. Now, new media is bigger than mainstream media.
GALLAGHER: Yes, and I want to ask you this, because this is page six and moves on to kind of our next topic here, tension mounting at "The View" as host asked to dial back Trump criticisms, layoffs: Morale is low.
Are they really limiting Trump hate over "The View?" Because doesn't seem like it to me. Lot of -- lot of threats. They need to cut it back a little bit. Doesn't seem like it. What do you say?
VAUGHN: This is not going to end well. They are not going to capitulate at all. They're going to continue doing what they want to do. And I think if in order to save "The View," and if ABC really wants to do something, they have to bring a conservative voice or two in because if you take a look at where they are culturally, it's really only 30 percent of the people care about these issues that they're talking about. That's it. 70 percent of the people aren't there.
So, if they really want to expand "The View", they should probably bring some real conservatives in.
GALLAGHER: Meantime, Brianna, podcast host Brett Cooper on why young people are migrating toward Trump. He said this today on Fox.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BRETT COOPER, PODCAST HOST: And we were willing to try something new, and Trump is in this new Conservative party, and MAGA is, you know, the raging against the machine, and young people are rebellious, and they're willing to try something new. And so, I think when they realized that the Democrats were becoming increasingly establishment, when they realized they didn't even get to choose their own candidate, I think that forced them to wake up in a lot of ways.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Yes, sorry, I meant she, Brett Cooper, is she right, Brianna?
LYMAN: Absolutely. And young men in particular, especially those ages 18 to 29 have made a 29 point shift since 2020 to the right. And I think part of the reason is because they have been subject to a culture and a party that has basically deemed them as inconsequential and unnecessary in American way of life.
And I think a lot of young men saw Kamala Harris as the obnoxious face of this girl boss regime. And when it came to November, they said, well, where do I belong in a society that says that masculinity and men are basically unnecessary? Donald Trump and MAGA gave them a place and an opportunity to reclaim their masculinity, to reclaim their space in society, and I think that's part of the reason we see this shift.
GALLAGHER: Meantime, we have Jane Fonda, who is defining her version of woke. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JANE FONDA, ACTRESS: Make no mistake, empathy is not weak or woke. And by the way, woke just means you give a damn about other people, even if they're of a different political persuasion, we need to call upon our empathy and not judge but listen.
GALLAGHER: Yes, a couple of things. One, she's 86 she looks fantastic. Two, she wouldn't listen to a Republican if her life depended on it.
VAUGHN: You know, it's interesting that the woke is compassion. Is that extended to the homeless people they're lying in their own feces on the sidewalk? Is it extend to the junkie who's getting free needles to continue being an addict?
I mean, woke has come to the point where that doesn't pay the bills. It doesn't -- you know, it doesn't help you get a mortgage. It doesn't lower gas prices. These things we're talking about are social issues. And as I mentioned before, 70 percent of the people are against these social issues, and the rubber doesn't meet the road. These social issues will not pay the bills.
GALLAGHER: Jeff Vaughn, great to have you on. Brianna Lyman, thank you.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Here's one, major DEI legal setback. And I think the concern I have is that people watching those headlines, especially people who don't like Trump, are going to think Trump is getting his butt kicked, and then when these he wins, invariably, he's going to win some of these cases, they're going to say, well, what happened to all the butt kicking?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Yes. As the Democrats, the media meltdown over DOGE's cuts to the federal government, they are missing what's happening with voters and in the courts, where support for trimming of bloated government is now rising.
Let's bring in former chief democratic counsel in the House Judiciary Committee, Attorney Julian Epstein. Julian, always great to have you on the show. He was just talking about Trump winning, and he is winning some. I'm going to put these up on the screen. Here's some of the legal wins here.
Denied requests to block DOGE from Education Department. Judge Christopher Cooper denied requests to stop federal worker firings. John Bates denied requests to block DOGE from Labor Department, HHS and Consumer Protection and Judge Tanya Chutkan, no Trump fan, denied requests to block DOGE access to federal data. What do you think about this, Julian?
JULIAN EPSTEIN, ATTORNEY: Well, I think in the same way that -- first of all, thank you for having me on, Trace. Good to be with you.
I think in the same way that lawfare didn't work out so well for the Democrats when they were trying to keep Trump off the ballot or put him in jail, it's not going to work out well here, because all of these cases, Trace, are going to the Supreme Court.
Brett Kavanaugh is the most influential justice on the Supreme Court. He has made it clear his view that the executive -- if you're working in the bureaucracy, you are accountable to the president, period, end of sentence. And there are probably five sentence -- five justices or six justices on the high court that agree with that.
So, at the end of the day, the Democrats are going to rue the day on the political -- on the legal strategy here, which is they will -- they will be bounced when it gets to the Supreme Court. I think on most of the cases, if not all of them.
Politically, Trace, I think this has also been a disaster. You would think Democrats would be on the side of reform here, particularly when we've learned of all the abuse, but Democrats are instead obstructing because they appear politically to be on the side of big government. They appear to be on the side of sort of woke ideology and cultural leftism that the bureaucracy has been promoting. And they appear to be on the side according to this New York Post story of cronyism, which is not a good place.
So, I think both politically and legally, Trace, this is going to end up very unfortunate for the Democrats.
GALLAGHER: Meantime, you write the following in the New York Post, Julian, why voters in courts are supporting a bureaucratic slim down. It goes on to say, even before revelations by Elon Musk, Department of Government Efficiency, 69 percent of Americans thought foreign aid should be cut, according to an AP University of Chicago poll, a New York Times Siena college poll, revealed the same percentage of Americans think our political institutions are archaic and in need of a rebuild.
I mean, Clinton, Al Gore, Obama all wanted to do these things, they just didn't to this extent.
EPSTEIN: And I think this problem is going to get worse. Yes, the baseline here is that part the American public, both parties, believe that government institutions and institutions in general need to be reformed. Democrats are obstructing that bad politically.
But I think when we learn more about sort of the cronyism involved, are these government grants and bureaucracies really a back door way to provide cronyist payback to NGOs, who are left leaning and who at election time become campaign activists. I think then the scandalization of this thing is going to become worse.
So, I think the Democrats, again, have carved out a really, really unfortunate position of obstructionism, rather than on the side of reform and these sort of street protests.
I mean, the Democrats, Schumer and the others, they looked like they were escapees from the local Saint Elizabeth the other week, when they were out saying, we will win, we will win. I mean, everything about this has just been terrible.
But fundamentally, the same people that would said that the Biden presidency, the Biden campaign and the Harris campaign, we're giving them the big thumbs up and saying everything was on track are the same people that are advising the Democrats this is a good place for them to be. It's not. They will lose this fight politically, and they will most likely lose this fight legally.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Julian Epstein, great to have you on the show as always. Thank you, sir.
EPSTEIN: Trace, thank you.
GALLAGHER: Meantime, breaking tonight, former Republican presidential candidate Vivek Ramaswamy makes a major announcement.
And multiple activist groups here in Los Angeles banding together to disrupt ICE operations. Bill Melugin is up next.
And later in the Nightcap, we talked about it before, the Philadelphia Eagles chose not to visit the White House after winning Super Bowl LII during Donald Trump's first term, reports began circulating this weekend they might not attend again this year, but new reports today say they will accept if the invitation is extended.
Given the warm welcome President Trump received at this year's game, should they be invited? Why? Why not? Let us know, X and Instagram @TraceGallagher, we'll read your responses coming up in the Nightcap. We are coming right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GALLAGHER: Breaking tonight, former Republican presidential candidate Vivek Ramaswamy is running for Ohio governor. The 39-year-old multi-millionaire biotech entrepreneur kicked off his campaign in his hometown of Cincinnati. He joins a competitive GOP primary field to succeed Republican Governor Mike DeWine who is term-limited. Much more on that.
And for those who support illegal immigration, including criminal illegal immigrants are now taking steps to potentially endanger ICE officers doing their job in Southern California. Bill Melugin live with the breaking information on this story. Bill, good evening.
BILL MELUGIN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Trace, good evening to you. Those anti-ICE activists here in Los Angeles have been interfering with and live-streaming ICE operations in recent days, and now they're doxxing ICE officers and putting targets on their back.
Take a look at this, several federal sources sent this to me, telling me that activists have been putting up these posters in SoCal neighborhoods, revealing the faces, names, phone numbers and other information about ICE officers working out of the Los Angeles office.
ICE tells me they are aware and investigating. DHS is calling these activists, "pathetic."
In the meantime, politicians in Massachusetts are responding to Tom Homan's comments at CPAC.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TOM HOMAN, WHITE HOUSE BORDER CZAR: The police commissioner of Boston, you said you doubled down on not helping the law enforcement office of ICE, I'm coming to Boston. I'm bringing hell with me.
You're not a police commissioner. Take that badge off your chest, put it in the desk drawer because you became a politician. You forgot what's right to be a cop.
MICHELLE WU, BOSTON MAYOR: I will say it's pretty clueless for someone to be insulting our police commissioner whose decades of experience, whose leadership in the role and whose results with our amazing Police Department speaks for themselves.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MELUGIN: Well, it didn't stop there. Boston City Councilwoman Sharon Durkan posted on X in part, "Laughable that someone who spent their career policing a town smaller than a Fenway Park crowd thinks they can lecture Boston on public safety. Tom Homan should know we don't scare easy."
There was more. A city councilwoman in Worchester, which recently just declared itself a transgender sanctuary city, wrote to Homan, "We will meet you with hell too."
And in Texas, Governor Greg Abbott announcing that Texas troopers assisted Homeland Security with an operation in Colony Ridge this morning. That's an area with an enormous population of illegal aliens living in it.
Abbott says he's worked with Tom Homan on this operation for the past several months. And Trace, these illegal crossings at the Southern Borders just keep going lower and lower. DHS says there were only 200 illegal aliens encountered on Saturday. That is the lowest number in at least 15 years and it's a very far cry from the climax of the Biden border crisis when we had 11,000 in a single day.
GALLAGHER: Phenomenal. Bill, thank you.
Let's bring in the author of Why Bad Looks Good, prosecutor Wendy Patrick, and investigative reporter Spencer Lindquist. thank you both for coming on. As Bill Melugin reported there, I want to put this up on the screen about the anti-ICE activists. Per Federal -- multiple federal law enforcement sources, anti-ICE activists who have been interfering with ICE operations in the Los Angeles area in recent days have now started putting up posters with photos, names, phone numbers, etcetera of ICE and Homeland Security investigator officers working in the Los Angeles Area.
I mean there must be legal consequences somewhere to doing this, Wendy. What is it? What are we missing?
WENDY PATRICK, PROSECUTOR: Absolutely. Well, we're not missing anything with Tom Homan because appointments have consequences. And Tom Homan has made no bones about the fact that he is not only coming but he's coming with the full force of the law.
Now, how do we know that people take him seriously? You just had the numbers of the border crossings to prove that he is coming to sanction sanctuary cities for one thing but he also is going to withhold Federal funding. You know, the city say show me the money and he says show me the migrants. Remember worst first. The ones that ICE is going after. So, to try to obstruct those efforts is something he's going to prioritize and take very seriously.
GALLAGHER: Meantime, to you, Spencer. Now, you wrote this in the Daily Wire. Quoting here. "Texas Republican Governor Greg Abbott announced that the Colony Ridge Development, a magnet for illegal aliens just north of Houston is being targeted for deportation operations on Monday, today, by the Department of Homeland Security and the Texas Department of Public Safety.
Still waiting for numbers here but this is a criminal hot bed, Spencer, correct?
SPENCER LINDQUIST, INVESTIGATIVE REPORTER: That's absolutely right. This is a 60-square-mile development. It is massive. If it's allowed to continue to grow, it'll reach a population of a quarter million people. And the developers -- Colony Ridge developers John and Trey Harris have profited off of mass migration. And they intend to continue if they're not stopped by state lawmakers and by, of course, ICE and HSI agents who intend to deport their clientele.
We've seen just what type of of individuals are at Colony Ridge. And just moments ago, we saw that there's actually an active manhunt for an illegal alien who is a confirmed member of MS-13. He is believed to have been deported on seven different occasions and it is connected to a fatal stabbing. Colony Ridge has invited people like this into the community, into the interior of the country. They have profited and the American people have paid. They have paid with higher crime, with a flood of drugs, and with a community that has been made completely and utterly unrecognizable.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Not to mention the debts there. I want to play a little bit more if I can, Wendy, of this back and forth between Tom Homan and the Boston Police Commissioner because it's instructive and we're going to play some new content at the end of this. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TOM HOMAN, BORDER CZAR: I read a story last night of the Police Commissioner of Boston. You said you'd doubled down on not helping the law enforcement officers of ICE. I'm coming to Boston. I'm bringing hell with me. I looked at the numbers this morning, nine child rapists that were in jail in Massachusetts. But rather than honoring an ICE retainer, release them back into the street.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Yes, it's kind of unbelievable. And the city councilwoman in Massachusetts said the following. We will meet you with hell as well. What do they have to gain, Wendy, by protecting these child rapists. I don't see any benefit. I don't see anybody in Boston saying yes, this is a great idea.
PATRICK: That's exactly right, Trace. That Community safety is a bipartisan issue. It's a winning issue. Donald Trump just proved that. So, in terms of getting reelected, I mean, there's been some great back-and-forth discussion about the fact that it is not popular to hide criminals. It is not popular to support making sure that they don't -- they don't -- ICE doesn't find them. And they're learning this the hard way some of the Democratic politicians.
That is one of the reasons you're seeing so many of them walk back their rhetoric. They want to get reelected. And trying to hide criminals from the community, trying to get them out is not the way to do it.
GALLAGHER: It really isn't. You talk about this. I want to put this up. Fentanyl seizures here, and I'll let you respond to this, Spencer. Fentanyl crackdown, deadly doses seized in 2024, 367 million doses. Dallas field division, 40 million. Here is Eduardo Chavez. He is the DEA Dallas Special Agent in Charge. He said this about the cartels.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
EDUARDO CHAVES, SPECIAL AGENT IN CHARGE, DEA DALLAS: Drug cartels operate much like any multinational business with an illicit product. They have distribution cells. They have logisticians and transport Specialists. That's their only job is to get it from point A to point B.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: And there's a reason, Spencer, that Trump wants to go after the cartels. It's a valid reason. I've got about 30 seconds for you.
LINDQUIST: Well, that's exactly right. These are businesses at the end of the day. And they traffic people across the American border. They charge people sometimes north of 10, 15, $22,000 a head. And this is an industry that traffics people across the border, sometimes it even takes individuals and their labor as payment in these human smuggling rings. And of course, it has drastic consequences for the American people.
We've seen these fentanyl overdoses -- and I spoke with one woman who lost her young son, a 14-year-old son to one of these fentanyl overdoses. And she tells me that these are at the end of the day poisonings. There are poisonings by the cartel to unsuspecting people who don't know what drug they're taking.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Spencer, Wendy, thank you both.
Coming up, an update on Pope Francis as he battles double pneumonia and a serious respiratory infection. Plus, the President and the Democratic Governor of Maine expected to battle it out in the courts over his executive order banning transgender athletes in women's sports. Riley Gaines joins us live on set next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GALLAGHER: We have new information from the Vatican tonight concerning the health of Pope Francis. The 88-year-old pontiff showing slight improvement although he is still listed in critical condition. His Holiness is being treated for a lung infection and complications after experiencing what was called a respiratory crisis on Saturday. We will continue to monitor his condition and bring you updates.
Meantime, a Delta Airlines flight forced to return to Atlanta today after a "haze filled the cabin." Video shows the passenger area filling up with what appeared to be smoke. After the plane landed safely, the passengers were forced to evacuate using emergency slides and exits above the wings.
The Boeing 717 took off about 30 minutes earlier carrying 94 passengers and five crew members heading for Columbia, South Carolina.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: Are you not going to comply with it?
GOV. JANET MILLS (D-ME): I'm complying with state and federal laws.
TRUMP: Well, I'm -- we are the federal law. Your population doesn't want men playing in women's sports, so you better comp -- you better comply because otherwise you're not getting any federal funding.
MILLS: See you in court.
TRUMP: Every state -- good, I'll see you in court. I look forward to that. That should be a real easy one. And enjoy your life after governor, because I don't think you'll be an elected politics.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: President Trump challenging the Democratic Governor of Maine to comply with his executive order banning transgender athletes in school sports. Let's bring in the host of the Gaines for Girls podcast, Outkick Contributor Riley Gaines, and Maine Republican State Representative Laurel Libby. Thank you both for coming on.
Representative, to you first. You saw the back and forth. I mean, everybody has seen this by now. I just want your take. You live in Maine. What did you think of this back and forth?
STATE REP. LAUREL LIBBY (R-ME): Honestly, it's so embarrassing that there was this disrespectful interaction that Maine is now known for. And on top of that, in defense of a policy that 80 percent of Americans don't support, boys in girls sports. And at the same time, $250 million in funding for Maine students on the line. It's -- this terrible game of chicken and Mainers are not pleased.
GALLAGHER: Yes. And it kind of is incredible, Riley. You know, you look at the numbers. You look at the polls. The vast majority of the population does not favor this and yet there are still these enclaves that it's a hill to die on. Here's Zoe Hutchin whose friend competed against a transgender student. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ZOE HUTCHINS, SENIOR, LAWRENCE HIGH SCHOOL: My teammate came over to me and told me that she was going to have to compete against a biological male. My friend who had to directly compete against him kept saying was that it's just -- it's not fair. And she's totally right, it's not fair. And it's -- it should never have happened.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: It's not fair. It should never have happened and yet it did happen. And you have these students that are, you know, paying the consequences because of it. And there seems to be this lack of a remedy across the country.
RILEY GAINES, HOST, GAINES FOR GIRLS PODCAST: Boom. That's the basis of the whole argument. It's unsafe especially in contact sports. We've seen several sports -- several different states where whether it's basketball, volleyball, softball, field hockey was a big one in Massachusetts where a girl had all of her teeth knocked out by a male. So, it's unsafe of course. It's unfair. It violates our rights to privacy especially in regards to the locker room scenario. That's the basis of it.
And listening to her there -- if you continue to listen to the interview, she talks about of course the feelings, feelings of just violation and betrayal. And it's what the other side uses as their argument. You know, we have to make this one person happy. But what they've disregarded in all of this is the feelings of women who have been affected by this movement.
GALLAGHER: Yes. And it's important to hear from the coaches and I'm about to play some sound here, Laurel, if I can because this is -- this is a coach who's very close to the topic and he feels pretty passionate about it. Watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ALLEN CORNWALL, MAINE POLE VAULT COACH: I know everyone wants to be, you know, empathetic and inclusive. But you know, we're being empathetic to one person and forgetting an entirely separate class of people. These young ladies who have worked -- I've watched them work for a couple of years to gain the proficiency.
You know, there was one young lady that should have been the conference champion. And you know, she's runner-up. And she should have been the state champion and she's runner-up.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: And Representative Libby, I mean, look, you know Riley Gaines can attest to this thing where you know, you put your life into it, you put your blood and your life into this, and then you have to deal with this. It's one of those things it's very difficult to understand.
LIBBY: Yes, absolutely. You know, the feelings that these girls experience are despondency and frustration. They walk in -- Zoe talked about her friend that walked in, and as soon as they arrived, that's when they learned they had to compete against a boy at the state championship. And so, you know, they just give up essentially because they know there's not a chance that they're going to win this competition. And the folks that are in power are completely ignoring these girl's feelings.
GALLAGHER: Yes, it's amazing. Riley, to you. I mean, you -- we talk about this a lot, right? It's on television a lot. We've seen the polls and yet we have to deal with this topic all the time. Is there a remedy? Is there a fix? What do you think the answer is here?
GAINES: Well, the remedy to the problem of course is compete in the category that aligns with your sex. It is not -- it's not complex. It is very simple. I've been super optimistic to see of course the actions of the President and his administration ultimately signing a beautifully and thoroughly written executive order. I've been, I guess, unsurprised by the NCAA's actions saying they were going to fall in line with this executive order with a new policy, but this policy that they have come out with has more holes I think than Swiss cheese or a knit sweater.
So, I would love to continue to see the President and his administration continue to press the NCAA to uphold federal law being Title 9, and again, President Trump's executive order.
GALLAGHER: Riley Gaines, Representative Laurel Libby, thank you both for coming on. We appreciate it.
Well, the Philadelphia Eagles chose not to visit the White House after winning Super Bowl 52 during Donald Trump's first term. But reports today say they will accept the invitation if it's extended. Should they be invited? Why? Why not? Let us know X and Instagram @TraceGallagher. We're back with the "NIGHTCAP" crew which includes you next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GALLAGHER: We're back with the "NIGHTCAP" crew, Mark Meredith, Ashley Strohmier, Bill Melugin, Riley Gaines, Jeff Vaughn, and Wendy Patrick. Tonight's topic, Super Bowl Summon. Philadelphia Eagles chose not to visit the White House after winning Super Bowl 52 during Donald Trump's first term. Rumors circulated this weekend that they might not attend again this year. But new reports say they will accept if extended. Should they be invited? Why or why not, Mark Meredith?
MEREDITH: It's a catch 22 for the White House. If they don't extend the invitation, the story is they're being -- they're going to have a stubbing. If they do extend the invitation and nobody shows, then it creates new problems. I think at this point they're going to have to extend the invitation though.
GALLAGHER: Yes. I think that might be. What do you think Wendy Patrick?
PATRICK: Definitely extend the invitation and definitely they're going to go. This is a different White House. It's the same president but a very different vibe, and I think it's going to be an honor.
GALLAGHER: And not only a different White House, that's a totally different football team, right, Riley Gaines? I mean, you look at this, the rundown here from Jalen Hurts, all the way down. They're praying in the end zone. They've got a coach. I mean, this is a different football team. I know you're a fan.
GAINES: No doubt about that. Yes, yes, lifelong Eagles fan over here. It's true. And it's not just this team and it's really all of what we've seen in college football and the playoffs and leading up to the National Championship, and of course watching the Super Bowl and the NFL this year.
I think we have people to thank like Nick Bosa, right, who's in the end zone. He was charged like $11,000 fine for wearing a MAGA hat. But he does this this amazing little dance in the endzone, and I think that dance it represents a lot.
GALLAGHER: It really does. Bill Melugin.
MELUGIN: Mutually beneficial, good P.R. for both sides. I think the invite goes out, they accept it. Like you said, totally different team, different coach. They'll make it happen.
GALLAGHER: Yes. I think it can all be better. Ashley Strohmier.
STROHMIER: I'm taking a totally different stance than everybody else on this panel.
GALLAGHER: Go, girl.
STROHMIER: And I'm saying absolutely not. I'm not going to let anyone shame -- or make me look like a fool for a second time. I'm also a Chief fan too so --
GALLAGHER: Well, I mean, it's -- that's a problem. Jeff?
VAUGHN: Well, the Philadelphia Eagles worked hard all season long. They were underdogs and they beat the Chiefs. I didn't think they would do that. They're winners. Trump likes winners. They should invite them to the White House.
GALLAGHER: Lance says two wrongs don't make a right, so we must invite. If the glove fits, you might -- yes, yes.
Thomas: They should be invited. It's what we do. It's their decision to accept or reject the invitation.
Blessed says, sure, invite them. Philly is not dumb enough to miss Trump's victory lap.
Mark says yes, it's a new day and we have a new president who represents everyone. Good way to show it.
Ron says yes, they should be. Times change and so do attitudes, and it appears the Eagles has.
Sean says no, they had their chance in 2018 and blew it. I wouldn't give them the benefit of the doubt.
Kate says take the high road. Many groups are more favorable toward Trump now.
And bill says yes, they should go to the White House. It's time to put Americans first and stop the silly games.
Thank you for watching America's late news, FOX NEWS @ NIGHT. I'm Trace Gallagher in Los Angeles. We'll see you right back here again tomorrow night.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

Load-Date: February 25, 2025


End of Document
