




Southern Accent: Southern Adventist University
February 6, 2025 Thursday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 383 words
Body


Written by: Matthew Orquia
Pacific Union College released an administrative statement this week in support of students concerned about recent immigration policy changes that could affect Adventist churches and schools.
"We understand many of our students have family members and friends now living in a state of fear," the document stated. "We wish to provide encouragement, empathy, and understanding to all on our campus dealing with these anxieties and uncertainties."
In the statement, the university reaffirmed its "deep commitment for the rights of all persons and the fair treatment of immigrants and refugees in the United States."
The document also stated: "We believe that all people are equal in Christ and that our campus should be a warm and welcoming place for everyone."
PUC released the statement in addition to statements and social media posts on the topic from the North American Division of the Seventh-day Advenist Church, the Seventh-day Adventist Office for Regional Conference Ministry, the Washington Conference of Seventh-day Adventists and Loma Linda Health, adding to the growing number of Adventist institutions that have responded to the Trump administration's policy changes.
In addition to the declaration released by PUC administrators, statements also were released by the university's DEI director, Tuwan Ussery White, and the Student Organization of Latinos .
White addressed his statement to PUC students, reinforcing a commitment to "justice, equity, and the dignity of every individual."
"As a person of faith, I firmly believe in Imago Dei, the truth that all people are created in the image of God (Genesis 1:27) and, therefore, possess inherent worth, regardless of nationality or immigration status," he wrote.
White explained that his belief in equality comes from the Bible, which also calls people to be compassionate and caring to those who need it most. In addition, he stated that the "struggle for justice is not new," and referred to previous Adventist leaders.
"The Seventh-day Adventist Church has a history of standing on the side of justice, its pioneers fought against slavery, with Ellen White boldly preaching against it and calling members to defy unjust laws," the statement reads. "Today, our prophetic voice must not grow silent."
Share this story!

Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
