




Forbes.com
February 19, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Forbes LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 533 words
Byline: Antonio Pequeño IV, Forbes Staff
Highlight: Palantir has been awarded over $1 billion in defense contracts since 2009.
Body


Topline
Software company Palantir Technologies  stock swiftly fell Wednesday afternoon afterThe Washington Postreported the Pentagon is preparing for defense budget cuts that must be drafted by Feb. 24, prompting concerns the cuts could impact the major defense contractor.
<figure>
<figcaption>
Palantir shares fell as low as 12% Wednesday. (Photo by FABRICE COFFRINI/AFP via Getty Images)
AFP via Getty Images
</figcaption></figure>
Key Facts
Palantir shares had fallen 12% around 3:50 p.m. EST before closing down 10% at $112.06, erasing nearly two weeks of gains from the software company.
The slump materialized after the Post reported Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth ordered Pentagon and U.S. military leaders to create budget cut plans to slash 8% from the defense budget in each of the next five years, with the Post citing unnamed officials familiar with the matter and a memo it reviewed.
Palantir s stock price was largely unchanged in intraday trading before the news was reported, with the stock even up slightly in the late morning.
The cut proposals will have to be drawn up by Feb. 24, according to the memo seen by the Post, exempting certain categories including southern border operations, nuclear weapons, one-way attack drones and missile defense.
The proposed cuts would slash tens of billions of dollars from the Pentagon budget every year until 2030 if they are fully adopted, the Post reported.
The Defense Department did not immediately respond to Forbes  request for comment.
Get Forbes Breaking News Text Alerts: We re launching text message alerts so you'll always know the biggest stories shaping the day s headlines. Text  Alerts  to (201) 335-0739 or sign up here.
Forbes Valuation
The estimated net worth ofPeter Thiel, co-founder of Palantir, fell 7.6% to an estimated $19.6 billion Wednesday, while Palantir CEOAlex Karp s net worth dropped 8% to an estimated $9.7 billion. Thiel s stake in Palantir accounts for nearly three quarters of his fortune.
Big Number
Over $1.3 billion. That is how much money has been awarded to Palantir in defense contracts since 2009, according to government spending data.
Key Background
Palantir, which offers surveillance and defense software used by themilitaryandlaw enforcement, has performed well in the stock market in the last year. Shares are up 47% since the start of the year and have surged over 358% since last February. Analysts have attributed some of its success to its use and development of artificial intelligence, making it one of the strongest players in the AI boom. Wednesday s news of potential Pentagon cuts marked the latest report of government spending cuts pursued by the Trump administration, which has sought to slash federal agencies  functions andworkforcesin an attempt to cut down on wasteful spending and remove officials who are not aligned with the president s agenda. The administration has had mixed results enforcing the changes, running intomultiple legal battlesin the process.
Further Reading
Here Are All The Major Lawsuits Against Trump And Musk: More Nonprofits Sue Over Anti-DEI Executive Orders(Forbes)
Here s Where Trump s Government Layoffs Are As DOGE Reportedly Accesses Employee Info At Pentagon(Forbes)

Load-Date: February 20, 2025


End of Document
