




The Guardian (London)
February 20, 2025 Thursday 5:46 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved


Section: AUSTRALIA NEWS; Version:1
Length: 535 words
Byline: Guardian staff
Highlight: Want to get this in your inbox every weekday? Sign up for the Afternoon Update here, and start your day with our Morning Mail newsletter
Body


Two Palestinian flags on a tapestry on display at the National Gallery of Australia have been  , in what the artists have described as an act of censorship they only agreed to reluctantly.
New Zealand-based Rosanna Raymond, the curator of the Te Paepae Aora’i – Where the Gods Cannot be Fooled exhibition, told Guardian Australia “we were censored over that work” by the NGA.
The revelation about the exhibition comes amid outcry over the   from the 2026 Venice Biennale, and wider concerns about artistic freedom and censorship.
                   Top news                                                                                                                                                                                In pictures                   
Go backstage at Melbourne’s Royal Exhibition Building as Richard Wagner’s music drama Die Meistersinger von Nürnberg   of the world heritage-listed venue.
                   What they said …                   
***
“CONGESTION PRICING IS DEAD. Manhattan, and all of New York, is SAVED. LONG LIVE THE KING!” 
Donald Trump is receiving widespread backlash after   amid a tussle over traffic and congestion in New York City. The White House then proceeded to   Trump’s quote.
                   In numbers                   
The 0.1 percentage point gain in unemployment came after an identical rise in December, but the   remains historically low.
                   Before bed read                   
Peter Drew is known as a political street artist, but for months he has been posting his workouts and sharing his new muscular physique online – and “provoking” some of his fans – . 
                   Daily word game                   
Today’s starter word is: LAX.  You have five goes to get the longest word including the starter word. . 
                   Sign up                   
Enjoying the Afternoon Update? Then you’ll love   to start the day with a curated breakdown of the key stories you need to know, and complete your daily news roundup. And follow the latest in US politics by signing up for . 
                   Contact us                   
If you have a story tip  or  technical issue  viewing this newsletter, please reply to this email.
If you are a Guardian supporter and need assistance with regards to contributions and/or digital subscriptions, please email 

Load-Date: February 20, 2025


End of Document
