




MailOnline
February 6, 2025 Thursday 2:15 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:6
Length: 1880 words
Byline: Katelyn Caralle, Senior U.S. Political Reporter In Washington, D.C.
Body


Attorney General Pam Bondi is suing the state of Illinois and the city of Chicago over their liberal sanctuary city policies. 
Bondi, 59, got straight to work after she was sworn into office on Wednesday and didn't waste any time overhauling the agency around pro-MAGA directives.
'She's going to restore fair, equal and impartial justice and restore the constitutional rule of law in America,' Trump said of Bondi in the Oval Office. 
Bondi got right to work by issuing 14 orders and directives to implement the administration's new priorities at one of the agencies least trusted by the MAGA base.
Among those was ordering her offices to investigate so-called sanctuary cities that thwart immigration officials and implement policies or practices that counter federal laws.
Her first full day on the job Thursday, Bondi filed a lawsuit against the state of Illinois, Cook County and the city of Chicago.
She argues in the filing that their sanctuary laws 'interfere' with Immigration and Customs Enforcement's ability to arrest and deport illegal migrants.
Bondi was part of Trump's defense team in his first impeachment trial. Before that she served as Attorney General of Florida.
Now, she is heading the U.S. Justice Department after the Senate confirmed her in a 54-46 vote on Tuesday. Democrat Sen. John Fetterman of Pennsylvania joined all Republicans to vote for her confirmation.
                     Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas swore-in Bondi during an Oval Office ceremony with Trump on Wednesday.
                     Bondi's new role at DOJ                   
Trump announced at a prayer breakfast on Thursday morning that he has a second role in mind for Bondi as she takes on leading the Justice Department.
He said he would direct Bondi to head a task force focused on stopping bias against Christian religions.
He promised the room of religious leaders and allies during a private prayer breakfast that he would sign an executive order to create the new group.
Bondi would be charged by the president with heading the task force that would eradicate anti-Christian bias.
'About time, right?' Trump said to the group, which held groups including an important demographic for him winning in both 2016 and 2024.
                     Democrat reaction to Bondi's confirmation and sweeping 'weaponization' orders                   
Trump, who pledged to end weaponization of the DOJ, admitted that it might not be possible for Bondi to be 'totally impartial with respect to Democrats' as she takes lead of the nation's top law enforcement agency.
'But I think she's going to be as impartial as you possibly can be,' Trump said about Bondi earlier this week.
'I know I'm supposed to say she's going to be totally impartial with respect to Democrats, and I think she will be as impartial as a person can be. I'm not sure if there's a possibility of totally. But she's going to be as total as you can get.'
Senate Judiciary Ranking Member Sen. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) tore into Trump and Bondi, saying he hopes to be proven wrong of his assumptions on how the DOJ will operate going forward.
'This is not the beginning of a serious, apolitical Justice Department,' he wrote on X. 'We hope Pam Bondi proves us wrong.'
Durbin and all other Democratic members of the panel voted against Bondi's nomination as Attorney General making it out of the committee for a full floor vote on her confirmation this week.
But their efforts as the minority party in Congress were futile.
Several made remarks on the floor of the Senate to voice their opposition to Bondi's becoming the next AG.
'We need an Attorney General who knows their duty is to the people - not the President,' said Judiciary member Sen. Adam Schiff (D-Calif.).
'That person is not Pam Bondi,' he claimed.
                     Rescinding funding for sanctuary jurisdictions                   
It was clear that one of Bondi's main goals was to align with Trump's border crackdown and target illegal immigration enforcement to make sure all states, cities and localities are following federal law.
She issued an order Wednesday evening pausing all funding to so-called sanctuary cities. 
Her first day as AG on Thursday, Bondi filed a lawsuit against Illinois and Chicago for blatantly opposing such immigration laws and preventing federal officials from carrying out their duties to detain and deport illegal aliens.
'Upon information and belief, the conduct of officials in Chicago and Illinois minimally enforcing-and oftentimes affirmatively thwarting-federal immigration laws over a period of years has resulted in countless criminals being released into Chicago who should have been held for immigration removal from the United States,' the lawsuit reads.
City officials said at the end of January that more than 100 immigrants have been taken into custody in Chicago and the surrounding area since Trump took office on January 20. 
Chicago Mayor Brandon Johnson was already asked by Congress to appear with other mayors on Capitol Hill to discuss their cities sanctuary policies. 
Thursday's suit is the first of many to come in different sanctuary jurisdictions, Justice Department officials confirm.
Some other areas that could have their entire states or largest cities added to hit list are California, Michigan, Oregon, Washington and Colorado.
If any state, cities or other local governments are engaged in preventing, evading or going against federal immigration laws, the DOJ will instruct funding to be withheld from those jurisdictions.
Bondi's lawsuit states that Illinois and Chicago officials engaged in an 'intentional effort to obstruct the Federal Government's enforcement of federal immigration law and to impede consultation and communication between federal, state, and local law enforcement officials that is necessary for federal officials to carry out federal immigration law and keep Americans safe.'
The Senate's Republican Leader in Illinois' State House slammed Democratic Gov. J.B. Pritzker and Mayor Johnson for 'putting both law enforcement and Illinoisans at risk.'
'For years, the Democratic Majority has ignored multiple pieces of legislation brought forth by Illinois Republicans to repeal the Trust Act and allow state and local authorities to communicate with federal immigration enforcement agencies,' Illinois Senate Republican Leader John Curran said in a statement provided to DailyMail.com.
'Their continued refusal to put the safety of Illinois citizens before their own personal political agendas has now forced the federal government to intervene to keep Americans safe,' he continued. 'I strongly encourage the Governor, Mayor of Chicago, and Democratic legislative leaders to quit impeding law enforcement's ability to cooperate and assist federal authorities with removing violent criminals who are here in Illinois illegally.'
                     Ordering DOJ staff back to office                   
Bondi immediately issues an order for all Justice employees and staff to return to work in-person full-time in accordance with Trump's executive action completely ending government telework and work-from-home policies.
She said that for DOJ workers, which includes staff with the FBI, working remotely deteriorates the trust of those who want the agency to remain objective.
'As federal employees, we are held to the highest standards-and maintaining a clear distinction between our professional duties and personal lives is essential to maintaining public trust,' Bondi wrote in one of the 14 orders she issued on Wednesday.
'The Presidential Memorandum directs heads of agencies to advance that objective for the benefit of the American people, and I want to thank you for ensuring the Department achieves full compliance,' she noted.
                     Ending diversity, equity and inclusion practices                   
The new Attorney General says her DOJ will also focus on making sure that all government agencies are complying with Trump's order putting an end to so-called DEI practices and policies, which prioritized hiring people due to their demographics rather than their merit for the position.
'To fulfill the Nation's promise of equality for all Americans, the Department of Justice's Civil Rights Division will investigate, eliminate, and penalize illegal DEi and DEIA preferences, mandates, policies, programs, and activities in the private sector and in educational institutions that receive federal funds,' she vowed.
Bondi is giving her department's Civil Rights Division and Office of Legal Policy less than a month to submit a report recommending enforcement for enforce the policies at the federal government level.
She also, however, wants the report to contain 'recommendations for enforcing federal civil-rights laws and taking other appropriate measures to encourage the private sector to end illegal discrimination and preferences, including policies relating to DEI and DEIA.'
The offices have until March 1, 2025 to submit the joint report.
In regards to affirmative action practices at university, Bondi is assuring the public that educational institutions that students may not treat students differently due to their race.
Bondi said the DOJ will work with the Department of Education to make sure any 'educational agencies, colleges, and universities that receive federal funds' are not engaging in 'treat[ing] some students worse than others in part because of race.'
                     Bondi's 'weaponization' memo                   
The Attorney General also sent a memo creating a 'Weaponization Working Group' in one of her directives.
This one immediately sent a warning flare to DOJ attorneys who might seek to undermine Trump.
The 'zealous advocacy' directive, as the DOJ calls it, demands workers 'aggressively enforc[e] criminal laws passed by Congress , but also vigorously defending presidential policies and actions on behalf of the United States against legal challenges.'
It also sets limits on 'personal political views.'
The text includes an explicit threat, stating 'any Justice Department attorney who declines to sign a brief, refuses to advance good-faith arguments on behalf of the Trump administration, or otherwise delays or impedes the Justice Department's mission will be subject to discipline and potentially termination.'
                     Task force on Hamas attack on Israel                   
Bondi wants to provide justice for those targeted in the October 7, 2023 Hamas terrorist attack in Israel, which led to a more than year-long war that just reached a ceasefire after Trump was elected.
The memo was issued as part of Bondi's 14 directives on Wednesday and creates a task force 'to prioritize seeking justice for victims of the October 7, 2023 terrorist attack in Israel.'
It also will seek to address 'the ongoing threat posed by Hamas and its affiliates' as well as 'combat antisemitic acts of terrorism and civil rights violations' committed in the U.S.
The October 7 attack was the deadliest single-day murder of Jewish people since the Holocaust.
The Trump administration has been clear it will back Israeli ally.
Trump met with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu at the White House this week where the president floated the idea of entering Gaza to help rebuild it as Palestinians are moved to other countries in the region.

Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
