




Fox News FOX HANNITY 9:00 PM EST
January 23, 2025 Thursday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7202 words
Byline: Sean Hannity, Newt Gingrich
Guests: Donald Trump, John Thune
Body


SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS HOST: And welcome to "Hannity".
And tonight, part two of my Oval Office interview with the president to the United States, Donald J. Trump. That's only moments away. We talk about tax cuts, Putin, Ukraine, China, President Xi, North Korea, Iran, so much more.
Also breaking tonight, Defense Secretary nominee Pete Hegseth has officially cleared his procedural vote in the Senate, will now advance to a confirmation vote likely around this time tomorrow night. If you are counting, it is only day four of the new Trump administration the activity level is off the charts.
The president dialed in. He is executing his agenda at a lightning fast pace. Now, here's something we rarely see in American politics, President Trump is actually keeping his campaign promises and he's doing them as quickly as possible.
Breaking tonight, the president signed a new order to declassify the JFK, RFK, MLK assassination files without delay.
As promised, the president is committed to government transparency. He's also committed to securing our borders. Look at this headline, quote, border encounters drop -- drop sharply as Trump launches crackdown on illegal immigration. I think he said he was going to do that. Now, of course, that crackdown does include deportations. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'm not going back to Haiti.
REPORTER: One of those threats is this illegal alien from Haiti. ICE says he's a gang member. with 17 criminal convictions in recent years.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (EXPLETIVE DELETED) Trump! You feel me? Yo, Biden forever, bro! Thank Obama for everything that he did for me, bro!
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: I think he's going back to Haiti.
Now, Donald Trump has empowered Immigration and Customs Enforcement to do their job in all 50 states. Yep, even sanctuary states and cities. He also declared a national emergency at the border. He's deployed U.S. Marines to the region. He has now reinstituted the state of Mexico policy for so- called asylum seekers, and Donald Trump also pressuring Mexico to secure their own southern border, and by the way, close the newly renamed Gulf of America.
The president also making good on his promise to demolish globalism. He has already removed the U.S. from the destructive Paris climate accords. Those accords say China and India are developing nations. He also withdrew our country from the horrendous global minimum attacks, the WHO, he's again moving at lightning speed.
Today, during his speech in front of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, well, the president vowed to always put America first and he delivered a powerful blow to the censorship loving elites. Take a listen to this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I'm pleased to report that America is also a free nation once again. On day one, I signed an executive order to stop all government censorship. No longer will our government label the speech of our own citizens as misinformation or disinformation, which are the favorite words of censors and those who wish to stop the free exchange of ideas and frankly progress. We have saved free speech in America and we've saved it strongly.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Now, the president he also used that speech to call out someone sitting in the very room in Davos, Bank of America's CEO, according to a 15-state coalition, the Bank of America has discriminated against Americans for political and religious reasons. The attorney general of Virginia also accused the bank of, quote, voluntarily cooperating with the FBI, the U.S. Treasury, under Biden to profile conservative and religious Americans as potential domestic terrorists.
And here is what President Trump had to say to the bank CEO. Take a listen to this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: By the way, speaking of you and you've done a fantastic job but I hope you start opening your bank to conservatives because many conservatives complain that the banks are not allowing them to do business within the bank and that included a place called Bank of America. This conserv -- they don't take conservative business and I don't know if the regulators mandated that because of Biden or what, but you and Jamie and everybody, I hope you're going to open your banks to conservatives because what you're doing is wrong.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Now, Bank of America's CEO did not respond at the event but the bank later issued a statement denying that they have a political litmus test despite multiple serious allegations.
Now, the president is not going to play nice after years of political rot. He's going to stand up to anyone. He will hold them accountable in front of the entire world and that includes America's deep state spy apparatus.
Now, after meddling in the 2020 election with that deceptive letter suggesting that the very real and true Hunter Biden laptop story was likely Russian disinformation, remember, 51 former intel officials, well, they have now been stripped of their security clearance and that includes a notorious liar, former Marxist John Brennan, who is still lying and by the way very sad he will no longer be able to abuse that special access.
Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOHN BRENNAN, FORMER CIA CHIEF: As you point out, he misrepresented the facts in that executive order because it said that we had suggested that the Hunter Biden laptop story was Russian disinformation. No, we said it was -- the hallmarks of Russian information operations, including the dumping of accurate information which is what we said in that letter.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Right where he belongs over there at the conspiracy peddling MSDNC.
Frankly, he's just lying. Look at this old headline from "The Guardian", quote, John Brennan lied to you and to the Senate, fire him. As you can see Brennan has long been accused of leaking classified information, lying to Congress, spreading baseless smears on MSDNC, but not anymore.
President Trump is actually draining the swamp as promised. He's firing political hacks. He is forcing bureaucrats back to the office five days a week. He is pausing all federal regulation. He's getting rid of all the DEI programs and employees.
Our country is now positioned to make the greatest comeback ever seen. Trump is calling it a new golden age in America.
We talked about this and so much more yesterday in the Oval Office.
Here is part two of my interview with the president.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
HANNITY: Let me ask about the economy. Okay, so will the tax cuts be permanent? No tax on tips, no tax on Social Security, no tax on overtime.
And explain -- when you talk about all of this money under our feet, you know, and the golden era of America --
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Yeah.
HANNITY: -- and energy, you know, drill, baby, drill, how do you get these companies to invest billions? And how quickly are they going to extract this energy and maybe supply Western Europe?
Because I agree with you, it's money that will -- will save this country.
TRUMP: We have more oil and gas than any other country and we're going to have more.
HANNITY: Right.
TRUMP: And with ANWR, you know, which he ended. ANWR is the biggest. ANWR could be, that's in Alaska, could be as big or bigger than Saudi Arabia.
We have more than any other country. It's a great thing. It's a great asset because China doesn't have that.
I mean, China does not have that. They have to go out the old-fashioned way and buy it.
We have more than anybody. We're going to become a wealthy country again and energy is going to lead the way.
But there'll be other things also. Tariffs -- because tariffs, you know, we were our wealthiest in the 1890s.
HANNITY: Yeah.
TRUMP: Okay?
And by the way, we're going to rename Mount McKinley into Mount McKinley because he was a great president from Ohio, came -- he was a senator from Ohio.
He was a very successful businessman who believed strongly in tariffs. He ran for the Senate. He won -- he ran for the presidency, he won.
He was ultimately assassinated in his second term, but he made the country very rich.
And Teddy Roosevelt then came along -- and I'm not knocking Teddy Roosevelt but he spent the money that was made during the McKinley years and he did, you know, a lot of great things, like building the Panama Canal, the most expensive thing relatively speak -- the most expensive thing we've ever built is the Panama Canal.
HANNITY: And you're serious about it.
TRUMP: And, unfortunately, Jimmy Carter gave it away for $1. Oh, no, we're going to have to take it back.
China is running the Panama Canal right now. That wasn't the deal, and it should have never been given --
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: -- but the deal was not that China is going to run the Panama Canal.
HANNITY: If we became energy dominant and we provided all the Western Europe with our energy, wouldn't that help bankrupt Putin? Number one, he wouldn't be able to fund his wars. And number two, wouldn't -- and I think that would make the world a safer place.
And the amount of money we're talking about would America become the single most energy wealthy country in the world? And what would that mean for paying down our debt, save the Social Security?
TRUMP: We should supply the whole world with energy. That's what we have. For hundreds of years, we could supply the whole with -- at this moment, the best energy because natural gas is clean and it's powerful.
You need power. And it's consistent, not like wind. The wind blows and then it doesn't blow and the things cost a fortune then made in China, and they killed the birds and they're horrible.
We don't want windmills in this country. I'm going to put it -- we're putting an order on -- I've already sort of done it. We don't want windmills.
If you have a house and you're in vision of a windmill, your house is worth half. It's a disaster. And nobody wants them and they're the most expensive energy of any kind of energy.
You know what else people don't like -- those massive solar fields built over land that cover 10 miles by 10 miles. I mean, they're ridiculous, the whole thing.
Every -- and by the way, you know, where the panels come from, 100 percent of the panels? They're made in China. They're made in China.
HANNITY: You had a call with President Xi.
We have three top geopolitical foes. We have Russia, China and Iran. I want to ask you about all three.
You put out a statement on Putin today. We'll get to that. But let's start.
You had a conversation with President Xi. We have problems with them. They have territorial ambitions with Taiwan, intellectual property theft, their unfair trade practices.
How'd that conversation go?
TRUMP: It went fine. It was a good, friendly conversation. I had a great relationship with him. Prior to COVID, I had a very good relationship with him.
I thought it was a very good conversation. We've had other communication before that. They are a very ambitious country. He's a very ambitious man.
He's a man that was, you know, I -- I don't want to be naive and say "my friend", but he was like my friend. We had a very good relationship.
I had a very good relationship with Putin also. I have -- I would say Iran is a different story. I will be honest with you.
Iran is a whole different thing. That's a religious deal that is very dangerous, very dangerous.
HANNITY: It's theocracy.
TRUMP: It's a very dangerous situation. That could be a big problem.
You know, with Kim Jong-un --
(CROSSTALK)
HANNITY: Can you make a deal with Xi? Do you think that you can prevent Xi from his territorial desire to take Taiwan? Can you make a deal with him on making more fair trade practices?
Because I know you. You're nego -- when you say --
TRUMP: No, I can do that because we have something that they want. We have -- with a pot of gold.
Don't forget, we paid -- you know what we lost to China last year? One trillion dollars, one trillion, because of their stupidity with their trade policies.
Now, I put tariffs on China. We took in hundreds of billions of dollars and Biden was unable to end them because it was so much money, you couldn't do it in terms of the budget. He wanted to end them. He did everything he could to end them, he couldn't get it done.
But we have one very big power over China and that's tariffs and they don't want them and I'd rather not have to use it. But it's a tremendous power over China.
China gets a lot of its money from the United States. They use that money to build the military. Isn't it crazy?
So, we have a lot of power --
HANNITY: How come they have hypersonics and Russia has hypersonics? We don't. Oh, you --
TRUMP: During Obama's administration, they stole the design for the -- Russia stole the design. They got it from --
HANNITY: Us?
TRUMP: Us. Some bad person gave them design. It was our jet.
Now, I authorized the building of hypersonic and we're doing super hypersonic actually which is even a step better, but -- and we'll have them starting fairly shortly. But Russia got them and they built them, whereas they stole them during the Obama administration.
Obama, not Biden, not anyone else. They probably stole plenty from Biden. We'll hear about that too. But they stole the hypersonic stuff and they made hypersonic missiles.
HANNITY: Will we have the resources for the next generation of warfare? I don't believe we're going to fight future wars on battlefields. They're going to be fought in air-conditioned offices.
TRUMP: Much different. Well, I don't know. I heard you say that last night. They're going to be --
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: They're going to be fought in a lot of different ways, including offices.
HANNITY: Yeah.
TRUMP: But --
HANNITY: You don't quite agree with me.
TRUMP: Very big things are becoming -- drones. Now drones are becoming more important than jets.
HANNITY: You push a button.
TRUMP: I said the other day to somebody with great knowledge who actually we'll bring into the administration. I was saying a certain type of fighter jet that I really like. He said, well, it's good if you don't like the pilot that flies it because the chances of him coming back are very small.
HANNITY: Uh-hmm. All right. Let's go -- you sent out --
TRUMP: In other words, technology is changing.
HANNITY: And we have to be in the front of it.
TRUMP: We have to be.
HANNITY: And you said that about A.I. which I believe is brilliant.
You put out a truth on Vladimir Putin today.
TRUMP: Yeah.
HANNITY: You seem to have had a -- and a relationship with him that -- and you've talked about ending this war in Europe, and you end it quickly. How quickly can it end?
TRUMP: It should end immediately, should have never started. That would never have started if I were -- I used to talk to Putin about it. Ukraine was the apple of his eye, but there was no chance that he would ever do it, and he didn't do it. For four years, he didn't do it.
HANNITY: Have you spoken to him?
TRUMP: I don't want to say but I will tell you, it's got to end.
And if you look at the -- I'm just talking from a human life. I don't care, Russia, Ukraine, Eu (ph) -- these are human beings that are just being slaughtered on this battlefield by the millions.
They've already died in cities. The cities are like demolition sites. There many people died.
One thing with the Ukraine War, you're going to find many more people died than think (ph) -- this is a war that should have never started. Biden did a horrible, horrible job in allowing that war to start, should have never started. It would have never started. It wasn't even tough from that standpoint.
One thing, so he allowed energy to go up, way up. If he brought it down, the war wouldn't have started because Putin wouldn't -- wouldn't have had the money. Putin makes all his money in energy.
And Biden let it go to a record and Putin had so much money he was able to do it. So -- but that's only one thing. That wasn't even the biggest reason.
What was said at the time was so bad. I said, he's going to drive that guy into doing this.
HANNITY: Minor incursion? When he said that?
TRUMP: Well, he used the word minor incursion --
HANNITY: And we don't --
TRUMP: -- but he said things worse than that.
And Putin shouldn't have done it, too. I mean, I'm not blaming only one, Putin shouldn't have done it. He shouldn't have done it and it has to stop.
Do you know they've lost about 850,000 Russian soldiers and 700,000 Ukrainian soldiers right now?
HANNITY: Right, and the Ukraine has been devastated.
TRUMP: Devastated.
HANNITY: Will it be a negotiated settlement and will you lead the negotiation?
TRUMP: Well, I hope so, and I put out a truth today that's really strong. And I mean it. And if they don't do that I'm going to put massive tariffs - -
HANNITY: Explain, if they don't do what?
TRUMP: If they don't settle this war soon, like almost immediate -- I'm going to put massive tariffs on Russia and massive taxes and also big sanctions.
And I don't want to do that. You know, I love the Russian people. They're great people. I don't want to do that, but we got to get this war ended.
And if they don't make a settlement like fast -- and Zelenskyy, I will say this, he wants to settle now. He's had enough. He shouldn't have allowed this to happen either.
HANNITY: No.
TRUMP: You know, if -- he's no angel, he shouldn't have allowed this war to happen.
First of all, he's fighting a much bigger entity, okay? Much bigger. When he was, you know, talking so brave and so -- now, two things happened, they were brave but we gave them billions of dollars.
The United States spent $200 billion more than Europe. Why did we spend more? You know why? Because Biden never asked Europe to spend more. They spent 200 --
(CROSSTALK)
HANNITY: -- U.S.-Russia proxy war because of Joe.
TRUMP: Look, Zelenskyy was fighting a much bigger entity, much bigger, much more powerful. He shouldn't have done that because we could have made a deal and it would have been a deal that would have been -- it would have been a nothing deal. I could have made that deal so easily. And Zelenskyy decided that I want to fight.
You know, they have 30,000 army tanks. Russia has 30,000 army tanks. Zelenskyy had none practically. You don't fight those.
Now, then we started pouring equipment, pouring, pouring, pouring, and they had the bravery to use the equipment. But in the end, that's a war -- has to be settled.
So the field is interesting because it's very flat. It's great farmland, okay? Very flat. There's no protection.
The only thing that's stopping a bullet that gets shot, they can go for miles is a human body and they're being hit left and right, and they're losing millions of people. Young, beautiful people are dying on the battlefield, and it's got to stop.
HANNITY: Zelenskyy did say for the first time that he would be open to a negotiated settlement.
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: He says that. He should have said that a long time ago.
HANNITY: You mentioned that -- you put Iran in a different category. I keep reading and I talk to my sources.
TRUMP: Well, they're religious zealots. It's different.
HANNITY: Okay. So --
TRUMP: I'll give you an example. Kim Jong-un.
HANNITY: Yeah.
TRUMP: When I came in I met with Obama, right there we sat and we talked. I said, what's the biggest threat? North Korea.
HANNITY: You guys were yucking it up in the church.
TRUMP: Yeah, we were. Someday, I'll tell you what we said.
HANNITY: Someday you'll tell me.
TRUMP: No, we had -- we had a nice time. But he said North Korea is the biggest thing.
And I solved that problem and I got along with him. He's not a religious zealot.
HANNITY: Will you reach out to him?
TRUMP: He happens to be a smart guy. Kim Jong-un is a smart guy.
HANNITY: You'll reach out to him again?
TRUMP: I will, yeah.
HANNITY: All right. My last question.
TRUMP: He liked me and I got along with --
HANNITY: Your staff is going to kill me and I don't want to get --
TRUMP: My staff is just fine.
HANNITY: I have friends here.
TRUMP: I'm -- I'm not Obama.
(LAUGHTER)
HANNITY: Yeah. You're not Joe either.
TRUMP: I'm not Joe. No, they had very strong rules. Obama staff, too. They stopped him from speaking. And Joe, they usually didn't let him start. No, that's different (ph).
(LAUGHTER)
HANNITY: That's the best part of the interview right there.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
HANNITY: And coming up, more of my Oval Office interview with President Trump. We talked about the Iranian threat, the war in Israel, so much more, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(NEWSBREAK)
HANNITY: And now, more of my interview with President Trump from the Oval Office.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
HANNITY: This is serious. I mean, Israel's fighting a seven-front war. October 7th happens.
You made it clear: all hell will break loose in the Middle East if they don't start releasing these hostages.
TRUMP: Right.
HANNITY: They did, the day before you were inaugurated.
TRUMP: It's only for that reason.
HANNITY: The pe -- the sources I have and the people that I talk to, pretty smart people and what I read says Iran may be three, four, five, six months away from a nuclear weapon. There's only -- they're the number one state sponsor of terror.
I'm not the commander-in-chief. You are. There's only two solutions that I see is to knock out their finances which would be their refineries, and Israel and/or the United States has to recognize they can never get a nuclear weapon. That would mean taking out those sites.
Is that something -- I know you will not telegraph what you might do.
TRUMP: I can't do that.
HANNITY: Of course, you wouldn't, but --
TRUMP: I can't -- I would never tell you, but I will say this --
HANNITY: Do you see this as a possible necessity?
TRUMP: Had the election been fair, we would have had a deal within one week after the election and they wouldn't have had a nuclear weapon.
And the only thing I've said about Iran and I want them to have a great country, they have great potential. The people are amazing. The only thing I said about Iran, they can't have a nuclear weapon and they are religious zealots.
HANNITY: Will you discuss with --
TRUMP: They are religious zealots.
HANNITY: Do you trust them?
TRUMP: There are ways that you can make it absolutely certain if you make a deal.
HANNITY: Trust but verify.
TRUMP: Yeah, and you have to verify times 10.
HANNITY: Yeah.
TRUMP: But -- but they cannot have a nuclear weapon. And you know, if they get one, you're going to have everyone else getting them. And then the whole thing is going to be a disaster.
The nuclear -- you know, I was dealing at the very end, I was dealing with Putin about the denuclearization of Russia and the United States, and then we were going to bring China along on that one because they have much less than we do.
China, believe it or not, is much less. They will have an equal amount in five years, six years. You know, they're trying to get there, unfortunately. But right now, they have much less in terms of nuclear.
I was very close to having a deal. I would have made a deal with Putin on that denuclearization. It's very dangerous and very expensive, okay? Both.
And that would have been great, but we had a bad election that interrupted us and that's why I'm here now.
HANNITY: You seem prepared to talk to all of them. I won't take any more of your time. Feel good to be back?
TRUMP: It does. It feels good, not because I want to be here but because I want to solve some problems that really have developed and problems --
HANNITY: You inherited.
TRUMP: You know, when I left we had no wars. We had no inflation. We were riding high and look at what's happened to our country.
And now, we have to get people out of our country that would have never been here. So I want to -- I want to do what's best for our country.
HANNITY: It's the most important thing to you. You're willing to go through all of that, all that persecution, to get back to this (INAUDIBLE).
TRUMP: Well, I saw what was happening. I mean, you -- you look at people pouring into this country and you know and they're being reported where you're seeing major terrorists, you know, are now in our country. And they knew that this was happening and they did nothing about it. They had an open borders policy.
When you have countries emptying their jails and their mental institutions into our country, when you have a country that's taking gang members off the street and dropping them into our country, you know nothing good is going to happen.
HANNITY: You're watching all this, but you do realize, you put it all in the line. It was back here in the White House.
TRUMP: I think it's right, yeah.
HANNITY: Or I think they would have tried to put you in jail.
TRUMP: Oh I think so, right. You had a deranged Jack Smith, total moron.
(CROSSTALK)
HANNITY: So, it was one or the other.
TRUMP: You had a guy, deranged Jack Smith, he was looking for something, and he's done it in the past with people. But he's a -- he's a failure. He's a total failure and he failed in the past also.
You know why? Because he goes too far, and he went too far and the people of our country --
HANNITY: And you won the election.
TRUMP: The people of the country knew it and I actually think they -- they got it better than anybody else, you know?
HANNITY: Yeah.
TRUMP: As a whole, they're brilliant.
HANNITY: And in spite of a media that was selling this every day.
TRUMP: Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's a -- we have very corrupt media. Hopefully, that's going to change.
Thank you.
HANNITY: Great to see you. Congratulations.
TRUMP: Thank you.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
HANNITY: And up next, Newt Gingrich, he will react to my interview with President Trump and he'll weigh in on Donald Trump hitting the ground running hard when it comes to implementing his agenda as we continue.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. Here with reaction to my Oval Office interview with the president is FOX News contributor, former speaker of the House, Newt Gingrich.
Wow. Have you been watching what this guy's been doing in four days? I want to get your reaction all of it.
NEWT GINGRICH, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Well, let me start and say I thought it was a sign of your -year friendship with the president that he gave the most relaxed, most conversational interview I've ever seen him give. And I thought it was really encouraging because you know if you're going to be as bold and as aggressive as he's being, it's kind of nice to be reassured that he is able to have the kind of real conversation he had with you.
And I think he was able to listen there were times when you and he didn't agree but it was all done in a tone that I thought was about as good as it's ever going to get.
I would say at the -- and I -- and you know I've already written a newsletter at "Gingrich 360" saying that he gave the most revolutionary inaugural address in American history. I went back, and I look to Jefferson, Jackson, Franklin Delano Roosevelt, there's no question but the address that Callista and I heard when we were there on Monday was literally the most revolutionary. And what's amazing is in his four days, he has been implementing. He didn't just talk about it.
My guess is if he keeps this pace up by the end of days, he will have accomplished more change than Franklin Delano Roosevelt in that famous 100- day period.
This is -- I've never seen anything like it. It's clear that the America First project actually created an opportunity for the development of executive orders, for thinking things through. But you're seeing a truly historic moment of just very dramatic and very decisive change.
HANNITY: You know, I think the reason is -- is there is nobody else like him. I've -- I've known a lot of politicians over the years. You -- you had your own very unique style. I had a front row seat when you were the speaker.
I agree with you. On one level, he was as relaxed as I've ever seen him, but he was also dialed in, laser-focused and he wants to get it done and he can't get it done soon enough. I mean, bring me the next paper, make the next phone call, and it's been like that since election day. You know, I talked to people that are at Mar-a-Lago, and he'd been working around the clock the whole time.
GINGRICH: You know, I mean, I think clearly he's going to be as consequential as Franklin Delano Roosevelt was. And if they can actually keep the house in 2026 and continue the momentum, at which point I think they'll win in `28. He will really be in the same league as President Franklin Delano Roosevelt who remember created a governing majority that lasted 90 years.
I mean, these are big moments. You don't get them more than once a lifetime and I think clearly, President Trump now is moving to be one of the most consequential presidents in American history. I think frankly, just below Roosevelt -- just below Washington and Lincoln, but certainly they'll end up in the same league with Jefferson, Jackson and Roosevelt.
And that -- that's pretty to actually be living through it to be here, to see this, to watch the range of what he's doing from very detailed things to huge sweeping things it was -- it's remarkable I think.
HANNITY: I don't really see any obstacle. I've made the observation and I do believe that legacy media died on November 5th and they don't have the power, the impact, the influence that maybe they did when you were speaker, and I would argue, the Democrats, they -- they don't know how to handle him. They've thrown everything they could possibly think of at him and it wasn't successful.
So, now, like people in the media are back to, you know, calling him or Elon Musk a Nazi. That's what they seem to have been reduced to. I think all his nominees get through and I think his agenda gets through.
GINGRICH: Look, I mean, I guess my only caution, Sean, would be this is phase one, this is not the realignment. This was the ticket to get into the dance.
Now, we've got to dance well enough that we keep the house in `26 and we've got to deal with a world that's dangerous. There -- there was a reason that John F. Kennedy had a little boat -- rather a little plaque on his desk that said, oh, Lord, your ocean is so big and my boat is so small.
We're now in a world of North Korea, Iran, Russia, Ukraine, Gaza, you know, Israel -- excuse me -- and in that kind of a world, you have to remember every morning with a certain humility that even somebody as big as President Trump and as I've said I think he's going to be in a very unique small league, even as big as he is, having a little bit of luck, a little bit of humility, recognizing how much bigger the problems are than we are and then just every day doing your job as best you can.
I think he has a real chance, not a certainty, but a real chance to profoundly shape history not just for the U.S. but by definition if you change history here, you're going to have change history across the planet. You see it in Argentina. You see it in Italy.
There are people who are becoming Trump-like, following Trump-like policies and I think that will spread.
HANNITY: What scares me is in a moment, I think the trajectory of his presidency could change. We have known terrorists, cartel members, Iranian assassination squads, gangs in the country, but we don't know where they are. But we do know they're after him. We could be at war at any moment and you know after a terror attack on our homeland.
How much do you worry about that?
GINGRICH: Well, I think it's a factor. I frankly to worry about stumbling into a nuclear war with Russia or stumbling into a big fight over Taiwan with China, or who knows what Kim Jong-un motivated by? And as you pointed out in your interview, which by the way, I thought was a remarkable historic document. I mean, the ground you two covered together was amazing in these two nights.
So I think we all we always have to worry and remember that we need God's advice and counsel and God's support because the world is much bigger than we are, no matter how big we think we are.
HANNITY: Well said. We appreciate you, Speaker Gingrich, thank you.
All right. When we come back I sat down with the Senate Majority Leader John Thune and we spoke about the Senate and how they will work to enact Donald Trump's agenda and much more, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: So this week when I was in D.C., I sat down with the brand new Senate Majority Leader John Thune of South Dakota. We talked about enacting President Trump's agenda, how he's different than Mitch McConnell, keeping Republicans unified and much more.
Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
HANNITY: Senate Majority Leader Thune, congratulations, by the way.
SEN. JOHN THUNE (R-SD), MAJORITY LEADER: Thanks, Sean.
HANNITY: You just swore in two more, so you're officially at 53.
THUNE: Right.
HANNITY: Not -- not too bad.
You had a lot of meetings today, two specifically with President Trump. One was just you, Speaker Johnson and the president. Give us every detail.
THUNE: Well, we covered a lot of ground and you know, the president obviously, now, he's -- he's -- he's in charge and it's a great feeling to have him back in the Oval Office and be able to work with somebody who shares the objectives and we have a shared vision for where we want to go for the country.
He wants to obviously renew American energy dominance. He wants to secure the border. He wants to rebuild our military. He wants to strengthen our economy. Make sure that we don't have a $4.5 trillion dollar tax increase at the end of the year.
So it's -- these are all things that we agree on and just the EOs in the first day, I mean, the tremendous amount of action he's already taken and I think the people across the country are reacting really well to it.
So a lot of it today was kind of about how -- how we get there. So it's, you know, the strategy, the tactics, et cetera. But we're all heading the same direction.
HANNITY: It seems different than 2017. And that there seemed to be more reluctance, resistance to President Trump, not anymore, am I right in that perception?
THUNE: Yeah, I think that's a fair -- I mean, I -- and part of it is, you know, I think the -- you can't help but notice what happened in the country. I mean, he made history this year, and it was a decisive mandate given to him by the American people.
And so, I think it's -- it's on all of us in response to that, to make sure that we're being good partners with him to accomplish his agenda.
HANNITY: Let me read to you, Insider Advantage came out with a poll. And it was very telling. It just came out last hour. And it says, the question was, I want you -- meaning representative, senators and congressmen, to vote in unison to help pass President Trump's appointees and legislative agenda, 70 percent of people want that.
Do your fellow members in the Senate -- the members of the House, especially in the House which we'll talk at length about, do they understand that the agenda is that agenda? Nobody's ever going to get with everything that they want. I might shock some people, people in Washington don't usually get everything that they want, but is -- do the -- your members rank and file, they seem to know that?
THUNE: They do and I think they also know that Trump's endorsements can become the gold standard and -- and so, if you're a House member, you're running every two years, or even a senator, run every six years. Just the way that he has resonated with the American people -- his message about getting America back on the rails, back on track, I think has been a powerful one.
And I think that the country's responded and because of that, I believe members of Congress, both House and the Senate get that we have a window of opportunity here, which doesn't come along very often and sometimes doesn't last very long.
I mean, we got the House, the Senate and the White House. We have unified control of the government. That's a rare thing. We want to maximize it, and it's going to take every vote in the House as we talked about.
HANNITY: In the Senate, the names I hear most often that people worry about, Susan Collins, who -- I guess to her credit remains the only Republican out of New England at this point. I'm hoping maybe Scott Brown will get in, he might run in New Hampshire. I think he'd have a good chance there. We'll see, or maybe Governor Sununu.
Susan Collins, Lisa Murkowski, and your predecessor, Mitch McConnell, have you spoken with those three?
THUNE: Well, I speak to most of them fairly regularly, and in the job I had prior which was the whip in the Senate, I had to, you know, on any given day, of course, the last couple of four years, we were playing defense more than offense. Now, it's about moving the agenda. So it's -- we got to get everybody on the team roll in the same direction.
So, yeah, we talk to them regularly and as we move through the nominations, we'll have more conversations obviously with them. You know, as you said, Susan represents a state. She's the only Republican in New England and she's the only person that can win in the state of Maine.
And so, obviously, they all bring their own views to this and I tell -- I tell senators, your vote is your vote, be with the team when you can. Don't ever surprise us. You know, don't tell us one thing and do something else. And so, we try and make sure that as much as we can, we've got everybody pulling together. And I think right now, there's more of an incentive than we've ever had before. We got a president who came in with a big mandate.
We clearly have things we need to do to just respond to what the American people are telling us and told us in this election and that is that they're tired of this left-leaning, progressive when it comes to energy, when it comes to the economy, when it comes to cultural issues, you know, this idea of, you know, boys playing girls sports. I think, you know, 90 percent of the American public says that's just wrong, and the Democrats seem to be clinging to that some of those views.
And I think that -- so I don't think where're -- no matter where you come from in the country, I think a lot of what President Trump campaigned on, a lot of that we want to accomplish I think is going to be a winning issue.
HANNITY: You -- Mitch McConnell had his issues with Donald Trump. Donald Trump had his issues with Mitch McConnell. I don't think there's any reason to rehash any of that.
However, Mitch McConnell is in a very unique position in as much as he knows how hard your job is.
THUNE: Right.
HANNITY: Have you -- because he seems to be a question mark especially on some of these cabinet picks, and I want to go over those with you. Have you had the conversation, Mitch, I'm really going to need your help, you know how hard this job can be? And he's from Kentucky, it's not like he's from a blue state in any way.
THUNE: Right. I think -- and I think he understand stands his job obviously, and I -- and I expect that he will be doing everything he can to help the team, make sure that we're successful. He obviously has strong views on national security, foreign policies.
HANNITY: The most interesting Democrat that I see right now and the person that seems the most independent is John Fetterman from Pennsylvania. He supported Israel. He's supporting closing the borders. Obviously, he's very pro-energy being from Pennsylvania and fracking.
But he also been outspoken that believes a president should get the cabinet of his choice. Have you developed a relationship yet with him?
THUNE: Not -- not -- not as much as I should, and I need to. But we do have -- I know members on our side who are talking to Senator Fetterman and I've been impressed by as you point out many of the positions that he's taken because --
HANNITY: I have to confess I was wrong about him on a lot of things. I was -- I was deep in the pain for Oz.
THUNE: Well, I -- we all -- we all were, you know, when he first got here, assuming he was going to be a sort of a far-left progressive and I think he surprised a lot of people with positions that some of what you mentioned. And we've got to find some of those Democrats, obviously, that we can work with and I think that Democrats who are going to run two years from now they're up for re-election are likely candidates too, to maybe be supporters of at least some of President Trump's agenda because I think the American people right now, they're on our side.
HANNITY: I've been doing this for a while and I've heard over the years that we want to limit the size and scope and influence the government in our lives, cut out waste, fraud and abuse. This to me seems like an -- well, you've heard about it a lot too. This seems to me to be an opportunity that maybe we we'll never get again in our lifetime and President Trump has appointed Elon Musk, he's working outside the government to identify areas of waste fraud and abuse, including the elimination of departments.
He believes he can cut $2 trillion out of spending. We have nearly $40 trillion in debt. Is that something you think just so transformative that Senate Republicans willing -- we give lip service to these things, limited government, greater freedom, eliminating waste, fraud and abuse, right?
Here's the opportunity, will Rep -- does the Republican Party truly stand for that? Isn't that a test now that's coming their way?
THUNE: It is. I mean, I think a limited, smaller, more efficient, more effective government has always been an aspiration for Republicans and what I've noticed in the time I've been here is every spending fight that we have, Democrats want to spend more, Republicans want to spend less.
And because of the rules in the Senate which requires 60 votes and some Democrats to get anything done, it's -- it's harder to squeeze spending and -- but I think we have as you point out a unique opportunity here. We have a House, Senate, White House and unified control of the government. We can use reconciliation to do some of these things and we ought to be looking as hard as we can through DOGE and other ways of doing that and, of course, including Congress and the role that we play in all this to try and reduce the size of government, and reduce what in my view is the consolidation and centralization of power in Washington.
I'm a big believer in distributed power. I think you get it out of Washington. You know, you get back calls from the people --
HANNITY: Would education be an area?
THUNE: Absolutely, I mean, I think that is a perfect example of what we ought to be able to do, to block grant, a lot of that responsibility, decision making back to state and local levels and get it back in the hands the American people.
And you know, Democrats through the Inflation Reduction Act or so so-called Inflation Reduction Act, American Rescue Plan, did what they usually do when they have control of Washington. They -- they grow government. They -- they believe that government has all the answers, has all the solutions.
And I think just fundamentally, that's at odds, not only with what makes sense from a common sense standpoint but I think it's at odds with where the American people are.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
HANNITY: And we have more "Hannity" straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. Unfortunately, that is all the time we have left this evening. As always, thank you for being with us. Thank you for making this show possible.
Please set your DVR so you never, ever, ever, ever miss an episode of "Hannity".
In the meantime, let not your heart be troubled. Greg Gutfeld, he's next to put a smile right there on your face. Have a great night.

Load-Date: January 24, 2025


End of Document
