




Fox News FOX HANNITY 9:00 PM EST
January 30, 2025 Thursday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7412 words
Byline: Sean Hannity
Guests: Darin Gaub, Sal Lagonia, Stephen Miller, Ted Cruz, Tom Cotton, Markwayne Mullin, J.D. Vance
Body


SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS HOST: Welcome to "Hannity".
And tonight, three contentious hearings on Capitol Hill with three qualified Trump nominees but Democrats, they are desperate for a scalp and their melodramatic behavior and feigned, selective moral outrage is kind of getting old. Coming up, we'll bring you the latest hysteria the utter hypocrisy from the hearings today.
Also, part two of my exclusive interview with Vice President J.D. Vance.
Here's a preview.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: This week, we have three nominees that are going up to -- to the Senate.
J.D. VANCE, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Yeah.
HANNITY: And RFK, Jr., Tulsi Gabbard, Kash Patel.
VANCE: Sure.
HANNITY: I think three excellent choices by the president.
VANCE: I agree.
HANNITY: But I have every expectation that the Democrats are going to be vicious.
Now, we have small majorities in the House, small majority in the Senate.
VANCE: Sure.
HANNITY: How do you get these guys? Do you believe they'll get across the finish line? How do you help get them across the finish?
VANCE: So I do believe they're going to get across the finish line, Sean. But we're going to have to fight for each one, and we're going have to make sure that Republicans -- I think we're different from Democrats and in some ways I admire that Senate Republicans are a little bit more freethinking, a little bit more independent.
On the other hand, the president has made his selections and the advice and consent power of the United States Senate should not be used to block people because you have one policy disagreement on one issue. You don't get to make these decisions. President Trump gets to make these decisions and he already has.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Now, more of my interview with the vice president, that's straight ahead tonight.
But, first, some difficult news from D.C., our nation's capital. There are no survivors from last night's horrific midair collision between an Army Black Hawk helicopter and that regional passenger jet near Reagan National Airport. All told, 67 people lost their lives, including passengers and crew on American Airlines Flight 5342, all three soldiers aboard the Black Hawk helicopter are lost.
Tonight, we are praying for the victims. We're praying for their families. There are no words that can truly encapsulate the scale of this tragedy.
And now, Americans are searching for answers as they should. How could a Black Hawk helo -- army helicopter crash into a passenger jet that was landing at Reagan National? At this hour, I wish I had all the answers. I don't. I can't tell you exactly how or why this happened.
But we are gleaning information that is quite alarming. According to a report, John Solomon, justthenews.com, last night's mid-air collision was preceded by months of -- and years now of near misses and safety warnings. Look at this, in 2023, there were 19 near misses at airports all across the country. That is one of the largest totals in many years.
In 2024, more of the same, including at Reagan National Airport where multiple collisions were narrowly avoided. Look at this headline from May of 2024. Quote: Federal officials are investigating another close call between planes at Reagan National Airport.
And as John Solomon is pointing out, an expert report sent to the FAA under Biden warned directly, quote, America's air traffic control system is suffering from quality control issues and staffing shortages that put safety at risk. They were warned repeatedly.
And it gets worse. "The New York Times" tonight reporting, quote, control tower staffing at Reagan National Airport was not normal during last night's deadly crash.
And according to CBS News, quote, one air traffic control worker was managing the helicopters and the planes, a job normally done by two people.
In December, the CEO of United Airlines warned that an ongoing air traffic controller shortage is now a major problem but the last administration, they had other priorities. You know, pothole Mayor Pete, Biden's transportation secretary, preoccupied -- you might remember, you know, launched that -- that billion dollar pilot project to build, you know, equity and America's roads and bridges and focused on climate change and DEI programs.
It is no secret that across the entire Biden administration, DEI was prioritized over merit, but it didn't start with Obama -- with Biden under Obama. The FAA launched a national outreach program for diversity and inclusion, this included a push to hire workers with severe intellectual disabilities and psychiatric problems. That makes no sense.
A 2024 lawsuit also alleged that the FAA turned away nearly a thousand air traffic control applicants solely based on their race as reported by "The Washington Times". A 2013 FAA document raised the issue in stark terms asking how much of a change in job performance is acceptable to achieve diversity goals? It turns out that for years, Democrats were playing woke politics with our lives.
Apparently, the FAA included these insane DEI directives on their website until just a few days ago, when Donald Trump signed that executive water banning DEI across government agencies, now we don't know how last night's crash occurred. We're being very clear about that.
But one thing is clear, sirens have been blaring the last number of years. And under Biden and pothole Pete and Kamala Harris, every warning sign was clearly ignored. In all areas of government, meritocracy must return throughout the land in every regard.
Here with the very latest on last night's horrific crash, aviation attorney, Sal Lagonia is with us. Also, former Black Hawk helicopter pilot, retired Lieutenant Colonel Darin Gaub is with us.
Colonel, let's start with. You you've flown these Black Hawks. You know a lot about them. Tell us, you know, how is this even possible?
LT. COL (RET) DARIN GAUB, BLACKHAWK HELICOPTER PILOT AND BATTALION COMMANDER: Yeah. Good evening, Sean.
And, of course, at this time, too, I think we need to recognize that there is heroism still taking place on the ground, but what I see frequently as I've been watching this and analyzing things for the last two days or last hours at least since this happened was two major things one I believe that there is a procedural error or problem here, somebody violated the rules and procedures that surround D.C.'s national airspace and that means for example like this Black Hawk helicopter.
It could have broken the -- the altitude restrictions on the air corridors as they go down the Potomac River. I've heard reports now that the aircraft was up near 400 feet or so, when it was restricted to be below 200 feet. That can cost serious problems when you've got fixed wing commercial airliners landing over top of you that are counting on you being 200 feet lower than you might actually be.
Second thing is communications. Clarity to standard air traffic control communications goes back to all the stuff you just listed, about hiring practices within the FAA and personnel shortages. Some of the communications I've heard and recordings I've heard that lead me to the conclusion that there was significant communication challenges where I believe that helicopter thought it was able to go behind the aircraft, the FAA, the ATC told them to, and in fact did not see the aircraft, the ATC, actually wanted them to go behind, because there's two aircraft in that video, one on the takeoff.
I think they confused that one for the one they were supposed to be looking for.
HANNITY: Sal, let me ask you. I mean, John Solomon reporting last night's midair collision preceded by months of near misses and safety warnings. 2023, 19 near misses, one of the largest totals in many years. The same happened last year, including at Reagan international federal officials investigating, "New York Times" now saying control tower staffing at Reagan National was not normal during the crash last night. One air traffic control worker managing the helicopters and the planes a job for two people. Can you explain that to me?
How is that possible?
SAL LAGONIA, AVIATION ATTORNEY: That's -- that's just -- should not be possible, Sean. When I heard you reading off that list just now, I'm sitting there checking my list because that's probably what I've been talking about for the last three or four years. We don't have enough air traffic controllers. We've had a pilot shortage. When -- whenever you have all of these things piling up on you, there's no instant fix.
You just can't throw a switch and have another 2,000 air traffic controllers. It's going to take three or four years to train all of those guys and gals to the point where they can actually run a cab at a -- at a - - at an airport.
And you know, if the reports are true that we heard, that they were so understaffed at DCA, especially at DCA, where you have helicopter traffic mixing in with fixed wing traffic, it's difficult on a good day. It is horrible at night. And that's what they had to put up with last night and that's the result is tragic.
HANNITY: Colonel, let -- let me go back to you. Again, the shortage -- you know, one person doing two people's job, number one. Number two, if -- if you go back, you know, to what was taken down two days into the Trump administration, the FAA push to hire workers with severe intellectual disabilities and psychological -- psychiatric problems at the FAA.
Can you explain that to the American people and these families that lost their loved ones?
GAUB: Impossible to explain, only can be disgusted, and that's -- I think that's universally shared across the country right now. Hopefully, it is but, you know, 100 percent correct there that the pilot shortage is -- is one problem, but it takes just as much training by the way to get an air traffic controller up to standard and operating the way they're supposed to be. And no air traffic controller, no matter how good they are, can handle the D.C. traffic by themselves.
And that's why the communication issue stick out to me as a -- as a major problem in this incident. We've been playing with fire in the D.C. national airspace for a long time with all the people I've been talking to. They've been wanting to warn about this but most of them have been forced to be kept silent.
HANNITY: Yeah.
And, Sal, I -- I have friends of mine that are -- that are pilots and they've been telling me for the longest times, you know, flying into New Jersey and New York airports has been difficult, and you -- as the president described today, they -- they fly around circles because they're not ready for -- to receive those planes because they're not prepared.
So this has been going on for some time, hasn't it? Little comfort to the families but -- yeah, you know, we want to prevent it from ever happening/
LAGONIA: But when you talk about the go-arounds and the missed approaches that occurred over the last few days, that's -- that means somebody -- there was too much traffic in a certain area that they just couldn't get them into the airport. I fly almost exclusively in the Northeast and when - - when I'm flying here, this is the busy air area to fly anytime.
You are counting on the air traffic controllers to do their job. You're also counting on your fellow pilots to do their job because they have to do, they -- they -- you know, we're -- we're kind of self-regulating. And so I've got to know that they're doing the right thing as well.
So any of the shortages that we've come up with over the years, we've got to correct them now because it's going to take three or four years to catch up.
HANNITY: Wow, that's scary.
All right. Thank you both. We appreciate it, Darin and Sal.
All right. Joining us now, White House Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy, Stephen Miller.
Stephen, I know you're listening in on this. Let's get your reaction, two person doing one job, all the warnings and admonitions, all the near misses, it's get -- it sounds frightening to me and, frankly, I know it doesn't bring comfort to these families but it certainly is something we better learn from fast if we want to prevent it from happening again.
STEPHEN MILLER, WHITE HOUSE DEPUTY CHIEF OF STAFF FOR POLICY: Well, it's absolutely heartbreak and it's devastating but even more so because it's so preventable. As President Trump said today, over the last four years, the FAA, the Federal Aviation Administration, and air traffic control under Joe Biden have been dedicated to a mission, not of public safety, not of safe aviation, but of diversity, equity and inclusion.
And they've push an agenda trying to advance social engineering, political ideology, trying to hire people at the FAA who are not capable or competent for the job, and that completely changes the agency culture. It means instead of spending four years trying to solve the systemic problems all these near misses, instead all that intellectual capital at the agency is spent trying to meet these programs and trying to fulfill these quotas. And it prevents the agency from developing the systems, closing the weaknesses, and establishing the protocols to prevent a tragedy from like -- like this from occurring.
And it's why President Trump on just his second day in office issued an order to re-implement his previous standards and then to declare that all DEI is ending and the agency shall put competence quality and qualification above all other considerations. And that will be the rule going forward.
But again, we've seen over a thousand year misses in just the last year under the Biden administration, and we have jeopardized public security in a way that is unthinkable and tragic, Sean.
HANNITY: You know, when -- when we look at this original order from 2013 that was taken down from the FAA website and a push to hire workers at the FAA with severe intellectual disabilities and psychiatric problems, I nearly fell on the floor.
And I don't believe in discrimination. I think discrimination is wrong. However, when the public safety is in the forefront -- needs to be in the forefront of people's minds and it's got to be in the forefront of policy, that that is not the place for this.
MILLER: No, it is -- it is a betrayal of the American people to say that you are going to prioritize the hiring of people with severe intellectual defects to serve at the Federal Aviation Administration, the entity responsible for ensuring that every single passenger over American airspace safely takes off, safely flies and safely lands.
And again what it does over a period of time to an agency is that it prevents that agency from developing the new systems, the new protocols, the new programs, the new priorities to constantly adapt and evolve airline safety because instead you're always playing catch up. You're always playing cleanup. You're trying to put out fires. You're trying to stop things from falling apart. You can't build. You cannot learn, you cannot grow because you're not hiring based solely on qualification and competence.
They've been playing games with America's public safety in a way that is unconscionable and President Trump's made clear that he is not only and he issued another order today -- he's not only installing the highest standards possible but the order President Trump issued today tells the secretary of transportation to review every hiring decision of the FAA over the last four years, and where someone was not hired based on merit qualification or competence, then that person needs to be replaced.
HANNITY: Well, and then pothole Pete, of course, you know, launched his $1 billion pilot program to build racial -- racial equity in Americans roads. I mean, if ever there was a failure as transportation secretary would be him.
Stephen Miller, we appreciate your time. Thank you.
All right. When we come back, the Democrats, they were unhinged as I predicted at today's confirmation hearings for three of Donald Trump's nominees. We've got the highlights from Kash Patel's hearing. We'll get reaction from Senator Cruz. Also, Senator Tom Cotton.
And we'll talk about Tulsi, RFK, and part two of my interview with J.D. Vance, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: In a blockbuster confirmation hearing on Capitol Hill today, President Trump's nominee for FBI director, Kash Patel, faced a predictable meltdown from Democrats on the Senate Judiciary Committee, but he took it all in stride, handled himself brilliantly. It -- this was frankly a master class. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. LINDSEY GRAHAM (R-SC): Have you ever been subject to racism?
KASH PATEL, FBI DIRECTOR NOMINEE: I had to move. In that threat --
GRAHAM: Go ahead.
PATEL: -- I was called a detestable and I apologize if I don't get it all right, but it's in the record, a detestable son (EXPLETIVE DELETED).
SEN. SHELDON WHITEHOUSE (D-RI): Is that what you said?
PATEL: That's completely incorrect and I appreciate the opportunity to address that.
WHITEHOUSE: I'll give you opportunity in writing but this is my time now.
PATEL: Have at it.
SEN. AMY KLOBUCHAR (D-MN): Shut down and open as a deep state, a museum. Did he say that the headquarters should be shut down? I deserve an answer to that question.
SEN. RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (D-CT): Julian Khater, do you know what he did?
PATEL: I don't know who that is, Senator.
BLUMENTHAL: Well, he's one of the J6 prison choir.
PATEL: You seem to know more about --
BLUMENTHAL: Identify him.
SEN. MAZIE HIRONO (D-HI): Have you ever made unwanted requests for sexual favors?
SEN. ADAM SCHIFF (D-CA): We, we, we -- if you had nothing to do with it, Mr. Patel, why did you tell Steve Bannon and all his listeners that you did.
PATEL: That's why it says we, as you highlighted.
SCHIFF: Yeah. And you're part of the we, right? When you say we, that includes you, doesn't it, Mr. Patel?
PATEL: Not unless you have a new definition for the word we.
If the best attacks on me are going to be false accusations and grotesque mischaracterizations, the only thing this body is doing is defeating the credibility of the men and women at the FBI. I stood with them.
Here in this country, in every theater of war we have, I was on the ground in service of this nation, and any accusations leveled against me that I would somehow put political bias before the Constitution are grotesquely unfair, and I will have he reminded that I have been endorsed by over 300,000 law enforcement officers to become the next director of the FBI. Let's ask them.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: I think two of my favorite lines, have at it. You've got two minutes left.
Anyway, here with reaction, Texas Senator Ted Cruz is with us.
Senator, what -- I watched this and I watched -- I watched him literally school Dick Durbin which I enjoyed every minute of -- but -- and Adam Schiff as well. But -- as I was watching this and he talk and he spoke about the erosion of trust with the FBI, then Kash Patel did something that he made a commitment to never weaponize the FBI and to never politicize the FBI.
And it became very apparent to me and tell me if this is your conclusion as well, that the Democrats are afraid that that which they stood silent on and allowed to happen under their watch, they don't want to have happen to them. And meanwhile, they never -- not one of those people on that committee, not one Democrat ever spoke out about how the unequal use of our justice system against Donald Trump or the valuation of Mar-a-Lago, or FISA warrants or not raiding Hillary and Biden's home but raiding Mar-a-Lago, and on and on and on.
So I think they're afraid.
SEN. TED CRUZ (R-TX): Look, Sean, I think you're absolutely right. Let's, first of all, take an assessment of what happened today in the hearings and I got to say, watching the Democrats' ridiculous behavior in the hearings, it reminded me of a line from Shakespeare's Macbeth. It was a tale told by an idiot, full of sound and fury, and signifying nothing.
I think the Democrats -- they tried to put on a circus. They screamed. They yelled. They stomped their little feet, they beat the table.
But at the end of the day, what is really striking is none of them made a serious argument that Kash Patel is not qualified. He spent nearly two decades working in law enforcement. He's been a federal public defender. He's been a federal prosecutor. He's worked in the national security division of the Department of Justice. He's been a senior national security staffer on Capitol Hill. He's worked in the national security apparatus in the White House and he's been the chief of staff at the Department of Defense.
I mean, his -- his experience is extensive. What they are afraid of is that Kash Patel will do exactly what Donald Trump promised. They are afraid, you know, it's striking.
If you look at what President Trump campaigned on across, the country one of the core promises Donald Trump made to this nation is that he would end the politicization and the weaponization of the Department of Justice and the FBI he would bring integrity back to DOJ and the FBI. And the Democrats are terrified that's exactly what Kash Patel will do -- not weaponize it against Democrats but bring the FBI back to its core mission of stopping back guys and enforcing the law regardless of party.
And they're freaking out -- but here's the good news, Sean, they didn't score a single blow today. Kash Patel will be confirmed as the next director of the FBI.
HANNITY: And maybe -- maybe one of the more -- most dramatic moments is they -- they seemed obsessed with January 6, January 6, and then he turned it on them and he said to Dick -- I believe it was Dick Durbin -- what about the two people that at point blank range murdered two FBI agents and Joe Biden pardon, didn't hear a peep out of him about that from that point.
CRUZ: Yeah. Look, the pattern of politicization and weaponization, you saw it in Joe Biden's pardons which were absolutely shameful and disgraceful, pardoning violent criminal after violent criminal. You saw it in terms of the FBI and DOJ going after pro-life protesters, showing up at their home with drawn machine guns. You saw it in terms of repeatedly going after the president of the United States Donald Trump, in more than 200 years, we never indicted a president even once.
And yet, Democrat prosecutors did so four different times. That weaponization, every Democrat in the Senate remained silent. They were perfectly fine with, and Donald Trump campaigned to the American people said, we're going to end this garbage.
And Kash Patel is -- has been nominated to do that and, by the way, one of the consequences of weaponization, if you're ching every little old lady who on January 6th was waving an American flag and singing God bless America and yet Joe Biden's Justice Department was trying to throw her in jail, you know what you're not doing, you're not catching bank robbers or serial killers or terrorists and four years of open borders.
I believe Kash Patel is going to go after the terrorists, go after the criminals, put them in jail and keep America safe and the Democrats are unhappy because that's what the American people want the director of the FBI.
HANNITY: I just give him one last hint, even though Joe Biden pardon his family members, Joe Biden did leverage a billion taxpayer dollars to get a prosecutor in Ukraine fired for his son who had no experience in Ukraine or energy, oil, gas or coal at a time he was addicted to drugs and got paid millions and according to his own laptop says he gave a lot of that money to Joe. That would be called the legitimate investigation in my mind.
CRUZ: Yeah.
HANNITY: Anyway, Senator, appreciate you.
When we come back, Democrats also unhinged at Tulsi Gabbard and RFK Jr.'s confirmation hearings today. We'll check in with Senators Tom Cotton and Mark Wayne Mullin, and part two of my interview with J.D. Vance, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: So in addition to Kash Patel, RFK, Jr., and President Trump's nominee for director of national intelligence, Tulsi Gabbard also appeared on the Hill today and there were plenty of fireworks. Let's take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. TOM COTTTON (R-AR): She has undergone five FBI background checks. I spent more than two hours last week reviewing the latest, putting eyes on more than 300 pages. It's clean as a whistle.
TULSI GABBARD, DNI NOMINEE: Personally, just 24 hours after I criticized Kamala Harris and her nomination, I was placed on a secret domestic terror watch list called Quiet Skies. Sadly, there are more examples. The bottom line is this, this must end.
President Trump's re-election is a clear mandate from the American people to break this cycle of failure and the weaponization and politicization of the intelligence community and begin to restore trust in those who've been charged with the critical task of securing our nation. The American people elected President Trump with a decisive victory and mandate for change.
The fact is what truly unsettles my political opponents is I refuse to be their puppet.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: All right. Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Tom Cotton joins us now with more.
Senator, the focus seemed to be on FISA, 702 and Edward Snowden of all people. On FISA, in particular and even on Snowden, asking if you'd support a pardon, it didn't seem relevant because that's not any authority that she would have. On FISA, similarly, I -- I don't believe she has the authority that some senators seem to have implied during the hearing today.
COTTON: Yes, Sean. I thought it was a good hearing today. Tulsi Gabbard and I have known each other for more than 12 years. We're elected to the House of Representatives together in 2012.
Obviously, Tulsi and I have had our disagreements in the past. After all, she was a Democratic congresswoman. I'm a -- I was a Republican congressman at the time, but I'm glad you seen the light and left the Democratic Party and joined us now.
I think the Democrats can't forgive that though and forgive her support for President Trump last year during the campaign. She's right, they really did ask a lot of questions that frankly are not terribly relevant for the director of national intelligence.
Yes, she consumes information that's produced by Section 702, but the primary people who are going to be responsible for testifying to reauthorize those laws are going to be Pam Bondi and Kash Patel, the attorney general and the director of the FBI. They run the program primarily. They're the ones who are going to have to assure the American people and Republicans in Congress that the abuses we've seen some of which Ms. Gabbard spoke about today are no longer a risk to the American people's civil -- civil liberties.
HANNITY: Yeah. The -- what the more relevant issues that I felt that should have been discussed but that Democrats don't seem to want to have any relevant discussions that impact the American people in their life. There was FISA abuse and the biggest victim of it was Donald Trump, and another guy's life was ruined because of it.
And that was all based on a Hillary Clinton bought and paid for a dirty Russian disinformation dossier that was the basis of four FISA warrants that were used to backdoor spy on Donald Trump and no Democrat really ever spoke out against that. So I found that pretty hypocritical.
But the issue of weaponization and how we politicized the intelligence community to me should have been the critical points of discussion today.
COTTON: Yeah. I agree, Sean, and that weaponization against President Trump going back to 2016 and that continued through last year, is an important reason why I think Kash Patel did so well at his hearing and seems to be on the glide path to confirmation.
Sadly, the FBI has fallen into a pretty low state of trust among the American people and Republicans in the Congress. We need Kash Patel to go in there and to make a difference, to clean it up, to get it back to basics, so the FBI can do the work the American people expect it to do.
The same thing with what Tulsi said about the DNI. The DNI does not collect intelligence. It doesn't run operations. We have other agencies to do that. The DNI sets priorities and it conducts oversight. It ensures that all those subordinate agencies are both doing their very best to get the sensitive secrets that our president and our Congress needs to make decisions but also following the law and respecting the rights of all Americans.
A DNI needs to do both things. Tulsi Gabbard is committed to doing that.
HANNITY: Well, do you believe she has the votes to get a vote on the Senate floor? Number one. Number two, will she be confirmed?
COTTON: I believe she should be confirmed, Sean, and I believe we ultimately will confirm her. Of course, every senator has to review all the material from every nominee. I, for instance, wasn't able to watch Robert F. Kennedy's testimony today or Kash Patel's testimony because I was presiding over Tulsi Gabbard's testimony.
I'll go back and review it. It sounds like they both did a pretty good job from what I heard from my fellow senators who do sit on those committees. Every senator has a responsibility to his constituents and to the nation to do their own work though, but I do believe Ms. Gabbard should be confirmed. I'm looking forward to supporting her nomination whenever it comes up for a vote.
HANNITY: All right. Senator, we appreciate your time. Senator Cotton, thank you.
RFK Jr. also appeared for the second day in a row before the Senate Health Education Labor and Pension Committee for his confirmation hearing, where he once again sparred with Bernie Sanders and picked up a strong endorsement from Oklahoma Senator Markwayne Mullin. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. MARKWAYNE MULLIN (R-OK): I don't understand why my colleagues, all of a sudden, say we can't question science. I mean, it's the -- it is -- it absolutely blows my mind that, all of a sudden, it's -- it's such shame that Bobby's sitting up here, he's questioned science, because I guarantee you if he was sitting here and he was is going to be the secretary of HHS underneath the former President Biden, which I enjoy saying former president, I would bet you that you guys would be have his back 100 percent and enjoy the fact that he's -- he's questioned science and would probably support his positions 100 percent. But because he's now on the Republican side, you guys are like went way off the rail and how dare he question science?
ROBERT F. KENNEDY, JR., HHS SECRETARY NOMINEE: Bernie, the -- you know, the problem of corruption is not just in the federal agencies. It's in Congress too.
Almost all the members of this panel are accepting, including yourself, are accepting millions of dollars from the pharmaceutical industry --
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (I-VT): Oh, no, no, no.
KENNEDY: -- for protecting their interest.
SANDERS: No, I thought that that would -- no, no, no. I ran for president like you. I got millions and millions of contributions. They did not come from the executives, not one nickel of PAC money from the pharmaceutical. They came from workers.
KENNEDY: In 2020, you were the single largest --
SANDERS: Because I have contributions from workers all over this country, workers, not -- not a nickel from corporate PACs.
KENNEDY: Bernie, you were the single larges except pharmaceutical dollars.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Senator Markwayne Mullin joins us now.
I mean, it's humorous but I actually take Bobby's side on that.
How many times can the guy say he's not going to take away your vaccine, he's not going to take away Donald Trump's McDonald's, Kentucky Fried Chicken, Coke, or you know, pizza? How many -- how many -- why is it so wrong to point out that America does have a health crisis? We have an obesity problem, a diabetes problem, cardiovascular disease, cancer problem. Europe doesn't want to buy our food and men in Japan live years longer than us.
What's so wrong with that?
MULLIN: That's the point, Sean. There is nothing wrong with this and Bobby's brave enough to stand up and ask these questions. And as I said in the hearing, if he was a Democrat nominee by the former President Biden, they would applaud him for doing this.
There isn't even a question about we are one of the unhealthiest leading nations in the world and yet, we're sitting here turning a blind eye and they're getting mad at Bobby for being the guy that's going to ask those questions about autism? Why in he -- when he was a child, one in 10,000 kids had autism, and today, one in 36 kids are diagnosed with autism.
Obesity is running wild. We're not -- we're eating food and consuming food where it's not allowed to sell any other place in the world. These questions should be answered and we should be getting to the bottom of it and Bobby's the person to do it which is why President Trump put him out there for it.
And it's so frustrating to me that the Democrats are whole are so hypocritical or about this whole situation because the fact is, Sean, they have nothing to stand on other than their hatred to Bobby.
HANNITY: You know what it seems? No matter how many ways, how many times he would say it, he wants to provide non-pharma, non-industry information to the American people so they can make health decisions on their health, their nutrition, their welfare, their wellness, et cetera.
They -- it didn't matter. It's all they wanted to do was start a fight and they don't like him only for the reason you stated. He's a Democrat. He was appointed by Donald Trump, two big reasons not to like them.
MULLIN: And, Sean, and all through this whole process, Bobby kept going saying I will follow the science. If the proof proves me wrong, I will admit that I'm wrong. But they've got to prove I'm wrong. Do you remember during COVID, when Democrats said we should follow the science, we should believe in Science? Bobby is saying the exact same thing they are saying back then, but they are still frustrated about it.
And they lose credibility, Sean, every time they do this because it's just solely based on the fact that their hatred towards Bobby and the same thing with Tulsi, because they know that the Democrats have lost touch with the American people. And those two are brave enough to join the right party, the Republican Party.
HANNITY: I mean, the people that said to America that if you got the shot, you'll never get COVID-19, and if you got the shot, you won't infect others? Those people, are we supposed to believe them?
All right. Senator, great job today. Appreciate it.
When we come back, park two of my exclusive interview with Vice President J.D. Vance, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: And here's more, part two of my exclusive interview with the Vice President J.D. Vance.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
HANNITY: Let's talk about the economy. This report that I saw that the average American cannot afford $1,000 unexpected expense.
J.D. VANCE, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Of course.
HANNITY: I'm like, wow.
VANCE: Yep.
HANNITY: I mean, you think prices have gone up so dramatically.
VANCE: Yeah.
HANNITY: And then I watch you with Margaret Brennan and she's like, you've been in office five days. You said it was going to be fixed. It's still the Harris-Biden economy that we're working under.
VANCE: Of course.
HANNITY: And it's going to take time.
VANCE: Yep.
HANNITY: Okay. So how do we get there quickly so that the American people can enjoy that prosperity you spoke of earlier?
VANCE: Yeah, there's a lot there. And of course, you know, Sean, I was one of those families for the most -- biggest part of my childhood. That could not have --
(CROSSTALK)
HANNITY: Live paycheck to paycheck. It sucks.
VANCE: Yeah. And it does suck, and it's -- it's stressful and it causes anxiety. And, of course, when that disaster strikes, it can really be disastrous for a family that's living on the margins.
And I think fundamentally, President Trump was elected to ensure that those people have better lives.
And here's what we have to do, and there are three big prongs I think to Donald Trump's economic program.
Number one is we have an incredible resource that no country in the world can match. We have access to energy. Energy goes into our manufactured goods. Energy goes into our transportation, that gets things from one place to the grocery store, or to Home Depot, or wherever it is that people are buying the things that they need.
We have to unleash the American energy economy. And if we do that, yes, we're going to create good energy jobs at high wages. We're also going to lower costs for American consumers. That's -- that's number one.
HANNITY: I love the fact that we can also bankrupt Iran and Russia --
VANCE: That's exactly right.
HANNITY: -- at the same time we could sell all our energy to Western Europe, which is good for national security on top of it.
VANCE: That's exactly right.
HANNITY: Okay, I'm a big believer in DOGE. The idea -- and it would be transformational.
VANCE: Yeah.
HANNITY: Cut $2 trillion.
We always talk about cutting waste, fraud and abuse, and limited government, greater freedom. I don't want them to be words. I want that to be reality.
VANCE: Right.
HANNITY: And we talk about it.
But I see a lot of areas that we're going to have to spend, shore up Social Security and Medicare. That's going to cost a lot of money. Deporting people, that's going to cost money, but a lot cheaper than housing them, healthcare and education.
VANCE: Yeah.
HANNITY: But we also in defense -- this scares me -- China, Russia, of hypersonics. We saw the story about A.I. Maybe China, we didn't know that perhaps they have surpassed us. That concerns me.
VANCE: Uh-huh.
HANNITY: The next generation of warfare, I -- the president kind of pushed back on me when I asked him about it. I believe future wars are not going to be on a battlefield, and I know you served your country. I think future wars are going to be fought in air-conditioned offices and people pushing buttons, maybe not as quick.
And then he wants an Iron Dome, that he wants to start immediately.
All of that will cost money -
VANCE: Of course.
HANNITY: And then we got $40 trillion in debt.
Will energy make up that money?
VANCE: I think it can make up a lot, Sean, because again, energy can -- can lower the cost of things. It can also unleash incredible economic growth. And, you know, what -- what really worries me about our debt picture is the economic growth, right?
Forty trillion dollars in debt, that's a very big number. If we're growing this economy at 4 percent a year, it's a much, much more solvable problem than if we're growing at 1 percent a year.
(CROSSTALK)
HANNITY: How long it will take to get there? Four percent would be a huge jump.
VANCE: I don't know how long it takes, Sean, but I do think that with smarter economic policies, we can get back to 4 percent economic growth as opposed to 1 percent economic growth, which is what we've had under Biden.
Of course, during the last Trump administration, we had for most of his administration, we had north of 3 percent economic growth, which is why it was such a positive economic time.
When you talk about defense, I -- I really do believe that we -- we just -- we need to spend obviously more on defense to make our country safer. We also have to spend smarter on defense.
Our procurement process is totally broken. The way that we actually buy weapons has become totally broken, that we -- we've made it harder for new entrants, right, new companies to develop new technologies.
And we've learned this in Russia-Ukraine, we've learned this elsewhere, the face of the modern battlefield has changed. It's going to keep on changing, and America has to keep pace with that change.
And I think what DOGE is going to do it's going to save money, and I really believe it's already identified a lot of cost savings -- and again, we're eight days into this thing, Sean. It's going to identify a lot more cost savings.
The most important thing that it's going to do, I don't even think it's the cost savings. It's making the bureaucracy responsive to the elected president.
In eight days, Sean, I could -- we could sit here for an hour, and I can tell you stories I've heard from --
HANNITY: You're welcome to stay.
(LAUGHTER)
HANNITY: I know you have to go.
VANCE: I know -- we have other things to do.
HANNITY: I think --
(CROSSTALK)
VANCE: I would love to hang out for an hour but --
HANNITY: Yeah.
VANCE: Look, we've got -- if you look at -- okay, the president issues an executive order saying we're not going to give grants to organizations that do X, Y and Z, and the bureaucracy just doesn't respond. DOGE has identified grants that were going to be made in violation of an executive order and stopped them right before the money was wired.
We're talking about making the people's government responsive to the people's elected president. That is going to do more to unleash innovation, to unleash economic prosperity, when you don't have this crushing bureaucracy that answers to nobody, sitting on top of the American people. We're going to get it off and we're going to actually make it responsive to our economic growth needs, to our needs to buy the right weapons for the next generation of warfare.
And I think that is the most profound thing that DOGE is going to do.
HANNITY: Yeah. I look at the Democrats as the president now is trying to get his cabinet nominees through.
VANCE: Yeah.
HANNITY: It seems like they've gone from the denial stage into the rage stage.
VANCE: That's right.
HANNITY: And -- and this week, we have three nominees that are going up to -- to the Senate.
VANCE: Yeah.
HANNITY: And RFK, Jr., Tulsi Gabbard, Kash Patel.
VANCE: Sure.
HANNITY: I think three excellent choices by the president.
VANCE: I agree.
HANNITY: But I have every expectation that the Democrats are going to be vicious.
Now, we have small majorities in the House, small majority in the Senate.
VANCE: Sure.
HANNITY: How do you get these guys -- do you believe they'll get across the finish line, how do you help get them across the finish line?
VANCE: So I do believe they're going to get across the finish line, Sean, but we're going to have to fight for each one and we're going have to make sure that Republicans -- I think we're different from Democrats. And in some ways, I admire that Senate Republicans are a little bit more freethinking, a little bit more independent.
On the other hand, the president has made his selections and the advice and consent power of the United States Senate should not be used to block people because you have one policy disagreement on one issue. You don't get to make these decisions. President Trump gets to make these decisions and he already has.
Now, there's an important coalition dynamic to this that I'd encourage my fellow Republicans to think about this. Would we have won the election, at least with the margins that we did, unless you had the Tulsi Gabbard component kind of coming to our side, unless you had the Joe Rogan types coming to our side?
Donald Trump won an imposing mandate because he got a different group of people to vote Republican than an ever voted Republican. We have to give those parts of the coalition some wins, too.
So, yes, we've got a lot of traditional Republicans in the administration. We've got a lot of traditional national security hawks in the administration, but we've also got some new people -- some people who bring a fresh perspective.
And I think what makes President Trump's leadership so effective is he's willing to listen to Marco Rubio and Pete Hegseth, but also he's willing to listen to Bobby Kennedy and Tulsi Gabbard. They're all part of the family now. We can't say you're not going to get confirmed because we disagree with you on one issue. The president makes these decisions and he already has.
HANNITY: But in fairness to RFK and Tulsi, they ran for president. They didn't win.
VANCE: Exactly.
HANNITY: So they will be implementing his policies.
VANCE: That's exactly right, Sean.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
HANNITY: All right. More "Hannity" coming up right after the break, and there it is -- interesting times in Washington. We've had a change of leadership.
More "Hannity" straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: Unfortunately, that is all the time we have left this evening. As always, thank you for being with us. Thank you for making the show possible.
Please set your DVR so you never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever miss an episode of "Hannity". For news anytime, every time, all the time, it's easy, foxnews.com, hannity.com.
And in the meantime let not your heart be troubled. Why? Greg Gutfeld is up next to put a smile on your face. Have a great night.

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
