




MailOnline
January 30, 2025 Thursday 3:51 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:3
Length: 578 words
Byline: Ishita Srivastava For Dailymail.Com
Body


A Milwaukee father of two has shared a shocking video of two helicopters flying eerily close to a commercial plane in Washington DC last week. 
Kyle Salewski, a Technical Solutions Engineer at Direct Supply, was onboard a passenger jet about six days ago when he saw the choppers gliding near his window over Reagan International Airport. 
The short clip, which was posted on X, showed the copters flying in a straight file and landing on a base near the airport mere feet away from Salewski's plane. 
The engineer suggested that 'something like this' may have been what caused the American Airlines Flight tragic crash last night. 
'I took this video 6 days ago leaving Reagan International Airport and thought it was kind of crazy seeing these choppers right next to us. I wonder if it was something like this that caused the collision tonight,' he captioned the video. 
It remains unclear if the choppers in the engineer's videos belonged to the military or were owned privately. 
A few X users seemed to agree with Salewski's theory - claiming something mysterious occurred on Wednesday night. 
'Yup. But now pitch black. The airliner had no chance at this point,' one said 
While another conspiracist theorized: 'The flight path for arrivals/departures at DCA is very confined. DCA tower is in communication with these helicopters and they're cleared to cross those flight paths ONLY at altitudes BELOW the path of aircraft. Obviously, someone was somewhere they weren't supposed to be.'
Kylie Jane Kremer, the executive director for Women for America First also questioned: 'In all seriousness, why would they be doing this at night without being aware of what's happening at Reagan?'
However, others argued that helicopters flying near commercial planes is a very common sight in DC due to the numerous military bases in the area. 
'They are allowed to fly there, but they have a ceiling of 200 ft over the river. The helicopter that crashed exceeded that and popped up about 150-200 feet right before the crash,' one explained. 
Another added: 'It's a typical occurrence in the DC area. Those helicopters zip around everywhere - all day - even near the airport. I've lived here for 40 years. Unfortunately, it was bound to happen. Btw, the Potomac River is only abt 15-25 ft deep in the area of the crash.'
'This is DC and Army bases are all over the state of VA , the helicopters have a refueling station right next to DCA,' one simply said. 
On January 29, Flight 5342 from Wichita, Kansas, with 60 passengers and four crew members, collided with a Blackhawk helicopter carrying three people near Reagan National Airport just before 9pm. 
As of now, rescuers have recovered 28 bodies from the jet and one from the helicopter, as stated by Washington DC Fire and EMS Chief John A. Donnelly. 
Some of those who are believed to be dead include members of the US figure skating team who were returning from the US Figure Skating Championships. 
During a press conference earlier today from the White House, President Donald Trump called the incident a 'tragedy of terrible proportions' and said Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) recruiting practices were to blame. 
Furthermore, he said he had some 'pretty good ideas' of how the disaster occurred and vowed to make sure it would never happen. 
Since the accident, divers have been trying to find passengers in the frigid waters of the Potomac Riveras as officials continue to investigate the deadliest US air crash since 2019. 

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
