




Fox News SUNDAY NIGHT IN AMERICA 9:00 PM EST
February 2, 2025 Sunday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; International
Length: 6726 words
Byline: Trey Gowdy, Chanley Painter
Guests: Jim Jordan, Jim Himes, Ken Christensen, Roger Wicker, Alina Habba, Steve Scalise, Maria Elvira Salazar
Body


MARK LEVIN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST, "LIFE, LIBERTY & LEVIN": That's why they needed to be crushed in the last election. That's why they need to be rolled now, and that's why we're going to back Donald Trump, We, the People, to get this government under control. I'll see you next time on LIFE, LIBERTY & LEVIN. TREY GOWDY, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST, "SUNDAY NIGHT IN AMERICA": Good evening and thank you for joining us. I'm Trey Gowdy, and it's SUNDAY NIGHT IN AMERICA. 
Donald Trump said our justice system needs change, and he's doing just that, dismissing prosecutors and FBI agents. The left suddenly likes cops and prosecutors. I don't remember the left defending cops when rioters were throwing rocks and bottles and looting or setting things on fire, but miracles can happen. Here's FBI nominee, Kash Patel on what the FBI will be like. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) SEN. JOHN KENNEDY (R-LA): Do you believe in the adage that two wrongs don't make a right, but they do make it even. KASH PATEL, FBI DIRECTOR NOMINEE: Senator, I think if anyone commits a wrong in government service, the American public deserve to know the absolute secular detail of that corrupt activity. KENNEDY: When reforming the FBI and the Justice Department, two wrongs don't make a right, but they do make it even is the wrong approach, isn't it? PATEL: That's correct. KENNEDY: And we're going to hold you accountable for that. PATEL: I hope you do. (END VIDEO CLIP) GOWDY: Senate Intel questioned Tulsi Gabbard on FISA and search warrants, and Edward Snowden. Gabbard is up for DNI, which oversees the Intelligence community and advises the president on National Security. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) SEN. TED BUDD (R-NC): Miss Gabbard, tell us, how has your thinking on Section 702 developed over time? TULSI GABBARD, NOMINEE FOR DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE: The National Security capability that is provided by Section 702 that enables this foreign surveillance on non-US persons overseas is critical. My commitment is to make sure that our National Security tools are maintained to fulfill that requirement, while also protecting Americans' Fourth Amendment rights. SEN. MARK WARNER (D-VA): You consistently praised the actions of Edward Snowden. You called Edward Snowden, I quote here, "a brave whistleblower." Do you still think Edward Snowden is brave? GABBARD: Edward Snowden broke the law. (END VIDEO CLIP) GOWDY: Robert Kennedy, Jr. is nominated to head HHS. He sparred with senators over vaccines and trial lawyers in the pharmaceutical industry and the origin of life. Kennedy was once a harsh critic of Donald Trump, calling him a terrible president, a threat to democracy and appalling, but Kennedy had a change of heart, or else, really wants the job. I don't think there's ever been a doctor running our legal system, but there may soon be a trial lawyer running our healthcare system. These nominees face committee votes. If the committee approves, the full Senate votes. One person paying close attention is the chair of the House Judiciary Committee, Jim Jordan from the great state of Ohio. Welcome, Chairman. It's great to see you, as always. REP. JIM JORDAN (R-OH): You bet. Good to be with you, Trey. GOWDY: All right, you've known Kash Patel for many years. I thought he did a really good job explaining why the Bureau needs to change and how he would do it. What did you think? JORDAN: No, I thought he was confident. I thought he was composed and did a tremendous job taking the questions from both sides, and you and I know that Kash Patel is committed to protecting our liberty and making sure the FBI does their job and is focused on not politics, but going after the bad guys. But for him, and you were part of this, you were on the Intel Committee at the time, but for him, we would have never known what this whole Russia collusion thing -- Russia-Trump collusion was a bunch of baloney. He put together that memo. He knows how to do the work that you're supposed to do in law enforcement, not this political operation that we've seen from the FBI, where they're saying, if you're a pro-life parents, a Catholic, you need to be investigated. If you're a parent showing up at your school board meeting, you need to be investigated. And on and on it goes. So Kash did a great job. He's going to an even better job when he is confirmed as the director of the -- the next director of the FBI. GOWDY: I know you prefer being introduced as an NCAA all-American wrestler, which you were, but the truth is you also have a Law Degree, which I know that you like to keep a secret, but now I'm sharing with the world. So how would you change the FBI if you were -- if Kash called you and said, look, Jim, you actually are a lawyer, even though you've kept that a secret. How should I change the FBI? What would you tell them? JORDAN: Go back to focusing on what the American people think the FBI should be doing. Right now, Trey, there is about $11 billion budget at the FBI. Over half of that is spent on intel, counter intel, counterterrorism, and I understand that's part of the mission now of the FBI, but more than half the resources, both in staff and in agents and in money, is spent for that. How about going after organized crime? How about going after bad guys? How about helping deal with the things most Americans think the FBI should be focused on, instead of this foreign intelligence issue and the political stuff that they've been involved with over the last several years? So I think that is a sort of fundamental focus. Couple basic reforms we want: We want protections for whistleblowers to come talk to us. We had a number of FBI agents come talk to us as whistleblowers, and they were retaliated against by the FBI. We also think when the FBI interviews someone, there should be an audio recording of that interview so they can't play games with the 302 like they did with Michael Flynn and others. So those are some of the key things that we think need to change, that I think Kash will do when he is confirmed. GOWDY: All right, Kash Patel promised to be more cooperative with Congress. Are there outstanding requests for information from your committee directed at either main justice or the Bureau that have yet to be responded to? JORDAN: Yes, I want to know who planted the pipe bombs on January 6. Any information he has on that. We've got pictures and video of this guy who supposedly did it, why don't we know who this is? I want to know about the 26 confidential human sources who were there on January 6, seventeen went in the restricted space. They weren't allowed to do that. Excuse me, four went in the Capitol, they weren't permitted. They didn't have authorization to do that. Two of the four who went in the Capitol were asked by the FBI to be there that day. I want to know how long these guys have been confidential human sources for the FBI. How much they've been paid? Were they paid that day? How much were they paid? How did they go into the Capitol? Were they some of the first people in? Did they go in through the door? Did they go in through a broken window? All kinds of questions we have about those individuals that we need answers to. I want to know in the David Weiss investigation, some of the things that he would not answer when we deposed him, like why they didn't go after the years, the tax years on Hunter Biden, when he was getting all the money from Burisma? Why they let the statute of limitations lapse for that? So there are tons of -- I want to know Jay Bratt, who worked for Jack Smith, why he said to a lawyer representing a defendant in the classified documents case, why he said to that lawyer, we didn't know you were a Trump guy. We thought you were interested in this federal judge position. I mean, those are questions I want to know, and I think the American people want answers to those questions. So we want all of that information. We're going to work with Pam Bondi, we're going to work with Kash Patel, we're going to work with Todd Blanche, all the people of the Justice Department to get answers to those key questions that I think the country, the people have a right to understand.
GOWDY: Chairman, I think you are going to find a much more responsive Department of Justice and Bureau. you mentioned Pam Bondi and Kash Patel. I'll be very surprised if you don't get the information that you are and have been looking for. Jim Jordan from the great state of Ohio, Chairman of Judiciary. Thank you for joining us on Sunday night. JORDAN: You bet, Trey. Thank you. GOWDY: Intelligence and justice should be apolitical, so let's hear from the other side of the aisle. Jim Himes is the Ranking Member on House Intel, and he's been someone many Republicans work closely with on National Security issues. Welcome Ranking Member, some folks are arguing a warrant should be required to use incidental collection under 702 and practicality, what does that really mean? REP. JIM HIMES (D-CT): Yes, it is a great question, Trey, and you probably put your finger on maybe the most controversial aspect of the renewal of the FISA 702 authorities, you know, whereby the Department of Justice, the FBI, in particular, presents requests to US companies for information exclusively on non-US people. Now, here's where it gets complicated, non-US people, targets of 702, do send texts and do send e-mails to Americans. And the truth is that over the years, the FBI in particular had done too many of those queries and hadn't been as strict as they should be about doing it. But the reason it's important, Trey, and I think you know this as a former prosecutor and as somebody very familiar with the program, the reason the FBI may do what's known as a US person query, that is to say, does the database contain a text or an e-mail that was sent to a US person? Because if that Pakistani terrorist, all of a sudden is sending texts to three people in St Louis, let's just say, the FBI has an interest in knowing why that was. And you want to protect the privacy of those individuals, but by definition, the FBI in that moment doesn't know that there is probable cause to believe that those three individuals in St. Louis have committed a crime. So there's a logical problem with saying that the FBI should go to a judge and ask for a warrant, because, again, they're just looking for connections, whether there's planning of a terrorist attack going on, they actually couldn't in that moment, show probable cause. But I would argue, and I think this is you know, a fairly universal sensation that you know if a known terrorist target is communicating with Americans, at a minimum, we ought to say, you know, are they just saying "happy birthday" to a cousin, or are they actually planning an attack? GOWDY: Yes, just so our viewers know, probable cause is the same standard for a search warrant, as it is for an arrest. So if you think you have enough to go search, you actually have enough for an arrest. It is, in practicality, a challenge for law enforcement, particularly when they're talking about preventing crime, not investigating it. Let me ask you about this, Congressman. I like Tulsi Gabbard. She has been a long-time friend of mine. I also believe Edward Snowden is a traitor who did significant damage to our country, and he fled to Russia and he faces espionage charges. Do you think he damaged our country? And was there another way for him to air his grievances, like coming to your committee, for example? HIMES: That's exactly right, Trey, it is not that I think that he damaged the National Security of this country as the Ranking Member of the Intelligence Committee, and I remember when you were on the Committee, too, so you saw some of this stuff. I know that he damaged the National Security of the United States. I know that he exposed programs that keep us safe. I know that he probably put individuals at risk, and so yes, he is a traitor. And what was odd to me about the Tulsi Gabbard testimony was that kind of - - this was a whole new Tulsi Gabbard. All of a sudden, she wasn't a friend of Edward Snowden. All of a sudden, she supported the 702 FISA authority that raises certain concerns with me. But, yes, you know, you said it exactly right, a whistleblower has any number of routes that that whistleblower can go if they believe that a crime is being committed or other untoward activity. There's inside the chain of command reporting. There are inspector generals you can go to and as you point out, perhaps as a last resort, but it's always an option. You can come to the congressional committees and say, I am not comfortable with this stuff. That is not what he did. He blew those secrets. He followed that up by going to China, followed that up by going to Russia. So look, there is no way to look at what Edward Snowden did and say that he did it absolutely wrong in a way that damaged our National Security. GOWDY: So for everyone else, you've got Rick Crawford, who was on last week. You've got Jim Himes on this week, that's where you should go, not China, not Russia, not our adversaries. Jim Himes from the great state of Connecticut, thank you for joining us on a Sunday night. HIMES: Thank you, Trey. Take care. GOWDY: You, too. Up next, two deadly tragedies raise questions about air safety. What happened and why? Plus the Chairman of Senate Armed Services lays out his vision for peace through strength. That's next. (COMMERCIAL BREAK) GOWDY: Welcome back to SUNDAY NIGHT IN AMERICA. Air is the safest way to travel, but when things go wrong, survival is rare, and things have been going tragically wrong lately. Even today, the FAA's warning system, which alerts pilots of danger, was offline. The outage caused delayed flights and cancelations. It's up now. This week, a passenger plane collided with a military helicopter near Reagan National Airport. There were no survivors. Reagan National is a small, but busy airport used by over 20 million Americans each year. It's the gateway to our capital. In Pennsylvania, a medical transport plane carrying a child patient, her mother and four others, crashed shortly after takeoff. There were no survivors, and people on the ground were also killed and severely injured. Air travel is up, and security will always be up after 9/11. Security threats will be with us forever, just as connectivity will have us on planes forever. How can they coexist? What causes planes to crash? Is it pilot error or mechanical failure? Should we be worried? Joining us is former NASA crash investigator, Ken Christensen. Welcome, Ken. I assume it's way too early to know what happened with either crash, but what would you be looking for both with the Reagan National crash and the medical transport plane? KEN CHRISTENSEN, FORMER NASA CRASH INVESTIGATOR: Hey, Congressman, it is absolutely too early to speculate on what actually happened, but as with all accidents, what you want to see is was the plane, oh, and this is for both aircraft accidents, were both aircraft under power? Did they have thrust? Did they have electrical power? And were there pilots that were flying them conscious at the time? That's all -- who is flying the airplane? Whether that can be figured out by cockpit voice recorders, flight data recorders. If they do not have those installed in those aircrafts, those specific aircrafts, it can be found out who is flying the airplane post forensically. GOWDY: You put your finger on it. Everyone is searching right now for answers, including the president of the United States. Here he is, and I'll ask you about it on the other side. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We'll find out how this disaster occurred, and we'll ensure that nothing like this ever happens again. The FAA and the NTSB and the US Military will be carrying out a systematic and comprehensive investigation. We have to have our smartest people. It doesn't matter what they look like, how they speak, who they are -- what matters, intellect, talent. You can't have regular people doing their job. They won't be able to do it, but we'll restore faith in American air travel. (END VIDEO CLIP) GOWDY: Can even smart, capable people make mistakes? How much of flying is human action versus relying on technology? CHRISTENSEN: Well, they're both intertwined, Trey, they're both very important human factors, training, training, training, and then action. So the pilots, the air crew are requiring, you know, excellent maintenance, excellent skills in the air, excellent knowledge of weather and the excellence of the air traffic controller system -- all of those need to work in sync. When one of those fails, whether it's maintenance training, not knowing about weather or air traffic control, then you can have a recipe for disaster. And that was clear, one of those things have failed, that one of those things failed with, certainly the DC accident; and on the Pennsylvania accident, we really don't know. It's just speculation at this point, but it doesn't lend itself to air traffic control or error, but it does look at, we're going to look at maintenance on that, and particularly, pilot physiology and human factors. GOWDY: All right, DC is geographically small, but there's a lot of congestion. So how do you navigate protecting an area that has so many high value targets, but there's also a lot of congestion in the air. CHRISTENSEN: There's a lot of congestion in the air, specifically at the DC-Reagan National. These helicopters, multiple helicopters are in transit in that airport, not a daily basis, but hourly basis. So you have Coast Guard aircraft, Park Police helicopters, presidential helicopters, Army helicopters. GOWDY: I hate having to have you on to talk about these tragedies, but we are grateful for your expertise and appreciate you joining us. CHRISTENSEN: Okay, thank you, Congressman. GOWDY: Senator Roger Wicker chairs the Armed Services Committee and joins us now. Welcome, Senator, thank you for taking time to be with us. People may be wondering why a helicopter was so close to an airport, but Washington is a big target for our enemies, so of course, there's going to be a military presence, right? SEN. ROGER WICKER (R-MS): Well, sure, yes. And I think there are questions that need to be answered, maybe a training mission needed to be done at a later time, I don't know, but I hate to make conclusions. I know this, we have a great Secretary of Transportation, and he and his team are going to get to the bottom of it. It's a tragedy that we can't undo, but it sure would be nice to know that we can take some steps to avoid that in the future. GOWDY: Yes, sir, Sean Duffy. You met recently with the president on the state of our military. What are your concerns as the chair of the committee of jurisdiction? WICKER: Well, I think, I think anybody who looks at it objectively has to share the same concerns. Our access of aggressors, our adversaries around the world are acting together like they've never acted together before. Of course, they're led by Xi Jinping in Communist China, Putin's Russia and Iran and North Korea. But the good news is we have a president who understands and a Secretary of Defense who understands that we have to do something. We're going to have to take some dramatic, concrete steps to rebuild our military, and also we're going to have to completely redo the way The Pentagon does business to make it more efficient and save taxpayers money as we as dramatic steps to build up our National Defense. GOWDY: Chairman, Israel is a very small country with an Iron Dome. The US is a vast country. Could an Iron Dome work here as well? I know the president has mentioned it. Could it work here as well? WICKER: The president has not only mentioned it, he and I believe in it, and I think most members of the Congress believe in it. You know, the technical advances in the last couple of decades are absolutely amazing. There was a debate maybe a generation or so ago as to whether this would even work. There's no question in my mind, it will work, if we have the determination to do it. It's going to be expensive, but a lot cheaper than going to war with North Korea, or with some other evil actor. And the president and I had a great conversation just last week about this. I think it's time to get going on it and there is no better time than, say, February or March or April, in one of the so-called Tax Reconciliation Bills, we can do this with Republican votes alone. We can do it early. We're going to have to have budget resolutions from Chairman Arrington and Chairman Lindsey Graham, but once we get that done, we can get started and get some money in the pipeline for Iron Dome for America, and I absolutely support President Trump on this, 100 percent. GOWDY: Chairman, I recently had Mike Gallagher on the show, who was a House member, also a Marine, talking about the state of our Navy. Do we need more ships? Is that in the works? I mean, the best way to avoid war with China is for us to be as strong as possible. How do you view our Navy sitting as the Chair of Armed Services? WICKER: Well, we need 355 ships and this is not something I pulled out of the air, but this is the considered judgment of the admirals and generals around the world as to what is needed for our National Defense as a minimum. And so yes, I appreciate the work that Representative Gallagher did as a member of the House of Representatives, but we need more ships, we need more tanks, we need more jets, and we need a bigger industrial base, and we haven't taken care of it. But the way to get started is to get started this spring with a Reconciliation Bill that can be passed with only a majority vote in the House and in the Senate. It is much easier because you don't have a filibuster rule to overcome in the Senate. GOWDY: Yes, sir Jodey Arrington in the House, and if memory serves me correctly, my senior senator, Lindsey Graham in the Senate. We will be watching. Thank you for your service, Roger Wicker, Chair of Senate Armed Services, thank you for joining us on a Sunday night. WICKER: Thank you, Trey. Appreciate it. GOWDY: Yes, sir. Take care. Coming up, the push to rein in spending is running into resistance, plus Trump's tariffs are taking shape. What does that mean for you? Presidential counselor, Alina Habba and House Majority Leader Steve Scalise next on SUNDAY NIGHT IN AMERICA. (COMMERCIAL BREAK) CHANLEY PAINTER, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Welcome to "Fox News Live." I'm Chanley Painter in New York. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says he is excited to talk with President Trump about victory over Hamas. The two leaders are set to meet Tuesday at the White House. It will be President Trump's first meeting with a foreign leader since returning to office. This, as talks are set to begin tomorrow between US and Arab mediators to broker the next phase of the ceasefire agreement to end the 15-month war in Gaza. Hamas says they will not release hostages in the second phase without an end to the war and a full withdrawal from Gaza by Israel. US Secretary of State Marco Rubio touring Panama on his first foreign trip as a top US diplomat. He is warning the country's leaders to stop what President Trump calls Chinese influence over the Panama Canal or face potential retaliation. Trump has demanded the Canal be returned to US control. I'm Chanley Painter. Now back to SUNDAY NIGHT IN AMERICA. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) TRUMP: You know, people have been trying to reduce federal government now for 40 years, 45 years, and they haven't been able to do it. And this is a way of doing it, I think, very nicely and sort of a buyout, too. I think we're treating people very good. (END VIDEO CLIP) GOWDY: Welcome back to SUNDAY NIGHT IN AMERICA. A limited federal government. What a novel idea. That used to be what conservatism was. It is certainly what our framers believe the federal government should do what is constitutionally delineated. The rest is up to states and cities and communities and families and us. Trump is often referred to as a populist, and sometimes he is, but a smaller federal government is classic conservatism. How much can be done by executive action alone? How much is a good idea, but requires legislative action? Alina Habba is counselor to the president, and she joins us now. Welcome, counselor. Thank you for being with us. Cutting waste and fraud and abuse and duplication is all great. How much can be done by the executive branch alone, and what requires legislative cooperation or action? ALINA HABBA, COUNSELOR TO PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: So here's the story, we have no time to waste, and I think President Trump has made that very clear. So he is putting in all these executive orders to move things along for this great nation that's been declining for four years. Obviously, what happens is there will be challenges. We will probably end up in SCOTUS on some of these things. We've seen that with the birthright issue, but President Trump is firm, and all of the White House counsel and all the parties that are part of these executive orders vet every decision we are making so that we can make sure they're sound in the Constitution, so that we can make sure that America gets results and gets them quickly. Because for four years, we have been in a serious decline, and we are just done with wasting time. But more importantly, I think we could say that America has its step back, and we've seen tremendous footing and getting rid of waste, as you mentioned. DOGE, DEI all the nonsense that was wasted, 50 million to Gaza for condoms. It's crazy. So I'm seeing progress at the likes of which we've never seen with President Trump and this administration, and it's been really amazing. GOWDY: Let me ask you about the federal freeze. Was it rescinded? Stayed by a court? Is it going back into effect? Is it currently in effect? What's the status of what people refer to as the federal freeze? HABBA: So here's what happened there is we had OMB, which is a department in the government, obviously, and they put out a memo. They rescinded their memo. That does not mean that we did not change our thoughts on cutting taxpayer dollars again, cutting government spending that has been frivolously spent by the government with American taxpayer dollars, and that is what the goal is. President Trump meant what he said. We need to stop spending. We need to look at what we are spending with and that is still in place. Now, the OMB memo, which many people had questions on, that memo, was rescinded, but that's different. GOWDY: All right, Pam Bondi, Kash Patel have not yet been confirmed. I suspect they both will be, but not yet. So the decision to fire federal prosecutors, remove or reassign Bureau agents is being made by whom? HABBA: Well, I mean, that's a pretty basic question. We have acting DOJ officials that are appointed when they're removed. Jack Smith resigned in a failure for his witch hunt for President Trump. He was also improperly put into place as special counsel. But these decisions, remember, come from the government, and who is running the government? It's President Trump. When you're looking at anybody who is or is not, America first, it's a pretty simple line. The PPO Office of the executive branch, they are doing an amazing job. They're hiring. We've hired thousands of people. We have tens of thousands of resumes. But more importantly, we're firing, and that is done by PPO. But ultimately, remember, President Trump is running this country now. He's moving quickly to get good people in and bad people out. GOWDY: Alina Habba, thank you for joining us on the Sunday night. The House has a small majority. What is the strategy for reconciliation and border and taxes and raising the debt ceiling? Will Congress play a role in tariffs going into effect? Steve Scalise is House Majority Leader. He represents the great state of Louisiana, and joins us now. Welcome, Leader. It's great to see you. What's the plan to avoid a shutdown, raise the debt ceiling and accomplish your legislative agenda? Doing all of that was such a slim majority? REP. STEVE SCALISE (R-LA): Well, Trey, that's the easy part of the job. Obviously, each one of those things you described all are going on at the same time. You know, we're working on a lot of different things right now with President Trump on government funding, which expires in March, but especially front and center is on budget reconciliation, which we've already begun, and that's where we really get into the heart of pushing the Trump agenda, funding the remaining build out of the wall for border security, giving our Border Patrol agents more technology, drones, night vision goggles, other things, again, working with President Trump and his team to make sure that they've got all the tools they need to properly secure the border. Energy production, opening up more areas that the Biden-Harris regime closed down. They were very anti-American energy, and we saw that in a negative way, in terms of higher costs at the pump, at the grocery store, that led some of the inflation that hurt our economy. We're going to work on reversing that and budget reconciliation by opening up more areas of energy exploration around the country to lower costs. But then we're also going to be working in that same bill to stave off a tax increase, to lock in the Trump tax cuts from 2017, many of which expire, we are working on renewing those as well, along with following through on the Trump promises like no tax on tips. So a lot of things going on at the same time, it's going to be busy, just like President Trump has been busy since he got into office with executive actions following through on his promises. Some of these require legislative action. We're working with President Trump to carry those things out, too. GOWDY: All right, Leader, tariffs are the talk of the town, maybe the talk of the world. Here's the president on tariffs, and then I'll come back to you. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) TRUMP: Number one is the people that have poured into our country so horribly and so much. Number two are the drugs fentanyl and everything else that have come into the country. And number three are the massive subsidies that we're giving. Mexico and Canada have never been good to us on trade. They treat it as very unfairly on trade, and we will be able to make that up very quickly, because we don't need the products that they have. (END VIDEO CLIP) GOWDY: Your home state exports, so does South Dakota, which is home to Majority Leader John Thune. Congress can play a role in tariffs. Do you think Congress will weigh in on exclusions, or the tariff rate, or which products are involved or excluded? What role do you think, if any, Congress will want to play? SCALISE: Well, the first role, Trey, is that we're going to be watching what comes out. I mean, we've heard about the 25 percent tariffs. It sounds like there's maybe a reduced tariffs on certain things with Canada. China, obviously, a different set of situations there, a set of problems that we're going to be dealing with. But you saw in the first Trump administration, a lot of the tariffs that were alleged to be coming out didn't actually happen. They were threats to ultimately have leverage to get other things, you know you think about, remain-in-Mexico. Initially, Mexico wasn't going to sign that agreement, and then President Trump used the threat of tariffs that he would have followed through on to ultimately get Mexico to agree to what was a really important policy to stop a lot of the illegal immigration. So sometimes, President Trump has used tariffs as a threat to get leverage for other things to ultimately get those countries to treat us better. And like he said in that in the clip, you know, some of these countries, Canada and Mexico, have not been good trading partners with us, and he uses the threat of tariffs, whether he follows through or not, to ultimately get better trade deals for the United States, so expect that to happen. GOWDY: All right, Leader, you've got a debt ceiling coming up. I'm going to have you back on because that's a heavy lift, even under the best of circumstances. You may have -- you and Mike Johnson may have the hardest jobs in all of Washington. It's such a thin majority. We will have you back on before that deadline comes up, and we will see how you and the Speaker will navigate that very narrow majority. Thank you. It's great to see you, and best health to you. SCALISE: No day is boring. Great to be with you, Trey. GOWDY: Yes, sir, you, too. I miss you. Take care. Coming up, the border has tightened, deportations have increased. Trump administration officials head to South and Central America. Congresswoman Maria Salazar from Florida next on SUNDAY NIGHT IN AMERICA. (COMMERCIAL BREAK) GOWDY: Welcome back to SUNDAY NIGHT IN AMERICA. Secretary of State Marco Rubio is meeting with Latin American leaders on a five-day trip across the region. Goals include countering China's influence and securing cooperation on migration and deportations. Special Missions Envoy, Ric Grenell engage with Venezuela, Panama and Cuba and are in the news. Stateside, ICE is ramping up enforcement as some Democrats vow to oppose and obstruct. Predictably, migrating counters at the southern border have dropped precipitously since Trump took office. Joining us, Florida Congresswoman Maria Salazar, who serves on House Foreign Affairs. Welcome Congresswoman, thank you for being with us. Marco Rubio, a fellow Floridian. He's on a mission in Latin America. What do you think his message is as he tours that region? REP. MARIA ELVIRA SALAZAR (R-FL): The message is that America, that Latin America, is back on the agenda of the American interests. I think Marco Rubio said it clearly that he -- that our backyard, which has been forgotten for the last 30 years since Ronald Reagan, when he was fighting the Sandinistas, that we are going to be engaging with the Americans, once again, that is exactly what this hemisphere wants. As Chairman of the Western Hemisphere Subcommittee within the House Foreign Affairs Committee, I can tell you that Americans, that Latin Americans, adore the Americans, and they want to do business with American companies, with the American government a lot more than with Chinese or with Russians. So it's good news for Latin America. GOWDY: All right, here's the new Secretary of Defense on Gitmo, and then I'll ask you about it on the other side. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) PETE HEGSETH, US DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SECRETARY: The perfect place and I'd say that as someone who spent a year there with a platoon guarding detainees at the detention facility. So you can get thousands of individuals in tents secured in places at Guantanamo Bay. There's also the eventuality that we could have hardened criminals, hardened gang members with violent criminal pasts in transit. If that is the case, we're preparing options for the actual detention facilities. Guantanamo Bay is a perfect transit point to temporarily house the worst of the worst, until we move them back to their home countries, who, as President Trump, has made it very clear, better be prepared to take them robustly and soon. (END VIDEO CLIP) GOWDY: All right, I heard worst of the worst, which to me, means violent criminals. Democrats will argue, Trump wants to deport school children. Who should be deported, and in what order? SALAZAR: Oh, it's very clear. I think it's a fantastic question. We should deport the Tren de Aragua, the illegal criminals, those who have been here, not picking up the tomatoes in Florida, but raping children in Colorado. Those need to go now with no due process. Out. Guantanamo, wherever they need to go, specifically Tren de Aragua and the gang members, those are the ones who should go right now and the Hispanic community has no problems in doing that. The problem comes when we are then mixing those criminals with the people who have been here for 20 years helping our economy. That's the conversation that we, as the country, we need to have at some point and find a balance and a solution to that situation that we have, and I think I have introduced a possibility of finding and striking that balance, but that conversation we're not going to have now, that will come in the near future. GOWDY: All right, Panama is a stable democracy in Central America. No one that I know wants conflict with Panama. How do you see the issue of the Canal playing out? SALAZAR: Like I said, Panama -- well, we built the Canal, we paid for it, 30,000 American troops or employees lost their lives in the beginning of the last century of fixing or building the Canal. I am sure that the Panamanians are delighted to have the Americans and to not do business with the Chinese. I'm sure that Marco Rubio is not going to have a problem in striking a new deal with the new Panamanian president, because it goes not only to Panama, it goes to the whole Central America and South America. We have been absent. And you know, when I was a news correspondent, I covered the area for 35 years for Univision, and I can tell you clearly that Latin America wants to do business with the Americans. The problem is that in the last 35 years, since Ronald Reagan, we have forgotten our backyard. And for those who are watching us, Latin America is an American business because we can stop fentanyl, gang violence, migrants if we take care of our backyard, and that's what we haven't done. So right now, this is a new dawn, and it is the right agenda for the White House. GOWDY: I think you're right. Marco Rubio is a very persuasive person. If anybody can talk to the Panamanians, that's who I would choose to go do it. Maria Salazar, thank you so much for joining us on a Sunday night. Hope to see you soon. SALAZAR: Thank you. GOWDY: It's never too late to do the right thing, but sometimes the right person has to be watching. I'll explain that next. (COMMERCIAL BREAK) GOWDY: Last week, Kerri Urbahn and I discussed pardons. Presidents have broad pardon powers, and there is a time and a place for commutations and forgiveness. There's also a time to drop cases which never should have been brought in the first place. One case which has trouble many for nearly four years involved former Nebraska Congressman Jeff Fortenberry. Jeff had his life upended, lost his job, his life savings. He was hauled to California to stand trial on a ridiculous charge no real prosecutor would have ever brought. The case was reversed on appeal, but rather than admit its mistake and move on to real crime, DOJ drug Jeff across the country to try him again in Washington, DC. The California prosecutors and agents involved were vindictive and vexatious. One viewer last week was paying close attention, and he decided to investigate, and now Jeff Fortenberry is a free man. All charges have been dropped because that viewer was President Donald J. Trump. His DOJ moved this week to dismiss all charges with prejudice. This is exactly the right decision. President Trump is vigorous in defending himself, but he's also vigorous in defending those who cannot defend themselves. Despite a busy first week, President Trump took time to investigate and act, so a dark four-year chapter is over for Jeff and Celeste Fortenberry and their daughters, they can see the light for the first time in a long time. The cloud is gone, the future is bright because someone with power used it in the proper, judicious way. Jeff and Celeste can now pursue their life's work, which is and always has been, religious protection for believers in other countries. Merrick Garland and its California prosecutors are gone. Donald Trump ended the charade. Celeste Fortenberry wanted to thank Donald Trump in person. She flew to Washington, DC to do so, and in due course, I'm sure she can and will see the president. In the meantime, I'm thanking him for her and for everyone else who cares about fairness. Someone with power used it for good to help those who could not help themselves, and that is justice. And thank you for spending part of your Sunday with us. I hope you have a great week ahead. Until next week, you can find us online @GowdyAmerica or on "The Trey Gowdy Podcast." Goodnight from South Carolina.

Load-Date: February 3, 2025


End of Document
