




States News Service
February 22, 2025 Saturday


Copyright 2025 States News Service
Length: 576 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


The following information was released by Progressive Democrats of America (PDA):
by Matt Fouts
Much Done, and Much More to Do:
Here's How We Can Move Forward to Build the Resistance
First, we thank you so much if you were active with us over the past week.
Another day, and more insanity from Musk, Trump, and MAGA in general. So what else is new?
We've been just as busy working to turn this ship around. While the media is full of gloom and doom and much of it warranted our activist team members are putting their stress into positive progressive productivity!
Activist engagement is breaking records, and we had two new chapters MI and Cleveland/Northeastern Ohio boot up this past week, with more percolating this upcoming week.
We'll continue to work on building local action teams focused on protecting those community members who are especially potentially vulnerable as we ramp up to resist what Trump and MAGA and our unelected co-King/President Musk and his ilk have in store.
And at the same time we're working to bring home wins in the Special Elections for Congress in FL-01 and FL-06, with the elections in the first week of April, and vote by mail ballots in voters' hands right now.
We're on a roll. Please join us as we continue to work to bring peace and justice for all via progressive campaigns.
1) Progressive Virtual Town Hall Sunday: Building The Resistance. A jam-packed event with Special Guests Everett Kelley, President of the American Federation of Government Employees (AFGE) , Sheriff Dustin Heuerman on the Humane response to ICE, and Anthony Flaccavento, co-author of the Rural New Deal, along with our participant activists from across the country. You'll leave with a renewed sense of hope, purpose, and solidarity. Click here to register. Space limited.
2) Join the National Phone Team. Sign up with this juggernaut and make a real difference an hour here, an hour there, on your schedule. Sign up here, let us know what day you can set an hour aside, and we'll get you cookin' calling fellow PDA folks. We'll make sure you're doing something easy but productive!
3) Help Build Your Local Chapter. We're looking for folks willing to invest an hour or more per month. If that's you, click here and we'll connect you with the Local Action Team.
4) For ClicktivistsSign/Share:
Demand Congress reject cuts to health care and nutrition to pay for tax cuts for the rich;
Tell DNC Chair Ken Martin to Invest in DNC Youth Organizing;
Tell Congress: Don't fund Trump's Guantanamo Bay immigrant prison;
Tell Corporations: Don't Back Down to Trump's Attacks on DEI;
Sign to Prohibit Members of Congress from Owning Stocks;
Immigrants make our communities stronger: Tell Congress to reject the "No Bailout for Sanctuary Cities Act";
Tell Congress: Tax dollars allocated to the U.S. military must not power Trump's deportation machine;
Tell Congress to pass Right to Sit legislation;
Tell Congress: Stop Project 2025 from taking over Medicare;
Demand Federal Rent Control Legislation Now;
Protect separation of church and state. No 10 Commandments displays in public schools;
Join our Click Brigade if you're up for quick and easy rapid-response likes and shares across a multitude of platforms.
5) Can't volunteer? Please contribute what you are able to afford, and make it monthly if you can. Any amount is greatly appreciated!
Thanks so much for anything you can do today for all our tomorrows. Let's get to work!
In solidarity,
Mike Fox for the PDA National Team

Load-Date: February 24, 2025


End of Document
