




CNN CNN NEWSROOM 9:00 AM EST
February 16, 2025 Sunday


Copyright 2025 Cable News Network All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS
Length: 6872 words
Byline: Eleni Giokos, Melissa Bell, Salma Abdelaziz, Allison Chinchar, Rafael Romo, Christopher Lamb, Elizabeth Wegmeister
Guests: Thomas Gift, H.A. Hellyer
Highlight: European leaders to hold emergency summit on Ukraine; Sources: U.S., Russia to start Ukraine peace talks soon; Zelenskyy: No more guaranteed U.S. support for Europe; Vance slams European democracies in blistering speech; European leaders to hold emergency summit on Ukraine; U.S. Secretary of State Rubio to meet with officials; Trump: Israel should "let all hell break out" in Gaza; New protests demand all hostages be released; 369 freed Palestinian prisoners return to Gazal, West Bank; Wounded Palestinians medically evacuated to Egypt; Israel receives U.S. heavy bombs as Trump ends Biden policy; Widespread international condemnation of Trump's Gaza plan; Netanyahu: Trump's Gaza proposal is "remarkable idea"; At least 1 dead as storm barrels towards Eastern U.S.; Eastern U.S. braces for dangerous tornadoes, flooding; Trump administration escalates purge of federal workforce; White House forcing out top leadership at National Archives; Federal Appeal Court allows head of Government Ethics Watchdog agency to temporarily keep job; Thousands of probationary employees fired as Trump administration directs agencies to carry out widespread layoffs; Trump: "He who saves his country does not violate any law"; Pope Francis receives care and prayer for recovery; Reports: At least 18 dead in crowd crush at train station; Man stabs five in Southern Australia, killing 14-year-old boy; Mother and daughter die from Munich car attack; U.S. intel: Israel likely to strike Iranian nuclear targets this year; Phase one Israeli-Hamas ceasefire agreement ends on March 1; Negotiations for the second and third phases of Israel-Hamas ceasefire have barely begun; Trump: Wants a "verified nuclear agreement" with Iran; Woman drops rape case against Sean "Diddy" Combs, Jay-Z; U.S.-Canada tensions boil over at hockey face- off; BAFTA to kick off in London tonight; Opossum goes viral after devouring entire Costco cake
Body


[04:00:00]
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're going to have sex, aren't we?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: She slept with a priest?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Oh, that's intimate.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's fascinating to track the evolution of female sexuality in the sitcom because you start off with beds that had to be separate. You couldn't say the word pregnant.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I've had a lot of sex outside of marriage.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Fast forward to now when we celebrate it, love it, and we'll give you an award for it.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
ELENI GIOKOS, CNN ANCHOR: Welcome to all our viewers watching in the United States and all around the world. I'm Eleni Giokos, live in Dubai.
Ahead on CNN Newsroom. The Trump administration's approach to the world's two biggest conflicts is coming into clearer focus. We'll look at who's in and who's out of talks to end Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
And America's top diplomat is in Israel amid the fragile ceasefire in Gaza. But another country could be an important part of upcoming talks.
And residents across the eastern U.S. are facing potentially life- threatening floods and tornadoes. We'll have the latest for you.
Welcome to the show. And European leaders plan to hold an emergency summit on Ukraine in Paris on Monday. Downing Street says British Prime Minister Keith Starmer will be there, but France is yet to confirm the event. President Trump's envoy for Russia and Ukraine, Keith Kellogg, says Ukrainians will be at the negotiating table, but Europeans will not. And that's after President Volodymyr Zelenskyy made it clear Ukraine will not accept any peace deal negotiated without Kyiv's involvement.
Sources say the talks will be held in Saudi Arabia, possibly in the coming days. Kellogg also says Russian President Vladimir Putin will have to make concessions.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KEITH KELLOGG, U.S. ENVOY FOR RUSSIA AND UKRAINE: To me there's going to have to be things like territorial concessions as well. OK. Some of it is unrealistic to expect where you'd want to go to, but it's territorial, it's sub territorial, it could be the engagement of refusing to use force, renouncement of the use of force into the future from a political side. He's not going to downsize his military forces. Hopefully, get rid of them. What we're going to try to do is basically force him into actions. What you want to do is force him to actions maybe he's uncomfortable with.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GIOKOS: Well, Kellogg said Mr. Putin can be pressured with more sanctions on his oil revenue and by the U.S. disrupting his alliances such as those with Iran, China, and North Korea. The talks would follow a startling message by President Volodymyr Zelenskyy that Europe may have to go it alone. And he urged the continent to create its own unified army and foreign policy, saying it can't rely anymore on guaranteed U.S. support. To make his point, Mr. Zelenskyy mentioned his recent conversation with the U.S. president.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT: A few days ago, President Trump told me about his conversation with Putin, not once did he mention that America needs Europe at the table. That says a lot. The old days are over when America supported Europe just because it always had.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GIOKOS: Well, for more on this, we've got Melissa Bell joining us from Paris. Really good to see you. Look, this emergency meeting that is set to be held in Paris is going to be very telling in terms of whether Europeans are going to be at the negotiating table while we're hearing talks about things occurring in Saudi Arabia. Tell me about France's perspective on this after this damning lecture from the U.S. vice president, J. D. Vance.
MELISSA BELL. CNN: Well, as you say, Eleni, not yet confirmed this meeting, but we understand that this could happen, even as we understand those negotiations will have begun between American and Russian officials, according to several sources in Saudi Arabia. There's a couple of things, I think, that are likely to bring these Europeans together. First of all, of course, the very fact of being excluded. They've been told by Keith Kellogg that they -- whilst they may well be at the table, they will not have a say in any of those negotiations. And that's a pretty startling discovery for Europeans who have provided so much of the moral, logistical, financial, military support to the war in Ukraine.
But then, there is the question of strategy as well. We've had not just a visit here in Europe from J. D. Vance this week, but also from Pete Hegseth, the Defense Secretary who met with his NATO counterparts in Brussels this week, and his message was very startling to Europeans as well in terms of tactics, saying that he believed that it was not a given that Ukraine should be a part of NATO, abandoning some of the demands that Europeans and Americans so far had been making in order that these negotiations can begin and many feel that it is simply making concessions too far even before the negotiations have begun.
[04:05:00]
But of course, all of this flurry of concern here on the European continent about countries being left out of the discussions about the very architecture of European security were kicked off, of course, by that remarkable speech made by J. D. Vance at the Munich Security Conference. Remember, a security conference that has tended to bring together like-minded allies to speak about global security in terms that most of them agreed on since World War II. J. D. Vance struck a very different tone.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
J. D. VANCE, U.S. VICE PRESIDENT: What I worry about is the threat from within. The retreat of Europe from some of its most fundamental values. Unfortunately, when I look at Europe today, it's sometimes not so clear what happened to some of the Cold War's winners.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BELL: So, that very stark contrast with what we've been hearing from American leaders, certainly during the Biden administration, it wasn't that long ago, Joseph Biden himself was here in Europe for the 80th anniversary of D-Day reminding Europe of that very strong alliance built on ideas and values, J. D. Vance really turning that around and turning his speech not so much into the kinds of attacks that we'd heard from the Trump administration during the first term about questions of contributions to things like NATO budgets and pulling their fair share, but rather a proper ideological fissure that J. D. Vance used, exposed as a sort of rallying cry to the far-right.
It was an extraordinary speech and I think delivered to a stone-faced audience now very keen to regroup in order to figure out what to do next. Although, again, the Elysee Palace has yet to confirm that that meeting will take place tomorrow.
GIOKOS: All right. Melissa Bell, good to have you with us. Thank you so much. Well, U.S. Secretary of State Marco Rubio is in Israel. He's meeting with Israeli officials amid the strained ceasefire with Hamas. Earlier in the week, Hamas accused Israel of violating the agreement. That dispute appears to have been resolved and Hamas released three Israeli hostages on Saturday.
Meanwhile, U.S. President Donald Trump restated his position that Hamas should have released all hostages on Saturday. He also said he'll support Israel if they decide to, in his words, let all hell break out.
In Tel Aviv, thousands of protesters gathering in Hostages Square on Saturday. They're demanding that all hostages be released as soon as possible. More than 300 Palestinians released from Israeli prisons returned to their loved ones in Gaza and the West Bank on Saturday. Some of them say Israel ordered them to wear clothes with the quote, "We will not forget and we will not forgive," next to a Star of David. And you can see the clothes in these images from the Israeli prison service. Palestinian groups say they're a flagrant violation of international and humanitarian laws.
More wounded Palestinians are now in Egypt after being medically evacuated through Rafah. Among them, a girl from Northern Gaza who was initially thought to be dead after a rocket attack.
Meanwhile, Israel has received a shipment of 2,000-pound or 900- kilogram bombs from the United States. Donald Trump ended the Biden administration's policy of withholding those heavy bombs. CNN's Salma Abdelaziz joining us now live from London with more.
And, Salma, so much to get through in this latest news of the bomb shipment into Israel. Really important coming ahead of Marco Rubio's trip to Tel Aviv and a lot to be discussed. Frankly, the fate of Gaza, which Donald Trump says he wants to take and take under U.S. authority. And then, of course, importantly, plans for Iran and whether Netanyahu's, you know, plan to target nuclear assets is on the table.
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: It really does come as important news that these 2,000-bomb -- 2000-pound bombs, rather, arrived just hours before Secretary of State Marco Rubio was in Tel Aviv. It seems he is coming bearing gifts.
This is a significant shift. These are bombs that Biden administration had put restrictions on out of concern for the civilians in Gaza, the high death toll in Gaza. Secretary of State Marco Rubio coming off the back of President Trump saying on Truth Social just about a day ago that it is up to Israel to decide what it wants and the United States will back it no matter what. So, he is absolutely on friendly ground today. But this is a wider regional trip for the Secretary of State.
[04:10:00]
So, next, Mr. Rubio will be going to Saudi Arabia, to Riyadh. He's also expected to go to the United Arab Emirates, where he's going to try to sell this impossible idea of the United States owning Gaza and how that would take place. I think what's also extremely notable in his schedule, Eleni, is what's not there, it doesn't seem that he's going to be meeting with any Palestinian leadership according to his schedule today. We'll see if that changes.
And yes, of course, he's heading to the UAE and to Saudi Arabia, but he is not speaking to the mediators behind this ceasefire agreement, which are Egypt and Qatar. So, that schedule really begins to reveal to you a way in which President Trump's administration appears to be turning its back on these talks just a few hours after, I am sure, diplomats will point to that exchange that took place yesterday saying, look, talks work, diplomacy works, but that's not what President Trump seems to be aiming for here with the secretary of state's visit.
GIOKOS: Yes, it's a really important point that you make. I mean, in the ceasefire deal, you know, the fragility of it is, of course, under the spotlight once again, when Hamas said it wouldn't release the hostages yesterday, Saturday. And of course, violation of the ceasefire agreement, which Hamas accused Israel of. Where are we with that in terms of phase two being in the pipeline?
ABDELAZIZ: Yes, it's been a very touch and go week. But just to remind everybody, we are in the middle of a ceasefire agreement that is supposed to be three phases, and we're about halfway through the first phase of the deal, which should see 33 Israeli hostages, not all of them alive, exchanged for hundreds of Palestinian prisoners.
Yesterday, we saw the sixth exchange took place. A total of 19 hostages have been released. But the second phase of this deal is where it gets really complicated because then you're talking about the release of the remaining hostages, what military presence, if any, Israel maintains within Gaza, what the political future of the enclave looks like. And that was supposed to begin -- the talks for that second phase were supposed to begin in Qatar in about a week's time.
But increasingly, it looks like Prime Minister Netanyahu sees the future for any agreement, any dealings with Gaza through Washington, D.C. rather through -- rather than through the Arab capitals and this ceasefire deal. So, there's very much a sense that, yes, for now, the truce is holding, but how much longer will it hold with this looming proposal again from President Trump to own Gaza, one that president -- one that Prime Minister Netanyahu, rather, has welcomed, calling it the best idea he's heard and putting into question whether or not he's even committed to these negotiations, Eleni.
GIOKOS: Yes. All right. And how the Middle East will respond importantly. Salma Abdelaziz, great to have you with us.
All right. Moving on now, a storm barreling towards the eastern U.S. is expected to reach its peak strength as we speak. But it's already carving a trail of destruction. Officials said at least one person is dead in Clay County, Kentucky, after being swept away by heavy floodwaters while driving on Saturday night. Water's already reaching historic levels in the state, and it's only expected to get worse.
Forecasters warn life-threatening and significant flooding is anticipated and could impact more than a million and a half people across parts of Kentucky and Tennessee. Kentucky is no stranger to catastrophic floods, which means locals like this nurse at a nearby nursing home wasted no time in relocating the most vulnerable.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BRITTANY HOLBROOK, NURSE: Everybody's taken care of. They have the meds they need, the oxygen, the beds, the warmth. They don't have to worry about food and being scared. They're in a safe place. So, --
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GIOKOS: All right. The neighboring Tennessee, a heavy rainfall has brought significant flooding and treacherous road conditions. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SGT. CALEB COOPER, TENNESSEE HIGHWAY PATROL: As you can see, we've had a semi turnover. There is no threat to public safety at this time. Everybody please stay safe on these wet roads and these awful weather conditions.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GIOKOS: Well, the storm system is forecast to bring more heavy rains, potentially life-threatening flooding and dangerous overnight tornadoes. Our Meteorologist Allison Chinchar is keeping a close eye on the storm system. Here's what she's expecting to see in the coming hours.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
ALLISON CHINCHAR, CNN METEOROLOGIST: There's the potential for flooding, tornadoes, and even damaging winds with this system as it continues to spread eastward throughout the day on Sunday. The overnight timeline, you're looking at cities like Knoxville in Atlanta, having those strong thunderstorms. And then, farther to the north, the concern is also that wintry mix of precipitation, both ice and snow.
As we work into the back half of the day, Sunday, most of this system finally begins to spread out over the water again. But you'll notice a lot of those snow showers still linger across interior New England, especially the green and white mountains.
The other concern we talked about is certainly going to be the winds. And these wind advisories and watches and warnings last through Monday where you could end up seeing those winds up around 60 miles per hour.
[04:15:00]
Once the system moves through, you are going to get a bitter blast of cold air. Take a look at this Chicago going from a high of 28 on Sunday to only 10 on Monday. Washington, D.C going from a high of 61 Sunday down to only 39 on Tuesday. And you can see that cold air really spreading across the eastern half of the country, and it dips very South. So, even some southern cities are going to see their temperatures dropping. Dallas going from a high temperature Saturday, around 70 degrees to a high of only 28 degrees by the time we get to Wednesday. And they're not the only ones. Place like Omaha, which normally would be about 38 degrees this time of year for that high, will barely make it to just positive numbers, a high of zero degrees on Tuesday.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
GIOKOS: Well, we're getting reaction from federal workers in the U.S. who are now facing massive job cuts. The latest on President Trump's government overhaul, that's coming up after the break.
Plus, the Jane Doe who accused rappers Sean Diddy Combs and Jay-Z of rape has withdrawn her case. We'll bring you the latest later this hour.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
[04:20:00]
GIOKOS: U.S. President Donald Trump and Elon Musk's DOGE are ramping up their efforts to dismantle the federal workforce. They've ordered sweeping layoffs across several agencies this week, attempting to fire thousands of employees. Some of those workers have joined protests condemning the aggressive cuts. A source tells CNN that the White House is forcing out senior leadership at the National Archives and Records Administration.
President Trump has criticized the agency ever since it asked the Justice Department to investigate his mishandling of classified documents after his first term. White House officials also fired, then rehired, more than 300 workers who oversee America's nuclear weapons. Sources told CNN the officials did not seem to realize what the National Nuclear Security Administration does. An Energy Department spokesperson disputed the number of staff affected, saying less than 50 people were dismissed from the agency.
For more on how federal workers are reacting to these massive layoffs, CNN's Rafael Romo reports for us.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
RAFAEL ROMO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: There's a lot of fear and anxiety, especially given what one CDC employee who would like to remain unidentified, for obvious reasons, told me that this may only be the beginning and that the cuts may be deep and widespread.
At the CDC alone about 1,300 employees may have lost their jobs. According to a CNN source, one of those departments is a unit that has investigated public health threats here in the United States and abroad, including COVID-19.
We have also learned that at least one member of Elon Musk's Department of Government Efficiency visited the Internal Revenue Service offices in Washington on Thursday as part of its mission to downsize government agencies. Trump administration officials fired more than 300 staffers Thursday night at the National Nuclear Security Administration. The agency tasked with managing the nation's nuclear stockpile, although an Energy Department spokesperson disputed the number of personnel affected, telling CNN that less than 50 people were dismissed. The terminations were rescinded Friday after the full scope of their critical mission became clear.
For obvious reasons, many federal employees we got in touch with are afraid to speak on camera about what they're going through. But earlier we had a chance to speak with someone who has already received the fork in the road e-mail and wanted to make clear that he was talking to us in a personal capacity and not on behalf of any agency or union. Let's take a listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MT SNYDER, FIELD EXAMINER, NLRB AND CO-PRESIDENT, NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD UNION: Well, so I was one of many workers who received an e-mail from the office of personnel management that said, resign now or get fired later. That's not a choice. That's a threat. That's a coup. That's a hostile takeover of the government by billionaires.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
ROMO: We have obtained several internal e-mails from the CDC about the lay of some deal with the terminations, but others target diversity, equity, and inclusion programs that the Trump administration is terminating. One message, it's a not so veiled threat against some workers. It reads in part, we are aware of efforts by some in government to disguise these programs by using coded or imprecise language. There will be no adverse consequences for timely reporting this information. However, failure to report this information within 10 days may result in adverse consequences.
There has been no comment so far from the CDC. On Tuesday, Elon Musk defended his actions by saying that, quote, "The people voted for major government reform and that's what people are going to get."
Rafael Romo, CNN Atlanta.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
GIOKOS: Well, Federal Appeal Court is allowing the head of a government ethics watchdog agency whom President Donald Trump fired last week to stay on the job. Special Counsel Hampton Dellinger enforces federal whistleblower laws that protect civil servants who report problems within agencies. He was appointed by former President Joe Biden for a five-year term. The Saturday ruling allows Dellinger to temporarily remain in his post, likely teeing up a fight over similar dismissals for the Supreme Court. The Justice Department had already indicated in court documents that it plans to appeal.
Well, joining us now is Thomas Gift, director of the Center on U.S. Politics at University College London. Thomas, great to have you with us. Thank you so much. And there's so much that is going on. And I just want to start off with the firing and then rehiring of the team at the National Nuclear Security Administration.
[04:25:00]
Reports are that there were 300 people, the Trump administration disputes are saying it was only 50. But I want you to give me a sense of how this reflects the border tension within the Trump camp and their approach to national security.
THOMAS GIFT, DIRECTOR, CENTRE OF U.S. POLITICS, UNIVERSITY OF COLLEGE LONDON: Well, thanks so much for having me, Eleni. It's great to be with you. There really is nothing like firing and then unfiring some of the country's most important national security workers. You might have thought the name the National Nuclear Security Administration would have been a tell that his team deals with critical nuclear weapons stockpiles, but apparently not.
Regardless, I do think it's embarrassing for the White House. It's kind of a microcosm for how DOGE is going about slashing government programming. If Trump's team couldn't decipher what the NNSA does, it raises the question what else is potentially being cut that's really important. You know, that includes research at the National Institutes of Health, program on civilian protection at the Pentagon, lifesaving initiatives at USAID. The list really goes on.
GIOKOS: Yes, and it's really pretty remarkable, USAID, we've heard news about CDC as well and other departments. Here's the question in terms of what kind of political risks does this create for President Trump and Elon Musk and the DOGE team in general?
GIFT: That's a great question. I think that DOGE poses pitfalls on both sides. Democrats certainly risk appearing out of touch if they seem to suggest that there's no wasteful spending in Washington at all. Given the sentiment of the country, no politician really wants to be on the side of defending the status quo.
At the same time, I think the risk for Trump is dismantling government institutions that help real voters, including his own. I think that everyone wants to see government work better. But there's a smart way to pursue reform and a reckless way and radical upheaval of government agencies isn't very conservative.
I think the objective really has to be to combat inefficiencies but in a way that doesn't uproot the lives of some of the dedicated public servants that we just heard from and that doesn't hurt government programs that provide real value.
GIOKOS: I want to look at a tweet or something on social media by the president. He says, he who saves his country does not violate any law. He basically invoked Napoleon Bonaparte during his reign as emperor. And it's pretty telling about what this basically entails, that a leader perhaps is above the law. What are you reading into this? Because many are concerned, we're already seeing a constitutional crisis playing out in the United States.
GIFT: Of course, that's even more concerning given the Supreme Court's recent ruling that presidents essentially have broad immunity for any official acts and even acts that kind of border between public and private. But this is Donald Trump. It's nothing new. Certainly, he has made explicit and implicit claims that he wants to be a dictator. I think some of that is hyperbole.
But you're right, we're too careening closer and closer if to not a constitutional crisis, at least an impasse. And I think many of these claims are going to have to get adjudicated by the courts at the end of the day. You know, essentially the executive is claiming this notion of almost complete power over federal agencies, but the Article 1 of the Constitution says very explicitly that Congress has power over spending and so you can understand why they feel like they have some authority over these decisions that Donald Trump is invoking.
GIOKOS: Thomas, the Munich Security Conference and the vice president, J. D. Vance, basically lecturing Europeans about internal issues within Europe saying, the biggest threat for Europe is not actually Russia or China, it's the moving away from what makes Europe Europe. How are you assessing and characterizing the message?
GIFT: Well, that's his main point was certainly to accuse European leaders of expressing only superficial support for free speech and democratic dialogue. I think the problem is that it's more than a little ironic. You could say hypocritical, given all that Trump has done to censor his political adversaries.
I mean, most recently, this included shutting out the Associated Press from multiple events at the White House and Air Force One rotating out left leaning press outlets from their offices in the Pentagon, disseminating lists of banned DEI buzzwords that can't be used in government websites or memos. So, I think that Vance may have a point, but at the same time, it's kind of a case of throwing stones in glass houses.
GIOKOS: All right. Thomas Gift, great to have you with us. Thank you so much for your insights. All right. And prayers and care for Pope Francis as he fights a respiratory infection in hospital in Rome. We'll bring you an update right after this. Stay with CNN.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
[04:30:00]
GIOKOS: Welcome back to our viewers in the United States and all around the world. I'm Eleni Giokos in Dubai and you're watching CNN Newsroom.
Pope Francis is recovering in hospital in Rome right now and he no longer has symptoms of fever according to the Vatican. And he's not only receiving care but also prayers while being treated for a respiratory tract infection.
Joining us now live from Rome, we've got CNN's Vatican correspondent Christopher Lamb. Christopher, great to have you with us. We know the Angelus Prayer will not be recited by the pope today. He is currently recovering. What is his status? CHRISTOPHER LAMB, CNN VATICAN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Eleni, Pope Francis has been here at the Gemelli Hospital behind me since Friday. He's on the 10th floor where there's a special suite of rooms for him to receive treatment. The Vatican sent an update last night saying that the pope no longer has symptoms of fever, but will not be leading the Angelus Prayer that he does each Sunday. Quite a short prayer, but it's decided that it's not possible for him to do that.
Francis has this respiratory tract infection, a severe bout of bronchitis that he said has been making it very difficult for him to speak. Now, in recent days, Francis has asked aides to read his speeches. And I saw the pope on Friday when he was having some private audiences, including with CEO of CNN Mark Thompson, and it was clear then that Francis was finding it difficult to speak for long periods and had to be admitted to hospital to receive treatment and tests.
[04:35:00]
The Vatican said in their statement, they slightly changed the treatment to ensure that a better result to help Francis with his recovery. But obviously, we are waiting for further updates today as the pope tries to recover.
Francis, for a man of 88 years old, has been keeping up a relentless schedule of meetings, seeing people, holding public events, and the doctors have said to him that he needs to have a complete rest, a slowdown to aid this recovery from quite a serious bout of bronchitis. Eleni.
GIOKOS: All right. Christopher Lamb in Rome, thank you so much. Now, at least 18 people, including five children, were killed in a crowd crush in New Delhi train station Saturday night. Now, that's according to local media reports.
Officials say the stampede occurred as passengers boarded trains heading to the world's largest religious gathering. Now, this comes as news just weeks after dozens were killed in a crowd crush at the gathering itself. A staggering 400 million people attend the festival over six weeks. India's prime minister expressed his distress at the latest deaths on social media and also sent his condolences to the victims' families.
A 14-year-old is dead and several others have been injured in southern Austria after a 23-year-old man stabbed five people in what police are calling a random attack. The suspect is a Syrian national with legal residence in Austria, police say, and he was detained in the same city as the attack took place. Authorities have not yet identified a motive. They're investigating whether the suspect had acted alone, and if there is any connection between the attacks and the victims.
And the German City of Munich is in mourning. According to local police, a 37-year-old woman and her two-year-old daughter died on Saturday from injuries sustained in a car ramming attack that took place last Thursday. They are reported to be the first fatalities from the incident. At least 39 people were injured after an asylum seeker from Afghanistan plowed into a group of trade union demonstrators. The attack occurred just hours before international leaders arrived in the city for the Munich security conference. And with many of Germany's national elections set for February 23rd, the incident has sharpened growing security concerns.
U.S. intelligence agencies say Israel is preparing to strike Iranian nuclear targets this year, but U.S. President Donald Trump says he wants to reach a new deal with Iran and improve relations. A look at how this might play out next on CNN Newsroom.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
[04:40:00]
GIOKOS: U.S. Secretary of State Marco Rubio is in Israel meeting with Israeli officials amid the strained ceasefire with Hamas. Meanwhile, U.S. intelligence agencies say they believe Israel is likely to strike Iranian nuclear facilities this year. This comes as U.S. President Donald Trump is said to be looking for a new nuclear deal with Iran. During his first term in office, Trump backed out of the deal brokered by the Obama administration.
H.A. Hellyer is a senior associate fellow at the Royal United Services Institute for Defense and Security Studies and joins us now live from Cairo. Really good to see you. Listen, there's so much that's going on, and I wanted to start off with Marco Rubio in Tel Aviv meeting with Benjamin Netanyahu.
And importantly, this is, you know, soon after we hear about these Riviera plans for Gaza. You still didn't have Arab states that are pro this plan. They're probably looking to come up with some alternative. What do you think is going to be discussed? How consequential are these meetings?
H.A. HELLYER, SENIOR ASSOCIATE FELLOW, ROYAL UNITED SERVICES INSTITUTE: Well, Eleni, thank you so much for having me on your program. I don't think that Rubio's visit is really going to change the calculus on any of these plans. I think the Arab states, Egypt, Saudi in particular, are trying to put together a plan that looks actually doable. There's complete rejection of the, quote/unquote, "Riviera plan," not simply from the Arab states, but from I think most of the International Community, including many of America's own allies in the West.
The idea that you could simply displace and ethnically cleanse Palestinians from their land in Gaza to create a Riviera on the Mediterranean that wouldn't have Palestinians I think is problematic on multiple levels. And the entirety of the region, with the exception, of course, the Israelis are very much against it.
So, I don't think any of that is going to change as a result of these meetings. I think Rubio's got anything to tell the Arab states that's going to convince them that this is a good idea. I'm not even sure, quite frankly, that he thinks is a good idea, nor is there going to be any pressure that is leveraged on the Israelis to get them to come up with a better way forward. It's still an open question as to whether or not the Israelis will even go to phase two of the ceasefire, which means withdrawing all Israeli troops from Gaza. They haven't sent a negotiation team for negotiations that has any mandate. And Israeli press is awash with claims that Israel is going to try to get an extension of phase one as opposed to going into phase two anyway.
GIOKOS: So, Hisham, the other thing that's really fascinating is these 200-pound bombs being delivered to Israel literally ahead of Marco Rubio's trip, also Donald Trump's messaging around, you know, all hell will break loose and still talking about all the hostages being released. This is kind of contradictory to what we're seeing on trying to keep the ceasefire in place, going on into phase two. Do you -- how fragile do you think this is?
HELLYER: I think the ceasefire is very fragile. When it comes to phase two, the Israelis, particularly Netanyahu's cabinet, but more generally, have expressed two very contradictory aims. One to try to get as many hostages out as possible and to get all of them home. And at the same time, Netanyahu's government is likely to fall unless he agrees to resume the war on Gaza. You can't do both of those things at the same time. So, there's a quandary there for the Israelis.
When it comes to pressure from the United States, as you mentioned. These 2,000-pound bombs have just been delivered. The Biden administration didn't actually pause delivery. They simply stopped the fast tracking of delivery. And now, everything is back on, quote/unquote, "fast track."
[04:45:00]
So, you have a mediator that is really not only empowering one side over the other, but empowering the most hardline elements in that side over the other. When it comes to the Riviera plan, it was music to the ears of the Israeli far-right. So, it really empowered the most radical elements within Israel at a time when really you want to try to push for any kind of moderation that would be possible in order to get to phase two. So, the imperative and the incentive for the Israelis actually go to phase two has just really evaporated.
GIOKOS: So, in terms of U.S. intelligence saying that the likelihood of Israel bombing or striking Iran's nuclear assets is very likely this year, they will need the U.S.'s backing. What is the probability of this occurring, given that President Trump has said that he wants to look closer to getting a peace deal or nuclear deal with Iran, and he also wants to be sort of the global peacemaker?
HELLYER: So, I don't think that the Israeli -- as you mentioned, I don't think the Israelis are going to strike Iran without full, complete backing from the United States. And as you mentioned, I don't think the U.S. is looking to get into a war with Iran at present on the country. There are multiple signals from the Biden administration -- sorry, from the Trump administration dating back to, I think, December, as soon as President Trump won the election to open up negotiations and channels of discussion with the Iranians in order to try to come to some sort of a deal. On top of that, America's allies in the region, among Arab states, particularly in the Gulf, they don't want a war with Iran either. So, really, Israel is kind of on its lonesome right here -- right now. Now, having said that, there are elements within the Trump administration within, quote/unquote "MAGA" more generally that are quite happy to go to war with Iran, but I don't think that they're in the poll position at present.
So, it really comes down to how far these negotiations around the deal between the United States and Iran can go. But right now, I think the likelihood is that Israel would want to strike Iran during this year. But at least at the moment, I don't think that's terribly likely.
GIOKOS: All right. H.A. Hellyer, great to have you with us. Always fascinating. All right. So, political tensions between usually cordial North American neighbors are now on full display. Still to come, the latest on the hockey balls after Canadians boo the U.S. National Anthem. We'll be back after this.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
[04:50:00]
GIOKOS: A woman who accused rappers Sean Diddy Combs and Jay-Z of rape has withdrawn her lawsuit. Going by the name Jane Doe, she filed suit in October. She claimed the two men drugged and raped her at an MTV Music Awards afterparty 25 years ago. She was just 13 years old at the time. Both rappers deny the allegations. Elizabeth Wegmeister has more for us.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
ELIZABETH WEGMEISTER, CNN ENTERTAINMENT CORRESPONDENT: A Jane Doe, who alleged she was raped by both Sean Diddy Combs and Jay-Z more than 20 years ago when she was 13 years old, has dropped her case against both of the music moguls. In a notice of voluntary dismissal filed on Friday, Jane Doe's attorneys dropped the case with prejudice, preventing from being refiled in the future.
Tony Buzbee, an attorney for Jane Doe, declined to comment when I contacted him. He also declined to comment when I asked if a settlement agreement was reached between Jane Doe and any of the defendants.
Now, Jay-Z's attorney, Alex Spiro, told CNN in a statement, the false case against Jay-Z that never should have been brought has been dismissed with prejudice. By standing up in the face of heinous and false allegations, Jay has done what few can, he pushed back, he never settled, he never paid one red penny, he triumphed and cleared his name.
Now, Jane Doe initially filed her lawsuit against Combs in October of 2024. She alleged that she was drugged and raped by Combs along with two other celebrities at an after party for the MTV Video Music Awards in the year 2000 when she was just 13 years old. Jane Doe then filed an amended complaint naming Jay-Z as one of the celebrities she accused of raping her.
Jay-Z vigorously denied the allegations and fought back fiercely against Jane Doe's allegations, calling them heinous. His attorneys made numerous attempts to get the case thrown out prior to Jane Doe now dropping her own case. In December, a judge had denied Jay-Z's request to dismiss the case.
Jane Doe had previously acknowledged inconsistencies in her recollection of the events from the alleged assault in 2000, but she always stood by the allegation that she was raped. Her attorney had previously told CNN, quote, "Our client remains fiercely adamant that what she has stated is true to the best of her memory."
Attorneys for Sean Diddy Combs told me that Jane Doe dropping her case is, quote, "confirmation that these lawsuits are built on falsehoods, not facts." Combs still faces more than 40 sexual assault lawsuits. He was indicted last September on sex trafficking, racketeering conspiracy, and prostitution related charges.
Now, he has pleaded not guilty to all three charges, and his attorneys say that he has never sexually assaulted or trafficked anyone. Combs is currently in jail, awaiting his criminal trial that is set to begin this May. Back to you.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
GIOKOS: Well, growing political tensions between Canada and the United States have boiled over into a hockey rink in Montreal. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
(MUSIC PLAYING)
(END VIDEO CLIP)
[04:55:00]
GIOKOS: Canadian fans booed the U.S. National Anthem on Saturday, and that is before the game itself. The crowd's jeers seemed to fire up Team USA with nine seconds of the puck drop, these fistfights erupted. They finally played hockey and defeated Canada 3 to 1. Canadian fans were not booing the U.S. team as much.
Now, Team USA has (INAUDIBLE) in Thursday's championship game. If Team Canada makes the final, it'll be in Boston, where American fans may well boo the Canadian anthem as payback.
Britain's top film honors will be handed out in just a few hours. David Tennant will host the star-studded BAFTAs in London. And although there are many favorites, the awards are still anyone's game. "Conclave," a movie about the secretive and tense process of choosing a new pope is leading with 12 nominations, including Best Film and Best Leading Actor for Ralph Fiennes. It will be facing off against "The Brutalist" and "Emilia Perez" for Best Film. The cake bandits of Omaha, Nebraska is going viral on social media. Local real estate agent Kim Doggett (ph) set a Costco chocolate mousse cake out on her screened in back porch. Then, when she wasn't looking, an opossum snuck in and ate the entire thing. And Kim and her son caught the creature red handed. It was alert but breathing heavily after leaving a trail of brown paw prints and a mountain of crumbled cake on the floor.
The animal was admitted to the Nebraska Wildlife Rehab Center where it received care for the dietary overindulgence. This is the note left with the opossum when it was admitted to the medical facility. The cake bandit is expected to make a full recovery and will be returned to her natural habitat in a few weeks. And hopefully staying off the cake.
Well, that wraps up this hour of Newsroom. I'm Eleni Giokos. I'll be back with more news in just a moment. Stay with CNN.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
[05:00:00]

Load-Date: February 16, 2025


End of Document
