




Daily Collegian: Pennsylvania State University
February 26, 2025 Wednesday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 971 words
Byline: Rachael Keller
Body


President Donald Trump has signed over 70 executive orders, including Executive Order 13899: "Additional Measures to Combat Antisemitism."
The executive order was originally issued during Trump's first term in 2019, but prior administration "effectively nullified" it by "failing to give the terms of the order full force and effect throughout the government," according to the White House.
In January, Trump re-signed the order to direct "additional measures to advance the policy thereof in the wake of the Hamas terrorist attacks of October 7, 2023, against the people of Israel."
It allows for exploration into deporting pro-Palestinian activists, highlighting specifically students on visas who are protesting on their college campus.
Federal agencies are instructed to submit a report within 60 days that identifies all civil and criminal authorities or actions within their jurisdiction that "might be used to curb or combat antisemitism." The attorney general will also include an analysis of all court cases involving higher-education institutions that allege "civil-rights violations related to or arising from post-October 7, 2023, campus antisemitism."
"I understand this executive order to be a complete stripping of free speech, particularly on issues related to Palestine," Matthew Parnell, executive board member of Penn State Students for Justice in Palestine , said.
Parnell, a doctoral student studying communications arts and sciences, said much of the real danger regarding the order lies in its vagueness.
He said the order is unclear in the language around how it will crack down on immigrant students and what further measures will be taken after the official reports are submitted.
"We saw hundreds of thousands of people mobilizing all over the U.S. in support of Palestinans with demands of a ceasefire and an arms embargo," executive board member of SJP Roua Daas said. "Especially on college campuses, we saw college students - of all backgrounds - say that 'enough is enough, we don't want our university invested in the death of people worldwide.'"
Daas, a graduate student studying clinical psychology, said she believes the re-signing of the order is a direct result of the student activism seen on college campuses, and the order aims to silence the speech and protests from students.
Protestors gather in front of the gates at the 1 Year of Genocide Protest hosted by Penn State Students Justice for Palestine on Monday, Oct. 7, 2024 at the Allen Street Gates in State College, Pa.
Sienna Pinney
Parnell said this order also highlights some of the Trump administration's anti-immigration beliefs and policies.
He said this order is emblematic of what he believes is Trump's larger strategy to deport as many immigrants as he can while he's in office.
"They saw an opportunity to not only silence the Palestine movement, but to also silence and especially put at more risk international students who have been at the forefront of advocating for Palestine," Daas said.
Sarah Dweik, an executive board member of SJP, said international students are granted the same First Amendment rights as American citizens when they come here on visas, and this order is violating their rights to free speech and assembly. She said it's unconstitutional and illegal to try to implement an order like this on American citizens and students with visas.
"This executive order is trying to empower ICE to go after international students as part of the immigrant population that at some point this country used to be proud of," Dweik, a doctoral student studying communications arts and sciences, said. "To empower ICE in that kind of way gives them a lot of jurisdiction to be able to make decisions on who to deport, who to detain."
Daas said there is increased rhetoric in the U.S. right now that is attempting to frame topics like the Palestine movement and DEI as "outside" beliefs, and not what many people believe in the U.S.
Protesters march down Beaver Avenue at the 1 Year of Genocide Protest hosted by Penn State Students Justice for Palestine on Monday, Oct. 7, 2024 in State College, Pa.
Sienna Pinney
She said despite this, there has been a large push in the younger generations to understand these topics and realize their importance.
Daas said SJP has been taking orders like this very seriously because it wants to protect its members while also standing up for oppressed people. SJP has specifically taken an emphasis on protecting international students since the order was re-signed and is working toward creating "know your rights" resources, according to Daas.
She said she doesn't want to allow for the exclusion of international students in Palestine activism because of this order, so SJP has been looking into media policies on anonymous sourcing.
"This is not the first or last time that conservative and Zionist forces have attempted to silence the Palestine movement," Daas said. "This is just one step in a continued pattern of censorship on Palestine that has been long and very well documented."
Daas said despite this, the Palestine movement around the world and on college campuses has never been so powerful, and setbacks like this order will not cause the movement to fall.
Dweik said there has already been an abundance of misinformation spread on the movement and orders like this, so it is important to be purposeful with what sources are being consumed, shared and reposted.
Daas said the liberation of Palestine is inevitable no matter what happens now, because history has proven there is no reality where oppressed people do not resist.
"Unfortunately, historical progress isn't linear. There are road bumps. There are moments we go backwards," Parnell said. "But, even in those moments we keep doing the work that's important ... One executive order doesn't stop the work we do."
MORE NEWS CONTENT

Load-Date: February 26, 2025


End of Document
