




The Daily Caller
February 21, 2025 Friday 04:19 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: DAILY-CALLER-NEWS-FOUNDATION; defense
Length: 524 words
Byline: Wallace White, Contributor, 
Body



The Department of Defense (DOD) has reportedly paused its planned mass firings of probationary employees pending further review, two sources told CNN Friday.
The plan to fire nearly 50,000 civilian employees was reportedly paused until Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth and the Pentagon's Office of General Counsel conduct a review of its impact on military readiness,  to CNN. The move was initially part of a plan from the Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) to cut down on excess spending in the DOD as they enact sweeping budget cuts across the federal government.
“We're working with the Department of Government Efficiency-DOGE-to eliminate fraud, waste, and abuse, cutting fat and redundancies at headquarters so we can save your dollars and reinvest them wisely,” Hegseth  in a video posted to X Thursday. We're reevaluating our workforce to ensure every position is mission-critical, restoring accountability to the federal workforce.” 

U.S. Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth speaks to members of the press during a bilateral meeting with Australian Deputy Prime Minister and Defense Minister Richard Marles at the Pentagon on February 7, 2025 in Arlington, Virginia. (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images)
Title 10 section 129a of the US Code  that the defense secretary “may not reduce the civilian workforce programmed full-time equivalent levels unless the Secretary conducts an appropriate analysis.”
Officials from DOGE  to have already saved an estimated $55 billion in federal spending. DOGE has also already fired  of federal employees from numerous agencies across the bureaucracy.
The Pentagon's budget has largely  since 1960,  out at $850 billion for fiscal year 2025.
Moreover, Hegseth  to senior Pentagon leadership Tuesday that he wanted an 8% reduction in the defense budget in each of the next five years. He clarified on X Thursday that the move didn't cut funds explicitly but was instead “redirecting funds away from non-lethal, less critical programs.”
Hegseth has long  for a revamp of the Defense Department to refocus on “warfighting,” rolling back many initiatives under former President Joe Biden's administration characterized as “woke,” such as DEI  and sex change  for transgender service members.
“Unlike the current administration, politics should play no part in military matters. We are not Republicans or Democrats-we are American warriors,” Hegseth  to open his confirmation hearing in January.
The Pentagon deferred to Hegseth's announcement on X when the Daily Caller News Foundation reached out for comment.
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Graphic

 
US Secretary of Defence Pete Hegseth speaks during a joint press conference held with NATO Secretary General Mark Rutte during the NATO Defense Ministers' meeting on February 13, 2025 in Brussels, Belgium. NATO Defence Ministers are convening in Brussels for a meeting chaired by NATO Secretary General Mark Rutte. Also in attendance is US Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth, marking the first visit to NATO by a member of the new Trump administration. High on the agenda for the allies will be ascertaining how the US intends to influence the trajectory of the war in Ukraine, as the conflict nears the third anniversary since Russia's full-scale invasion. (Photo by Omar Havana/Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
