




USA Today Online
February 22, 2025 12:47 AM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Section: US NEWS
Length: 368 words
Byline: Anthony Robledo, USA TODAY
Body


The U.S.  plans to cut its civilian workforce by 5 to 8% as part of President Trump’s promise to .
The mass layoffs will primarily impact new hires employed for less than two years, with around losing their jobs as soon as next week, the department announced Friday.   
“As the Secretary made clear, it is simply not in the public interest to retain individuals whose contributions are not mission-critical. Taxpayers deserve to have us take a thorough look at our workforce top-to-bottom to see where we can eliminate redundancies,” DoD official Darin Selnick said in a news release.

The cuts are the latest in a fast-moving overhaul led by  that has laid off more than 20,000 workers and dismantled programs throughout the U.S. government, from foreign aid to financial oversight.
Legal challenges have had mixed results so far, as federal judges have declined to stop the layoffs. A federal judge on Friday cleared the way for Trump to put more than 2,000 workers at the U.S. Agency for International Development on leave.
$50 billion of defense budget redirected to Trump priorities
Earlier this week, Defense Secretary  ordered the Pentagon to redirect 8% of  from Biden administration programs to Trump’s .”
The order cuts around $50 billion from the programs Hegseth called “low-impact and low-priority,” including “so-called ‘climate change’ and other woke programs, as well as excessive bureaucracy,” according to a Wednesday statement from acting Deputy Secretary of Defense Robert Salesses.
The statement did not specify which new programs would receive the money, but confirmed Trump’s priorities included “securing our borders, building the, and ending radical and wasteful government DEI programs and preferencing.”
Redirecting the funds would “refocus the Department on its core mission of deterring and winning wars,” according to the statement.
Contributing: Cybele Mayes-Osterman, USA TODAYand Reuters
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: February 21, 2025


End of Document
