




Newsweek.com
January 29, 2025 Wednesday 5:23 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 590 words
Byline: Gabe Whisnant
Highlight: The pause affects 11 annual events, including Black History Month, commencing this Saturday, and National Hispanic Heritage Month.
Body


The Defense Department's intelligence agency has paused observances of Black History Month, Pride Month, Holocaust Days of Remembrance, and other cultural or historical annual events, following President 's ban on diversity, equity and inclusion programs in the federal workplace.
Why It Matters
On his first day as president, Trump to "terminate" the federal government's diversity, equity, inclusion and accessibility (DEI) programs. The initiatives are meant to and full participation of all individuals, particularly those from historically underrepresented or marginalized groups. Trump's executive order to end the DEI programs has left many agencies in the lurch, figuring out how to interpret the broad orders.
DEI staff have been placed on , while their departments and offices are scheduled to shut down on January 31. DEI initiatives, contracts and websites have been ordered to be removed. Defense Secretary  has also announced that more executive orders are on their way, including measures to remove DEI initiatives within the . Several l back on their initiatives following Trump's orders.
What To Know
This directive was detailed in a memo from the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA), obtained by the Associated Press. The pause affects 11 annual events, including Black History Month, commencing this Saturday, and National Hispanic Heritage Month.
A U.S. official confirmed the memo's authenticity to the AP, indicating that the DIA initiated the pause, suggesting it is not a uniform policy across the entire Defense Department. The official requested anonymity to discuss sensitive matters.
The memo also noted a stop on "special observances."
The other annual events listed include Asian American Pacific Islander Heritage Month, National American Indian Heritage Month, National Disability Employment Awareness Month, Women's Equality Day and Women's History Month.
Holidays like  Day and Juneteenth were mentioned but the memo said they would not be affected.
What People Are Saying
The White House Office of Communications, in a "fact sheet" emailed to Newsweek on Tuesday night: "President Trump promised to terminate DEI in the federal government, protect equal opportunity, and force schools to end discriminatory admissions policies, and he delivered."
White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt in a press conference on Tuesday about Black History Month: "As far as I know, this White House certainly still intends to celebrate, and we will continue to celebrate American history and the contributions that all Americans, regardless of race, religion or creed, have made to our great country."
What's Next
The memo said that the Defense Intelligence Agency would pause all activities and events related to the programs until further notice.
"We are receiving questions across the workforce on the way forward," the memo said. "DIA will pause all activities and events related to Agency Special Emphasis Programs effective immediately and until further notice."
As businesses adjust to these changes, the debate over workplace diversity is far from over. Advocates for diversity are expected to continue pushing back against the new rules, while companies will need to navigate a new and uncertain compliance landscape.
The Associated Press contributed to this story.
Update 01/29/25 5:52 p.m. ET: This article was updated with additional information. 


Graphic

 
Trump calendar
Photo by Joe Raedle/hanabaram/Getty Images
U.S. President Donald Trump acknowledges the crowd before addressing the 2025 Republican Issues Conference at the Trump National Doral Miami on January 27, 2025 in Doral, Florida.  Apple iPad on a worktable.

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
