




Forbes.com
January 29, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Forbes LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 711 words
Byline: Siladitya Ray, Forbes Staff
Highlight: The Pentagon s inspector general will review the conduct of the former chair of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, who has been a vocal critic of the president.
Body


Topline
U.S. Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth revoked the personal security detail and security clearance of Gen. Mark Milley and ordered a probe into the former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Pentagon announced Tuesday, in a move that targets one of President Donald Trump s most vocal critics who once described him as a  fascist to the core. 
<figure>
<figcaption>
Former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Mark Milley awaits the start of a hearing with the House Foreign Affairs Committee in the Rayburn House Office Building in Washington, DC.
Getty Images
</figcaption></figure>
Key Facts
In a statement toseveralnewsoutlets, Pentagon spokesperson John Ullyot said Milley was informed about the defense secretary s decision earlier on Tuesday.
Hegseth has also ordered the Department of Defense's inspector general to review the  facts and circumstances surrounding Gen. Milley s conduct  and whether it may be appropriate to lower the four-star general s military rank.
In a statement, Hegseth s chief of staff Joe Kasper said:  Undermining the chain of command is corrosive to our national security, and restoring accountability is a priority  for the DOD under the Trump administration.
According toFox News, which first reported the development, the Defense Department will take down a portrait of Milley honoring his service as the chief-of-staff of the Army inside the Pentagon after removinganother portraitof him last week.
Milley s biography page on the Department of Defense s website also appeared to beofflineat the time of publishing, even though hispredecessor s pageremained accessible.
Get Forbes Breaking News Text Alerts: We re launching text message alerts so you'll always know the biggest stories shaping the day s headlines. Text  Alerts  to  or sign up .
What Has Trump Said About Milley?
Trump repeatedly attacked Milley,calling him a woke train wreck  and accusing him of  dealing with China to give them a heads up on the thinking of the President of the United States.  The comment was about Milley s phone call with his Chinese counterpart, Gen. Li Zuocheng, just two days after the Jan. 6 attack on the Capitol to reassure him that the U.S. would not suddenly launch an attack on China. At the time, the president said Milley s actions were  so egregious that, in times gone by, the punishment would have been DEATH!  Calling Milley s actions a  treasonous act,  Trump added it could have led to a war between the U.S. and China.
What Has Milley Said About Trump?
Last year, Milley told veteran journalist Bob Woodward that he thought Trump was a  fascist to the core.  The retired general then added,  No one has ever been as dangerous to this country as Donald Trump Now I realize he s a total fascist. He is the most dangerous person to this country.  Milley also made a veiled reference to Trump in his retirement speech, where he told members of the U.S. military:  We don't take an oath to a tribe. We don't take an oath to a religion. We don't take an oath to a king, or queen, or tyrant, or a dictator. And we don't take an oath to a wannabe dictator. We take an oath to the Constitution and we take an oath to the idea that is America, and we're willing to die to protect it. 
Key Background
Milley was one of several people who received apre-emptive pardonfrom former President Biden earlier this month. While announcing the pardons, Biden described the recipients as public servants who have  served our nation with honor and distinction and do not deserve to be the targets of unjustified and politically motivated prosecutions.  The former president also said the pardons  should not be mistaken as an acknowledgment that any individual engaged in any wrongdoing.  At the time, Milleytold CNNhe and his family were  deeply grateful  to Biden and added:  After forty-three years of faithful service in uniform to our nation, protecting and defending the Constitution, I do not wish to spend whatever remaining time the Lord grants me fighting those who unjustly might seek retribution for perceived slights. 
Further Reading
Trump s Biggest Staff Shakeups So Far: DEI Employees On Leave, DOJ Vets Reassigned, José Andrés Fired(Forbes)
Biden Issues Preemptive Pardons For Trump Foes Fauci, Milley And Jan. 6 Committee(Forbes)

Load-Date: January 30, 2025


End of Document
