




TheHill.com
January 30, 2025 Thursday


Copyright 2025 NEXSTAR MEDIA INC.  All Rights Reserved


Section: BLACK INTEREST NEWS & US NEWS
Length: 484 words
Byline: Ellen Mitchell
Body


The Pentagon’s intelligence agency has put on hold observances of Martin Luther King Jr. Day, Juneteenth, Holocaust Days of Remembrance and other annual historical or cultural events due to President Trump’s ban on diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) programs across the federal government, according to a new internal memo.
The instructions, sent in a Defense Intelligence Agency memo dated Jan. 28, affect 11 annual events.
“DIA will pause all activities and events related to Agency Special Emphasis Programs effective immediately and until further notice,” the memo said. “Additionally, Special Observances hosted throughout the year . . . are also paused.”’
Among the “special observances” halted are Martin Luther King Jr. Day and Juneteenth, though the memo said the pause would not affect those federal holidays.
Also included in the pause are Black History Month, Women’s History Month, Women’s Equality Day, Holocaust Days of Remembrance, Asian American Pacific Islander Heritage Month, Pride, National Hispanic Heritage Month, National American Indian Heritage Month and National Disability Employment Awareness Month. 
The  by independent journalist Ken Klippenstein and posted to X. 
Asked about the pause, DIA said in a statement to The Hill that it is working with the Defense Department “to fully implement all Executive Orders and Administration guidance in a timely manner. As we receive additional guidance, we will continue to update our internal guidance.”
Asked whether the policy applied across the Defense Department, the agency did not respond as of press time.
White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt said Tuesday that the White House still intends to celebrate Black History Month as well as “American history and the contributions that all Americans, regardless of race, religion or creed, have made to our great country.”
Trump in a Jan. 20 executive order moved to end DEI programs across the federal government, with another order signed Monday to  within the DOD and Department of Homeland Security.
But the White House has not given clear guidance as to how agencies might comply with the directives, a gap that led to a brief uproar when the Air Force temporarily removed videos on the Tuskegee Airmen and the World War II female pilots from its courses. After opposition from several GOP lawmakers, the service said it would continue to teach the history of both groups.
Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth, for his part, on Wednesday directed staff to  to promote “merit-based, color-blind policies” throughout the U.S. military and ensure no DEI programs continue to exist.
As part of that effort, race and sex will be struck from considerations for military promotions, admissions to defense academic institutions and career fields.


Load-Date: January 30, 2025


End of Document
