




thetimes.co.uk
February 9, 2025 Sunday 12:01 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 620 words
Byline: Patrick O’Donoghue
Highlight: Over $340m in US aid flowed to Irish charities in two decades. The impending shutdown could threaten a humanitarian crisis, with devastating consequences
Body


Irish foreign aid charities have warned that people will die as a result of the decision to shut down the United States Agency for International Development (USAid), which awarded more than $340 million to Irish organisations over the past two decades. 
USAid is in the crosshairs as part of President Trump’s sweeping cuts to America’s federal government spending, designed to dramatically reduce taxpayers’ money spent on foreign aid and diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) initiatives internationally. 
A Sunday Times analysis found 79 

 grants were made to Irish non-governmental agencies between 2007 and 2025.
The Irish Association of Non-Governmental Development Associations warned that the agency’s suspension represents an “existential crisis” for the foreign aid sector. 
Trump has compounded the shutdown by instituting a 90-day freeze on all US foreign aid.
Jane-Ann McKenna, chief executive of Dochas, an umbrella organisation whose members include Ireland’s most prominent foreign aid charities, said the suspension of USAid and the foreign aid freeze would destabilise the “critical architecture” of global humanitarian aid operations.
She said many people in developing countries will die as a result of the cutbacks. 
McKenna said Dochas’s 56 member organisations were already devising strategies to sustain operations reliant on funding from the US. 
“If you start defunding that infrastructure, the risk is that it is collapsing the whole system.
“If there is anything that might be protected within these cuts, it is probably that lifesaving humanitarian assistance but the reality is that in order to be able to deliver that lifesaving assistance, you need a structure around that that can provide all the necessary supports,” McKenna said.
The International Fund for Ireland (IFI) is one of the biggest Irish recipients of funding from the agency. A grant for $88 million was awarded for efforts to promote peace and reconciliation in Northern Ireland in 2007, and disbursed by the IFI up until late 2021. 
The IFI said it had benefited from a range of international donors since its establishment in 1968, as well as from longstanding support from the US government. 
“The function and priority of the IFI has been to develop and fund initiatives that tackle segregation and promote integration to build a lasting peace in Northern Ireland and the southern border counties. 
“All funding has been distributed to a range of projects in Northern Ireland and the southern border counties as planned,” a spokeswoman said. 
It added that funding from international donors remainsed critical to its work, “particularly for those who feel they have yet to experience real benefits from the Good Friday agreement”.
McKenna added: “All of our members will be affected by this. There is not one that will be untouched.”
Last February, Irish Aid, a government programme tackling poverty in more than 130 countries, partnered with USAid in a joint effort to address food security in Zambia.
A spokeswoman for the Department of Foreign Affairs said that Irish Aid and USAid had also collaborated on a programme to improve food security and nutrition in rural areas of Malawi affected by climate change. “Ireland remains committed to this work and is in discussions with a range of partners, including the government of Malawi, to ensure that it will continue,” she said. 
Neale Richmond, the junior minister for international development, said the government was “absolutely committed” to working with a range of partners in both Malawi and Zambia.
The aim is to ensure that food security and nutrition — and the empowerment of women and girls — remain priorities for Ireland’s bilateral aid programmes in both countries. 

Load-Date: February 8, 2025


End of Document
