




 
FT.com
January 24, 2025 Friday


Copyright 2025 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.


Length: 1578 words
Byline: Edward Luce
Body


Peter Thiel recently wrote a highly noticed piece in the FT. I took particular interest because he is the most prolific tech philosopher of the new Silicon Valley right — and the guy who effectively created JD Vance. Thiel is a longtime mentor to the new vice-president and even employed him for several years. Elon Musk, Marc Andreessen, and others, are recent arrivals to the conservative cause (however we now define that). Thiel has been at it since he was a Stanford undergraduate in the late 1980s. As long ago as 1995 he authored a book, The Diversity Myth. The quality of Thiel’s thinking in his latest FT op-ed did not impress me. But it was revealing.
From the  downwards, his goal was to ruffle feathers, not to convert. As I have underlined before, the German-born Thiel spent a chunk of his childhood in Namibia, which was formerly called South West Africa under apartheid South Africa’s colonial rule.
His father was a senior engineer at a uranium mine in the coastal town of Swakopmund which was supplying Pretoria’s clandestine nuclear weapons programme. The management was white; the labour force was black. According to Thiel’s biographer, Max Chafkin, the workers . They were reportedly unaware of the radiation risk from the uranium they were mining in highly unsafe conditions. Their wages were handed to them from behind a glass screen so that the white clerical staff could avoid contamination.
To say the least, it takes gumption for Thiel to link his thesis on the death of liberal democracy’s “ancien regime” to post-apartheid South Africa’s truth and reconciliation commission. I suspect he thought he was being ironic. Thiel, along with South Africa-raised Elon Musk and David Sacks, Donald Trump’s incoming  is a product of the world’s last legalised system of racial segregation. Far from distancing themselves from that portion of their biographies, they seem to be embracing it. To wit, if I see Musk’s mother on TV one more time, I might lose my will to live. Perhaps in another note I will delve into Musk’s own family biography (his maternal grandparents moved after the war to South Africa where they supported the apartheid government). Given his priors, it was rash to say the least for Musk to give what  in DC last Monday.
But let me finish my thoughts on Thiel’s piece. It read like an essay by a stoned undergraduate. Having been there myself, I find those easy to spot. There was jargon — the insistence on spelling apocalypse by its Greek origin term, apokálypsis. There was pretension: he defined apokálypsis to mean an unveiling — in this case of the alleged censorship regime that was managed by the now defeated establishment. There was an otiose acronym, DISC, which stands for Distributed Idea Suppression Complex. In his words DISC is “the media organisations, bureaucracies, universities and government-funded NGOs that traditionally delimited public conversation”. Note the euphemism “delimited”. It is worth underlining that the FT is part of the media and did not delimit Thiel’s thoughts. I don’t think DISC will catch on. 
Then there were his conspiracy theories. It may be too late, says Thiel, to unmask who really killed John F. Kennedy. But he goes on to say that we can at least expose whether Covid-19 was unleashed through US taxpayer-funded research, if Washington had a role in getting Brazil’s Supreme Court to ban X or Australia’s recent ban of social media for under-16s (but seriously, thank you Australia) and scrutinise Britain’s jailing of hundreds of people for causing things like “annoyance, inconvenience or needless anxiety” (ditto). All of the above are DISC plots that Thiel and his cohorts will now unmask.
Lest you think this is merely funny — I can’t help but turn to the conspiracist, French academy-influenced, spliffed-up counter-protesters of the late 1960s — contemplate this sentence: “The new administration’s revelations need not justify vengeance — reconstruction can go hand in hand with reconciliation. But for reconciliation to take place, there must be truth.” Note the words “need not” and “must be”. Also “revelations” and “truth”. There are fangs beneath those petals. Tell us what you really think Mr Thiel.
I am turning to my decidedly non-conspiratorial and sane colleague Richard Waters for my question this week. Richard, you know Silicon Valley as well as anyone. Other than Thiel’s previous writings — and possibly one of those faux-clever unending essays by Dominic Cummings — have you ever read a piece quite like this? What do you make of it?
Recommended reading
My latest column looks at how the field is now . With Democrats in disarray and Trump’s first term “resistance” in sullen resignation, the only real check on Trump will be his own mistakes. I also wrote a column on Trump’s .
My colleague Robert Shrimsley wrote an excellent column on how  — this time with Prince Harry’s out-of-court settlement. “Like the Buchanans of The Great Gatsby, Murdoch’s businesses have been able to wreck lives and retreat into their money. He and his execs remain unbowed; feted and fawned upon.”  
Finally, and I’m a little late flagging this, my FT colleagues wrote a really interesting Big Read on . The speed with which companies are abandoning DEI and ESG makes me think they did not believe any of that stuff in the first place. How I wish for a world in which companies did not pretend to have values.
Do also read Erik Jones and Matthias Matthijs’s  on why the biggest threat to the European Union lies within — Trump trails in second place. An economically stagnant and militarily fragmented Europe is in desperate need of internal reform at a time of growing self-doubt and demoralisation. Thankfully two far-sighted Italians, Enrico Letta and Mario Draghi, have unveiled the blueprints for Europe’s rejuvenation. It just needs to find the political will. 
Finally my colleagues are bringing their finance and economics-themed pub quiz to Washington for the first time on Feb 6. For those familiar with the pub quiz format, this is a no-brainer. For those unfamiliar with it, I refer you to the previous sentence. It promises to be a lot of fun. FWIW, I’ll also show up. 
Richard Waters responds 
Ed, like you I was pretty gobsmacked when I read this. Thiel has always loved to provoke, but recently he’s been a lot more circumspect in public. He’s almost gleeful here, it’s like he’s let himself off the leash. That in itself is revealing — it shows the wave of self-confidence and unashamed vindictiveness (more on that later) that has carried the Trumpists back into power. I think it also shows that Thiel no longer feels like he’s the lone tech voice speaking up for Trump, as he was in 2016.
This piece immediately reminded me of what Elon Musk did at Twitter, now X. Musk had convinced himself Twitter was a central part of DISC (to use the term of the moment) and only he could bring back free speech, so he invited in journalists sympathetic to his views to comb over internal documents and reveal the company’s previous crushing of the truth. The result — grandly called “The Twitter Files” — revealed precisely nothing of note.
What Thiel is dreaming of is a lot messier. He doesn’t just want the dirty linen of the last administration turned out in public; he wants selective disclosure and “Trumpian chaos”. And he’s already decided that there are serious “sins” to be exposed (like you, I find some of the wording deeply sinister.)
Obviously, any good-faith reckoning with the Biden administration’s handling of the pandemic would not look like this. I for one would really welcome a proper public airing of what went wrong, as well as what went right (including the groundbreaking pursuit of vaccines that began under Trump). But Thiel is explicitly calling for the cherry-picking and selective leaking of classified material, which by definition means it will be out of context. 
Does anyone seriously think Trump wouldn’t use this to punish his enemies? The subtext is less like truth and reconciliation than distortion and vengeance. Does Thiel really believe this would be a valid way to move on beyond the divisions of the past, rather than to wallow in them? And if not, does he really believe we’ll fall for it?
Your feedback 
And now a word from our Swampians . . . 
In response to “:“Reading Richard Porter’s reply to you I was reminded of my childhood. His description of Trump reminded me how I perceived my dad when I was six years old. I felt my dad [was] an alpha, with an imposing size, and a demeanour that conveyed authority and infallibility. Whatever he did was perfect and I had only admiring adjectives to describe him . . . As I grew up I slowly (and painfully) realised that he was a fallible human being notwithstanding his admirable qualities. And that I had to learn to live without him. Sometimes I feel Trump has captured many of us by seducing our inner child. He is satisfying a deep desire to have someone infallible in charge that will protect us from the uncertainties and vagaries of life, and provide order and direction to the disorderly democratic process.” — Alfredo Rodriguez

Load-Date: January 24, 2025


End of Document
