




Fox News FOX NEWS @ NIGHT 11:00 PM EST
January 24, 2025 Friday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7188 words
Byline: Kevin Corke, Chad Pergram, Rich Edson, Jeff Paul
Guests: Marsha Blackburn, Alex Swoyer, Samantha-Jo Roth, Matt Whitlock, Robert Patillo, Tom Fitton, Bill Essayli, Kevin Kiley, Branden Williams, Rob Sweetman, Jessica Quezada
Body


(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Out of time. Dagen McDowell, Lou Perez, Kat Timpf, Tyrus, out studio audience.
FOX NEWS @ NIGHT is next. I'm Greg Gutfeld. I love you, America.
KEVIN CORKE, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Good evening. I'm Kevin Corke in for Trace Gallagher. 11:00 here on the East Coast, 8:00 over in Los Angeles. And this is a special edition of America's Late News, FOX NEWS @ NIGHT.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
J.D. VANCE, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Are there any senators in the chamber who wish to vote or change a vote? If not, on this vote, the yeas are 50 and the nays are 50. The Senate being equally divided, the vice president votes in the affirmative, and the nomination is confirmed.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CORKE: Breaking tonight, just moments ago, the Senate voting to confirm Pete Hegseth as the next Secretary of Defense, but not without the help of Vice President J.D. Vance, as you saw right there, cast the tie breaking vote, and it is all history on Capitol Hill.
Meantime, the president just said this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We just heard that we have a great Secretary of Defense. We're very happy about that, and we appreciate everybody's vote.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CORKE: Also, moments ago, in another big win for President Trump, the Senate voting to break the filibuster on Kristi Noem's nomination for DHS Secretary in a 61 to 39 vote, they're expected to vote late tomorrow morning to confirm the nominee.
The Senior Congressional Correspondent Chad Pergram live on the Hill with the very latest on the Hegseth vote and what is next for more Trump picks. Quite a night over on the Hill there, Chad.
CHAD PERGRAM, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Absolutely, Kevin. Well, this was high drama, and the vote to confirm Pete Hegseth as Defense Secretary was on a razor's edge. Had the GOP lost four votes, the nomination would have failed. Most Republicans supported Hegseth, but there were GOP nos.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
SEN. ROGER WICKER (R-MS): He has satisfied me that he will be a change agent in the Department of Defense, and that he's the person we need. He's the president's choice, and we owe it to this commander in chief to put him in this position.
PERGRAM (voice over): The three GOP nays, Susan Collins, Lisa Murkowski and Mitch McConnell. It's about the math, with 53 Republicans in the Senate, that's why Vance had to break the tie. McConnell indicated he did not think Hegseth was up to the job. Democrats thought the same.
SEN. JACK REED (D-RI): The American people deserve nothing less from the Secretary of Defense. The question I have is this, is Pete Hegseth truly the best we have to offer? I do not believe so, and I urge my colleagues to vote against this nominee.
PERGRAM (voice over): Democratic Senator Adam Schiff skipped a meeting with President Trump in California on the wildfires to vote no on Hegseth.
REP. ADAM SCHIFF (D-CA): We need a Secretary of Defense that can lead and inspire our troops from the most senior officers to the youngest enlisted men and women. Mr. Hegseth has belittled women in the military. He has attacked people who live their lives differently than he would prefer.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
PERGRAM (on camera): Now, Thom Tillis of North Carolina talked to Hegseth for two hours today to allay his concerns, Hegseth and McConnell will have to deal with one another a lot. McConnell leads the panel which controls the Pentagon's budget, and also, as you say, the Senate is teeing up a vote tomorrow to confirm Kristi Noem as DHS Secretary. Kevin.
CORKE: The work continues. Chad Pergram on the Hill for us tonight. Chad, thanks.
Let's discuss the latest developments on Capitol Hill with Republican senator from the great state of Tennessee, Marsha Blackburn. Great to have you with us, Senator.
I guess the obvious question is, how surprised are you that it was a 50-50 tie broken, ultimately, by the Vice President?
SEN. MARSHA BLACKBURN (R-TN): Well, being a Deputy Whip, I was not surprised. We felt like this may happen. I am so pleased that we have Vice President Vance. Pete Hegseth deserved to be confirmed. He is going to be a very effective Secretary of Defense, and I'm so pleased we've crossed that hurdle.
And as I said, we're in the middle of a vote series, and I'm going to jump back over and vote yes on cloture for Kristi Noem to be the Secretary of Homeland Security.
CORKE: You know, it's interesting. I remember with the Biden cabinet, it took until about early March to get everybody over the finish line. This seems to be dragging on a bit, at least from my liking. Is that your feeling?
BLACKBURN: Well, the Democrats are trying to obstruct. And you know, Kevin, it's like they have learned nothing at all from the November elections, and they don't realize their voters gave President Donald Trump a mandate to bring some transparency, some efficiency, to secure the border, to restore trust and the Department of Defense, to get rid of DEI, to get inflation under control.
And they would be well served to work with us to get these nominees across the finish line and to do it quickly, because that is what is good for the American people.
CORKE: The country needs to get down to business. Let me ask you one more thing about Pete before I ask you a broader question about transparency. What is the one, or maybe the top priorities that you think he should really focus on as he embarks on this incredible challenge, one that he is clearly well qualified for?
BLACKBURN: Yes, and first of all, getting rid of DEI and letting people know they can execute their mission, and if they have his support in executing that mission.
Number two, is realizing that lethality is important to a fighting force.
Number three, realizing that China is an adversary. There is an axis of evil, Russia, China, Iran, North Korea. And what we have to do is make certain that these people understand that we know they're an enemy, and our allies need to know that they can depend on us. And Pete Hegseth is going to bring that credibility to the job.
CORKE: In the last 30 seconds or so that I have left, we've noticed, I think a lot of people have certainly felt that the president is really doing lots of things that are transparent. We've heard the expression transparency here in Washington, pretty rare, in fact, that he said that JFK, RFK, MLK, files will all be open.
How impressed are you by the job he's doing with that? And what about some of these other things that Americans are concerned about, like, 9/11 files, the Epstein list?
BLACKBURN: Well, as you know, the Epstein list is something that I've worked on for a couple of years, and actually tried to subpoena those and was blocked by Chairman Durbin at that point at Judiciary Committee.
CORKE: I remember that.
BLACKBURN: The good thing about this is Donald Trump has listened to the American people, and as president of the United States, he made promises. He is keeping those promises. The American people want to know what is in those files. They want to know who has wronged this country, and to be able to see this will build their confidence in this administration. And I think President Trump has had a pitch perfect week.
CORKE: And I know that you continue to lead the fight on that. If you do get that list published, I think it will be of great interest to the country.
BLACKBURN: It will help us in human trafficking in the United States.
CORKE: Absolutely important. Marsha Blackburn, great State of Tennessee senator. Thank you, my friend. Appreciate your time tonight.
BLACKBURN: Good to see you.
CORKE: Good luck. Be careful getting back over to the Hill.
BLACKBURN: Yes, back running across the street. You're right.
CORKE: Thank you so much.
OK, so how is the Trump White House team responding to all this Friday night drama on Capitol Hill? Well, the Senior National Correspondent Rich Edson joins us tonight from Washington with more on that. I know you've been busy, my brother, I've been watching you in your office.
RICH EDSON, FOX NEWS CHANNEL SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: You know, it's been a busy night, Kevin. Just ahead of Vice President Vance's casting the tie breaking vote and from the tarmac in Los Angeles, President Trump addressed Pete Hegseth then imminent confirmation.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: We just heard that we have a great Secretary of Defense. We're very happy about that, and we appreciate everybody's vote.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
EDSON: This morning at the White House, Trump called Hegseth a good man. Said he was surprised Republican Senators Lisa Murkowski and Susan Collins would oppose him, and then previewed Senator Mitch McConnell's no vote saying McConnell is always a no. The two have had a strained relationship for years.
The president's unconventional choice to lead the Pentagon, a sprawling bureaucracy with more than $800 billion budget, was met with skepticism, even from some Republicans, due to the lack of experience managing something of that size and allegations of sexual assault and alcohol abuse, Hegseth denied that.
Trump and his allies leaned heavily on Senate Republicans and managed to get him through with the slimmest of margins, Kevin.
CORKE: Rich Edson for us tonight in D.C. Rich, thank you, brother, appreciate that.
Let's bring in tonight's political panel, Republican strategist Matt Whitlock, Democratic strategist Robert Patillo and Judicial Watch President Tom Fitton.
All right, guys, I want to play this quick bite. This is Pete Hegseth, and people are talking about whether or not he could do the job, how qualified he might be for the job. He certainly was confident. Listen to this. Get your reaction on the other side.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PETE HEGSETH, DEFENSE SECRETARY NOMINEE: We won World War II with seven four star generals. Today we have 44 four star generals. It's time to give someone with dust on his boots the helm, a change agent. And politics should play no part in military matters. We are not Republicans. We are not Democrats. We are American warriors.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CORKE: Indeed, you have to give the guy credit. He has done his time in war theaters, and he is now the new defense secretary. How surprised, if at all, are you, Matt?
MATT WHITLOCK, REPUBLICAN STRATEGIST: I'm not surprised. I think Pete really put this confirmation process on his back. When he stood up to a lot of the attacks that came against him. He refocused his entire confirmation through his meetings with senators and through his hearing on the war fighter ethos.
He said, I'm going to be a different kind of defense secretary after four years of no accountability, particularly in the fall of Afghanistan and everything that went wrong there, the fact that nobody was ever fired after the absolute tragedy that we saw unfold there. I think it really paved the way for Pete to come in and say, I will be a change agent to fix this.
And just congratulations to Pete, to Jen, to the Hegseth family. This is a really great night for them. He worked hard for this, and I actually think it's going to be a refreshing change for that institution that hasn't passed an audit in seven or eight years.
CORKE: Well, I got to tell you, he really, certainly went through it throughout the process, Robert. Just a few things, first of all, few defections. No surprise, Murkowski, Collins and McConnell. Again, that doesn't surprise most people.
I know that you predicted he'd probably get over the finish line, 50-50, and indeed, that's exactly what happened.
I do want to share this. This is Eric Trump talking about the former Senate Majority Leader, Mitch McConnell. Very interesting. And succinctly, he said this online, the worst. What say you?
ROBERT PATILLO, DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST: I think we have to get a -- get out of this place of having hegemony with the parties. We have to get back to a place of bipartisanism. We are pushing each other further and further to the extreme where it's just a blunt force trauma, head versus head, power versus power, instead of saying, well, maybe we should have nominees for both parties that can get two or three, four or five senators on each side, and they would come to a middle ground agreement.
I think, be more than we put Americans that log our heads against each other and simply say whoever can win the armless wrestling match. That's why we get government by continuing resolution as opposed to actually passing real budgets and getting big things done.
CORKE: You know, Robert makes a good point, Tom, and I think Matt mentioned it too. Listen, if you're not passing your audit, something's going on over there.
But I do think it begins with having the proper leadership. A lot of people at the Pentagon feel very strongly that Pete Hegseth is the right man for the job right now.
TOM FITTON, PRESIDENT, JUDICIAL WATCH: I mean, he was a combat guy three minutes ago, practically speaking, I know it's been a few years, but it's very unusual.
You know, I'm happy for his family as well. I'm happier, I would say, for the troops who are in a desperate need of morale boost after four years of woke abuse by the Biden generals and Lloyd Austin. It's been a disaster for recruiting. In our military academies, they're being force fed this woke racism, this anti-Americanism that's designed to alienate our troops from the America that they're supposed to be defending.
So, his presence alone, he may not even have to do anything other than be there and stop DEI.
Now, there are significant defense challenges, but he's thought long and hard about these issues as much as any of the so called senior gray beards here in town that we all have placed in the Defense Department before that have really failed the American people time and time again.
CORKE: I'm going to give you another bite at that apple, and I will ask the other guys too, what should be his number one priority as he moves into this position at a particularly precarious time for this country?
FITTON: Eliminate DEI. Fire the Obama Biden generals that have ruined our military in large measure, and obviously get a feel for where we are in terms of defense capabilities, and make sure that the money that's being spent is being spent well, and be -- that we're able to protect America when push comes to shove.
CORKE: Robert, number one priority, maybe the top two.
PATILLO: I really thought that we would get some more policy out of this. Are we going to a Bush doctrine, a global doctrine? I would like to know what his doctrine is. We have Russia, which, if they are able to take the southern part of Ukraine and moving into Odessa, they will be moving directly toward trans-history in Moldova, which is a Russian exclave. What is your plan to prevent that from happening when you're dealing with the Straits of Malacca and we have the Chinese trying to build a new network to bring in fossil fuels to power their economy? How do we keep those strategic alliances in that region?
The Philippines and Taiwan prepare for the naval expansion of China in the South China Sea, what is exactly are you going to do to build up U.S. armed forces in our naval presence? Because it takes us 10 years to go to aircraft carrier. Takes China 18 months. I would like to hear about that more so than getting rid of DEI. I would like to know, what are you actually going to do?
CORKE: Might be a pretty good interrogator on Capitol Hill were you over -- and I had a chance to do that. Matt, your first priority, and maybe the first top two?
WHITLOCK: I would say, restore strength. I think that comes both in terms of capabilities, as Senator Blackburn talked about earlier, we face a genuine axis of evil, with China, with Russia, with Iran, brewing tumult in the Middle East.
I think that that part of restoring is very important, but also the morale piece with DEI, that's something that came up quite a bit in Pete's confirmation hearing with the -- I believe it was Senator Gillibrand talking about Pete's attack on women in the military, and he reframed it to say, I don't have an issue with women serving in the military, I have an issue with the standards that were lowered, and that lowering of standards actually hurt morale for so many of our units, because the standards are lower, unit cohesion is lower.
And so, I do think that that DEI and qualification, that merit factor, will help restore a lot of the morale for our soldiers. So that double, sort of two track rebuilding process, I think will be really important.
CORKE: Yes, I think it's going to be it's going to be big too. And I think recruiting is something that we've all talked about individually. I think it has to be a major priority for not just the defense secretary, but broadly for the armed forces.
And I think the leap toward more technology, the world is changing like that, and it can't be, let's go back to the old days of the old Pentagon. This has to be a brand new Pentagon, and a brand new way to lead it.
Gentlemen, great to have you with us as always. Appreciate that. There, Matt, Robert and Tom.
Breaking news coverage of the late night vote to confirm Pete Hegseth as the new Defense Secretary continues here on FOX NEWS @ NIGHT, which of course, begs the question, so just how is the mainstream media responding to all this? We'll break it down in our media spotlight that's coming your way next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CORKE: Welcome back, everybody. 21 minutes after the hour now. I'm Kevin Corke in for Trace Gallagher here on FOX NEWS @ NIGHT.
This late Friday night, lot of congressional action just over my shoulder. And no doubt about it, it's given the legacy media a lot of time to weigh in on the vote to confirm Pete Hegseth as the new defense secretary.
Christina Coleman with that side of the story for us tonight from the Southland. Good to see you, my friend. Glad to hear that things are OK with the family.
CHRISTINA COLEMAN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: That's right. Thank you so much, Kevin. Thanks for checking on me. Yes, living out here with these California wildfires, what are you going to say?
All right. Well, these media pundits on the left, some of them, they continue to criticize the army combat veteran over unproven accusations. You know, they continue to just go on and on about Pete Hegseth making these accusations that he denies. But you got these folks on the left who won't let it go.
Katy Tur on MSNBC said, "Is Pete Hegseth the only person that Donald Trump can appoint to this role? Is there anybody else in his orbit that would be qualified and that maybe doesn't have this sort of potential baggage?"
So, she is just one example of people in the press who continue to rail on Hegseth, despite all of his qualifications, despite the fact that he has bravely served our country, and Hegseth himself, as we all know, has pushed back on the media's criticism, you know, during this whole process.
In a December op-ed published by The Wall Street Journal, Hegseth said, "The press is peddling anonymous story after anonymous story, all meant to smear me and tear me down. It's a textbook manufactured media take down. They provide no evidence, no names, and they ignore the legions of people who speak on my behalf. They need to create a boogeyman because they believe I threatened their institutional insanity, that is the only thing they are right about."
And President Trump, as we all know, has continued to support him. You know, when Trump announced that he was nominating Hegseth to head the Department of Defense, Trump noted his brave service to our country, saying, "He is an Army combat veteran who did tours in Guantanamo Bay, Iraq and Afghanistan. For his actions on the battlefield, he was decorated with two bronze stars, as well as a combat infantry men's badge."
Now, Trump also said Hegseth to be a courageous and patriotic champion of his administration's peace through strength policy.
So, a lot of people speaking highly of him. And you know, Hegseth got what he wanted, Kevin.
CORKE: He did, 50-50, but the tie breaking vote goes to the vice president. Christina Coleman for us in Los Angeles. Thank you as always, my friend, we appreciate that.
Let's bring in Washington Times Legal Affairs reporter attorney Alex Swoyer and Washington Examiner congressional reporter Samantha-Jo Roth.
I want to get you both to weigh in on the sound I'm going to share. This is Chris Hayes a weekend -- he does weekday hosting over at MSNBC. Very talented guy. Listen to what he says about Pete Hegseth, and then I'm going to show you what Salena Zito said about how people like Chris report the news.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
CHRIS HAYES, NBC NEWS HOST: A perfectly good weekend morning host. And trust me, no, knock against cable news. But I know a thing or two about that, and that experience does not remotely qualify him for this absolutely vital job. Honestly, I'm trying to be level here. We are trying to not be in a mode of hysteria about everything.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CORKE: And then I want to share this from Salena Zito, not just necessarily responding to Chris Hayes, but what she says here is instructive. She says, People often ask me why there has been a shift, both politically and culturally in our country toward the right of center. Well, omissions and reporting is one example of the nuanced reasons why.
Chris is a smart guy, Alex, he knows that Pete Hegseth wasn't just -- he's not Kevin Corke, some run of the mill weekend T.V. host. This guy has been -- he's a veteran, a decorated veteran. He's not running for pastor in chief. He's running for defense secretary. What say you?
ATTY. ALEX SWOYER, WASHINGTON TIMES LEGAL AFFAIRS REPORTER: Yes, there's definitely a shaping of the reporting leading up to the vote, and I expect even after the vote. The New York Times is one I'll point to, they ran the latest accusations that came forward against Hegseth over the alleged abuse of the ex- wife and the drinking. Talked about how his lawyer denied those accusations, but didn't note that the ex-wife, the victim denied it, right?
So, that was at some a point that Pete Hegseth made in his letter, in his exchange with Senator Tillis, was that she actually came forward, and I think it was NBC that she had said this is not true.
And of course, that's not something you see covered in the media, the legacy media. We also saw the New York Times talk about the overall confirmation votes for secretary of defenses in the past decades, and that this is going to be the lowest, the slimmest margin.
I'm a lawyer. Nobody ever asks me, what you make on the bar. They just asked, did you pass the bar. So, I think that's really what matters.
CORKE: Yes, that's a very good point. Let me play devil's advocate here for just a second, Samantha-Jo, there are others who would say, listen, first of all, the secretary's behavior prior to his nomination, in many cases and certainly among many Americans was reprehensible, indefensible. He has apologized for some of the behaviors. And there have those in the -- even the Pentagon, who have suggested that if you can't handle business, you ought not be the guy leading the way.
And yet, as you heard the president say there in Christina's report, clearly this is a man who has done a lot in his career to demonstrate a willingness and an ability to lead men and women into combat and to also lead a great and grand group of Americans who are trying to defend our country.
SAMANTHA-JO ROTH, CONGRESSIONAL REPORTER, WASHINGTON EXAMINER: Well, I think what it really all came down to was these senators. They were convinced in that confirmation hearing. And when you watch that hearing, he was calm, he was cool, he was collected. He let them speak for themselves. He, you know, did not get frazzled by any of that questioning.
And I think, you know, a lot of those Republicans who maybe were on the fence and ultimately decided to back him, looked at that and saw, OK, this is somebody that can actually handle, you know, maybe the pressure of this job, that he didn't have any slip ups, and he let Democrats, kind of, you know, speak for themselves.
And when we watched that hearing, a lot of what we saw was some, you know, ineffective questioning from Democrats, unfortunately for, you know, that side. And what we saw -- I mean, I think the most effective of what we saw was Senator Tammy Duckworth, you know, asking him questions about, actually the job, asking him to name, you know, treaties and securities and, you know, more of that would have maybe been a little bit better to get on that point about the qualifications, but they really just focused mostly on, you know, the personal background, which was not a winning message.
CORKE: 15 seconds each before we go. Let me just ask you, broadly speaking, is this a blueprint for what we'll likely see with Tulsi Gabbard and others?
SWOYER: You just took the thought out of my -- what I was going to say is, we talked about media. The story should be that this is Trump's party. He has cemented the base, and I think that this is, just like you said a blueprint that we're going to see the other nominees most I expect they get confirmed.
I don't think that the other ones have as many personal issues that we saw came to be during the confirmation hearing with Hegseth. So, I expect that Trump will get his cabinet.
CORKE: 15 seconds.
ROTH: I have a little bit of a different perspective. I actually think Tulsi Gabbard may potentially be in trouble, and that's from people I'm hearing on the Hill. I think there are a lot of issues surrounding, you know, her background, not necessarily any personal issues, but with the job.
And so, yes, maybe this time it was only three Republican senators. But how many is it going to be? You know, when her nomination comes up, and I think it's really going to make or break her performance next week on that confirmation hearing.
CORKE: (INAUDIBLE) for RFK Jr., he's got to perform because, as he does in front of the world, may make a big difference on who votes in which direction.
Ladies, thank you so much. Appreciate your time tonight.
Our breaking news coverage of the Hegseth confirmation on Capitol Hill tonight continues here on FOX NEWS @ NIGHT.
Plus, President Trump in Los Angeles surveying the damage from the deadly wildfires. We've got an update coming up for you next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Welcome back, everybody. We continue our coverage here on FOX NEWS @ NIGHT, 34 minutes after the hour now.
President Trump, taking his first trip outside of Washington today, his first since returning to the Oval Office. First, to hurricane victims in the great state of North Carolina, then to California to survey the areas devastated by the recent wildfires.
Correspondent Jeff Paul, live on the ground in L.A. tonight with that story for us. Hey, Jeff.
JEFF PAUL, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Yes. Good evening, Kevin.
Well, President Trump spent a few hours right here on the ground in the Pacific Palisades, where he spent a lot of time viewing the damage from those devastating wildfires up close and personal.
He talked with some folks who had lost their homes, and after walking away, he said most of the damage he saw was just not even believable.
Now, President Trump started his day here in SoCal at LAX where he was greeted by Governor Gavin Newsom. The two shook hands, had a bit of an embrace, and both thanked each other for their work and for just being there.
The president then boarded Marine One where he got on a helicopter, obviously, for an aerial tour of some of the neighborhoods that were literally leveled in those wildfires.
Once back on the ground, Trump spent time not only speaking with impacted homeowners, but he met with firefighters who have been right there on the front lines of the fires. He took some photos, and then he told fire crews he would not let them down.
Prior to his visit, Trump was very critical of the state for both its response and for its management of water resources. He had said, California didn't let the water flow, and has even threatened to withhold federal disaster relief.
But during a round table discussion at a nearby firehouse surrounded by many California Democrats, he struck pretty much a different tone.
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I'm going to give you everything you want. I'm going to give you more than any president would have ever given you, if most presidents wouldn't be here, number one. They certainly wouldn't be here after three days. They would not be here. I can tell you that.
And we are going to override all of permitting.
PAUL (voice over): Now, the president also signing an executive order today that could fundamentally change or get rid of entirely FEMA.
Trump has criticized FEMA's response to the recent natural disasters, both in North Carolina now here in California. He told the round table today, FEMA is incompetitively (PH) run, adding that we can spend money on school instead of federal bureaucracy.
Ow, by all means, this was a very cordial visit, and President Trump even said that there can be no Golden Age without the Golden State, pledging to come back as much as needed. The president now off in Nevada, where he is going to be holding a rally out in Las Vegas tomorrow. Kevin.
CORKE: Jeff Paul for us in L.A. And great job throughout our coverage, Jeff. Thank you so much. Be safe, my friend. We'll talk to you again real soon.
We want to bring in two individuals who were at that round table today, California Assemblyman Bill Essayli and Republican congressman from the great state of California Representative Kevin Kiley, as well as the Beverly Hills Estates owner Branden Williams, who is as tough as a $2 stake.
Gentlemen, thank you all for spending time with us tonight.
First to you, Bill and Kevin. I'll begin with you, Bill. I just want to get your take on the round table. Tell me how that went and why that was so important, not just for the leadership of the great state of California, but important for the citizens, the residents who have been through so much.
BILL ESSAYLI, ASSEMBLYMAN, CALIFORNIA STATE: I think it was critical to have the president of the United States, who is three, four days into his term, and one of the first things he does is to come tour the area and meet with the victims.
It sent a message of leadership and commitment to them. And it was incredible having that in the -- in the room. He was advocating for those homeowners for expedited permitting and to get resource to them. He was demanding action from the local government. It was great to have him.
CORKE: Kevin, did you get a question in? I got to see part of it. Did you get a question into the president? And if so, what did you want to ask about?
REP. KEVIN KILEY (R-CA): Yes, I did. And actually, you know, I quoted his own inaugural address where he said, we need a revolution in common sense. And I said, look, we need our -- no place that we need more common sense than in California. That statement is more true here than anywhere else.
But I actually spoke with him about the California Coastal Commission, which is one of the worst agencies in the United States, which is dramatically abused its powers, and it's going to be very difficult to rebuild in L.A. without it.
And then, we just discussed the absolutely insane water and fire policies that we have here in California, where we saw with this tragedy in L.A., you have fire hydrants, they don't have water coming out of them. You have reservoirs that are sitting there empty. We have forest management projects that get killed by radical, supposedly, environmental policies, and then, when you have a wire fire, absolutely destroys the environment.
So, I think that the president is very focused on bringing some much-needed common sense to California, which will stop tragedies like this from happening again and again in the future.
CORKE: Yes, I'm going to get your thoughts on the water management issue, again, in just a second. But first, over to you, Branden. Tell me what your impression was in having the president in your state.
BRANDEN WILLIAMS, OWNER AND FOUNDER, THE BEVERLY HILLS ESTATES: Well, I think it really shows that he really cares about California. And he knows that California is one of our most important states, and he knows that it's time to save California, and that's really, truly what it is.
And he knows it's been a failed state with a water project that was $7.5 billion never ever, nothing's done. A rail project, $23 billion, nothing done. Stolen. 20 PPP money, nothing done. We have nothing to show for except corruption. And I think it's time that he comes here and shows him that there is a new sheriff in town and he's going to clean it up.
And I think it's a great -- I think it's -- I think it gives us a lot of hope as Californians.
CORKE: I'm so glad you talked about those numbers. Listen, Bill, I want to get your reaction to what Branden just mentioned. I guess it was 10 years ago, we're talking about $7-1/2 billion to make sure that situations like this are mitigated.
To quote some congressional lawmakers over on the Hill, what the hell happened to the money? And why hasn't anything happened?
ESSAYLI: Well, the main reason nothing's happened is because they won't issue the permits. They're so bogged down with environmental regulations, and these environmentalists who just oppose any progress.
So, it's the environmental regulations that are strangling us. And like Kevin said, our environment is worst off as a result. The carbon being emitted and the pollution and the devastation from these fires is unbelievable. We have to change the way we do business in California.
(CROSSTALK)
CORKE: Kevin, I saw pictures myself of water sort of flowing right into the ocean. And there is been push back on this notion that some of that water could have been utilized to help the Southland. And I may not know as much as some, but I do know this, if you're diverting millions of gallons out into the ocean, I think that water could have been useful. Am I overthinking it?
KILEY: You're not overthinking it. It's just common sense.
CORKE: Yes.
KILEY: We have more than enough water that comes to us by the grace of God.
I'll tell you very quick story, you know. California was under this so- called drought emergency, where they tell people you can't water your lawns.
(CROSSTALK)
CORKE: Yes.
KILEY: You have to take a five-minute shower. You have a low flow shower head you required to use. Then, we get all this rain that comes down early 2023, I went and visited Folsom Dam, which is in my district. You had 10,000 cubic feet of water cascading out of the dam every second, going straight to the ocean, causing a flood emergency, but we're still under a drought emergency.
So, the problem is not the amount of water that comes to us. The problem is the way that it's managed and the lack of adequate storage, and the absolutely crazy policies that cause us to waste a good deal of it. That has huge consequences for our state and leaving us, you know, unable to combat wildfires and to have the response that we need is certainly very high on that list.
CORKE: Yes. And to say nothing of the forest management and the people of the state, yes, as I -- you guys know this, I lived in California, I lived in the Southland, in particular, and it's outrageous that the people there deserve so much better from their leadership, they are not getting the services they deserve and they paid for with their taxes.
Branden, wrap us up here. Your thoughts on what happens now? Where do we go from here?
WILLIAMS: Well, I think there is an agenda behind California, and it's to create scarcity. That's the new model, with this failed state corruption, and then they gouge us with Water and Electric prices. I just got a water bill for $4,000, because they are dumping our water into the ocean.
All the California farmers, if you drive up to Central California, they say, Gavin Newsom, you're dumping our water into the ocean. This is a failed state. We need to recall Gavin Newsom.
CORKE: Right.
WILLIAMS: Trump is here, and Trump came here for a reason. It's because he knows what's happening, the corruption. And he knows that it's time that we take it back. And if we go to voting California, and we recall Newsom, and we recall Karen Bass, we could bring the state back to red. And that's truly what it is.
And I think him holding back --
(CROSSTALK)
CORKE: Right.
WILLIAMS: Holding back the money for, you know, to give it to us, and changing voter I.D. --
CORKE: Yes.
WILLIAMS: I think that's a huge -- that's a huge win for us, if he does that.
CORKE: Got to leave it there. Branden, Bill, and Kevin. Gents, thanks so much. We appreciate you spending time with us here on FOX NEWS @ NIGHT.
Breaking news coverage on Capitol Hill tonight on the Pete Hegseth confirmation to become defense secretary. Our senior congressional correspondent Chad Pergram, hardest working man in television, standing by with a live update coming right up.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CORKE: Welcome back everybody. 49 minutes after the hour now. Back to tonight's top story.
The Senate working late this Friday night to watch the confirmation of Pete Hegseth as the new defense secretary. Our senior congressional correspondent, Chad Pergram, live on the Hill with the latest.
Chad, morning, noon, and night you've been there. Finally, we have a payoff.
CHAD PERGRAM, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: That's right. Well, they confirm Pete Hegseth. The vote was 51 to 50. Vice President J.D. Vance came to the Capitol to confirm the nomination. This is only the second time that we've had a vice president to cast the deciding vote on a Cabinet secretary. That was Betsy DeVos, Mike Pence back in 2017.
The three noes came from Susan Collins of Maine. This is three noes on the Republican side of the aisle, Lisa Murkowski and Mitch McConnell.
Now, we are not done with weekend action just yet. They are going to be back in action tomorrow. The Senate is at 9:30 in the morning, and there is going to be a vote to confirm Kristi Noem as the secretary of Homeland Security. That will happen at 11:30. We expect her to get bipartisan support.
And then, they are probably going to punt until early next week. Next in the queue is the nomination of Scott Bessent for treasury secretary, and Sean Duffy to be the secretary of transportation.
And then, next week, we get into hearings for other nominees, some of the more controversial nominees, much like Pete Hegseth. Two hearings for RFK Jr. to be the Health and Human Services Secretary. He goes before the Senate Finance Committee and the Senate Health Committee.
Also, I noted that Mitch McConnell voted no on the Hegseth nomination. He has already expressed some skepticism about RFK Junior's positions on vaccines, and in particular, as it pertains to polio, because Mitch McConnell suffered from polio as a child.
And then, we have hearings later in the week for Tulsi Gabbard on January 30th to be the Director of National Intelligence, and also for Kash Patel to be the FBI director.
So, in committee next week, a lot of action, and then probably several confirmations on the floor as well. Kevin?
CORKE: Fun is just getting started. Chad Pergram for us on the Hill. Chad, thank you so much for spending time with us tonight. Another late night for my friend.
Let's get some military member's perspective on the Hegseth confirmation from retired Navy SEAL and 62 Romeo founder, Rob Sweetman, along with retired Marine Jessica Quesada.
Great to have you both with us. And I think I speak for all Americans when I say we want the very best for our women and men in uniform. Rob, is this a win?
ROB SWEETMAN, RETIRED NAVY SEAL: This is an absolute win. God bless America. We prayed for this. Secretary Hegseth, first, put God into his speech, and he was hit with all different types of slander, nothing substantive, but he defended those gracefully.
And we couldn't be more proud. We brought a hundred SEALs to D.C. to support him, we packed the Senate House, and it paid off.
CORKE: Yes. Rob was actually in the hearing.
Jessica, I know you took part in a march. Why was this so important to you?
JESSICA QUEZADA, RETIRED MARINE CORPS: I believe that there is entire female front, a population of women who believe in what Pete Hegseth is supporting, in terms of advocating for merit-based decisions within the United States military. And I believe in representing that small, unspoken population that is being put aside based on groundless claims and allegations that is trying to deteriorate Pete Hegseth's character, and it's honestly just something that we want to support and be a representation of for the population that speaks to some of the detrimental words that people have kind of misconstrued. So, ultimately, I want to be a woman that speaks on behalf of that.
CORKE: Rob, let me get you to weigh in on that. I heard -- I saw you nodding in agreement there with what Jessica was just saying.
SWEETMAN: I couldn't agree more. You know, we need our women in the military. They serve a very good purpose, and oftentimes a better purpose than some men, but we have to have a merit-based system. We can't put people in place or change the regulations or change the standards because we want to force someone into that position.
(CROSSTALK)
CORKE: Right.
Jessica, wrap us up. What's the number one thing you want the new defense secretary to focus on?
QUEZADA: Believing in changing what has occurred within the past few years is really important. I want to see the leadership take accountability with withdrawal from Afghanistan and start to hold people in place for the actions that they are taking that deteriorized (PH) our U.S. military.
(CROSSTALK)
CORKE: Rob?
QUEZADA: That, that leadership is going to be held accounted for.
CORKE: Rob, your number one priority for the new defense secretary.
SWEETMAN: Let's bring lethality back to our military. Thank you.
CORKE: That is so important. Listen, there are a number of veterans who watch this show tonight, and they will say, I agree wholeheartedly. If they can be active and involved, I think they watch the two of you, and they say to themselves, I would like to do something like that.
10 seconds each, beginning with you, Jessica. Was it difficult to take part in the march and get involved like that?
QUEZADA: Absolutely not. When you see the types of individuals that are backing Pete Hegseth, it's a no brainer. These high caliber individuals come from a sincere place of fortitude and service. They come from a place of experience that knows and demands Pete Hegseth is going to perform. You can't argue with that. So, without a doubt, it was an easy decision.
CORKE: Well, obviously, Rob, you had a lot of good folks on the Hill. Jessica out there with the march. Thank you both so much for spending time with us here tonight on FOX NEWS @ NIGHT, we certainly appreciate that.
And, of course, it's a 5050, vote on Capitol Hill. The tie broken by the Vice President J.D. Vance. Pete Hegseth, the new defense secretary.
We thank you for watching America's late news FOX NEWS @ NIGHT. I'm Kevin Corke, in for my buddy, Trace Gallagher. We will see you again next time.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

Load-Date: January 25, 2025


End of Document
