




Newsweek.com
January 26, 2025 Sunday 2:27 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 420 words
Byline: Peter Aitken
Highlight: Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth issued a warning to employees of the Department of Defense on Sunday, just days after he was sworn in to his new office.
Body


Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth issued a warning to employees of the Defense Department who do not comply with President 's anti-Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) policies.
Newsweek reached out to the  by email on Sunday afternoon for comment.
Why It Matters
The Office for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (ODEI) was established as the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Equal Opportunity in 1994. The "diversity management and equal opportunity policies and programs" that affect active, reserve, and civilian DOD employees.
Trump and MAGA  have criticized the DoD's efforts to support diversity and inclusion among its personnel and staff.
Trump  on his first day back in office, signing an executive order called "Ending Radical and Wasteful Government DEI Programs and Preferencing." His administration then laid out the steps to inform federal employees in Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Accessibility (DEIA) offices of the upcoming changes.
What To Know
Hegseth, who was  after squeaking by his confirmation through a tie-break vote, issued the statement on X, formerly , on Sunday afternoon.
The message, which was accompanied by a picture of a handwritten note on paper with Secretary of Defense letterhead, said: The President's guidance (lawful orders) is clear: No more DEI at [Department of Defense]. The Pentagon will comply, immediately. No exceptions, name-changes, or delays."
The handwritten note said: "DoD =/= DEI*", followed by "*no exceptions, name changes or delays. Those who do not comply will no longer work here." The note is signed "SecDef 29."
Within the first hour of posting, the post had over 700,000 views, 30,000 likes, 5,700 shares and 2000 comments.
What People Are Saying
Paul A. Szypula, an X user who posts in support of Trump, wrote on X: "Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth makes it clear: DoD ≠ DEI. The Pentagon is restoring sanity to the US Military."
Vice President JD Vance during an interview with  moderator Margaret Brennan said of Hegseth: "Pete is a disrupter and a lot of people don't like that disruption — but, Margaret, that disruption is incredibly necessary."
What Happens Next
The Pentagon will implement this policy as part of the wider Trump administration crackdown on DEI policies and departments across the federal government.
Update, 1/26/25 at 2:40 p.m. ET: This story has been updated with reactions and additional information. 


Graphic

 
Pete Hegseth Defense Secretary Washington
Roberto Schmidt/AFP via Getty Images
Pete Hegseth smiles as he walks in with US Vice President JD Vance for his swearing in as the new Secretary of Defense at the Eisenhower Executive Office Building at the White House in Washington, DC, on January 25, 2025.

Load-Date: January 26, 2025


End of Document
