




MailOnline
February 23, 2025 Sunday 7:51 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 687 words
Byline: Noa Halff For Dailymail.Com
Body


READ MORE: Pete Hegseth orders DOGE-inspired $50 billion in Pentagon cuts
                     Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth allegedly fired his top female military staffer as the industry gets the DOGE treatment - with more dismissals possibly coming soon. 
Hegseth, Donald Trump's new Defense Secretary, ousted Air Force Lt. Gen. Jennifer Short, his senior military assistant, as part of a sweeping shake-up at the Pentagon, NBC News reported.
Short's removal was not disclosed on Friday alongside other high-profile dismissals, but three officials familiar with the situation confirmed her departure to NBC News.
In her role, she was a key advisor to the defense secretary, managing relations with other government agencies.
Her firing was first reported by NBC News, but the Pentagon has disclosed any information.
The news has reportedly been circulating on an informal list making its rounds on Capitol Hill, Newsweek reported. 
Hegseth called her a 'DEI hire,' short for diversity, equity and inclusion in a book published last year. 
Rumors are circulating that Lieutenant General Christopher C. LaNeve, Commanding General of the Eighth Army, would be considered for the position at the DoD.
Trump also fired chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff CQ Brown, a part of his plan to rid the military of so-called 'woke generals.'
Brown, a retired Air Force general appointed by Joe Biden, was sacked Friday night as part of a campaign to rid the military of leaders who support diversity and equity in the ranks.
Shortly after, Hegseth announced Admiral Lisa Franchetti and General James Silfe, as the head of the Navy and vice chief of staff for the Air Force, respectively. 
This comes as Hegseth orders DOGE-inspired $50 billion in Pentagon cuts.
Hegseth has ordered his agency to work up a plan by Monday to slash eight percent from the budget in each of the next five years - or $50 billion.
The cuts are styled after the actions of the Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE), which has been reviewing a slew of federal government spending under the leadership of Elon Musk .
The billionaire Tesla and SpaceX boss has already completely dismantled USAID and has put FEMA under notice that they could be the next aid agency to go. He also has cut billions in spending on programs that do not align with President Donald Trump 's priorities to crack down on illegal immigration and diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) programs.
The new Pentagon memo outlines a way forward to bring the DoD into compliance with Trump's executive orders after DOGE staffers were on site earlier this week collecting a list of those employees in their probationary periods.
DOGE is overseeing the Trump administration's order to fire thousands of the Pentagon's probation workers, which it started to carry out earlier this week.
The new cuts are entirely separate from the firings.
The target will be to scale back military programs created under President Joe Biden's administration that focused on climate change and energy policies among other 'woke' programs, Pentagon spokesman Robert Salesses said in a statement.
Other areas considered to be unnecessary spending will be cut, like DEI military practices and policies.
But Trump's plans for a so-called 'Iron Dome for America' would still forge forward as he seeks to create a missile defense system. Some of the money that is saved from cuts to other areas could be used towards replicating Israel's Iron Dome on a larger scale for the U.S.
Hegseth has stressed the importance of the U.S. reviving 'the warrior ethos' to the military.
'The time for preparation is over,' Hegseth wrote in his memo to the Defense Department. 'We must act urgently to revive the warrior ethos, rebuild our military, and reestablish deterrence.'
The former Fox News host continued: 'Our budget will resource the fighting force we need, cease unnecessary defense spending, reject excessive bureaucracy, and drive actionable reform including progress on the audit.'
Salesses said in a statement on the review of the Pentagon budget that the audit will help 'ensure we are making the best use of the taxpayers' dollars.'

Load-Date: February 23, 2025


End of Document
