




Forbes.com
January 25, 2025 Saturday


Copyright 2025 Forbes LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 2720 words
Byline: Sara Dorn, Forbes Staff
Highlight: Donald Trump's pick for Defense Secretary, faced stiff criticism from Democrats and some Republicans requiring a tie-breaking vote from JD Vance.
Body


Topline
Pete Hegseth was sworn in as Defense Secretary on Saturday, following a tie-breaking vote by Vice President JD Vance to end a stalemate in Hegseth s confirmation hearing, during which some Republicans sided with Democrats over concerns about allegations of sexual misconduct, excessive drinking and Hegseth s controversial views on women in the military.
<figure>
<figcaption>
The vice president broke a tie-breaker to confirm Pete Hegseth as Defense Secretary.
Copyright 2025 The Associated Press. All rights reserved.
</figcaption></figure>
Timeline
Jan. 25, 10:33 a.m. ESTHegseth was officially sworn in as Defense Secretary.
Jan. 24Vice President JD Vance broke a 50-50 tie to confirm Hegseth as Defense Secretary, after Republican Sens. Mitch McConnell, Lisa Murkowski and Susan Collins sided with Democrats.
Jan. 24Reutersreported Hegseth told lawmakers in written responses to questions that he rejects  the idea that the MSAs (military service academies) should have different standards for individuals with different skin colors,  indicating he disagrees with a 2023 Supreme Court ruling determining race-conscious admissions were allowed at military academies because they have  potentially distinct interests  compared to other colleges and universities.
Jan. 23, 7:56 p.m. ESTSen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., said in apost on X, formerly known as Twitter, that Hegseth admitted to paying $50,000 to  silence a  Jane Doe  who accused him of rape  despite repeatedly saying he was  falsely accused,  which she said introduced  more questions than answers  and was reason to not  rush his vote,  which could happen as soon as Friday. A spokesperson for Warrentold The New York Timesthe answer was given in response to the senator s written questions.
Jan. 23, 3 p.m. ESTHegseth cleared the test vote in the Senate with just Murkowski and Collins joining Democrats to vote against him, indicating he has the votes he needs to be confirmed in a vote that could happen as soon as Friday unless other Republicans flip.
Jan. 23, 2 p.m. ESTMurkowski saidshe  cannot in good conscience support his nomination,  citing  significant concerns  she  cannot overlook,  pointing to what she characterized was a lack of experience, allegations of unseemly behavior while leading two veterans organizations, sexual misconduct and excessive drinking accusations and his controversial views on women in the military (Hegseth has denied most allegations against him).
Murkowksi s announcement comes after Sens. Susan Collins, R-Maine, and Thom Tillis, R-N.C., expressed concerns to NBC News that information from Hegseth s FBI background check had been withheld from senators after the network published an affidavit that was collected during the FBI check from Hegseth s former sister-in-law alleging concerning behavior toward his second wife.
Jan. 21, 2 p.m.Hegseth s former sister-in-law said he demonstrated  erratic and aggressive behavior  toward his second wife, Samantha Hegseth, that caused her to fear for her safety, according to an affidavit the sister-in-law sent to senators at the request of Sen. Jack Reed, D-R.I.,NBC News reported.
Samantha Hegseth told the outlet  I do not believe your information to be accurate,  while Hegseth s lawyer, Timothy Parlatore, also denied the allegations, accusing the sister-in-law of having an  ax to grind,  NBC reported, noting Samantha Hegseth signed a court document in the divorce stating no domestic abuse occurred.
Jan. 20, 5:45 p.m.The Senate Armed Services Committee approved Hegseth in a 14-13 vote, setting the stage for the entire Senate to vote on him,multiple news outletsreported.
Jan. 14, 7:45 p.m.Sen. Joni Ernst, R-Iowa widely seen as a key vote due to her advocacy against military sexual misconduct told an Iowa radio showshe will support Hegseth, saying he was  adequately able to answer all of my questions. 
Jan. 14, 1:45 p.m.Hegseth s confirmation hearing before the Senate Armed Services Committee concluded after approximately four hours of intense questioning from Democrats over allegations of alcohol abuse, sexual misconduct, his prior opposition to women serving in combat roles and his qualifications for the job, but no Republican senators indicated they would vote against confirming him.
Jan. 14, 11:20 a.m.Hegseth told Ernst he would appoint a senior-level military official to focus on  sexual assault prevention and response,  and said  women will have access to ground combat roles  subject to a review to ensure they re meeting standards, reiterating a watered-down stance he expressed in December, despite previously arguing women should not serve in combat roles.
Jan. 14, 10:30 a.m.Sen. Jack Reed, D-R.I., the top Democrat on the Armed Services Committee conducting the hearing, said the FBI background check into Hegseth was  insufficient  and omitted a forensic audit, adding he believes senators on both sides of the aisle should have access to the report, which Reed and committee chair, Sen. Roger Wicker, R-Miss., reviewed.
There were several tense moments during Reed and other Democrats  questioning, including related to Hegseth s management of a veterans  charity and his defense of a trio of military officials accused or convicted of war crimes, along with diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives in the military: Hegseth said  the DEI policies of today  are  dividing troops inside formations, causing commanders to walk on egg shells  and said  I m not talking about disavowing the laws of war or the Geneva Convention or the uniform code of military justice,  but  restrictive rules of engagement. 
Jan. 14, 10:20 a.m.Hegseth answering a question from Wicker derided what he said was a  coordinated smear campaign orchestrated in the media against us  and said  most of it was about President Donald Trump, who s had to endure the very same thing,  claiming the allegations about his prior behavior came from  a small handful of anonymous sources  via  left-wing media. 
Hegseth said:  I m not a perfect person, as it s been acknowledged, saved by the grace of God, by Jesus and Jenny,  referring to his wife who sat behind him during the hearing.
Jan. 14, 10:10 a.m.Hegseth in his opening statement said the  primary charge  Trump gave him was  to bring back the warrior culture to the Department of Defense  and said that  unlike the current administration, politics should play no part in military matters,  acknowledging he doesn t  have a similar biography  to previous Defense secretaries.
Jan. 14, 10:10 a.m.Security personnel escorted at least three people who interrupted Hegseth s opening statement out of the chamber.
Jan. 14, 9:45 a.m.Wicker acknowledged the controversies surrounding Hegseth in his opening statement and said Hegseth has  admitted to falling short as we all do from time to time  in his personal life, but called Hegseth  unconventional,  comparing him to President-elect Donald Trump:  that may be what makes [him] an excellent choice,  Wicker said, noting the  vast majority  of the allegations against Hegseth have come from anonymous sources.
Jan. 14, 9:30 a.m.Reed released an opening statement saying he does  not believe [Hegseth is] qualified to meet the overwhelming demands of this job,  citing  the concerning public reports  against him.
Jan. 14, 9:30 a.m.The 27-member panel made up of 14 Republicans and 13 Democrats, kicked off the hearing making him one of the first of Trump s cabinet nominees to undergo theSenate confirmation process.
Jan. 14, 7:17 a.m.Trump wished Hegseth luck in aTruth Social postahead of the hearing, writing that he  will make a GREAT Secretary of Defense  and that he has Trump s  Complete and Total support. 
Who Is Pete Hegseth and Why Is He Controversial?
Hegseth, 44, is a military veteran and former Fox News host. He served as an infantry officer in the Army National Guard, including stints in Afghanistan and Iraq, after graduating from Princeton University in 2003. He has a master s degree from Harvard University s John F. Kennedy School of Government. Hegseth also served as executive director of the nonprofits Concerned Veterans for America and Vets for Freedom. He was a political commentator on Fox News before he was hired to co-host  Fox & Friends  in 2017. He s drawn criticism due to an alleged 2017 sexual assault, accusations about his drinking habits and a litany of controversial views about the military including opposition to women serving in combat roles.
What Are The Sexual Assault Allegations Against Hegseth?
A woman said Hegseth sexually assaulted her in his hotel room after they met at an after party at the California Federation of Republican Women conference in 2017, according to apolice reportfirst released in November by Monterey, Calif., police. The woman, identified as  Jane Doe  in the report, told police she  remembered saying  no  a lot  when she was with Hegseth in his room and that Hegseth  took her phone from her hands  then  blocked the door with his body  when she tried to leave, according to the report. She reported the allegation to police several days later, but charges were never filed. The allegation which Hegseth has strongly denied firstcame to lightshortly after Trump picked him for defense secretary.
What Are The Allegations Against Hegseth Related To His Drinking?
The New YorkerreportedHegseth was forced to step down as president of Concerned Veterans for America in 2016 after numerous allegations from staff of his partying habits while on official work trips thoughhe has deniedhe was forced out. In one instance, Hegseth allegedly brought staff to a Louisiana strip club and had to be restrained from joining the dancers on stage, according to a seven-page whistleblower report obtained by the publication. On another trip in May 2015, Hegseth drunkenly yelled  Kill All Muslims  while he was out partying late at a hotel bar,The New Yorker reported, citing a letter from a fellow staffer to a superior at the organization.NBC Newsalso reported Hegseth s alleged drinking habits raised concerns among Fox News employees on more than a dozen occasions between 2017 and November, when he resigned after Trump nominated him. Two unnamed employees said they smelled alcohol on him on more than a dozen occasions before he went on air while hosting  Fox & Friends Weekend.  Fox did not formally respond to the allegations, but some of its anchors defended Hegseth, including  Fox & Friends  co-host Brian Kilmeade, whoargued in December,  he knows his stuff, he s got the vision, he fought in the wars. 
What Is Hegseth s Response To The Allegations? 
Hegseth told police he had consensual sex with the woman who accused him of sexual assault, according to the police report. His lawyer, Timothy Parlatore, claimed toThe Washington Postwitnesses said Hegseth was  visibly intoxicated  at the time and she was  the aggressor in initiating sexual activity.  Parlatore said Hegseth paid the woman a settlement in 2020 as part of a nondisclosure agreement after learning the woman told other people she was considering filing a lawsuit over the matter. Hegseth has denied he was forced out of Concerned Veterans for America, citing a letter from a trustee written to Fox News in 2016 stating Hegseth  voluntarily resigned  after  a difference of opinion as to the future of the organization and so that he could focus on other endeavors.  Hegsethretweetedthe letter, writing,  read for yourself. You ll see the truth is on our side.  Hegseth told Megyn Kelly in December he does not have a drinking problem, but acknowledged there were  tiny kernels of truth  to some of the allegations against him. He alsotold reporterslast month:  I am a different man than I was years ago that s a redemption story that I think a lot of Americans appreciate.  Hegseth told senators he would stop drinking if he is confirmed for the role, Sens. Eric Schmitt, R-Mo., and Wicker toldABC News.
What Has Hegseth Said About Women In The Military?
Hegseth has said on numerous occasions he believes only men should serve in combat roles, including in his 2024 book,  The War on Warriors,  and in an appearance on a podcast hosted by Shawn Ryan in November.  I m straight up just saying we should not have women in combat roles. It hasn t made us more effective,  Hegsethtold Ryan. Hegseth sought to  clarify  his comments in a Fox News interview in December in which he called women in the military  some of our greatest warriors.  Defending his previous comments, Hegseth said,  everything about women serving together makes the situation more complicated, and complication in combat means casualties are worse,  citing research he said shows combat effectiveness is  drastically worse  in male-female units.
What Has Hegseth Said About Nato?
HegsethcalledNATO a  relic  that  should be scrapped and remade  in one of his books, sharing Trump s longstanding skepticism of the military alliance, as the president-elect argues other members of the trans-Atlantic alliance should spend more on defense. Hegseth also questioned why  Islamist Turkey  is a member of NATO, The Guardian notes.
What Else Has Hegseth Said About The Military?
Hegseth has criticized diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives in the military, questioning in his 2024 book "The War on Warriors  whether Joint Chiefs Chairman Charles Brown, who is Black, was hired  because of his skin color? Or his skill?  and alleging,  he has made the race card one of his biggest calling cards.  Hegseth wrote,  the next president . . . needs to radically overhaul Pentagon senior leadership  and told Ryan,  any general, admiral, whatever, that was involved in any of the DEI/woke sh t has got to go.  During Trump s first term, hesuccessfully advocatedfor Trump to pardon three service members accused or convicted of war crimes, arguing on Fox News military prosecutors were  throwing warriors under the bus.  Hegseth has spoken out against what he claims are overly restrictive combat rules, writing in his book,  in some cases, our units were so boxed in by rules and regulations and political correctness, we even second-guess ourselves.  Hegseth described himself to Ryan as a  recovering neocon,  explaining he supported the Iraq War at the time, but  in retrospect, absolutely not. 
What Has Trump Said About Hegseth? 
Trumpin December saidHegseth was  doing very well  in the nomination process and has  strong and deep support,  calling him a  WINNER  and writing,  there is nothing that can be done to change that!!! 
What Have Democrats Said About Pete Hegseth?
Multiple Democratic senators expressed concerns during last week s hearing about Hegseth. At one point, Hegseth tangled with Sen. Tim Kaine, D-Va., about the 2017 sexual assault allegation: Kaine accused Hegseth of not informing transition team staff about the issue, and asked whether Hegseth believed the accusations against him would be disqualifying if true, while Hegseth repeatedly insisted he was  fully investigated and completely cleared.  Last month, a group led by Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass, wrotea letterto Trump s incoming chief of staff arguing Hegseth s  attitudes toward women, including allegations of sexual assault and harassment, disqualify him to be the next Secretary of Defense.  Sen. Richard Blumenthal, D-Conn., also sent a letter to Wicker asking for a  full review  of Hegseth s conduct while he led the veterans  nonprofits, calling the roles  the only civilian management experience of his career.  Democrats have demanded access to the FBI s background check of Hegseth commissioned by Trump s transition team. Wicker and Reed were briefed on the agency s findings Friday, The New York Timesreported, but other members were not given access, as is customary.  I need to see his F.B.I. background check, we need to see his financial disclosures,  Sen. Tammy Duckworth, D-Ill., told The Times.  And we need to know about any other potential lawsuits he might be facing, any other allegations he might be facing. 
Further Reading
Trump s Cabinet Senate Confirmation Hearings Here s What To Know As Nominees Face Scrutiny(Forbes)
Hegseth Cabinet Nomination: Trump s Pentagon Pick Will Release Accuser From NDA, Sen. Graham Says(Forbes)
New Sexual Assault Allegation Details Against Pete Hegseth Emerge: Here s What To Know As Trump Defends Defense Secretary Nominee(Forbes)

Load-Date: January 26, 2025


End of Document
