




Newsweek.com
February 1, 2025 Saturday 11:59 AM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 739 words
Byline: Peter Aitken
Highlight: A Learjet 55 crashed at around 6:30 p.m. ET in northeast Philadelphia near the Roosevelt Mall on Friday.
Body


Philadelphia Mayor Cherelle L. Parker announced on Saturday morning that both passengers and the four crew members aboard the in the city Friday night have died, along with one other person who was in a car nearby the crash site.
Why It Matters
Tensions remain high in the days following  involving  Flight 5342 and a Sikorsky H-60 Black Hawk military helicopter near Washington, D.C.'s Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport.
The plane plummeted into the Potomac River, leading to an extensive search-and-rescue operation. D.C. Fire and EMS Chief John Donnelly said authorities "don't believe there are any survivors" and that efforts underway at the scene of the crash have changed from a rescue operation to a recovery operation. There were 64 people on the American Airlines flight and three military members in the helicopter.
Recent airplane incidents and close calls nationwide have continued to raise concerns of safety protocols, and in a news conference on Thursday, President   initiatives were partly to blame for Wednesday night's crash.
What To Know
A Learjet 55 crashed at around 6:30 p.m. ET in northeast Philadelphia near the Roosevelt Mall on Friday. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) confirmed the plane was en route to Springfield-Branson National Airport in Missouri.
In a press conference following the crash, Parker said there were "no reports on the number of fatalities." However, Jet Rescue Air Ambulance later revealed that  was a girl who was returning to Mexico after "receiving treatment for life-threatening illness," and the other passenger was her mother.
At that time, Jet Rescue Air Ambulance also could not confirm any survivors of the crash, and no names were released.
However, a Saturday morning update from the Philadelphia mayor's office confirmed that all six people aboard the plane had died. The statement noted that many people on the ground "in parking lots, on streets, in cars and homes in the area" were injured, but the number of injured people "is yet to be released."
Mexican President Claudia Sheinbaum confirmed in a message posted to X, formerly , later on Saturday morning that all six people on board were Mexican, and that "consular authorities" had made contact with the families of the deceased.
At a press conference held late on Saturday morning, Parker revealed that another person, who was in their car at the time of the crash, died, while 19 people have so far been confirmed injured.
Philadelphia emergency personnel said at a late-morning press conference on Saturday that it may take days to know the full extent of injuries and damage to the site.
Officials urged anyone who finds debris, even far from the site, which could occur due to the violent explosion that resulted from the crash, to call emergency services to have them collect it as evidence.
What People Are Saying
Philadelphia Mayor Cherelle Parker said in a statement posted on X: "This is a tragedy in our City. People have lost their lives and many injured in this horrific crash and the damage is significant. Our prayers are with the families, friends, neighbors and all of those impacted by the tragic crash. We are unified in our approach - a One Philly philosophy with all hands on deck."
Mexican President Claudia Sheinbaum wrote on X: "I regret the death of six Mexicans in the plane crash in Philadelphia, United States. The consular authorities are in permanent contact with the families; I have asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to support them in whatever way is required. My solidarity with their loved ones and friends."
President Donald Trump wrote on Truth Social: "So sad to see the plane go down in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. More innocent souls lost. Our people are totally engaged. First Responders are already being given credit for doing a great job. More to follow. God Bless you all."
What Happens Next
Democrat Governor  of Pennsylvania is on the ground in Philadelphia with city officials and addressing the public late on Saturday morning. Cleanup of the site will continue, and officials will provide further information about injuries and any resulting fatalities as it becomes available.
Fire marshals remain on the ground to ensure further complications do not arise from the damage.


Graphic

 
Philadelphia Plane Crash Site Cleanup
Kriston Bethel/AFP via Getty Images
Emergency responders work the scene after a small aircraft crashed in a neighborhood in Northeast Philadephia, Pennsylvania on January 31, 2025. A small aircraft crashed and sparked a large fire in a built-up neighborhood of Philadelphia on January 31, 2025, prompting a major emergency response, local media reported. A fireball was followed by the ignition of several fires on the ground in a northeastern neighborhood of the east coast US city, the local FOX29 channel showed.

Load-Date: February 1, 2025


End of Document
