




Newsweek.com
February 24, 2025 Monday 7:43 AM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 655 words
Byline: Marni Rose McFall
Highlight: The move was met with backlash from some, but applauded by others.
Body


The Philadelphia Eagles have reportedly snubbed an invitation to the White House following their Super Bowl victory, sparking backlash from MAGA.
Newsweek reached out to a representative for the Philadelphia Eagles via email for comment.
Why It Matters
 became the  this year.
Tensions regarding the  and politics have been pronounced in recent years, with some criticizing the  for becoming too "woke," or too "left."  Commissioner Roger Goodell recently went against Trump and  policies, which the president has been cracking down on.
What to Know
According to a report on Sunday from the U.S. Sun,  decided to skip a .
The Eagles' captain, Lane Johnson, previously said that it would be an honor to go, but that the decision to meet with the president if they are invited will be left up to a team vote.
The Sun reported that when asked if they would accept an invitation, the response from the Eagles was a "massive no."
That has sparked backlash from MAGA supporters. They have criticized the Eagles, with some saying they will no longer support the team.
However, that response was far from universal, with many social media users applauding the Eagles for their refusal to meet with the president.
The Eagles won the Super Bowl in 2018 while Trump was president, and they did not attend the customary meeting with him following their victory.
The president said he was not inviting the Eagles to the White House following their Super Bowl win because Eagles players had knelt for the national anthem. Before , it was reported that only two players from the team were planning on meeting with the president, as the others did not want to go.
The act of taking the knee as a form of protest was first made by  quarterback Colin Kaepernick in 2016, and it has since become synonymous with the 
Jalen Hurts, the Eagles' quarterback was asked prior to the Super Bowl how he felt about Trump attending the game. When questioned by reporters about whether Trump's presence was an "added pressure," he responded: "No ma'am." Hurts has been applauded on social media, after he made history by becoming the first  player in history to assemble an entirely female management team.
His response to the question about Trump is markedly different to that of Kansas City , who said that it would be a "great honor" for the president to be in attendance for the biggest game in his career.
What People Are Saying
Journalist Megyn Kelly on X: "GO F YOURSELVES EAGLES. My husband is a fan so I got onboard but F this BS."
Social media user Sports and Nonsense on X: "Eagles won't visit The White House? Oh cool. Pull all their funding. Every dime. If the  hates America then America needs to start hating the ."
Social media user Kentucky Girl on X: "The Philadelphia Eagles have rejected Trump's invitation to the White House. You know what, I will never support that team again. F*** the Eagles."
Social media user Padrat on X: "BRAVO to the Philadelphia Eagles for declining Trump's invitation to the White House. The eagle is a widespread symbol of STRENGTH, POWER, FREEDOM, & WISDOM. These team members proudly held on to their self-respect & dignity!"
Sports journalist Chris Schaller on X: "Trump openly rooted against the eagles and didn't congratulate them... the eagles have every right not to do so."
What's Next
The Philadelphia Eagles have not publicly addressed the reported decision to decline the White House invitation, but the team or individual players may speak about it in time.
Do you have a story Newsweek should be covering? Do you have any questions about this story? Contact .


Graphic

 
Jalen Hurts
Cooper Neill/Getty Images
Jalen Hurts #1 of the Philadelphia Eagles celebrates after defeating the Kansas City Chiefs during Super Bowl LIX at Caesars Superdome on February 9, 2025 in New Orleans, Louisiana.

Load-Date: February 24, 2025


End of Document
