




Targeted News Service
January 21, 2025 Tuesday 1:17 AM  EST


Copyright 2025 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved


Length: 516 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body


Physicians for Reproductive Health issued the following statement on Jan. 20, 2025:
* * *
Dr. Jamila Perritt, President and CEO of Physicians for Reproductive Health, responds to the inauguration of President Donald Trump and Vice President JD Vance:
"Today, we brace ourselves for a second Trump-led Administration. We know that President Donald Trump will take brazen steps to further perpetuate inequity and stifle decades of sociopolitical progress through various acts, including legislative attacks aimed at the members of our communities who are most vulnerable.
"As health care providers, the incoming Administration's threats to health policy are deeply worrying. The Affordable Care Act, access to abortion, contraception, Medicaid, LGBTQIA2S+ policy, immigration, DEI initiatives, and much more, are all at stake following today's inauguration and over the next four years. Unfortunately, with the support of a House and Senate filled with so many politicians who do not support or respect our most basic rights, many of things that had once been simply threats, will become reality. Even as Trump was elected, voters were clear in their support of access to reproductive health care, particularly abortion. As health care providers, we know that the American public overwhelmingly supports access to comprehensive reproductive health care and that these attacks will undermine the health and well-being of our communities.
"I want to be very clear when I say: we have been here before. We have seen the harm and violence our opposition is willing to inflict on our communities. We know what we are up against, and we know what we need to sustain ourselves and each other. High levels of resilience, tenacity, and hope are needed to overcome the devastation we feel today and will continue to feel as this drastic shift in leadership takes office. With the wisdom and support of each other, we will make our way through this once again.
"When things seem daunting, I make it a practice to be reminded of the countless advocates and leaders who are working tirelessly to challenge the relentless attacks on reproductive health and bodily autonomy not only in Washington, but around the country. Protests and uprisings, commitment to continuing and establishing new ways to provide reproductive and sexual health in community, and above all the beauty, bravery and resilience of mutual aid resources, allow me to remain hopeful that a just and equitable world where all people are free to make their own decisions about their bodies, families, and futures is still attainable. I have not lost hope.
"At PRH, we will continue to center the facts and leverage evidence-based practices to provide our patients and our communities with the resources needed to make informed health care decisions, and to live freely, with dignity, safety, and security. No matter what, we will not give up. We will never stop showing up for one another."
* * *
Original text here: 
[Category: Health Care]
Copyright Targeted News Services
MSTRUCK-9006592 MSTRUCK

Load-Date: February 1, 2025


End of Document
