




Newsweek.com
January 31, 2025 Friday 7:20 AM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 882 words
Byline: Amanda Castro
Highlight: Black boxes recovered after a jet and Army helicopter collided near DC; 14 still missing as NTSB investigates the deadly crash. Follow Newsweek's live blog.
Body


Investigators have recovered the black boxes from the midair crash between a passenger jet and an Army helicopter near Washington, DC. The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) expects to release a preliminary report within 30 days.
What to Know:
A day before the , another flight near Reagan National had to abort landing due to a helicopter nearby.Search efforts were paused overnight with 14 people still missing. The jet had 64 passengers, while three soldiers were aboard the helicopter. All are presumed dead.Among those lost are a pilot set to be married, the daughter of Indian immigrants, and champion figure skaters.
Stay with Newsweek for the latest updates.
The 67 victims of Wednesday's midair collision included figure skaters, duck hunters, airline crew members, and Army soldiers. Families have begun confirming losses as officials work to identify all those aboard.
Several skaters and their families were returning from a U.S. Figure Skating camp, including six people tied to the Skating Club of Boston. Among them were young skaters Jinna Han and Spencer Lane, their mothers, and former Russian champion coaches Yevgeniya Shishkova and Vadim Naumov.
A group of seven friends returning from a Kansas duck hunting trip were also among the victims, including Michael Stovall and Jesse Pitcher.
The American Airlines crew lost four members, including pilot Jonathan Campos, co-pilot Sam Lilley, and flight attendant Danasia Brown Elder.
Three soldiers aboard the Army's Black Hawk helicopter also died, though their names have not been released.
Other victims included two Chinese nationals and Philippine police official Col. Pergentino Malabed Jr., who was in the U.S. for an equipment inspection.
President  condemned a Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) initiative to hire people with disabilities in the wake of the Washington, D.C., plane collision, despite a similar initiative being launched during his first term in office.
Newsweek has contacted the White House and the FAA for comment via email outside of regular working hours.
Trump pushed to remove all diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) initiatives from federal programs upon his return to office. During a Thursday press conference, Trump suggested diversity hiring programs were to blame for the collision between a passenger jet and a military helicopter near Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport, but 

Two Chinese nationals were aboard the American Eagle jet involved in Wednesday's deadly collision, the Chinese Embassy in the U.S. confirmed, without providing further details. China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs extended condolences and urged U.S. officials to expedite search efforts and determine the cause of the crash.
Among the victims was Philippine police official Col. Pergentino Malabed Jr., who was in the U.S. to inspect equipment for the national police. His death is a "profound loss," police spokesperson Col. Randulf Tuaño said, praising his dedication and integrity.
The San Carlos Airport in California is at risk of losing all its air traffic controllers within days due to a contract dispute with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).
Amid the dispute, the airport is considering the temporary use of unstaffed tower procedures.
Public concerns over air safety have risen after a deadly collision between an  plane and Army helicopter just outside of Reagan National Airport in Washington, D.C. on Wednesday night, killing all 67 people aboard the two aircraft.
If San Carlos Airport loses its air traffic controllers, and air traffic towers are forced to go unmanned, it could create safety issues in the event of technical failures or poor weather conditions. These concerns are particularly relevant at busy airports like San Carlos, where pilots have reported heavy air traffic.
Airport manager Gretchen Kelly said in a statement that San Carlos Airport (SQL) could no longer have air traffic controllers guiding planes in and out of the airport by Saturday after the FAA changed contracts to a controller firm, Robinson Aviation (RVA), with lower pay that does not "account for the high cost of living in the San Francisco Bay Area."
Kelly added that all the airport's controllers have declined RVA's offers and have resigned. Air traffic control services are currently provided to the airport by Serco.
"As a contingency, RVA is preparing to bring in controllers from other towers across the country to prevent an ATC-Zero (unstaffed tower) situation on Saturday," she said.

The Black Hawk helicopter involved in Wednesday's fatal midair collision reportedly may have been flying outside its approved route, at a higher altitude than permitted, and at least half a mile off course,  reported, citing sources briefed on the matter.
If confirmed, this deviation raises concerns about compliance with flight regulations. Senator Tammy Duckworth of Illinois, a former Black Hawk pilot, noted the helicopter was under visual flight rules and responsible for maintaining separation. She stressed the need to determine which aircraft veered off course before the crash.


Graphic

 
Plane Crash
Petty Officer 1st Class Brandon Giles/Getty Images
In this U.S. Coast Guard handout, the Coast Guard investigates aircraft wreckage on the Potomac River on January 30, 2025 in Washington, DC. An American Airlines flight from Wichita, Kansas collided midair with a military Black Hawk helicopter while on approach to Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport outside of Washington, DC. According to reports, there were no survivors among the 67 people onboard both aircraft.

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
