




States News Service
January 28, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 States News Service
Length: 549 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON, D.C. 
Body


The following information was released by the office of U.S. Virgin Islands Rep. Stacey Plaskett:
Congresswoman Stacey E. Plaskett, Member of the House Ways and Means, Budget and Intelligence Committees released the following statement in response to Office of Management and Budget (OMB) memo M-25-13 ordering a wide-ranging pause for many federal grants and loans:
"This directive from the Trump Administration directs federal agencies to pause spending on all activities related to obligations or disbursement of all Federal financial assistance and other relevant agency activities that may be implicated by President Trump's Executive Orders, including but not limited to financial assistance for foreign aid, nongovernmental organizations, what the federal government may deem as programs which controvert the President's Executive Orders. Those areas include broadly what may be considered wasteful government spending, DEI and preference programs, gender ideology, immigration matters, and environmental areas to name a few topics which may freeze federal spending or draw down. SNAP, Head Start, Justice Programs, HUD funding, federally funded minority contractors, women's health programs, our schools which teach Virgin Islands centric history and serve undocumented students, REAP energy programs, rural minority farmers are areas we know may be frozen based upon the Trump administration criteria.
"While the external discussion has said several of the above programs will not be paused, we have seen some paused around the country already and federal agencies have been given guidance to 'unwind objectional policies without pause in payments' for some programs. My question is what if our schools continue to support undocumented children, teach our true history, give aid to women in need, give preference and special support to previously disenfranchised minority farmers and do not 'unwind' those actions. Will we lose funds?
"This is a direct attack on the American people. It jeopardizes critical programs that millions of families and countless communities depend onprograms that fund healthcare, education, infrastructure, and public safety. We must remember that Congress holds the power of the purse, and a great deal of the funding the Administration seeks to pause was approved on a bipartisan basis. Distributing this funding to the American people is legally required. I join my colleagues and call on the Administration to immediately reverse this action.
"My team and I are committed to working with all necessary parties to ensure that we fight back to defend Virgin Islanders and safeguard the federal funding that is constitutionally protected. We are organizing a zoom call with the local agencies and non-government organizations we believe may be affected by this directive. We have been in conversations with Members of the 36th Legislature of the Virgin Islands and will meet this week to discuss the impact of President Trump's recent actions on our territory."
The Democratic Staff of the House Budget Committee previously released a fact sheet explaining unlawful presidential impoundments. The fact sheet details the importance of the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 and makes clear that the power of the purse rests solely with Congress.

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
