




telegraph.co.uk
January 30, 2025 Thursday 9:34 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:2
Length: 727 words
Byline: By Charles Hymas, Home Affairs Editor
Highlight: Public want crime solved not ‘virtue signalling’, says Police and Crime Commissioner for Hertfordshire
Body


A policing chief has torn up a diversity guide that told officers   saying the public want crime solved not “virtue signalling”.
In a statement to The Telegraph, Jonathan Ash-Edwards, the Police and Crime Commissioner for Hertfordshire, said he had ordered a review of all such documents that “damage public trust and confidence in policing”.
It comes after The Telegraph revealed the nine-page diversity guide for staff at Hertfordshire, Cambridgeshire and Bedfordshire forces that told police not to use the terms “black sheep” and “blacklisted” in case they offended someone.
It said that the terms risk “portraying certain groups as inferior or superior to others”. It also said that “pregnant person” should be used instead of references to pregnant women and “Christian-centric” language, such as the term “faith”, should be avoided.
The “reference resource for staff and officers” describes gender as “a social construct relating to behaviours and attributes”, adding: “There is a wider range of gender identities than just male and female.”
Mr Ash-Edwards said that the document predated his election as commissioner and the appointment of Andy Prophet as the Chief Constable for Hertfordshire.
He said both were concerned about the document’s approach and had “commissioned a review of all such documents”.
Mr Ash-Edwards said: “This document predates my election as Police and Crime Commissioner last May and the appointment of Hertfordshire’s new Chief Constable this month. I have raised concerns with the new Chief Constable who, like me, is concerned about the document’s approach and has commissioned a review of all such documents.
“Documents like this damage public trust and confidence in policing. Common sense must prevail when it comes to language.
“Asking police officers and staff to use terms such as ‘pregnant people’ is unlikely to be seen as ‘inclusive’ by many women, for example. Moreover, policing must remain impartial and avoid endorsing contested ideologies on race and gender.”
In one section of the guide, officers are advised to watch a video on BBC Bitesize, an education website for GCSE students, “to understand the difference between” the terms “non-racist” and “anti-racist”.
Officers are also made aware of the concept of  , defined in the document as “a state in which some white people are unable to cope with or process the information they receive about racism”.
Although people may react angrily or defensively to this topic, “it is important to understand white fragility as this can derail open conversations about race”, it adds.
Mr Ash-Edwards said that he regularly meets residents from diverse communities and listens to their concerns.
“From my experience, many Asian residents are worried about family gold burglaries, our Jewish communities fear anti-Semitic hate crimes, black residents want to be assured of fair treatment by the police and women rightly expect their safety to be protected,” he said.
“What I have yet to hear is a call for more virtue signalling.”
He added: “Policing must of course act with professionalism and courtesy, understanding difference, but the focus of Hertfordshire Constabulary is on providing good policing and keeping communities safe. I know that’s what local people support.
“Police officers and staff must always treat the public with professionalism, courtesy and respect, while responding to the needs of individuals and challenging discrimination. This is something required by the code of ethics and are standards that most people would expect the police to uphold.”
 , the UK’s first black police and crime commissioner (PCC) and the former PCC for Bedfordshire Constabulary, has labelled the guidance “utterly mad”.
Mr Akinbusoye, who was head of the watchdog until May 2024, questioned why the term “whitewashing” was not singled out for criticism but the terms “blacklisted”, “black sheep” and “black mark” were.
The diversity document comes amid a growing backlash against diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) schemes. Since his inauguration,  , the US president, has introduced sweeping executive orders that have effectively purged DEI roles from the US government.
                     Recommended                   
Police officers told not to say 'black sheep' or 'blacklisted' over racism fears

Load-Date: January 30, 2025


End of Document
