




The Daily Telegraph (London)
January 27, 2025 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2
Length: 840 words
Byline: Max Stephens; Hayley Dixon
Body


POLICE officers have been told not to use the terms "black sheep" and "blacklisted" in case they offend someone.
A nine-page document that forms part of a 2023 diversity guide for staff at Bedfordshire Police and Hertfordshire and Cambridgeshire constabularies says that the terms risk "portraying certain groups as inferior or superior to others".
It states that "pregnant person" should be used instead of references to pregnant women and "Christian-centric" language such as the term "faith"
should be avoided. The "reference resource for staff and officers" describes gender as "a social construct relating to behaviours and attributes", adding: "There is a wider range of gender identities than just male and female."
The document, seen by The Telegraph, comes amid a growing backlash against diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) schemes. Since his inauguration as president, Donald Trump has introduced sweeping executive orders that have effectively purged DEI roles from his government.
In one section of the police guide, officers are advised to watch a video on
BBC Bitesize, an education website for GCSE students, "to understand the difference between [the terms] non-racist and anti-racist".
Officers are also made aware of the concept of "white fragility", defined in the document as "a state in which some white people are unable to cope with or process the information they receive about racism". Although people may react angrily or defensively to this topic, "it is important to understand white fragility as this can derail open conversations about race", it added.
Police are also reminded to avoid Continued on Page 2
Continued from Page 1 generalisations, such as older people being grumpy and boring or women in their fifties being menopausal.
At one point, it is suggested the term "mature adult" not be used because it implies "younger people" cannot be mature.
Festus Akinbusoye, the UK's first black police and crime commissioner and former PCC for Bedfordshire Constabulary, labelled the guidance "utterly mad".
Mr Akinbusoye, the head of the watchdog until May 2024, questioned why the term "whitewashing" was not singled out for criticism but the terms "blacklisted", "black sheep" and "black mark" were.
He said: "Rightly, it is important that police officers and staff are courteous and professional in their conduct. This is part of the code of conduct that's integral to British policing.
"However, the idea that a word such as 'blacklist' is being discouraged because of its negative inference to black people while a word like 'whitewash' is not included raises concerns.
"Was this to have been brought to my attention while serving as police and crime commissioner, I would have asked questions as to the necessity and limited inclusivity of this inclusion document... It is just utterly mad it's bonkers."
James Esses, a psychotherapist and campaigner who first shared screenshots of the guidance online, said: "I think it is utter madness that in all the years we have seen the harms that this woke ideology has done, that this being sent to police officers. It is so highly offensive to women to use the term 'pregnant person'."
Mr Esses said it was "ludicrous" that police forces were being "captured" by "critical race ideology" and applauded Donald Trump's sweeping executive orders that have effectively purged federal DEI staff from his government.
Hertfordshire Police was criticised in 2020 after three officers arrested a mother in front of her children after she referred to a transgender woman as a man on Twitter.
Kate Scottow, from Hitchin, was prosecuted following a number of complaints from activist Stephanie Hayden who alleged the mother-of-two had sent tweets referring to her as "he" or "him" during a period of "significant online abuse".
Mrs Scottow was found guilty of persistently using a public communications network to cause annoyance and anxiety at St Albans magistrates' court but had her conviction later overturned in the Court of Appeal.
Boris Johnson, the former prime minister, criticised the prosecution at the time as an "abuse of manpower and police facilities".
A spokesman on behalf of the three forces said: "We can confirm that this information has been made available as part of an online diversity, equality and inclusion reference guide for our officers and staff. "Our forces serve diverse communities, and we are pleased to have an inclusive, culturally intelligent workforce, and invest in training to develop this ethos across our workforce."
Grammar police Key advice for officers on terms to avoid
Any expression that uses black in a negative way, for example, "black sheep", "blacklisted", or "black mark" ? Say: "What is your relationship status?" instead of "what is your marital status?" ? Non-racist behaviour is actively not engaging in racist behaviour. Watch the BBC Bitesize video to understand the difference between nonracist and anti-racist ? White fragility describes the state in which some white people are unable to cope with information they receive about racism

Load-Date: January 27, 2025


End of Document
