




MailOnline
February 18, 2025 Tuesday 12:10 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 1011 words
Byline: Stephen M. Lepore For Dailymail.Com
Body


The 'ragin' Cajun' James Carville has surprised Democrats by suggesting they 'do nothing' in response to Donald Trump and Elon Musk's takeover of the federal government. 
Liberals have been in a frenzy as they attempt to halt Trump and Musk's DOGE, which is ruffling feathers in Washington as bureaucrats and longtime government employees fear their jobs could be on the chopping block. 
Protesters against Trump and his policies braved frigid temperatures in parts of the U.S. Monday, shouting 'No kings on Presidents Day' in East Coast cities. 
Carville, a notorious figure in Democrat politics ever since he orchestrated Bill Clinton's 1992 election win, was asked for his thoughts on the demonstrations.
While expressing sympathies for his fellow liberals marching, the 80-year-old Carville surprisingly felt politicians like House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries should just stay the course for the time being. 
'What I think they should do is what we call in rural America, play possum. Just let it go,' he told MSNBC. 
'Don't get in the way of it. Or as we like to say, don't just stand there, do nothing. Let this germinate... We don't need to get in front of it. This freight train is moving. Let's just get out of the way and then we're gonna have time.' 
In Florida and California, local media outlets reported on hundreds of protesters carrying out 'Not my Presidents Day' protests. 
The 'No Kings' theme was orchestrated by the 50501 Movement , and marked the second set of protests criss-crossing the nation in less than two weeks. 
A similar nationwide event on Feb. 5 drew participants in dozens of cities. Both sets of rallies denounced Trump and billionaire adviser Musk, the leader of Trump´s new Department of Government Efficiency, an outside-government organization designed to slash federal spending.
Nearly 1,000 people marched in the snow from the Statehouse in Boston to City Hall, chanting 'Elon Musk has got to go' and other slogans. The temperature was below freezing, with wind chills in the teens.
Boston protesters, some dressed in Revolutionary War-style clothing, carried signs saying such things as 'This is a Coup' and 'Cowards Bow to Trump, Patriots Stand Up.' One sign had a depiction of Uncle Sam saying 'I Want You to Resist.'
'I thought it was important to be here on Presidents Day to demonstrate for what America stands for,' said Emily Manning, 55, a Boston engineer who came to the rally with her two teenage sons. 
'American values are not the values of the plutocracy or the limited few rich people.'
Organizers of Monday´s protests, which were focused on state capitals and major cities including Washington, D.C.; Orlando, Florida; and Seattle, said they were targeting 'anti-democratic and illegal actions of the Trump administration and its plutocratic allies.'
One sign at the rally that attracted hundreds in the nation's capital said, 'Deport Musk Dethrone Trump.'
Protesters against Trump and his policies braved frigid temperatures in parts of the U.S. Monday, shouting 'No kings on Presidents Day' in East Coast cities 
Many demonstrations were slated for cities where temperatures were well below freezing as a polar vortex worked its way across the country.
The rallies followed a series of Trump executive orders and came just days after layoffs across federal agencies as part of an effort to reduce the government workforce.
DOGE has already touted saving billions in U.S. taxpayer dollars by cutting expensive DEI and pro-LGBT initiatives within the government. It is also investigating fraud within the Social Security Administration for reportedly sending checks to dead people.
White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt is brutally pointed out Monday that the same Democrats who have been for cutting government waste in the past have been very vocal in opposition to DOGE.
'To all of the Democrats who are planning to protest this week, here's an explanation on DOGE, from your party's own beloved leaders!' Leavitt posted to X alongside a video of Obama and Biden lauding the same efforts DOGE is now undertaking.
In the video the two former Democratic presidents are shown talking about the importance of reforming the government to reduce frivolous government spending and waste - the exact mission DOGE is undertaking today. 
'Budget reform is not an option, it's a necessity,' Obama says at the onset of the video in a speech given while he was president.
'We can't sustain a system that bleeds billions of taxpayer dollars on programs that have outlived their usefulness or exist solely because of the power of politicians, lobbyists or interest groups,' he continues in another clip.
Another portion of the supercut video shows Obama promising to go through each federal expenditure 'line by line.' 
'We are going to go through our federal budget as I promised during the campaign, page by page, line by line eliminating those programs we don't need and insisting that those that we do need operate in a sensible, cost effective way,' the former president claims. 
However, a Manhattan Institute analysis of government spending during the Obama era found that the 44th president signed off on $5 trillion worth of new legislative costs and drove the federal debt up an additional $4.6 trillion. 
Then another Democratic hero pops on screen. 
'The American people are entitled to transparency,' a younger Joe Biden says in a clip presumably taken from his vice presidency under Obama. 
'They're entitled to be able to figure out where their dollars are going, and they're entitled to accountability to make sure that we're using the dollars for what we said it was for,' the 46th president claims.
'We hope to be instilling an entire new culture that not only our administration, but every succeeding administration will in fact, pursue,' Biden says of his and Obama's cost saving initiatives.
Then the video shoots back to another clip of Obama saying how 'easy' it is to root out government waste. 
'What should be easy is getting rid of the pointless waste and stupid spending that doesn't benefit anybody,' Obama shares. 

Load-Date: February 18, 2025


End of Document
