




MailOnline
February 23, 2025 Sunday 6:53 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: MEDIA; Version:5
Length: 540 words
Byline: Rachel Bowman For Dailymail.Com
Body


PODCAST: The biggest news and insider gossip from the Trump administration - listen to Welcome to MAGAland here
Political guru James Carville forecasted Donald Trump's Administration will collapse within the next 30 days.
The veteran Democratic strategist told Mediaite's Dan Abrams that Trump's popularity is sinking, and he believes the administration will implode from a lack of public support.
'I believe that this administration, in less than 30 days, is in the midst of a massive collapse and particularly a collapse in public opinion,' Carville said. 
'What I have said very publicly is that Democrats need to play possum. This whole thing is collapsing.
'It doesn't need Elizabeth Warren and somebody screaming to pacify some progressive advocacy groups in Washington, which, by the way, I wish these people were just useless. They're actually worse than useless, that they're detrimental.'
He advised Democrats to lay low while the White House falls apart and predicted Republicans will find it difficult to pass any legislation and be forced to reach across the aisle for their support.
'It's going to be easy pickings here in six weeks. Just lay back,' Carville said. 'We're in the midst of a collapse. It's over.'
Carville doubled down on his previous statements that Democrats 'do nothing' in response to Trump and Elon Musk's takeover of the federal government.
'What I think they should do is what we call in rural America, play possum. Just let it go,' he told MSNBC last week.
'Don't get in the way of it. Or as we like to say, don't just stand there, do nothing. Let this germinate... We don't need to get in front of it. This freight train is moving. Let's just get out of the way and then we're gonna have time.'
Although recent polling numbers show Trump's approval is starting to drop, it still remains higher than at any point during his first term.
February polling from Emerson College found that Trump's approval rating dropped to 48 percent - down one point from the month before.
'The poll findings suggest generally unpopular domestic and foreign policy ideas, however, Trump's approval has not shifted significantly since last month,' Spencer Kimball, executive director of Emerson College Polling, said. 
                     CNN/SSR polling of 1,206 U.S. adults from February 13 to 17 showed Trump with a 47 percent approval rating.
A J.L. Partners/DailyMail.com poll of 1000 registered voters from February 10 showed Trump has enjoyed some of his best approval ratings since winning the election.
He now has support across almost all age groups, including an overall favorability rating of 53 percent. Only voters over the age of 65 give him an overall negative rating. 
James Johnson, co-founder of J.L. Partners, said Trump had long had a reputation for dividing the country. 
'But Trump's popularity has this week reached new heights, at 53 percent, including winning over one in five Democrats,' he said.
'That comes after policies of this first few weeks, which again we've been led to assume are divisive: from deportations and DEI, to tariffs.
'It's not always that a cheer from a crowd matches the reality, but this time around the public looks a lot like the Super Bowl audience that cheered the president last night.'

Load-Date: February 23, 2025


End of Document
