




Newsweek.com
January 21, 2025 Tuesday 12:54 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 417 words
Byline: Flynn Nicholls
Highlight: After the pope criticized Trump's deportation plans, MAGA figures have suggested deporting illegal migrants to Vatican City.
Body


Pope Francis is facing criticism from prominent MAGA figures after  President 's proposed mass deportation policies.
Newsweek has contacted the White House and the Vatican for comment via email.
Why It Matters
Trump campaigned in 2024 on a hard-line immigration agenda, promising to .
Following his inauguration on Monday, the president is expected to swiftly implement his proposals by signing a  aimed at carrying out mass deportations. Reports indicate that  in major cities, including Chicago, New York, Los Angeles, Denver and Miami.
What To Know
On Sunday, Francis appeared on the Italian talk show Che Tempo Che Fa, where he criticized Trump's mass deportation plans as an unjust burden on vulnerable populations. He said the policies were "a disgrace" and "not the way to solve things."
Members of the MAGA movement—which takes its name from Trump's "Make America Great Again" campaign slogan—responded harshly to the pope's comments on social media, accusing Francis of hypocrisy and challenging him to personally handle immigration issues.
Some of the president's supporters have taken to X, formerly , to suggest that Trump should deport migrants living in the U.S. illegally to Vatican City.
Francis, whose papacy began in 2013, has long made immigration advocacy a key focus of his leadership, and he has  against actions that exclude or harm migrants.
His comments about immigration often .
What People Are Saying
Robby Starbuck, a filmmaker who , wrote on X: "I'm not joking when I say this: President Trump should charter endless flights of illegals to the Vatican until the Pope rejects the flights or begs for it to stop—thereby proving he's a hypocrite who needs to stay out of our affairs."
Alex Jones, a conservative radio host, wrote on X: "The Pope should volunteer to house the invading 3rd world hordes in Vatican City! I am not holding my breath!"
Larry Elder, a conservative commentator, wrote on X: "Maybe the @Pontifex would feel differently if we dropped them over the wall that surrounds Vatican City. It worked when @GovRonDeSantis ."
What Happens Next
As Trump addresses immigration through a series of executive orders, the pope's remarks and MAGA's backlash may further intensify debates on immigration and church-state relations.


Graphic

 
Pope Francis
Gregorio Borgia/ASSOCIATED PRESS
Pope Francis speaks at the Vatican City, January 15, 2025.

Load-Date: January 21, 2025


End of Document
