




telegraph.co.uk
February 6, 2025 Thursday 7:41 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: BUSINESS; Version:1
Length: 11130 words
Byline: By Melissa Lawford, Economics Reporter and Chris Price, Business Live Blogger and Szu Ping Chan, Economics Editor and Alex Singleton, Business Reporter
Body


The value of the pound has sunk sharply as the Bank of England signalled there would be more interest rate cuts later this year.
Sterling plunged 1.1pc during trading to $1.237 after policymakers cut interest rates to 4.5pc in a surprise vote that saw two members vote for even steeper reductions. It later recovered to about 0.6pc down at the close of trading, at $1.244.
The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) voted 7-2 to cut rates as it slashed its growth forecast for 2025 in half.
Officials warned that there were increasing signs that Rachel Reeves’s record tax raid was dragging on the economy, which is predicted to barely avoid falling into recession.
Two MPC members, Catherine Mann and Swati Dhingra, called for a bigger rate cut of half a percentage point to 4.25pc, as they warned there were signs that the economy was slowing faster than expected.
Traders have ramped up bets on further interest rate cuts, favouring another three reductions by the end of the year.
However, the Governor of the Bank of England, Andrew Bailey, insisted there would be a “gradual and careful approach to reducing rates further”.
Bank staff now believe the economy will expand by just 0.75pc this year, down from a projection of 1.5pc just three months ago.
Its latest economic forecasts warned of a stagnating economy, higher inflation and rising unemployment against the backdrop of a £40bn tax raid that will hit low-paid workers hardest.
                     Read the latest updates below.                   
                     06 Feb 2025-07:41PM GMT                   
                     Signing off...                   
That’s all for today. Thanks for joining us on this live blog.
All our latest news and commentary on the economy . 
                     06 Feb 2025-06:54PM GMT                   
                     Wall Street struggles as investors await steer                   
Wall Street is subdued today as traders waited for a fresh signal on the economy from tomorrow’s jobs figures. Investors were also looking towards Amazon’s results, out tonight.
Tech firms are under pressure to deliver on lofty expectations for cloud computing after unimpressive reports from Microsoft and Google owner Alphabet earlier this week.
In trading, the S&P 500 rose 0.2pc, the Nasdaq added 0.3pc, but the Dow Jones Industrial Average of 30 leading US companies fell 0.4pc.
Meanwhile, European stocks hit a record high, helped by optimism about company profits. The pan-European Stoxx 600 jumped 1.2pc, while the top French and German indexes both rose 1.5pc.
                     06 Feb 2025-06:33PM GMT                   
                     Tories warn of ‘Starmflation’ after growth forecast cut                   
The Conservatives have warned that Labour’s tax rises are pushing the UK towards both a stagnating economy and higher inflation.
Mel Stride, the shadow chancellor, said: “We are heading for ‘Starmflation’ thanks to Labour’s mismanagement. The Bank of England have halved their growth forecast for this year. They’ve said the Budget is fuelling inflation and Labour’s tax rises mean fewer jobs, lower wages and higher prices.
“The Chancellor needs to wake up to the reality-her choices are making us poorer. Labour are completely out of their depth and the country cannot afford it.”
                     06 Feb 2025-06:15PM GMT                   
                     Trump’s pick for trade ambassador to push Vietnam on trade                   
Donald Trump’s nominee for US Trade Representative, Jamieson Greer, has said he would work to ensure better access for US companies to markets in many of the United States’s largest trading partners, including Vietnam.
“To me, this is a huge problem,” Mr Greer said, citing the negative impact of longstanding trade imbalances on US workers, exporters and manufacturers.
If confirmed, he said he would in “short order” assess the unfair trading practices of countries such as Vietnam, and explain to these countries “that if they want to enjoy continued market access to the United States, we need to have better reciprocity”.
                     06 Feb 2025-06:10PM GMT                   
                     FTSE 100 notches new record after Bank of England cuts rates                   
The FTSE 100 reached a record high today after the Bank of England announced that it is cutting interest rates.
London’s blue-chip index finished the day at 8,727, or a 1.2pc rise.
It comes after the Bank cut rates to 4.5pc, but presented a gloomy economic outlook for the UK over the next year.
Policymakers said economic growth is going to be half as much as they previously thought, at just 0.75pc, while interest rates are going to rise faster than expected.
The pound plunged on the announcement, falling more than 1.1pc against the dollar before recovering to about 0.6pc down at the close of trading, at $1.244. It was 0.3pc down against the euro at €1.199.
Nonetheless, governor Andrew Bailey said the Bank stood ready to cut rates again this year, boosting the FTSE.
Danni Hewson, an analyst at finance firm AJ Bell, said the announcement gave the market “a shot of adrenaline”.
She said: “The latest interest rate cut from the Bank of England might come with warnings about weak growth and the unpleasant return of higher prices, but today investors were happy to look past that and focus instead on the prospect of more cuts this year than had previously been priced in.”
In Europe, France’s Cac 40 rose 1.5pc, and in Frankfurt the Dax was also up 1.5pc.
                     06 Feb 2025-06:08PM GMT                   
                     ‘Crunch time’ for Europe to prevent falling further behind US, warns L’Oreal boss                   
The head of cosmetics giant L’Oreal has warned that the EU faces “crunch time” as he warned that the continent could fall further behind the US.
Nicolas Hieronimus told the Financial Times: “It’s crunch time ... we have to make sure that whilst remaining true to our convictions, we’re more competitive.” 
He added: “The direction taken by the US administration should be a trigger to take the learnings from the Draghi report and transform them into actions. I think it’s beginning to happen ... but sometimes we just need a little push.”
The report on European competitiveness, by former Italian prime minister Mario Draghi, said that Europe faced an “existential challenge”.
                     06 Feb 2025-05:41PM GMT                   
                     Starmer to seek digital trade deal with Trump                   
Sir Keir Starmer will   focused on digital services, a minister has said.
Gareth Thomas, the exports minister, said there were “definitely possibilities” to secure a deal with the world’s largest economy despite the risk of a global trade war.
Mr Thomas added: “There are always possibilities of doing deals in the US, certainly around digitalisation and services. We’ve got a lot to offer and a lot of areas where we could work on, so there are definitely possibilities.
“We’ll have to see how those play out over time. But it’s in the US’s interests as well as the UK’s interests for us to work together.”
The remarks are the clearest signal yet of where the Government is focusing its efforts to secure better trade terms with Mr Trump. Insiders says Sir Keir has already discussed trade with the US president.

                     06 Feb 2025-05:34PM GMT                   
                     Trade union urges infrastructure spending to rekindle growth                   
One of Britain’s largest trade unions has said that the Government should respond to slowing economic growth by increasing public investment in infrastructure.
Sharon Graham, general secretary of Unite, said: “There, are plenty of projects crying out for public investment that will drive growth and create good jobs.
“Grangemouth could become a sustainable aviation fuels refinery, Sizewell C is still waiting for the green light, and we are still not manufacturing our own wind turbines.
“The Government has already reshaped its fiscal rules to allow for investment in infrastructure projects. Now it needs to put its money where its mouth is. No investment equals no growth. So what are we waiting for?”
According to an analysis by the Office for Budget Responsibility last October, the results of of higher public investment are “mixed”.
It said: “Financing public investment through higher borrowing or taxes could reduce private investment by, respectively, raising economy-wide interest rates or reducing the post-tax return on investment for businesses”.
It added: “Public and private investment may be competing for the same labour and other inputs, raising their prices.”
                     06 Feb 2025-05:14PM GMT                   
                     FTSE 100 rise ‘not as impressive as it first looks’, says economist                   
A falling pound is disguising the real performance of the FTSE 100, an economist has said.
Joe Maher, of Capital Economics, said: “The UK stock market appears to be riding high [but] this is not as impressive as it first looks – a weaker sterling exchange rate has flattered the FTSE’s performance in local-currency terms as a large share of firms in the index earn significant revenue overseas.
“A weaker pound pushes the value of overseas revenues higher in pound terms. In dollar terms, the FTSE 100 is still down by about 2pc since peaking in early October.
“Indices of shares of smaller UK companies, which typically earn less of their overall revenue overseas, have performed poorly over the past few months even when factoring in their recent rally.”
But he said that the UK’s focus on services means it is likely to be insulated from the negative effects of potential US tariffs.
He said: “While our working assumption is that Trump will place a 10pc universal tariff on all US goods imports, the UK economy’s heavy focus on services rather than goods means that it is likely to be less affected than other economies.
“Trump also seems to be targeting countries contributing to the US trade goods deficit, yet UK and US trade in goods is broadly balanced.
“Granted, sterling has underperformed most currencies since Trump’s win, but it may have been worse without this buffer. We think the support to UK equities from the UK’s insulation from tariffs will continue over 2025.”
The FTSE 100 rose 1.2pc today and is up 13.6pc over the past year.
                     06 Feb 2025-04:56PM GMT                   
                     Council taxes could rise to fill black hole, says economist                   
A hike in council taxes might be coming as Rachel Reeves tries to shore up the public finances, an economist has warned.
Prof Chris Martin, an economist at the University of Bath, said: “I was surprised and concerned that two members of the Monetary Policy Committee voted for a steeper cut to interest rates today: it makes you worry about what they know that we don’t. The world is a scary place right now, and households and firms seem to be responding to that by delaying expenditure.
“Today’s growth forecasts bring the Bank closer to other forecasters, who have become gloomier in recent months. The Office for Budget Responsibility is likely to do the same in their upcoming update. That will make it tricky for the debt forecasts to be met, putting pressure on the Chancellor to cut spending or to find a way to raise taxes (possibly through council taxes).
“There is a risk of stagflation. But even if we avoid this, the outlook for the next year is slow growth at best. There is an uptick in inflation coming, but this will only be temporary, and the Bank seems confident that rising inflation will not be an issue.
“The Bank tends to cut rates every three months at the moment. So I would expect another 0.25 percentage point cut in May.”
                     06 Feb 2025-04:44PM GMT                   
                     Inflation ‘very hard to read’ says Bailey                   
The head of the Bank of England has warned that inflation is “very hard to read”.
Andrew Bailey told Bloomberg TV: “We think there is an underlying path of disinflation [a slowing of the pace of inflation] and that’s supporting us cutting rates.
“That disinflation is all about the erosion of the persistence of inflation coming out of the shocks that we had a few years ago. 
“We haven’t changed our view on that: we think we are seeing this path of disinflation. That’s we’ve cut rates today. But we have to go on watching that carefully to see whether it will continue.”
But had warned that the Bank needed to “careful” because “there is an awful lot of uncertainty around us at the moment”.
“We’re seeing weak activity in the UK economy. The question is: to what extent is that a weakening of demand [or] a weakening of the supply capacity of the economy,” he said.
He said that one leads to lower inflation and one leads to higher inflation. “It’s very hard to read,” he said.
                     06 Feb 2025-04:29PM GMT                   
                     AstraZeneca boss denies falling out with Labour despite scrapping £450m factory                   
The boss of AstraZeneca has denied a rift with the Government . 
Sir Pascal Soriot said it was “fake news” to suggest that tension with ministers were behind his company’s decision to scrap its planned Speke factory.
AstraZeneca originally announced the investment last March but said it was abandoning the project last week. The company said the scheme had been axed amid questions over “the timing and reduction of the final offer” from government.
The change of heart has led to suggestions that AstraZeneca has been left frustrated by the new Labour Government’s approach to the project. However, Sir Pascal said the decision was motivated by the new Government’s decision  , rather than because of any broader tensions.

                     06 Feb 2025-04:09PM GMT                   
                     Foreign investors go ‘bargain hunting’ in London after pound falls                   
The pound is down by 0.7pc today in response to interest rates being cut. This has meant international investors are going “bargain hunting” among the FTSE 100, an analyst has said.
Chris Beauchamp, chief market analyst at online trading platform IG, said: “The difference between the FTSE 100 and the UK economy have been starkly laid bare today.
“While the index has surged to new record highs thanks to solid earnings today and yesterday from index heavyweights AstraZeneca and GSK, the outlook for UK plc continues to be grim.
“Sterling’s weakness has undoubtedly boosted the index’s attractiveness for global investors, who continue to relish the opportunity to go bargain hunting in UK names.
“Any relief among individual Britons regarding lower rates is likely to be tempered by the warnings about weaker growth and higher inflation.”
                     06 Feb 2025-04:01PM GMT                   
                     Car dealership giant axes jobs after Reeves tax raid                   
Car dealership Vertu Motors has blamed Budget cost hikes for job cuts and said it has been forced to shut showrooms on Sundays as it braces for a hit of around £10m.
The group said it had already reduced its workforce to make savings ahead of a soaring wage bill following the Chancellor’s move to hike national insurance contributions and the minimum wage.
It is understood the number of redundancies is minimal, but that the group will reduce roles by not replacing workers when they leave.
Vertu sees around 15pc to 20pc of its 7,500-strong workforce leave each year due to natural staff turnover.
The group, which has 198 sites across the UK, said it was also shutting most of its showrooms on Sunday for the first time as part of efforts to offset the cost impact.
                     06 Feb 2025-03:58PM GMT                   
                     Trump trade envoy pick says tariffs on everyone should be ‘considered’                   
US President Donald Trump’s trade envoy nominee Jamieson Greer said Thursday that universal tariffs should be “studied and considered” as a potential way to reverse offshoring and deficits.
On the campaign trail, Mr Trump had floated the idea of across-the-board tariffs on all US imports. If confirmed, Mr Greer will be a crucial figure in implementing the president’s trade and tariffs agenda as US Trade Representative.
Addressing the Senate Finance Committee at his confirmation hearing, Mr Greer added that US workers ought to have a “level playing field” to compete globally. He stressed the need for the world’s biggest economy to have a “robust manufacturing base.”
Mr Greer, a partner at law firm King & Spalding, served as chief of staff to Trump’s former trade representative Robert Lighthizer during his first presidential term.
                     06 Feb 2025-03:52PM GMT                   
                     ‘Crashing economy requires much lower rates’, says think tank                   
The Bank of England is doing “too little, too late”, the Institute of Economic Affairs has said.
Julian Jessop, its economics fellow, said: “The Bank has been forced to cut because the UK economy is crashing.
“The Bank now expects GDP to stagnate in the short term and to grow by just three quarters of a percentage point in 2025 as a whole – half the pace predicted as recently as last November.
“Moreover, headline inflation is now expected to rise as high as 3.7pc later in the year. This seems too pessimistic, given the weakness of money growth and the slump in the real economy. But at least the MPC has shown it is willing to look past the temporary effect of higher energy costs and focus on underlying price pressures.
“The Bank will probably continue lowering rates gradually but rates will remain ‘restrictive’, meaning that they will still hold back growth. It would have been better to cut by at least a half point today...
“Overall, it is good news that rates have been cut, and they will almost certainly be cut further over the course of 2025. But the key driver is the worsening economic outlook, with growth stagnating and inflation expected to pick up sharply. Again, the MPC appears to be doing too little, too late.”
                     06 Feb 2025-03:49PM GMT                   
                     Trump’s trade ambassador says world need to open to US food                   
Jamieson Greer, Donald Trump’s nominee for US Trade Representative, has said that America farmers need access to foreign markets.
“American agricultural producers are the most competitive, and they need to have markets commensurate with that competitiveness,” Mr Greer told the Senate Finance Committee at his confirmation hearing. “And to me, that means that we need to go and gain market access where things have been closed.”
Mr Greer cited India and Turkey as markets that “need to open to the United States” and its agricultural products.
Since Brexit, the use of chlorine as a safety measure with US chicken has been a major source of opposition to a comprehensive UK-US trade deal. “Acceptance of chlorine washing by consumers would signal that we are condoning lower welfare standards,” the RSPCA has said.
                     06 Feb 2025-03:43PM GMT                   
                     Trump causes investors to export gold from Bank of England                   
Concerns that Donald Trump will impose tariffs that push up gold prices means there is a rush to ship the metal from London to the US, Bloomberg has reported.
The risk of tariffs has caused gold prices in the New York market to rise, while delays to access gold in the Bank of England’s vaults has caused prices of the metal stored there to dip.
Gold is seen as a safe haven if tariffs push inflation higher.
Dave Ramsden, deputy governor of the Bank of England, told reporters: “All of those bodies who ship the gold, they’ve all got the delivery slots they need over the next few weeks. If you were coming in new to us, you might have to wait a bit longer because all the existing slots are booked up. But this is a very orderly process.”
                     06 Feb 2025-03:30PM GMT                   
                     More Americans claim benefits as employers hold off creating jobs                   
The number of Americans filing new applications for unemployment benefits increased moderately last week, and opportunities for those out of work are becoming scarce amid tepid hiring.
Initial claims for state unemployment benefits rose by 11,000 to a seasonally adjusted 219,000 for the week ended Feb 1, the US Labor Department said. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast 213,000 claims for the latest week.
However, low levels of redundancies are preventing a major surge in unemployment levels. The US government reported on Tuesday that there were 1.1 job openings for every unemployed person in December, down from 1.15 in November.
Although business sentiment perked up in the aftermath of Donald Trump’s victory in November, hiring plans have remained lackluster amid expectations that demand will slow this year because of restrictive monetary policy and higher prices from tariffs.
                     06 Feb 2025-03:24PM GMT                   
                     Traders bet on rate next cut in May                   
The City is today fully pricing in a further interest rate cut in May, and two cuts by July.
There is a more than 60pc change of a third rate cut before the end of the year. This is down from almost fully pricing in a third cut a week ago.
It comes after Donald Trump’s threat of a trade war with key partners globally raised investors’ expectations of inflation.
                     06 Feb 2025-03:19PM GMT                   
                     Weaker growth figures mean bond vigilantes could strike again, says analyst                   
Deteriorating economic growth-as now forecast by the Bank of England-could put the British Government under pressure in the bond markets, a leading investment platform has said.
Kathleen Brooks, research director at broker XTB, said that a key Monetary Policy Committee member’s pessimism about the UK economy is causing concern the market today. She said: “Catherine Mann’s decision to vote for a [half a percentage point] rate cut is giving the market food for thought.
“Mann is an arch hawk, who has mentioned in previous speeches her preference for a ‘shock and awe’ approach to rate cuts, i.e., bigger cuts when the going gets tough for the economy.
“The fact that she thinks the economic picture is so dire that we need a 50bp rate cut, is a sign that the Bank of England could be behind the curve when it comes to setting interest rates at an appropriate level for the UK economy.”
She added: “Overall, the market has had a mixed reaction to this report, but growth fears are weighing heavily on the pound.
“Although bond yields are falling on Thursday, the weaker growth forecasts combined with extensive gilt issuance, could lead to the bond market vigilantes targeting the UK once again.”
                     06 Feb 2025-03:09PM GMT                   
                     Inflation forecast will ‘add to fears of stagflation’                   
The Bank of England’s forecast that inflation will hit 3.7pc next year will fuel fears of stagflation, economists have said. 
Modupe Adegbembo, of investment bank Jefferies, said some members of the MPC appeared to be “not convinced” about faster rate cuts, despite the market’s reaction to the Bank’s rate decision.
He said the inflation forecast “stands out” as it is “close to double” the Bank’s 2pc target.
He said: “This will add to fears of stagflation that have driven UK markets in recent weeks.
“This leaves the BoE in a difficult spot, but it’s clear the cutting bias remains, and we continue to expect the BoE to cut rates three more times this year.”
                     06 Feb 2025-02:59PM GMT                   
                     Interest rates may be cut ‘faster and further’ say economists                   
There is a “rising chance” that interest rates will be cut more quickly over the next year, according to economists.
Paul Dales of Capital Economics said the Bank of England “showed some signs that it may cut rates faster and further” than the consultancy’s forecast of 3.5pc by early 2026.
That forecast is already below investors’ expectations of a fall to 3.75pc.
Mr Dales said: “And with the Fed’s cutting cycle over, a big gap in UK/US interest rates is on the way.”
The US Federal Reserve is only expected to cut rates once this year in the face of Donald Trump’s potentially inflationary tariff policies, money markets indicate.
                     06 Feb 2025-02:46PM GMT                   
                     ‘Bank of England should have been far bolder’                   
Reform has criticised the Bank of England for not making a bigger interest rate cut.
The party’s deputy leader Richard Tice said: “Today’s announcement is better than nothing given the state of the economy, however the Bank of England should have been far bolder with their decision.
“It’s obvious to me and anyone with a basic understanding of economics that a cut of 0.50pc today would have made far more economic sense.
“The Bank of England also confirmed what we all already knew, that Rachel Reeves’ catastrophic budget has harmed growth and left us teetering on the edge of a recession.
“If we want growth, then Rachel Reeves needs to reverse her budget and the Bank of England needs to be bolder and play its part too.”
                     06 Feb 2025-02:42PM GMT                   
                     Starmer bullish on jobs despite Bank’s warning                    
Sir Keir Starmer has rejected the suggestion that his Budget hike to employer National Insurance contributions would result in job cuts across the economy, writes Jack Maidment. The Bank of England said today that a recent survey had shown over half of firms expected to respond to the hike “by lowering profit margins, increasing prices, or lowering the number of employees”. But Sir Keir told broadcasters that the “trajectory” on jobs was heading in the right direction. “There has been an increase of I think 70,000 jobs since we came into power so I think that shows the trajectory when it comes to jobs,” he said. “But the only way to get sustained jobs in this country is to get the investment in and that is why I am really pleased that we have got the highest levels of investment now for 20 years. “That is only coming because of the big decisions we are taking. It will take time but we have got to see these decisions through…”
                     06 Feb 2025-01:53PM GMT                   
                     Growth downgrade offers ‘silver lining’ for mortgage borrowers                   
The Bank of England’s downbeat assessment of Britain’s growth prospects could have a “silver lining” for mortgage holders, according to a left-leaning think tank. 
James Smith of the Resolution Foundation said: “Last week the Chancellor set out her plan to boost growth over the next decade, but today the Bank has said it expects to see next-to no growth over the coming months.
“The upcoming energy prices-led spike in inflation could prove painful for low-income families, who spend around a tenth of their budgets on these bills.
“The Bank’s downbeat assessment may however contain a silver lining for the Government and mortgage holders. 
“The MPC may quicken the pace of interest rates cuts this year, reducing debt servicing costs to give the Chancellor some much-needed headroom, and reducing rates for those looking to remortgage this year.”
                     06 Feb 2025-01:46PM GMT                   
                     Bailey takes swipe at Trump policies which ‘change from day to day’                   
The Governor of the Bank of England took a swipe at US trade policies which “change from day to day” as he insisted he could not judge the potential impact of tariffs on the UK economy.
Andrew Bailey said policymakers would “have to give the administration in the US time to form the policies they want to form”.
It comes days after Donald Trump announced an eleventh hour delay to 25pc tariffs on Canadian and Mexican goods for one month. 
Mr Bailey insisted he was not in a position to judge the impact of tariffs because “we don’t know what the policies are”.
“They do change from day to day”, he said.
He added that if there was a “broad fragmentation” in the world economy “that would be a very significant thing”.
                     06 Feb 2025-01:38PM GMT                   
                     Growth downgrade must be ‘wake-up call’ for Reeves, say Lib Dems                   
The Lib Dems have said the latest “putrid growth figures” should be a wake-up call for Rachel Reeves.
Liberal Democrat Treasury spokeswoman Daisy Cooper MP said: “The new growth forecast needs to be a wake-up call for the Chancellor.
“Our economy will never see the back of the years of Conservative economic vandalism if she continues to push ahead with her misguided national insurance hike.
“Reeves must also change course on her baffling refusal to negotiate a bespoke UK-EU customs union to turbocharge growth.
“People are still having to choose between heating and eating, and being forced to use public services that are completely broken. Without an economy that is thriving, none of this will change.
“Rachel Reeves needs to see sense, scrap her national insurance rise, which is hammering small businesses, and jettison her short-sighted red lines on a customs union. Only then will we see an end to these putrid growth figures.”
                     06 Feb 2025-01:36PM GMT                   
                     Bailey says growth downgrade ‘not a judgment on the Budget’                   
Andrew Bailey insisted that the downgrade in the Bank of England’s growth forecast this year was “not a judgment on the Budget”.
Answering a question from our economics editor Szu Ping Chan,the Governor of the Bank of England said growth had been flat since the spring of last year.
Mr Bailey said: “We’ve had to revise down because frankly the evidence is there.”
Companies have complained that they will have to put up prices and cut jobs as a result of the increase to national insurance and the minimum wage due in April, which were announced in the Budget.
Mr Bailey said policymakers have been left with a puzzle, as the fall in Britain’s GDP comes despite an increase in the population.
He said: “We’ve got more population, we’ve got more labour force and we’ve got the same output. 
“You can only conclude then that you’ve got low productivity.”
He added that it would be “very unusual” if negative productivity persisted.
                     06 Feb 2025-01:21PM GMT                   
                     Bailey ‘concerned’ about impact of inflation on cost of living                   
The Governor of the Bank of England said he accepts the cost of living and inflation are different concepts as he warned of an impending “bump in the road” on the pace of price rises.
Andrew Bailey said he did not expect upcoming increases in energy prices to have “a lasting effect”.
He said: “It does concern me that the impacts of these one off effects do impact the cost of living.”
Deputy governor Sir Dave Ramsden said the “gradual reduction in rates will support the mortgage market”.
He added that policymakers think the housing market “is picking up”.
                     06 Feb 2025-01:11PM GMT                   
                     Bailey: Tariff impact on inflation ‘ambiguous’                   
Tariffs pose an “ambiguous” threat to inflation, Andrew Bailey has said days after Donald Trump imposed import taxes on China and stoked fears about a global trade war.
The Governor of the Bank of England said that “if there were to be tariffs that contributed to a fragmentation of the world economy then that would be negative for growth in the world economy”,
He said the effects on inflation “are much more ambiguous”.
He said how inflation changes would depend on the reaction of other countries to tariffs, the redirection of trade and the movements of exchange rates.
Mr Bailey said: “You can’t make a clear and unambiguous prediction on what would happen to inflation because it depends on a lot of things.”
                     06 Feb 2025-01:04PM GMT                   
                     Bailey ‘very strong supporter’ of Reeves’s growth plans                   
Andrew Bailey said he is a supporter of the Chancellor’s long-term growth plans announced last week but that it would take time for the strategy to come through in its economic growth projections.
He said: “I am a very strong supporter of the growth agenda of this Government and what the previous government had.
“Growth rate in the UK has been low since the financial crisis-addressing those questions is critical, so I very strongly agree with the Chancellor.
“Structural policies take time to come through.
“As we are looking at a two to three year horizon, you wouldn’t expect that to come through quickly.
“But that does not mean it doesn’t matter and won’t have a positive impact.”
                     06 Feb 2025-01:01PM GMT                   
                     Bond market upheaval a ‘reaction to fiscal perceptions’                   
Andrew Bailey acknowledged that there was “quite a UK contribution” to the upheaval in bond markets last month, which raised concerns about Rachel Reeves’s ability to meet her fiscal rules.
The Governor of the Bank of England said the subsequent move downwards in bond yields “has been lead by the US”.
Deputy governor Sir Dave Ramsden acknowledged there had been a change in bond markets which was a “reaction to fiscal perceptions or inflation”.
However, he said UK gilt markets “have been operating in an orderly way”.
                     06 Feb 2025-12:57PM GMT                   
                     Inflation pressures have fallen more slowly than expected, says Bailey                   
A short-term pick-up in inflation “introduces further uncertainty” in the longer-term outlook for price rises, said Bank of England governor Andrew Bailey.
He said heightened energy prices will contribute to a higher peak in headline inflation forecasts for this year, hitting 3.7pc in late summer.
He said some domestic inflationary pressures “remain” and may have fallen more slowly last year than initially expected.
Mr Bailey added: “We can, however, be reasonably confident that the pick-up in inflation will be temporary.”
                     06 Feb 2025-12:53PM GMT                   
                     Bailey: Consumers are holding back spending                   
Governor of the Bank of England Andrew Bailey said: “Metrics of business and consumer confidence have deteriorated over recent months, and contacts of the Bank’s agents report that consumers are more price conscious and holding back on spending.
“This is consistent with a slowdown in demand.
“Equally, the disinflation process has been slow too and both services price inflation and pay growth remain at elevated levels.”
                     06 Feb 2025-12:52PM GMT                   
                     Bank of England halves growth forecast in blow to Rachel Reeves                   
The Bank of England has cut its 2025 growth forecast in half and warned that Rachel Reeves’s record tax raid risks driving unemployment far higher than expected.
Officials believe the economy will barely avoid recession as the Bank cut interest rates by 0.25 percentage points to 4.5pc, with two officials calling for even steeper reductions.
The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) that sets interest rates said the economy probably shrank by 0.1pc in the wake of  , and would barely grow in the first three months of this year.
Read how Threadneedle Street . 
                     06 Feb 2025-12:47PM GMT                   
                     Global and domestic uncertainty pose risk to inflation, says Bailey                   
Andrew Bailey said it was important to take a gradual and careful approach to cutting interest rates as there were risks to inflation on both sides.
The Governor of the Bank of England said there was “greater uncertainty in the current environment” which he said was “both domestic and global”.
He said there had been an increase in labour supply but no change in GDP so “productivity has got much worse”.
He said there is “a lot of uncertainty around the true position here”.
He added there was also “global uncertainty”, days after Donald Trump triggered a trade war by imposing tariffs on China.
He said: “We are all witnessing it from day to day. There is heightened uncertainty. It is two sided.”
                     06 Feb 2025-12:44PM GMT                   
                     Growth driven by public sector, says Bank of England                   
In a stark warning, the Bank of England said growth over the past year had almost entirely been driven by the public sector, as it suggested that weak productivity growth was partly to blame for the economy’s dire performance.
It said: “One contributing factor to weakness in measured productivity may be the increasing share of employment accounted for by areas where the public sector is the predominant employer such as education, health and public administration.”
                     06 Feb 2025-12:42PM GMT                   
                     Bank expects ‘bumps’ in road to bring down inflation                   
The Governor of the Bank of England has said there will be “bumps” in the road to bring down inflation.
Andrew Bailey said: “We expect to be able to cut the Bank rate further as the disinflation process continues.
“But we will have to judge meeting by meeting how far and how fast.
“We live in an uncertain world and the road ahead will have bumps.
“We expect inflation to increase this year, to a peak of about 3.7pc before returning to the 2pc targets. We will set the Bank rate to ensure that it does so sustainably.”
                     06 Feb 2025-12:37PM GMT                   
                     Bailey: Inflation hit by ‘temporary factors’ in near term                   
Andrew Bailey said near term inflation had been driven by “short-term influences” ahead of the rise in the minimum wage and national insurance coming into force in April.
He said wage growth “remains an important factor” in determining monetary policy.
                     06 Feb 2025-12:35PM GMT                   
                     Rate cut is badly needed, say unions                   
The head of the Trades Union Congress (TUC) urged the Bank of England to “keep moving” with further cuts to interest rates to support households and businesses.
TUC general secretary Paul Nowak said: “This rate cut is badly needed to help lift the economy out of stagnation.
“The Bank must now keep moving with further cuts to support households and businesses in the months ahead.
“Lower borrowing costs will ease pressures on households, helping families with their weekly budgets and leaving them with more to spend. And it will make it more affordable for businesses to invest and grow.”
                     06 Feb 2025-12:33PM GMT                   
                     Bailey: We will judge how far to cut rates meeting by meeting                   
Andrew Bailey, the Governor of the Bank of England, said policymakers “have been able to take another step to make monetary policy less restrictive”, which would be “welcome news for many”.
He said it would be up to policymakers “to judge meeting by meeting by how far and how fast” they can cut borrowing costs further.
                     06 Feb 2025-12:30PM GMT                   
                     FTSE 100 lurches to fresh record as more rate cuts expected                   
The FTSE 100 has surged to fresh record levels after the Bank of England signalled that more interest rate cuts are on the way.
The UK’s flagship stock market was last up 1.6pc today to 8,760.92 as two members of the MPC voted for half a percentage point reductions in borrowing costs.
It sent the value of the pound sharply lower, boosting the earnings potential for companies on the internationally-focused index.
                     06 Feb 2025-12:24PM GMT                   
                     Government borrowing costs drop amid rate cut hopes                   
The cost of government borrowing has dropped after the Bank of England signalled more interest rate cuts are on the way.
The 10-year gilt yield-a benchmark for government borrowing-fell six basis points to 4.38pc.
The two-year UK yield, which is more sensitive to rate expectations, was down by the same amount to 4.09pc.
The moves have more than wiped out the surge in borrowing costs last month which raised concerns about Chancellor Rachel Reeves’s ability to meet her fiscal rules.
                     06 Feb 2025-12:20PM GMT                   
                     Rate cut ‘obvious choice’ amid weakening growth, say economists                   
Bank of England staff now believe the economy will expand by just 0.75pc this year, down from a projection of 1.5pc just three months ago.
Thomas Pugh, economist at leading audit, tax and consulting firm RSM UK, said: “It’s no surprise that the MPC chose to cut interest rates to 4.5pc. 
“The collapse in growth at the end of last year and apparent sharp slowdown in the labour market made that the obvious choice today. However, the path forward will be much more difficult for the MPC to navigate.
“Both the hike in employment costs imposed by the budget and the looming threat of either direct tariffs on the UK or a global trade war, or both, are stagflationary. Survey data suggests that firms are being much more aggressive in passing though rising costs than the OBR had assumed, which will push up inflation.
“At the same time, growth has proved to be much weaker than expected and survey data at least suggests growth will remain tepid. That leaves the MPC in a particularly awkward spot. It will want to cut interest rates to support medium term growth, but will be restrained by rising inflation. We still see a relatively cautious path of three more rate cuts this year, but the risks are rising which could impact the frequency of cuts throughout the year.”
                     06 Feb 2025-12:17PM GMT                   
                     Disastrous Budget will mean fewer rate cuts, says Stride                   
Shadow chancellor Mel Stride said the Budget meant there would be fewer rate cuts this year than previously expected.
As the Bank of England cut interest rates from 4.75pc to 4.5pc, he said: “This will be welcome news for many families and businesses who have been hit hard by Labour’s mismanagement. 
Sadly their disastrous Budget is likely to mean fewer rate cuts this year than previously anticipated.“Under new Leadership, the Conservatives will back business and our nation of entrepreneurs to create jobs and wealth. That is the only way to grow our economy so everyone can have a more secure future.”
                     06 Feb 2025-12:15PM GMT                   
                     Reeves: I am not satisfied with our growth rate                   
The Chancellor said she is “not satisfied” with the level of growth in Britain’s economy after the Bank of England cut its forecast for Britain’s economy next year.
Rachel Reeves said: 
                     06 Feb 2025-12:12PM GMT                   
                     Traders bet on four interest rate cuts this year                    
Money markets indicate that traders think it is likely there will be another three interest rate cuts this year after the Bank of England cut borrowing costs today.
                     06 Feb 2025-12:07PM GMT                   
                     Bailey: Gradual and careful approach to rate cuts                   
The Governor of the Bank of England said policymakers would take a “gradual and careful approach” to interest rate cuts.
Andrew Bailey said: “It will be welcome news to many that we have been able to cut interest rates again today. 
“We’ll be monitoring the UK economy and global developments very closely and taking a gradual and careful approach to reducing rates further. 
“Low and stable inflation is the foundation of a healthy economy and it’s the Bank of England’s job to ensure that.”
                     06 Feb 2025-12:06PM GMT                   
                     Pound sinks as policymakers hint at more rate cuts                   
The value of the pound dropped more sharply after the Bank of England signalled more interest rate cuts are on the way.
Sterling was down 1pc against the dollar to $1.238 and down 0.6pc versus the euro, which is worth 83.7p.
It comes after two members of the Monetary Policy Committee voted for a greater half a percentage point cut in interest rates.
                     06 Feb 2025-12:02PM GMT                   
                     Bank votes 7-2 for rate cut                   
Two of the Bank of England’s policymakers voted for a heavier half a percentage point cut to interest rates.
The Monetary Policy Committee was split 7-2 in favour of a drop from 4.75pc to 4.5pc.
                     06 Feb 2025-12:00PM GMT                   
                     Bank of England cuts interest rates to 20-month low                   
The Bank of England has cut interest rates as Britain’s economy faces pressure from weak growth and persistent inflation.
Policymakers voted to reduce the Bank Rate from 4.75pc to 4.5pc-its lowest level since June 2023-in the wake of official figures showing inflation fell unexpectedly to 2.5pc last month.
It is the third time borrowing costs have been cut since last summer and is a boost for Chancellor Rachel Reeves, who needs growth in Britain’s economy to help her meet her self-imposed fiscal rules.
It comes as closely watched surveys showed that in January the UK’s dominant services sector cut jobs at the fastest pace in four years, while Britain’s construction sector activity fell unexpectedly for the first time in nearly a year.
A burgeoning tariff trade war between the US and China, the world’s two largest economies, poses further risks to growth.
                     06 Feb 2025-11:54AM GMT                   
                     Markets await interest rate announcement                   
Just a few minutes to go before the Bank of England announces its next decision on interest rates.
The pound was last down 0.6pc against the dollar to $1.242 in anticipation that policymakers will cut rates from 4.75pc to 4.5pc.
It has helped push the FTSE 100 to a new record high today. It was last up 1.1pc to 8,720.38.
                     06 Feb 2025-11:42AM GMT                   
                     Borrowing costs reverse course ahead of rate decision                   
UK bond yields have reversed course and are falling in the run-up to the expected cut in interest rates.
The 10-year gilt yield-a benchmark for government borrowing costs-has edged down nearly two basis points to 4.42pc, having been in the red earlier.
The two-year UK yield, which is more sensitive to interest rate changes-was down two basis points to 4.12pc, with all of its European peers higher so far today.
                     06 Feb 2025-11:38AM GMT                   
                     The FTSE 100 is at record highs – so why is London’s stock market dying?                   
The FTSE 100 has started the year with a bang, hitting its second all-time high of 2025 this morning, surging past 8,700 points at the open, writes Charlottle Gifford. 
It had broken its previous record high just last month, closing above 8,500 points for the first time in January.
This follows an undeniably strong year for the index of Britain’s biggest companies, which gained about 6pc in 2024 and reached a previous record high of 8,445 points last May.
But the recent rise may have left some investors scratching their heads – if the   then why do experts say the London stock market is trapped in a “doom loop”?
. 
                     06 Feb 2025-11:21AM GMT                   
                     Price pressures in UK too high to avoid rate cuts, say analysts                   
Price pressures and wage growth in Britain’s economy are too high for the Bank of England to avoid cutting interest rates, according to analysts.
Interest rates in the UK are among the highest in the world’s wealthier economies at 4.75pc, as policymakers try to balance stimulating economic growth with taming persistent inflation.
Gustav Helgesson of SEB said: “Domestic price pressures remain too high and wage growth in particular is at uncomfortable levels for the Bank of England, at the same time, growth has slowed.
“We expect the policy rate to be cut gradually three more times during 2025.”
                     06 Feb 2025-11:06AM GMT                   
                     Pound slumps further as traders bet on rate cut                   
The value of the pound dropped further as traders increased bets on the Bank of England cutting interest rates this year.
Sterling was 0.7pc lower against the dollar to $1.242 and 0.3pc weaker versus the euro, which is worth 83.4p.
It comes as the Bank of England prepares to publish its latest forecasts for growth and inflation in the UK.
Money markets indicate that policymakers will cut interest rates three times this year.
Fiona Cincotta of City Index said: “A dovish-sounding Bank of England could pull the pound lower, boosting multinationals on the FTSE as they benefit from a more favourable exchange rate.
“Meanwhile, domestic firms of the FTSE may also get a helping hand higher the prospect of lower borrowing costs.”
                     06 Feb 2025-10:48AM GMT                   
                     Fewer mortgages in arrears ahead of expected rate cut                   
The number of homeowners having their property repossessed increased towards the end of 2024, but mortgage arrears now appear to be on a “confirmed downward trend,” according to a banking and finance industry body.
UK Finance said 1,030 homeowner-mortgaged properties were repossessed in the fourth quarter of 2024, which was 12pc higher than in the previous quarter and 54pc higher than the same period a year earlier.
Meanwhile, 700 buy-to-let mortgaged properties were repossessed in the fourth quarter of 2024, which was unchanged from the previous quarter and 30pc higher than the same period a year earlier.
The figures come as mortgage holders keenly await the Bank of England’s next move on interest rates and its forecasts for the UK economy and inflation.
The overall proportion of mortgages in arrears remains low, UK Finance said, at 1.06pc of homeowner mortgages and 0.65pc of buy-to-let mortgages.
Some 92,170 homeowner mortgages were in arrears of 2.5pc or more of the outstanding balance in the fourth quarter of 2024-2pc fewer than both the previous quarter and the fourth quarter of 2023.
Charles Roe, director of mortgages at UK Finance, said: “Lenders offer a range of support to anyone worried about their finances. 
“If you’re worried about your finances, please reach out to your lender as soon as possible to discuss the help available. Doing so won’t affect your credit score.”
                     06 Feb 2025-10:26AM GMT                   
                     Higher interest rates hit construction sector, say economists                   
Britain’s construction sector output slumped for the first time in nearly a year after a surge in borrowing costs, economists have said.
The S&P Global construction purchasing managers’ index (PMI) showed a decline in activity in commercial, housing and civil engineering businesses in January.
At the same time, Britain’s bond markets faced upheaval, with the cost of government borrowing surging amid concerns about Rachel Reeves’s ability to meet her fiscal rules.
The 10-year gilt yield briefly reached 4.9pc in the middle of January, the highest since 2008, while the 30-year gilt yield hit levels last seen in 1998.
Matthew Pointon of Capital Economics said: “The most plausible cause of that contraction in activity is higher interest rates. 
“Not only would that raise the cost of development financing, but it also increases the risk of falls in both house prices and commercial capital values. 
“That helps explain why the new orders balance fell from 52.9 in December to 47.4 in January, the lowest reading since November 2023.
“But more recently interest rates have been falling back, with the 10-year gilt yield now at around 4.5pc. 
“We expect rates will continue to decline, which should support commercial construction activity. And as mortgage rates ease, we think housing transactions will see a decent recovery which will help housing starts rise from 110,000 in 2024 to around 160,000 by 2026.”
                     06 Feb 2025-10:06AM GMT                   
                     Construction activity slumps amid growing signs of weakening economy                   
Britain’s construction sector activity fell unexpectedly for the first time in nearly a year as economic uncertainty weighed on the industry, according to new figures.
Bosses said cost inflation accelerated to a 21-month high in January just as they grappled with a renewed downturn in order books, according to the S&P Global construction purchasing managers’ index (PMI).
The index showed a reading of 48.1 in January, down sharply from 53.3 in December and the first result signalling a contraction since February 2024.
The Bank of England is expected to cut interest rates later today amid growing signs of weakeness in Britain’s economy.
Tim Moore, economics director at S&P Global, said the construction sector had been hit by “gloomy economic prospects, elevated borrowing costs and weak client confidence”.
He added: “New orders decreased at the fastest pace since November 2023 amid many reports of delayed decision-making by clients.
“Reduced workloads, combined with concerns about the general UK economic outlook, led to a dip in business activity expectations to the lowest for 15 months.”
                     06 Feb 2025-09:49AM GMT                   
                     AstraZeneca drives surge in FTSE 100                   
AstraZeneca was the biggest driver of gains on the FTSE 100 after it revealed better than expected sales and profits in the final three months of last year.
The drugs giant, which is the most valuable company on the index, surged by 5pc after it revealed a 24pc rise in sales of oncology treatments-those used for cancer patients.
Meanwhile, it saw pre-tax profits rise by 26pc to a stronger-than-predicted $8.7bn (£7bn) for the year.
The miner Anglo American also pushed the FTSE 100 higher with gains of 4.2pc as its fourth quarter copper production beat expectations.
Engineering firm IMI slumped 2.2pc to the bottom of the index after it revealed it has been hit by a cyber attack just a week after rival Smiths Group said hackers had gained access to its global systems.
                     06 Feb 2025-09:28AM GMT                   
                     Rising unemployment will make Bank of England cut rates, says JP Morgan                   
Unemployment in Britain is rising faster than official data suggest, according to one of Wall Street’s biggest banks, which has predicted interest rates will continue to fall gradually this year.
JP Morgan said it had developed its own analysis of Britain’s labour market which showed employment growth “has weakened further and is now close to stagnation” following the tax rises announced in the Budget.
The Office for National Statistics has cautioned that its employment data   as it struggles to get enough people to respond to its surveys. 
It said Britain’s unemployment rate edged up from 4.3pc to 4.4pc in the three months to November.
JO Morgan economist Allan Monks said: “It remains hard to assess what labour supply is doing, but our analysis suggests the unemployment rate could now be rising at an annual pace of 0.5 percentage points. 
“A loosening labour market will encourage the Bank of England to continue lowering rates gradually, but a clearer break would be required to prompt faster cuts.”
                     06 Feb 2025-09:03AM GMT                   
                     FTSE 100 hits record high as traders bet on interest rate cut                   
The FTSE 100 has risen to a record high as traders bet that the Bank of England will cut interest rates today.
Britain’s flagship stock market has surged by 1.1pc to 8,720.07 as money markets pulled forward bets on further reductions in borrowing costs.
Traders are betting that the Monetary Policy Committee will cut interest rates three times before the end of the year, with a third cut by September.
The Bank of England will set out its forecasts later for British growth and inflation.
The midcap FTSE 250 jumped 0.8pc to 20,918.80 in early trading.
                     06 Feb 2025-08:50AM GMT                   
                     Traders bet on three rate cuts this year                   
Traders are betting that the Bank of England will cut interest rates three times before the end of the year.
Money markets indicate that after the expected rate cut today, a second reduction will happen by June and a third by September.
Just a week ago, traders had only priced in two cuts as the threat of tariffs from Donald Trump’s administration loomed over markets.
Peder Beck-Friis, economist at bond trader Pimco, said there was “room for deeper cuts than what financial markets expect”.
He said: “Trade uncertainty is rising, labour demand is falling, fiscal policy is tight, and the policy rate is well above our neutral estimate of 2-3pc.
“While inflation will likely rise in the coming quarters, the main driver — the national insurance hike — is a one-time tax shock that central banks typically look through. 
“If wage growth falls and the labour market weakens, we expect the Monetary Policy Committee to look through any short-term price pressures and instead focus on the medium-term outlook.”
                     06 Feb 2025-08:37AM GMT                   
                     Government borrowing costs edge higher                   
Government borrowing costs have edged higher ahead of the Bank of England’s latest interest rate decision, where policymakers will set out their latest forecasts for British growth and inflation.
The 10-year gilt yield-the benchmark for government borrowing-edged up two basis points to 4.45pc amid broad rises across Europe.
Germany’s 10-year bond yield, the benchmark for the eurozone, rose just under two basis points to 2.38pc after hitting 2.35pc the day before, its lowest since January 2.
Borrowing costs have fallen this week amid concerns that potential US tariffs could have a deflationary effect on the European economy, which could prompt the ECB to cut rates further and faster.
                     06 Feb 2025-08:22AM GMT                   
                     OBR is delivering its grim verdict to Reeves – can Andrew Bailey rescue her?                   
Rachel Reeves is bracing herself for an economic growth downgrade.
Britain’s tax and spending watchdog has already told the Chancellor that  , delivering its first verdict on the outlook for the economy on Tuesday.
The question is, will Reeves have to announce more emergency measures to balance the books and get debt down?
                     06 Feb 2025-08:08AM GMT                   
                     UK markets jump amid hopes for rate cuts                   
Stock markets in London opened higher as traders priced in a rate cut by the Bank of England today.
The FTSE 100 rose 0.7pc to 8,683.98 as it was also helped by relief that Donald Trump has not yet extended his tariff trade war.
The midcap FTSE 250 gained 0.5pc to 20,868.08.
                     06 Feb 2025-07:56AM GMT                   
                     Bank of England to ‘walk a tightrope’ on further rate cuts                   
Chris Arcari, an analyst at Hymans Robertson, said the Bank of England will have to “walk a tightrope” when it comes to more rate cuts later this year.
He said that while the economy currently leaves space for a “modest reduction”, the Bank will likely “adopt cautious messaging” about the future.
It comes as businesses grapple with rising costs as a result of policies announced at the October Budget.
Chancellor Rachel Reeves raised national insurance contributions for companies in October, which she said would give the Government more money to spend on public services like the NHS.
But businesses have complained it is pushing up costs and will force them to pass on price rises to consumers, stoking inflation.
Matthew Ryan, an analyst at Ebury, said that with economic growth stagnating but inflation rising, the Bank “will have to make a judgment call about which risk is likely to dominate over the course of the year”.
                     06 Feb 2025-07:42AM GMT                   
                     Pound falls ahead of interest rate decision                   
The value of the pound has fallen in anticipation of the next interest rate decision by the Bank of England.
Sterling was down 0.2pc against the dollar to $1.248 and fell 0.1pc versus the euro to 83.3p as traders priced in a rate cut from 4.75pc to 4.5pc at lunchtime.
The pound touched a one-month high against the dollar on Wednesday as investors calculated that Britain is likely to be shielded from the worst of Donald Trump’s tariff trade war.
The UK currency has been bouncing back from over one-year lows of $1.217 hit in January amid turmoil in bond markets and concerns that low growth and rising debt costs would mean Rachel Reeves would not be able to meet her fiscal rules.
The Bank of England announces its latest forecasts for growth and inflation today.
                     06 Feb 2025-07:32AM GMT                   
                     First rate decision since bond market turmoil                   
The Bank of England will be making its first interest rate decision since the bond market upheaval last month that sent the cost of long-term government borrowing to its highest level since 1998.
Unusually, the surge in bond yields-the return the Government promises to buyers of its debt-came at the same time as a drop in value of the pound.
It came as investors were concerned that rising debt costs would mean Chancellor Rachel Reeves would be unable to balance the public finances and meet her fiscal rules.
Jim Reid, an analyst at Deutsche Bank, said: “At the height of the pound’s slump, there had been speculation about whether the Bank of England would cut at all at this meeting. 
“However, since the downside surprise in the latest CPI release, market expectations have converged around another 25 basis point rate cut. 
“For today, our UK economist is expecting an 8-1 vote in favour of a rate cut, but expects them to retain as much flexibility as possible.”
                     06 Feb 2025-07:30AM GMT                   
                     Traders predict interest rates to be cut to 20-month low                   
The Bank of England is expected to cut interest rates to their lowest level in more than 18 months amid weak British growth and falling inflation.
Traders are predicting that policymakers will reduce borrowing costs in the wake of official figures which showed inflation unexpectedly fell to 2.5pc last month. 
The Bank Rate is expected to be reduced from 4.75pc to 4.5pc, which would be the third reduction since last summer.
Interest rates were lifted to 5.25pc to combat soaring inflation, which hit 11.1pc in October 2022 after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine triggered an energy crisis. 
However, policymakers are expected to lower borrowing costs amid concerns about growth in Britain’s economy and rising jobs cuts.
A closely watched survey on Wednesday showed jobs in the UK’s dominant services sector were being lost at the fastest pace in four years last month.
Meanwhile, a burgeoning tariff trade war between the US and China, the world’s two largest economies, poses further risks to growth.
Kathleen Brooks, research director at XTB, said: “The Bank of England is likely to justify the move, even though inflation remains above target, due to a sluggish economy and a softening in the labour market in recent months.” 
                     06 Feb 2025-07:12AM GMT                   
                     Good morning                   
Thanks for joining me. The Bank of England is widely expected to cut interest rates amid weak economic growth and declining inflation.
At its first rate meeting of the year, policymakers are forecast to reduce borrowing costs by a quarter of a percentage point from 4.75pc to 4.5pc.
It comes as UK GDP flatlined in the third quarter, with monthly contractions in September and October followed by a 0.1pc growth in November.
                     5 things to start your day                   
  | Tribunal ruled against Lloyds after it claimed tax relief when it quit Ireland                                                  | Britain can prove it is a ‘predictable country for investors’ by re-issuing permits, says energy giant                                                  | A Trump-fuelled shift around diversity initiatives is making its way across the pond                                                  | Quarter of Dublin’s goods exports are at risk from US president’s plans to tax EU imports                                                  | Burden of bureaucracy means food crosses the Irish Sea at sloth-like speed                                        
                     What happened overnight                   
Asian shares were trading mostly higher Thursday, after a Wall Street rally that followed profit reports from major companies.
Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 gained closed up 0.6pc to 39,066.53. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 surged 1.2pc to 8,520.70.
South Korea’s Kospi edged up 0.7pc to 2,526.87. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng rose 0.8pc to 20,753.87, while the Shanghai Composite added 1pc to 3,260.49.
On Wall Street, the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 0.7pc, to 44,873.28, the S&P 500 rose 0.4pc, to 6,061.48, and the Nasdaq Composite rose 0.2pc, to 19,692.33.
In the bond market, the yield on benchmark 10-year US Treasury notes fell to 4.428pc, from 4.513pc late on Tuesday.

Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
