




Fox News FOX HANNITY 9:00 PM EST
February 24, 2025 Monday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7484 words
Byline: Sean Hannity
Guests: Karoline Leavitt, Tammy Bruce, Kristi Noem, Vivek Ramaswamy, Dave McCormick, Dina Powell McCormick
Body


SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS HOST: And welcome to "Hannity".
And tonight, President Trump's effort to secure your border is working. On Saturday, border crossings, they dropped to the lowest level in 15 years. Department of Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem brings us the very latest in just a moment.
Also, it is official, Vivek Ramaswamy, he has now launched his campaign for governor in the great state of Ohio, the Buckeye State. You don't want to miss out our interview with him coming up.
But, first, President Trump continues to work at record-breaking speed. He's showing no signs of slowing down at all. Earlier today, he hosted French President Emmanuel Macron for a meeting at the White House where the two addressed a number of topics and also expressed optimism about resolving the war between Russia and Ukraine.
Let's take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I've been elected by the American people to restore common sense to Washington and indeed to the world and I believe strongly that -- it's in the best interest of the United States, the best interest in Europe, the best interest of Ukraine and indeed the best interest of Russia to stop the killing now, and bring the world to peace. When I got here, one of the first calls I made was to President Putin and we were treated with great respect, and they want to -- they want to end this war. So that's a big thing.
I will be meeting with President Zelenskyy. In fact, he may come in this week or next week to sign the agreement and which would be nice. I -- I'd love to meet him, would meet at the Oval Office. So the agreement's being worked on now. They're very close to a final deal, it'll be a deal with rare earths and various other things.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: All right. President Trump also continues to score big wins on the economy. Remember, the left, the media -- media mob spent months and months and months spewing doom and gloom predictions about Donald Trump and his proposed tariffs which are now reciprocal tariffs. They tariff us, okay, we'll tariff you back. OK, what -- what -- what arena do you want to play in?
Well, guess what? In response to President Trump's proposed tariffs, this morning, a huge announcement from Apple, a historic $500 billion doll investment in U.S. manufacturing and innovation. The CEO of Apple Tim Cook says he is bullish on the future of American innovation. This one deal is expected to create tens of thousands of new jobs and a new manufacturing plant in Texas, God bless Texas.
Now, let me say this by the way on the issue of tariffs in Canada. There's a movement was in today's "New York Post", that Canadians might be boycotting the United States. Now, I have a message to Canada, too. If you don't appreciate everything the U.S. has been doing for your national defense and we've been paying the freight for NATO that you've not been paying and that has helped your economy, and if you want to boo our national anthem because we call you out for not securing your border or the fact that you have tariffs on our country, it's not going to fly anymore. Friendships have got to work both ways.
In Canada, you have a population of a little over 41 million people and the U.S. has over 340 million people. Now, I'm just saying, I've never supported or boycott my entire career but if this boycott America movement from Canada gets legs, then maybe I'll do something I've never done before in my career. Maybe we can start and support a boycott movement of Canada. Let's put the ball back in your court. You might want to rethink this idea. It's better off if we're friends.
And while President Trump secures massive investments in the U.S., Elon Musk and DOGE continue to identify and eliminate waste, fraud, abuse and corruption right here at home, an effort that J.P. Morgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon says needs to be done since the government is, quote, inefficient. That's stating the obvious.
According to one former DOD insider, DOGE is sending, quote, shock waves through the pentagon and over at the EPA, another $67 million of your money in grants for leftwing groups pushing Joe Biden's radical environmental justice mandate. That's gone.
And over the weekend, FOX News learned that border patrol had now taken control -- you got to admit this is funny -- of the former USAID headquarters in Washington dc after Elon Musk and DOGE exposed the tens of billions of dollars the organi -- of that organization's wasteful spending. Great, that's money for our kids and grandkids to pay down our debt create the new generation of weaponry, including an Iron Dome for the country, secure our borders, become energy dominant, bring back law and order, not a bad agenda, better alternative.
Now, despite all of the work that the president is doing to make our country a better place, oh, the mainstream, media legacy media mob and liberal political strategists and Democrats, they -- they just don't get it, or they don't want to get it. That's why you're seeing yet another reconfiguration of the mainstream media and people no longer trust them.
Ask yourself, do you really think it's an accident that Chuck Todd, Andrea Mitchell, Norah O'Donnell, Joy Reid, Alex Wagner, all pushed either out the door or taking on reduced roles? Ask yourself. In another example last week, we tried to have a conversation with our old friend James Carville.
Now, to me, he's always been more reasonable as a Democrat. Remember, Bill Clinton, Al Gore, they talked a lot about ending waste fraud and abuse but frankly the conversation was more than frustrating. We went back and forth about various numbers and then he said to fact check them.
All right. So we're going to do just that. On the issue, he kept saying lowest poll numbers ever anybody president modern history, not true. Got it wrong. According to the new Harvard/Harris poll just out this very day, President Trump approval rating is 52 percent, nine points above water.
The poll found that voters are now more optimistic about the direction of the country since the Trump administration took over. And on every major issue, they support the Trump agenda despite the disaster Biden left behind, 38 percent now say the economy is on the right track which is 10 points higher than it was only last month. In fact, President Trump is outperforming Biden on handling every key issue, including immigration, the economy, inflation, foreign affairs. He is in the 60s and 70s when it comes to government waste, fraud and abuse, and reducing the cost of government and returning all that money to you and returning America to a position of strength on the world stage.
On the issue of DOGE, a whopping 77 percent of respondents think that we are in need of a full examination of all government expenditures. Ah, guess James was wrong.
But it's not just Harvard/Harris. President Trump is above water in the latest Rasmussen tracking poll. The latest RMG research poll, President Trump's approval rating is nine points above water, sitting at 53 percent.
In that interview with James Carville, he mentioned the latest CBS poll. He claimed Trump was below 50 percent. That is not true either. In his most recent poll with them, his approval rating was 53 percent.
And more importantly, look at support for the agenda, over 80 percent in the CBS poll supporting -- support deport - deporting criminal illegal aliens, 76 percent support a full-scale effort to eliminate waste and fraud, 76 percent support closing the border, nearly 70 percent support keeping men and out of women's sports, and declaring there are only two genders, 65 percent support ending race-based hiring in government, 63 percent support of freeze and re-evaluation of foreign aid, 61 percent support reciprocal tariffs, 60 percent support direct negotiations with Russia to end the war in Ukraine, nearly 60 percent support cutting government spending and ending the ban on new offshore drilling.
On the deficit, Carville was wrong again. He wanted to be fact checked. There was more deficit accumulated under President Trump's first term than under any other president in history he said. Okay, wrong, James. Let's look at the numbers.
Under President Trump, the accumulated deficit over four years, more than $2 trillion less than it was under Joe Biden. Now, if you take out the fiscal years 2020 and 2021, in other words, the two COVID years, unnaturally high debt accumulated. The total deficit accumulated under Biden was more than double that under Trump.
James Carville also talked about USAID and downplayed the tens of billions of dollars of waste in that organization, all for radical leftwing causes and what it would do. But DOGE's work is extended far beyond just USAID, they've terminated nearly $900 million in contracts over $100 million in DEI training grants at the Department of Education, a quarter of a billion dollars in climate and DEI projects and much more, and they're just getting started.
You know, if the radical left Democrats and corrupt media, if they want their agenda to be one of men's rights to play women's sports and putting the rights of illegal immigrants over the safety of the American people and spending hundreds of billions of dollars abroad on the green new deal DEI woke transgender agenda -- well, they picked the wrong hill in my view politically to die on. I'm fine with it if that's where they want to be.
The left does not want to talk about Donald Trump's accomplishments. They don't want to talk about waste, fraud and abuse, going in on in our government and that's what they consider a constitutional crisis.
You know, the problem with the left today if you're asking why all these Trump haters are falling by the wayside, all over the corrupt state run legacy media mob it's because they simply hate Trump and desperately want him to fail. If he fails, the country fails, and this reshuffling strategy of these networks, you know, you're reshuffling the decks of the Titanic, it's not going to work for them.
People have too many choices, too many alternatives and moving forward, I can tell you that you better tell the people truth like Joe's cognitive state, like the border was not -- never secure, like inflation was never transitory.
Breaking tonight, a judge has sided with the Trump administration and is not overturning their ban on the "AP", in the White House press pool. And the White House released a statement following the ruling it said in part, quote, as we have said from the beginning, asking the president of the United States questions in the Oval Office in aboard Air Force One is a privilege granted to journalists, not a legal right.
All right. It's now time for our "Hannity" Washington briefing. We welcome back, White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt is with us.
You know, the "AP" deal is a big deal to me and this frankly you have reconfigured that room quite a bit and you've invited him bloggers and invited in other media that traditionally have not been there. But I would go back and say that most of the mainstream legacy media, they were wrong on FISA, they were wrong on Russia, they were wrong on the case in New York, they were wrong on pretty much everything involving Donald Trump and they never corrected themselves, did they?
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: They never did, Sean, and the winning continues here at the White House every day. Today, a federal judge right here in Washington, D.C., denied the "Associated Press's" emergency request for a temporary restraining order to rein -- restore their privilege of returning to the White House press pool, and the judge's denial of the "Associated Press's" request reinforces what I said from the podium last week and what President Trump has been saying, covering the American presidency in the most intimate and limited spaces in this White House, in the Oval Office, on the Air Force One is a privilege. It is not a legal right.
And we want all voices to have that opportunity and that's why we've expanded the James S. Brady briefing room to invite truly legitimate independent journalists, podcasters and other media types into that room to cover this president with honesty and accuracy and with real mindfulness of what the American people actually care about.
I also want to thank you tonight, Sean, for fact-checking James Carville for the lies that he pushed on your program last week. Unfortunately, James represents the deranged and out of touch Democrat Party who continue to deny the reality that this country loves Donald Trump and, in fact, President Trump is enjoying his highest approval rating from the American people than he ever has, despite the years of lies smears and witch hunts by the Democrat Party.
The Harvard/Harris poll today is incredible. When you look issue by issue, the vast majority of the American people support what President Trump is doing. You showed it, 81 percent of the American people support deporting illegal migrant criminals from our nation's communities, 77 percent of Americans support a full audit into the waste and fraud that this federal government has been spending their tax dollars on and that is the exact mission of DOGE.
So, these numbers -- these approval ratings are what you get when you have a president who actually does what he promised he was going to do and that's why the Democrats are facing their worst lowest approval rating since 2018, not even percent of the American public supports the current Democrat Party. President Trump will continue to abide by the will of the American people who elected him to this big beautiful White House behind me, and we are restoring common sense to our great country.
HANNITY: You know, I just showed this audience Harvard-Harris and where they stand on DOGE and cutting back wasteful spending. I showed CBS. All weekend long, if you look at CBS, they're not even looking at their own poll, "The New York Times", "USA Today", MSDNC, "The Washington Post", CNN, fake news, Huffington Post", "Newsweek", they all had some version, GOP lawmaker confronted by constituents, angry with the Trump Musk cuts.
It is contradicted, Karoline, by their own polls. And we're not talking about 55 percent, 78, 80 percent of the American people don't want the -- they -- they don't want their money spent this way and they don't want their children and grandchildren robbed this way, and this is what Democrats call a constitutional crisis. And this is what the media falsely reports on.
It's -- it's difficult to penetrate through that wall of, you know, frankly propaganda and lies.
LEAVITT: There are a lot of lies from the left, especially from the Democrat Party and as you said, their propagandist, and the leftwing legacy media. But the president and our administration are cutting through those lies every single day with a mega level of access and transparency to the commander-in-chief. Nearly every single day, President Trump invites journalists into the Oval Office and gives them the facts and the truth because he has that on his side. And he is doing so much accomplishing so much the mainstream media can't even cover it all.
I mean, today we had a major announcement on a Monday morning that Apple, one of the biggest companies in this world, is going to invest $500 billion right here in the United States of America and create 20,000 new jobs. America is open for business again because of the policies and the confidence that have been that has been restored across this world because of President Trump being behind the Resolute Desk..
And I just saw President Trump statement in case your audience has it from a few moments ago, he says our country is doing very well and he was just thinking about the company that was shoot away and cancelled by the Biden administration who wanted to build the Keystone XL pipeline, he is inviting them back. We want the Keystone XL pipeline built, he wants a pipeline built in the Northeast, in New England where I am from, where we have some of the highest electricity and utility rates in the country.
This is a president who is constantly thinking about how he can help the American people innovating and pushing groundbreaking ideas on every single issue, and that's again why the vast majority of Americans are seeing through the mainstream media and the Democrat Party's lives because they are seeing real results come from this administration every single day.
HANNITY: Last question -- how quickly do you think or anticipate the president will meet with President Zelenskyy and President Putin?
LEAVITT: We expect those meetings to take place very soon especially the meeting with President Zelenskyy and as the president expressed today, he wants the critical minerals and rare earth's deal signed. It is going to recoup American tax dollars for the hundreds of billions of dollars that we have paid for Ukraine's national defense. He expects President Zelenskyy to sign that deal. It's only right considering what the American taxpayers have done for Ukraine.
If it were not for the American people, Ukraine wouldn't be a country anymore. President Trump knows that and he's getting the American people what they deserve.
HANNITY: Well, and also will help them to have our partnership and us on the ground helping them --
LEAVITT: That's right.
HANNITY: -- you know, that'll give them money to rebuild their country which is a disaster right now and the killing that's happened.
LEAVITT: Exactly.
HANNITY: And, Karoline Leavitt, we appreciate it. The White House briefing with Karoline.
Also, breaking today, the State and Treasury Departments, they have reimposed maximum pressure sanctions on Iran's oil trade and earlier today, the U.S. voted against the un resolution condemning Russia for the Ukraine war.
Here with reaction, State Department spokesperson Tammy Bruce.
Listen, Tammy, everybody wants to go back to the beginning here but they don't -- they don't want to go back to the real beginning when Putin started putting his troops on the border with Ukraine and Joe Biden was asked what he's going to do about it, he said, well, it depends if it's a minor incursion, which was pretty asinine.
To me, the going back part is meaningless. If Ukraine will do a mineral deal and a deal that -- that would include no NATO, but a partnership with the U.S. and allow European troops in Ukraine, and it would also, you know, probably include some land given up on their part, they can begin the process of rebuilding their country and bringing their country men home and country women home.
TAMMY BRUCE, SPOKESPERSON FOR THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF STATE: Yes, thank you, Sean. It has been carnage. It is a war that where no one is winning. It is a war that has involved the world in one capacity or another and because of the -- of a new idea of -- of an insistence by a man who wants things done quickly, who wants things done differently in order to achieve things, Donald Trump and his idea that that you could go to the U.N., and hold it to its charter and say, we need a simple resolution that calls for peace with -- without all the other mechanisms that happened that bogged down the system.
And that's also what happened today, Sean, is the Security Council and for the first time that the U.N. has done something productive and meaningful about this raging war, passed our resolution, calling for peace, a resolution move for weeks as I've traveled with Secretary of State Marco Rubio, working tirelessly every day, not just on this issue, but so many others, with the lead and the vision of President Trump, that this is a new era, it's a new age -- there's new ways of doing this, and that includes recognizing that war does not have to be a typical normal thing in all of our lives.
We become inured to it. Trump is saying enough is enough. Marco Rubio is saying we can make the difference and make the change and this is what is shocking people, even Emanuel Macron in his visit to the White House today, the president of France noted tremendous steps were taken to understanding and being able to address the nature of what is next for Ukraine and, of course, the abandonment of Ukraine would be if this was allowed to continue and we know this.
And, of course, the president is the consummate dealmaker, but not just because it's a deal for the sake of a deal but because it's good not just for countries but the for -- for the future of humanity to see that you can do things differently and succeed. We see it with this entire administration. We see it -- yeah, I'm -- here I am -- a regular kind of anti-government person as the spokesperson for the State Department sitting in these meetings and realizing the power and the vision and the generosity in of insight with people who are helping to run this country, who've been appointed by and chosen by President Trump and the value of Marco Rubio whom we are all now getting to know in a uniquely different way has been astounding and with not even -- this week, Sean, is a month that that we've had Washington that Trump is back, that President Trump is now a North Star for the for the not just this nation.
But, for, of course, the globe. So I'm very excited and today was an excellent day. The U.N. finally did something with -- with Marco Rubio, Donald Trump's insight and vision, and we are on our way to a piece that will resonate for Ukrainians, for Russians, for Americans for everyone around the world and it's an exciting time to be doing this.
HANNITY: Yeah, and the media wants -- wants in unison, you know, name- calling at a level that's only going to create bad feelings and probably, you know, reduce any opportunity of a deal down to zero. But, by the way, we miss you. It is great to see you. I know you're working hard.
BRUCE: I'm here. Thank you. Thank you.
HANNITY: And we appreciate you coming. All right, Tammy.
BRUCE: Thank you, sir.
HANNITY: When we come back, all right, the good news just keeps coming. Border crossings dropped to a 15-year low. We'll tell you all about it, thanks to President Trump's policy and policies, and Department of Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem will join us next. We'll talk about that and more, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. The mainstream media mob won't report on this. So I guess it's our job.
Promises made, promises kept. President Trump has been in office just over a month and the border is being sealed shot. Today, the Department of Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem announced the Border Patrol encountered only 200 illegals at the southern border on Saturday. That would be the lowest number of a single day in terms of apprehension in over 15 years.
Also, tonight, New York City Mayor Eric Adams announced the Roosevelt Hotel migrant shelter, they are going to close that in coming months after hosting tens of thousands of illegals throughout the Biden years, and the Trump administration is reportedly considering bringing back Title 42 which will again allow for the deportation of illegals on the basis of threats to public health.
DHS is also no longer allowing illegals to use the CBP One app, the Biden app to board flights without ID unless those flights are leaving the United States and the message that the border is closed is being heard so clearly by would-be illegals right now that according to the "AP", they are literally turning around and making one of the most, well, dramatic and dangerous parts of the journey north in reverse because they know they won't be allowed in when they get here. Promises made, promises kept.
Here now with the latest, secretary of Department of Homeland Security, Kristi Noem, is with us.
Well, let's start with the good news. Tell us about Saturday.
KRISTI NOEM, SECRETARY OF DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY: Well, it's fantastic news, Sean, and a lot of fantastic news because of President Trump. You know, we only had encounters at the border when under the Biden administration on our worst day, we saw up to 15,000, 16,000 encounters. So to have that kind of a drop under President Trump is because of a change of policy, it's because of telling the world to stay away if you want to come to this country illegally, you will be stopped because America comes first. And it's because of President Trump, the fact that he is so firm and so confident and he wants to uphold the law and he follows through with consequence of people don't.
So, setting that record, the lowest number in 15 years is remarkable and the winds just keep coming because we have a president that believes in this country and he listened to the American people and he actually brought the kind of success that this country was so desperate for.
HANNITY: You're also getting help, your former state, South Dakota, Louisiana, Georgia, my home state of Florida, they are now enacting mandates that local law enforcement cooperate with federal authorities to identify and detain illegal immigrants in the U.S., and the new attorney general down here in Florida is working with Governor DeSantis, on top of Pam Bondi on the federal level going after states like Illinois and New York and I'm sure many other states to follow, that's got to help your job, I would assume.
NOEM: Oh, absolutely. When you telegraph and have the kind of partnerships that we have at the state and the local levels, it's incredible what you see for results. People know that when they break the law, what the law is, and that there will be consequences and that not just in these local cities that have been so proactive to protect their citizens but also at the state level.
We've seen incredible leadership, out of governors and attorney generals, who have stepped up and gone above and beyond to say, we listen to our people, we recognize that our communities need to be safe that we've got kids and grandkids in this country that need a future and that we're going to work and be proactive to go after these criminals. Remember, because they're so strong, Sean, we won't have to deal with families like Laken Riley's, like Jocelyn's family, that that won't lose their children with no leadership that hasn't listened and enforce the law.
The scales of justice have been balanced again. We're not putting illegals above Americans. Now, we recognize that every single person needs to be treated equally and equally under the law.
HANNITY: Are we finding -- do you have an update? Are we finding any of the people that are responsible for tipping off these gang members or cartel members that are in the country illegally and hence putting ICE officials lives in jeopardy because they lose the element of surprise.
Any update in terms of who's been tipping them off?
NOEM: Absolutely, Sean. I have found some leakers. We are continuing to get more. They will be fired. There will be consequences and remember, when they leak information to the press in order to blow one up, they are putting law enforcement lives in jeopardy. They are risking their lives and putting families in the position where they have to live without those individuals any further.
So you bet, we have used every tactic that we have, If you remember, we talked just last week about how I'm using polygraphs to go after and to really interview these folks. Because we are a national security agency, I have that tool I can use, also looking at their emails, looking at their communications, and it's amazing how these bureaucrats who have an agenda to stop the work that we're doing to bring safety to America, how they will sell each other down the river if it's just to protect themselves.
So don't worry, I am doing everything to find these leakers and to get rid of them so that we can do our work and our law enforcement officers and agents can do it safely.
HANNITY: Isn't that a crime what the -- if you're tipping off gang members about a potential ICE raid and putting their lives in jeopardy, I've got to imagine that's a violation of some code somewhere.
NOEM: Absolutely, and when they are breaking the law, we are prosecuting and holding them accountable to it. So, you know, we're -- we're not here to play games. This is about America and any law enforcement officer that serves and partners not only with the Department of Homeland Security but partners with us -- listen, we respect you. We honor the work that you do. We will take care of your family. We will take care of you and we'll go after those that threaten your lives by leaking this type of information.
HANNITY: Yeah. What do you make of Eric Adams? Now, in fairness to Mayor Adams, in the beginning, he was very sanctuary city, welcome to New York, and okay, Texas and Florida started sending illegals up to New York, and they got overwhelmed, and then he began to see the crime go up and the costs go up, and they were overwhelmed.
And he evolved in his position before the election and now, the Roosevelt Hotel is planned to be shut down and he's cooperating, isn't he?
NOEM: He is cooperating. He has been in communication with us. You know, the night before I went to New York and was involved in some of those operations that happened, we talked several times on the phone. So he's wonderful to visit with but also I need him to take stronger action, too.
The Roosevelt Hotel is going to be emptied out and I'm thankful for that. That has been a haven not just for individuals that are here illegally but for dangerous criminals. So the fact that that's going to be closed is a great and remarkable announcement by the mayor but it's because of action that we took and President Trump took to stop paying the bill for people that are here illegally and to house them for this city.
HANNITY: That will shut down them. Just take the money away.
(CROSSTALK)
NOEM: So, we're going to keep take -- we're going to keep taking -- that's right. You take the money away and it's amazing how quickly that these shelters and sanctuaries will be closed down. We're doing this to sanctuary cities, too.
If you want to protect criminal activity, well, the federal government dollars are going to stop, too.
HANNITY: All right. Last question, will Title 42 be brought back?
NOEM: Well, I believe that's something President Trump is considering and that is a measure -- he said he's going to use every tool in the toolbox. That could be one of them.
HANNITY: All right. We appreciate it.
Department of Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem, thank you.
NOEM: You bet.
HANNITY: When we come back, Vivek Ramaswamy -- well, he's made it official. He announced his bid for governor of Ohio today. He's next, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: And earlier today, Vivek Ramaswamy officially declared his candidacy for governor of the Buckeye State of Ohio during a rally in Cincinnati. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
VIVEK RAMASWAMY, OHIO GUBERNATORIAL CANDIDATE: We will lead Ohio to be the top state in the country, where we lead the way in the sectors of the future, from semiconductors to aerospace -- look at where we are today. How about this company guys? Love this in the heart of Butler County, an aerospace company leading us to the future, all the way to A.I. and the other sectors of our future.
I will lead Ohio to be the top state in the country where patriots across America actually flock to instead of Florida and Texas. I will lead Ohio to be the state of excellence in America.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: All right. Vivek Ramaswamy joins us now with more, his first interview since announcing it from -- oh, look, you already have the crowd behind you. Here we go.
Hello to everybody there. How are you?
RAMASWAMY: Thank you. They're good, Sean. They can't hear you.
HANNITY: All right. You -- you had me in the speech and still -- until you went after my state of Florida and said you're going to bury Florida and Ohio is going to be beating Florida, that you had me up to that point because I'm pretty competitive.
Tell us about what's going on.
RAMASWAMY: Look, I think it's little friendly competition between our states is a good thing, Sean. That's what federalism was built on.
I do want to lead Ohio to be the top state in the country, especially in one area that I don't think we've talked about enough, which is educational excellence even in our public schools. I want to make Ohio the first state in the country where we implement merit-based pay for teachers, principals, superintendents, so that the best teachers who should be paid more are actually paid more. But that comes at the expense of a lot of dead weight hanging around.
I want to get the cell phones out of the classroom. I want to bring back early physical education, so educational excellence I think is a core theme, especially as it relates to the achievement of our kids, Sean, and that's something we talked about tonight.
HANNITY: You know the number one public schools in the country, you know what state it is, right?
RAMASWAMY: Well, right now, it is, absolutely not Ohio. But I do think that we have to lead --
HANNITY: It's Florida.
RAMASWAMY: -- lead to the future we want to get to and look, I think that take a look at the entire country. I mean, Donald Trump was elected in a decisive mandate. He's reviving our confidence in America.
I think we need a leader here at home, Sean, who revives our conviction in Ohio.
Donald Trump was the greatest president we've had in our 21st century. Now, we need governors across the country who rise to that same occasion and lead at the state level when you think about programs in healthcare or education, what they're doing to the federal bureaucracy is beautiful but a lot of those programs are now going to move to the states and to the people.
So I do think now is a moment where we're going to require strong willed governors to lead the way and I'm excited to lead the charge here in Ohio.
HANNITY: You know, I will tell you, I -- your passion is infectious by every measure. I will tell you it is sad what has happened to the educational system in this country.
And yeah, I'm -- I'm all in favor of getting rid of the Department of Education. I'm all in favor of either vouchers a block granting the money to states. I believe local officials will do better. Parents would make better choices than somebody at the federal level.
It is -- it's such a shame that we pay more per capita per child on education and we get the worst results in the entire industrialized world. And when I hear you passionately say you're going to fix that in Ohio and fix the issue of law and order and become the -- a hub for business and innovation and technology, to me, it's just basic common sense. That -- that's why Florida does well, that's why Texas does well, that's why, you know, a lot of Republican governors have been doing well and I like the competition as well. I want -- I want to see Ohio do well, I want every state to do well.
RAMASWAMY: Yeah, exactly, and that's how our country works at its best, Sean, these are time-tested principles, smaller government, put the money back in the pockets of the people who actually live here, transparency for the taxpayer. I want everybody in Ohio to see how their money is actually being spent, from the state level to the local level to bring sunlight as the best disinfectant.
And I just think that we live in a special moment in our country, I'm as optimistic as I've ever been for our future now with president Trump in office, but we've got to take that agenda now to the next level. We've got to carry that forward to the future.
Shutting down the Department of Education is a great first step, but then we have to stand for the achievement and education of our students in math, where 75 percent of eighth graders aren't proficient in math according to international standards. There's kids in other countries where English isn't even their first language, doing better on English proficiency than our own kids here. That's unacceptable to me, Sean, as an Ohioan, as an American, as a parent.
But the good news is we're going to step up and actually fix it. I don't want to just curse the darkness. We're actually going to actually drive that positive change through action in our state. And I believe our country's best days are ahead of us and I would like Ohio as a state that led the first industrial revolution to be a state whose best days are ahead as well.
And economically speaking, I think it's something you'll understand, Sean. If Silicon Valley led the way in the American economy for the last 10 years, I want to make sure it is the Ohio River Valley for the next 10 years in the sectors of the future and that's where I'm going to lead us.
HANNITY: How do you incentivize businesses to invest all that money? I mean, listen, Texas had a really big win and I don't think if Donald Trump lost this election, that Apple would be investing $500 billion and committing $500 billion in four years and building a plant in Texas and creating tens of thousands of jobs.
I think they got the message loud and clear, bring manufacturing back to this country, create high-paying career jobs for Americans and that's all we really want, free and fair trade with our partners. We don't want to be stepped on by our partners and -- and they've taken advantage of us and we let them -- we let them do it and they have not been held accountable for it.
RAMASWAMY: Well, President Trump is holding them accountable for unfair practices and he's also leading the way --
(CROSSTALK)
HANNITY: Not until now.
RAMASWAMY: What he really needs is partners at the states who can actually do the same thing. So you asked about economic, first spring economic innovation, President Trump's doing his part, but we need to make states like Ohio zero income tax states, bring down the property taxes, cut the regulatory burden, slash the red tape, bring down the permitting timelines for energy dominance and manufacturing dominance.
So we're going to do our part. Ohio hopefully sets a standard for the rest of the country and I'm excited for what we're going to be able to achieve by moving our state and our country forward.
HANNITY: I'm just going to warn whoever you end up debating be it in the primary or the general -- good luck. I've been there myself.
Vivek, congratulations, big day for you.
RAMASWAMY: Thank you.
HANNITY: Thank you for being with us.
All right. When we come back leftwing lunacy continues. You'll love this, Wisconsin's Democratic governor proposing replacing the word mother with inseminated person. I did not make that up. We'll check in Pennsylvania Senator Dave McCormack, his wife Dina Powell McCormick straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. Put this in the category, you can't just make it up. The Democratic governor of Wisconsin wants to change the word mother to inseminated person in a state law. It's part of a revamp of Wisconsin's law on artificial insemination to make all the language gender neutral. You'd think that the governor, one of the country's most important swing states, the one that Donald Trump just won, would have other things on their mind right now, but apparently not.
Democrats, they will never learn. They repeat the same mistake over and over again but if that's the party they want to be, fine. They're not learning, you know, from others or from the past, which kind of brings us to a different topic which is mentorship. Why is that so important?
You know, sometimes a little bit of wisdom goes a long way and sometimes life all comes down to a simple question, who believed in you? Who gave you a chance? You know, that's the question our next guest asked several very prominent people around the country and they put the answers into their brand new book about the importance of mentorship. It's called "Who Believed in You?"
And the authors, Pennsylvania Senator Dave McCormick and former deputy national security adviser Dina Powell McCormick are with us. Good to see you guys. Congratulations on the book.
By the way, Dave before we get to the book, okay, what are your thoughts on the Wisconsin governor?
SEN. DAVE MCCORMICK (R-PA): Well, listen, if there's ever an example that shows the need for common sense leadership, that's the example, and that's what this book "Who Believed in You?" is all about. It's about the process for building our next generation of leaders. This is about mentoring which we think is the path to doing that.
It's a project that Dina and I started during COVID when our six daughters were disconnected from the friends or teachers. We -- we frankly all felt disconnected and we started to talk about mentors, the mentors in our life, for Dina and me both, it -- a couple people had changed our path, but the people we had mentored and Dina in particular had developed a number of mentoring programs.
And so, I tried to get her to write a book and we ultimately decided to write this book together. It's about how to change the world through one person at a time through mentoring.
HANNITY: You know, and, Dina, I stay in touch with everybody that ever hired me in when I was a local radio host, you know, and I think back to when I got hard of FOX, I remember I asked my boss at the time, you know, maybe months in or a couple of years later, I said I was so awful. Why didn't you fire me? And the answer was, when you first go on the air, not a lot of people were watching he goes, and then number two, he goes, you're a broadcaster, I knew you would get it.
And I've stayed in touch with, you know, all the people in my life that have touched my life and some way and gave me that program, so it's really important what you're talking about here.
DINA POWELL MCCORMICK, FORMER DEPUTY NATINAL SECURITY ADVISOR: Well, Sean, that's why we wrote this book and thank you so much for having us on tonight. As Dave said, I feel like we were the beneficiaries of some people who just really believed in us. You know, in my case I was a Coptic Christian immigrant from Cairo, Egypt, I didn't speak a word of English when my family immigrated to Texas. I was waitressing my way through college when Senator Kay Bailey Hutchinson mentored me, took a chance on me, really helped me. She gave me my first job in Washington, D.C. as an intern in her office.
And honestly, that changed the course of my life. And as you say, I've kept in so much touch with her. And that's the stories that we tell in this book. People that have had such an impact on our country but they wouldn't have without that mentor. One of them that stands out is Governor Sarah Huckabee Sanders.
In the book she talks about two really important mentors she had. She had her dad and she had President Trump and in moments where she felt more vulnerable, didn't have the confidence, they stepped up and gave her that, and she found her purpose in life. And look at her today, one of the most successful governors in our country, the youngest governor making such a huge impact.
HANNITY: You know, I try whenever I can to pay it back because I know so many people were all too willing to help me.
Dave, certainly Dina believed in you and, you know, running in a swing state is not exactly the easiest lift and she didn't believe once. She believed twice, which made it twice as hard.
DAVE MCCORMICK: She took a big -- big chance on me. Dina's been an incredible mentor and friend and supporter and, you know, in every in every way, but you know, it all started with me with the football coach when I was in high school. I wasn't a very good football player. I rode the bench and this new coach got hired and saw in me something I didn't see in myself and he made me the co-captain of the team and that really -- that that thing at the time when I was 15, 16 years old changed my life.
And that's the funny thing when you ask successful people how'd you get here, almost all of them can pick out a person or two they made all the difference and we saw across all these interviews that mentoring is based on trust and these -- the common commitment to one another and the ability for mentors to help mentees have the confidence they need.
DINA POWELL MCCORMICK: Whobelievesinyou.com, whobelievesinyoubook.com. We're so excited about this and starting a new mentoring movement.
HANNITY: Yeah, listen, I'm -- I'm even grateful for when I got hired as a dishwasher and then a cook and a bus boy, waiter, bartender. Oh, I got in a lot of trouble bartending but anyway, it's a great book. Amazon.com, bookstores around the country.
Dave and Dina, thank you.
When we come back, more "Hannity".
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. Unfortunately, that's all the time we have left this - - this evening. Thank you for being with us. Thank you for making the show possible. Please set your DVR so you never ever, ever, ever miss an episode of "Hannity".
News anytime, every time, all the time, foxews.com, hannity.com.
And in the meantime, let not your heart be troubled. Greg Gutfeld is next. He will put a smile on your face. Have a great night. Thanks for being with us.

Load-Date: February 25, 2025


End of Document
