




USA Today
February 18, 2025 Tuesday
2 Edition


Copyright 2025 USA Today All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. A4
Length: 877 words
Byline: By, John Bacon and Terry Collins, USA TODAY
Body


Groups opposed to the agenda of President Donald Trump's administration and presidential adviser Elon Musk were converging on cities across the nation Monday to express outrage over what they say is executive branch overreach, adopting slogans such as "Not My President's Day" and "No King's Day."
The rallies on the federal holiday known as Presidents Day, led by the 50501 Movement and other organizations, come less than two weeks after the last round of widespread rallies and street marches.
"We witness, with growing alarm, how our constitutional rights are trampled upon, how the authority of the President is being usurped by those who seek to consolidate power for personal gain," 50501 said in a statement on its website. "Meanwhile, President Trump systematically dismantles the very guardrails designed to ensure accountability across the branches of government."
The 50501 Movement   50 states, 50 protests, one day   was started by grassroots organizers spreading the word on Reddit forums, Instagram, Bluesky, Discord and other social websites. 50501 has 115,000 members on its Reddit page.
Thousands gathered to protest outside the U.S. Capitol in Washington, waving flags, carrying protest placards and chanting "This is what democracy looks like!"
In New York City, hundreds of protesters marched behind a banner reading "Stop the GOP coup" and chanted several slogans, including "No one elected Elon Musk!"
Outside Cincinnati's City Hall in freezing temps, more than 100 people who chanted "No dictators" reverberated to make their concerns about Trump and Musk seen and heard.
Protester Veronica Bishop, 58, of Finneytown, Ohio, said she's concerned about how much influence Musk has in his role overseeing the Department of Government Efficiency, or DOGE, which has led to thousands of federal workers losing their jobs.
"It's like where are the checks and balances?" Bishop said. "How can a private citizen have so much power in our government?"
In Texas, a crowd gathered in Austin chanting "Hey hey, ho ho, Elon Musk has got to go!" and "No justice, no peace!"
In Colorado, a few dozen protesters gathered outside Rocky Mountain National Park carrying signs, such as "I speak for the trees" and chanting "No king, no crown, we the people won't back down."
And in Tallahassee, dozens protested at the Florida Capitol Complex. According to an Instagram post posted by Food Not Bombs Tallahassee, an event co-sponsor, the protesters were advocating to "resist Project 2025, resist Elon Musk and resist oligarchy."
It was one of at least 15 planned protests expected across Florida on Monday. The protesters, some as young as teenagers to others in their late 60s, held signs and chanted "Donald Trump is a traitor" and "Who keeps us safe? We keep us safe!"
Among them was 16-year-old Leah Terrazas who held a sign and shouted at passing cars to join them. The teen said it is important to use their voices to fight for change.
"I'm here because I care about my family who are immigrants and have lived in this country and provided so much for this country," said Terrazas, who stood alongside her mother and father. "For my mother and every other woman in my family who deserves to feel safe in their own home, in their own country."
Another protester, Phil Pouliot, 66, a former state park ranger held a sign that said, "Keep your paws off my national parks."
"We want to pass down the country the way we remember it," said Pouliot, wearing his state park jacket.
U.S. Sen. Chris Van Hollen, D-Md., who said he'd attend the rally in Annapolis, attacked "Trump and Musk's efforts to harm the merit-based civil service in order to implement a system of political cronyism."
Van Hollen also said he would express his commitment to fight for federal workers and "defend critical services to the American people under threat by the Trump-Musk Administration."
The 50501 Movement has emphatically opposed Trump's executive orders, such as cracking down on illegal immigration and pardoning people involved in the riot at the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6, 2021. The group also seeks reinstatement of diversity, equity and inclusion policies, or DEI.
Discontent has intensified as the administration moves to lay off thousands of federal workers in an effort to shrink government and cut costs.
"We stand firm at a critical moment in history, demanding that the American people be heard and that the White House be governed by the true will of the people, not by a tech billionaire who seeks to buy influence and control," the group said in a statement on its website, referring to Musk, the richest person in the world.
The 50501 group, in a social media post, urged protesters to wave an American flags "like your life depended on it."
"If you have any American flags or patriotic apparel, bring them and wave them proudly," the post said. "It's an excellent way to take back our flag."
Similar protests were held Feb. 5, with hundreds bearing signs and shouting dissent near the U.S. Capitol. The protesters marched from streets around the Capitol to the Department of Labor building on Constitution Avenue, where Musk's Department of Government Efficiency officials were visiting for the day.
Contributing: Alicia Devine, Tallahassee Democrat; Scott Wartman, Cincinnati Enquirer

Graphic

 
Diana Russell of Bethesda, Md., rallies with others near the U.S. Capitol during
a Presidents Day protest Monday. Thousands gathered there and across the USA to oppose the agenda of the Trump administration.
Josh Morgan/USA TODAY

Load-Date: February 18, 2025


End of Document
