




Fox News FOX HANNITY 9:00 PM EST
February 7, 2025 Friday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7292 words
Byline: Sean Hannity, Jason Chaffetz, Joe Concha, Jimmy Failla
Guests: Alina Habba, Mike Huckabee, Mark Moyar, Michele Tafoya, Clay Travis
Body


SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS HOST: Welcome to "Hannity".
What a busy Friday news night. This is a FOX News alert. Moments ago, President Trump revoked Joe Biden's security clearance and stopped his daily intelligence briefings on Truth Social.
President Trump, he posted the following: Biden set this precedent in 2021 when he instructed the intelligence community to stop the 45th president of the United States, me, from accessing details on national security, a courtesy provided to former presidents. The Hur report revealed that Biden suffers from poor memory and even in his prime could not be trusted with sensitive information. I will always protect our security. Joe, you're fired.
Tonight, President Trump is absolutely right. Now, in case you think, oh, this is outrageous. Oh, I can't believe Donald Trump did this. Okay, let's take a trip down memory lane, shall we? I'm sure the fake news legacy media mob, state run as it is, is not going to show you this headline from "The New York Times", we'll remind you 2021, as you can see right there, Biden bars Trump from receiving intelligence briefing, citing erratic behavior.
Anyway, Biden said the president in 2021. Joe is obviously in a steep cognitive decline and frankly after all we know about what he did and leveraging a billion dollars, Burisma and Hunter's laptop saying that he paid pops all this money, I think Donald Trump made the right decision. Of course, we would also hate for classified information to end up in Biden's garbage, next to his precious Corvette or in a cardboard box.
And meanwhile, the Democratic Party is in shambles. Not long ago, they lost the White House, the House, the Senate. And now, they are humiliating themselves. I'll admit, it's somewhat entertaining in public and they're doing it daily.
A few hours ago, with the cameras rolling, congressional Democrats, look at this, they attempted to storm the Department of Education building in D.C. Now, this performative stunt was supposed to be a protest against that evil monster who's helping to save you money, Elon Musk and DOGE.
But instead they spend several minutes harassing a poor security guard at the front door of the building. This is your modern, leftist, extreme, radical Democratic Party.
Take a good look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. MAXINE WATERS (D-CA): We're coming in. We're coming in. Don't lock the door. We're coming in.
Who are you?
GOVERNMENT WORKER: You're not coming in.
WATERS: Who are you? Who are you? Who are you?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Who are you, sir?
GOVERNMENT WORKER: Do you have business here?
WATTERS: Get out of the way! We pay for your job. We pay you.
This is going to go out in history, the man who block the doors of the Department of -- hold your face up so they can see you, Department of Education, get a good copy of him, let him get recorded in history for what he's doing today. Let his children see him, let his children know of that he was standing in the way of all children being educated.
Look them in their eye. Come on, hold your face up. Look at them, let them see you.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: That looked like a threat to me. Oh, everybody in the world, look at this individual. Take a look. Shock, denial, depression, and now we can expect four years of irrational rage.
Just so we are clear, Democrats, they are embarrassing themselves in a desperate attempt to stop Trump and Elon Musk from protecting your money, auditing the federal government, eliminating massive waste, fraud and abuse, tens, likely hundreds of -- not millions -- billions of your hard earn tax dollars wasted on foreign countries.
We have needs galore in this country, why aren't we helping Americans out? Why? Because they want to spread the gospel of green new dealism, wokeism, transgenderism, DEI, while simultaneously failing spectacularly you, the American people, the average American that makes $66,000 a year.
So, now, Democrats are dead set against any kind of government accountability?
And moments ago, President Trump he just responded in Mar-a-Lago. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: The Democrats have lost their minds and they've lost their confidence. They have very little confidence. They are different people and they look foolish today they tried to break into the Department of Education just because we want to go and check the books.
And Maxine Waters is a lunatic and you know that. They're all lunatics, frankly. They're so -- it's so sad to say. They should be happy. They shouldn't be sad.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Look at this man. You -- you know, who are you? Get out of my way. That's how you treat security guards?
Keep in mind, the Department of Education was created by Jimmy Carter. It's not that old and it is a massive failure. We spend more per capita as an industrialized country than any other industrialized country with the worst results. And under the department, America's education standards have steadily declined. We are failing our children.
But apparently, Democrats care more about government and big spending and spending abroad than results for we, the American people.
Just look at this article from "The Washington Post" headline reads Trump 2.0, the most dangerous first two weeks in presidential history. No hyperbole there.
It continues: Trump, his second term is all about curtailing government's power and reach. I'd say that's great. I'd say that's the most consequential transformational two weeks in presidential history.
How do you see things so differently? How do you -- how do you -- how do you juxtapose to those interpretations?
Anyway, the left, they worship government, like a religion. The last thing you should count on in government. How's government -- how's government doing protecting your towns and your cities with defund, dismantle? They done a good job protecting your border.
How's your educational system in your -- your small town or big city? Doing a good job educating your kids? How's that Obamacare thing working out keep your doctor plan and save 2,500 -- no, that's right. Millions lost their doctors, their plans and we're paying about 300 percent more.
They have corruptly abused your hard-earned money, the money of the American people. They have stolen money from our -- from our children and our grandchildren in the process.
And, of course, many on the left benefited from a pretty extensive gravy train because that's their power base, but thank you, Elon Musk and DOGE, USAID was totally exposed. We now know the agency was showering left-wing organizations worldwide with cold hard cash, compliments of you. But you didn't know about it because they weren't transparent and they hid it from you.
And now, USAID appears to be out of business. Today, the signage, it was removed from the building and Trump plans to cut USAID staff by 97 percent, pending a new lawsuit.
In a post on X, DOGE announced that USAID is now unburdened by what has been.
And buckle up, this is only one agency. This is only the beginning and this is the beginning of the left and their daily hourly minute-by-minute freak out. Elon Musk and his team, frankly, we owe him a debt of gratitude. They're on the case throughout the entire federal government.
For example, DOGE just announced that it found a dozen people receiving Social Security. Okay, that sound, oh, but they're 150 years old. Government efficiency at its best.
And in the past 48 hours, thanks to DOGE, the Department of Health and Human Services has cancelled $182 million in administrative expenses -- expenses, including $168,000 contract for an Anthony Fauci exhibit at the NIH museum, really? You got to be kidding.
DOGE is also auditing the consumer bureau as well as Medicare and Medicaid, with plans to fully examine the Department of Education, the Pentagon, and according to President Trump, they're going to go through everything. And by the way, they should literally turn over every penny, every nickel before they spend your money.
If Democrats were smart, if they were honest, if they were not corrupt, they would cheer for what is happening, what Elon Musk and his team were doing at DOGE. They are returning America to its constitutional order.
What our framers and founders envision, limited government, greater freedom, eliminating waste, fraud and abuse. Republicans have lectured us about this for years. Now, they have a chance to actually do the job.
And, by the way, it shouldn't be a partisan issue. We should be good stewards of taxpayer money. The Democratic Party is such a pathetic, self- righteous train wreck that they're willing to attack anything and everything that Donald Trump supports, whether it's common sense or not.
It's not going to matter. They lost. Trump won, and now, the swamp is getting drained one way or another.
Here with more, counsel to the president, Alina Habba is well us.
Alina, good to have you.
ALINA HABBA, COUNSEL TO THE PRESIDENT: Good to be here. Thanks.
HANNITY: Well, I don't care if it's Kristi Noem, I don't care, you know, Pam Bondi was on with us last night. Whoever it is, Donald Trump, this has been less than three weeks of utter shock, awe and transformation in Washington and it has gone at the speed of light and, you know, thank God for the country.
And then you got this freak out. What do you make of it?
HABBA: I'm not sure what they're freaking out about to be honest, Sean. I'm pretty sure we stood at rally after rally and said exactly what we were going to do, we were going to protect taxpayer dollars. We were going to help educate our children in the right way who are undereducated.
So, Maxine, I'm not sure what you're stepping into but you need to move out of the way and we're going to create DOGE. We did, and DOGE is working.
So I have to tell you, I know Elon and I'm a little bit frustrated, not a little bit, but by what I'm hearing. But the people that are screaming the loudest, Sean, are probably the people that are pissed off because their money train has come to an end.
We're done now. Sorry, Chuck. Sorry, Maxine. Sorry, Nancy, with your stock trades, the show's over.
We are now looking and we're going to audit and we're going to find out what what's going on and we're finding a lot. We -- we've named them over and over again.
And by the way, the list is extensive -- operas for transgender, LGBTQ people. We're funding condoms. We're funding -- I mean, things that are unheard of one was teaching people how to use their pronouns in another country, we spent millions of dollars.
This is absurd. We are supposed to take care of taxpayer dollars and what the last administration did was get rich and waste money and I'm tired of it. And frankly, I'm grateful for Elon and if anybody wants to say otherwise, I literally advise you to go speak to him yourself.
HANNITY: I got to be honest. You sound really mean and selfish, that you don't want to spend $20 million on a Sesame Street show in Iraq.
It's pretty mean and selfish of you not to want to spend $ million to boost Egyptian and Tunisian tourism.
You know, you sound pretty selfish when you don't want to spend $40 million to build schools in Jordan and $11 million to tell the Vietnamese to stop burning brush and $45 million for DEI scholarships in Burma and $520 million for consultant-driven ESG investments in Africa or the fact that you don't want to spend money on electric vehicles and Vietnam or a DEI musical in Ireland or a transgender opera in Colombia or a transgender comic book in Peru.
You sound extraordinarily selfish to me.
HABBA: Yes, yes, I'm selfish. I'm so selfish because my selfish needs are America first, and those are in line with President Trump. And Elon Musk is in line with President Trump.
And, by the way, you know this whole rhetoric with Elon -- give me a break, it's no different than anybody else that he's asked to help the country and to take a risk and step away from their fabulous lives that have sacrificed for our country to come in and say I'm going to pause to help this great nation be great again and to not have the absolute demise economically safety. There are so much I've learned, Sean, and I've been with you on this journey since he left in and I've been honest about everything I've seen.
I got to tell you, we needed a fix like you've never seen before and I am grateful for the administration that we are working with.
HANNITY: I am, too.
HABBA: Every single person is working so hard and we are going to fix this nation. He has promises made promises kept, so anybody that's shocked really should maybe watch a couple rallies from our -- our campaign because we said exactly what we were going to do, the Americans mandated it on November 5th, in a sweeping mandate, and now, we're doing it.
And that's, by the way, what we're supposed to do in a republic. That's how it works.
HANNITY: Well, you're anything but selfish, by the way. Obviously, I'm being sarcastic. But you know, we're -- we're stealing from our children and grandchildren, I'm sorry and to see this money being spent abroad to advance, you know, what is nothing short of the green new deal, DEI, transgenderism, wokeism, I am -- it makes my blood boil.
HABBA: CRT garbage.
HANNITY: But if they Democrats want to die on this hill, if they want to die on the hill of keeping gang members, cartel members, murderers, rapists and known terrorists in the country, let them die there. That -- that if that's their position, if that's their party, I'm okay with that.
HABBA: Sean, they died November 5th. They died November 5th.
HANNITY: America gave them a message, maybe they didn't get the memo. November 5th, your party got a memo that America is not happy with your policy. They are not good with what you've done to our country.
They don't want what you're standing for. They don't want woke. We don't want masks and we don't want CRT and we don't want transitions for children that don't even know what color is their favorite color.
I am sick and tired of seeing it. And by the way, if they want to keep it going, God bless you. We'll take 2028, and then we'll take it after that in 2012.
Listen, keep it going. It's working for us. It's not working for them, but America is tired of your whining, enough.
HANNITY: All right. Alina, thank you and this is a great moment for the country. This could be the most consequential transformational presidency, return to constitutional order and that's our hope. Alina, thank you.
All right. Here with reaction, FOX News contributors Jason Chaffetz and Joe Concha, and Trump's nominee for us ambassador to Israel, Mike Huckabee is with us.
Let's start with you, Governor. Let's get your take.
I -- I can't for the life of me, Governor, I do a lot of research every day and I know Joni Ernst was looking for this information, the specifics of the money has spent, and they wouldn't give it to her and it's only because of Elon Musk and President Trump that we know this.
What are your -- what's your reaction to it? Because I'm -- I'm angry.
MIKE HUCKABEE, TRUMP'S NOMINEE FOR U.S. AMBASSADOR TO ISRAEL: Well, I just think you're wrong about some things, Sean, you said that this could be the most consequential president. I think he already has been in weeks. I've never seen anything like it. I'm going to the emergency room later tonight because I have whiplash from what is happening at the White House.
And the fact that they've taken things that have been sacred cows for a long time, let's look at USAID. Look, I'm the first to admit that there are some things in USAID, PEPFAR, for example, started by George W. Bush saved millions of lives from AIDS. Good thing.
But if you have a stew pot and you've cooked stew in it, and it's been good. But then you start putting poison in there. You don't say, well, let's just keep serving because there's some good stuff at the bottom of the pot. You dump it all out, you clean the pot and scrub it good and you just make stew and nothing but stew.
That's what Trump is doing. I think it's the most amazing thing I've ever seen in my life. I never thought we would cut through some of this red tape and nonsense.
But when these things are being discovered, let's let the Democrats go and scream at that guy at the door of the Department of Ed, who, by the way, I think was barred from Buckingham Palace because nobody has ever been so stoic, this guy's got a career wherever he wants to go. It's a great day in America today.
HANNITY: You know, Jason, you are looking as a congressman for this type of reckless spending and what's so sinister about this is they purposely hit it. They didn't put the specifics of where the money was really going. It was only when Elon got into the -- did -- was able to do that deep dive did we really find out because they knew the American people would be outraged by this but they did it anyway.
JASON CHAFFETZ, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Yeah, and look at what the Democrats are fighting for, they just can't give away the American money fast enough overseas.
But what about the $36 trillion -- $36 trillion we're in debt. We spend almost $3 billion dollar a day just servicing that. That's our interest, our daily interest payment.
So you want more roads, bridges, infrastructure, all that? Guess what? You're spending $3 billion just trying to pay and service the debt.
So they start throwing away on this money, you got to be kidding me. And look, guys, like me, I was on the oversight committee, was the chair of the Oversight Committee, they wouldn't give us that information. We asked for that.
I fought the USAID for years, they would never cough that up. And for Maxine Waters to show up at the front door and berate a federal public employee, I hope he sues their butt because there's no right for them to do this. We do have in this country --
(CROSSTALK)
HANNITY: I think he was -- she was saying, take a good look at him, everybody needs to look at him. She's threatening him and his family?
CHAFFETZ: I think it's a threat, and there's separation of powers, you can't as a congressman go over to the judiciary branch and start walking around saying, hey, where's Clarence? I want to just go check him out.
You can't have the executive branch go walk into a member of congress's office, and go say, oh, I want to go meet with the staff. That's not the way it works in this country, Maxine Waters, and all those other Democrats who just think it's funny to berate a guy who's probably got his own family, his own reputation. He doesn't need to be a national figure. Shame on her.
That -- she should be censored by the House of Representatives.
HANNITY: There is no shame. She's the one that said get in their faces, follow them into the store and the shops, et cetera. Joe Concha, there is some -- there's a complicit group here and that is the state-run legacy media mob, and that is they are feigning all of this outrage. They are -- you know, right there with the Democrats and trying to demonize Elon Musk who I think has done the country a great service, as well as the president.
JOE CONCHA, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: In our resistance legacy media, Sean, every day is now Festivus. Every day in the pages of "The Washington Post", "New York Times", CNN, MSNBC, CBS, NBC, ABC, every day in the Trump 2.0 era is an unhinged airing of grievances. It's a Festivus just not for the rest of us.
And to your point, they have no positive message. They don't have any objectivity in terms of the way that they're reporting this stuff. They go after Elon Musk and they try to character assassinate him but nobody's talking about, you know, the stuff that Elon Musk is finding. That's the story if you're a journalist.
It is such widespread corruption. I mean, I think we all knew that it was bad, but just in the first 19 days, what he is finding is just overwhelmingly devastating. And I love that "Washington Post" op-ed, by the way, that you read before that Donald Trump is the most damaging president in the first two weeks of his presidency in history. Yeah, he's been damaging all right, to the status quo.
The government waste, the biological men competing against biological women in sports, he's been absolutely damaging to murderers and rapists in this country by signing the Laken Riley Act, a bill that somehow 148 Democrats in Congress opposed.
I mean, it's unbelievable this is the position that they are taking an overwhelming number of voters are screaming for major changes to the way government does business, all the waste, all the corruption out there in broad daylight.
I mean, did you see -- you had a nice list there -- there before, but there was one that really caught my eye. USAID gave more than $300 million to a cement company in Gaza owned by Hamas which was used to build tunnels for them to house weapons fighters and eventually hostages including Americans but democracy is what I guess de Democrats are defending but when they say they're defending democracy, they really mean they're defending bureaucracy, Sean.
HANNITY: And if they want to die on this hill and they want to be the party that protects, you know, illegal immigrants and including cartel members, known terrorists, rapists, murderers and gang members, let them be that party if they want to be the party that's fighting for men to play in women's sports, let them be that party. If they want to be the party that supports all of, you know, all these American hard-earned tax dollars going abroad for their woke policies and green New Deal, let them be that party because they'll never win another election ever.
Guys, we appreciate your time on this Friday night.
All right. When we come back, the radical left having a meltdown over USAID being shut down. A whistleblower from that very agency will join us next and expose just how corrupt they really are. That's straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. So it looks like the end is near for USAID. President Trump posted on Truth Social earlier this morning that the agency has been totally exposed for its fraudulent, unexplainable waste of vast sums of money. He said it's time to close the agency down and he had much more to say about it earlier tonight when he arrived at Mar-a-Lago just moments ago. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: The horrible USAID, the horrible things that they're spending money on, it's -- it's got to be kickbacks. You know, they send the money to the guy, he takes the money and he sends them back. Most of the money, he keeps them for himself. In my opinion, I think that's because you can't send the money to this these groups of people. It's a terrible thing and I think it's like that and others, too.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Now the plan was to put over 2,000 USAID employees on paid leave starting tonight. That effort was temporarily blocked by a federal judge. That should be overturned.
Even so, the agency is still being largely dismantled. Its headquarters building in Washington had all of the signage removed earlier today. This as one former USAID employee is speaking out about the corruption in the agency, alleging that employees used their positions and government money to personally profit and that some actively work to undermine the first Trump administration by funding far-left causes around the globe.
Here to explain more, former director of civilian-military cooperation at USAID, Mark Moyar, is with us.
How did they personally profit? And you said that -- that -- they -- during Trump's first term, that there were people at the agency that subverted the first Trump White House. How did they do that?
DR. MARK MOYAR, FORMER DIRECTOR, CIVILIAN-MILITARY COOPERATION AT USAID: Yes. Well, I have to say, in the first Trump administration when I served, we were not fully prepared for the level of bureaucratic chicanery that we encountered and it took a long time to get the agency staffed. I came in and by the time I got in 2018, it was to the point that people had almost forgotten who was even in charge.
So, at one meeting, I overheard career staff talking about how they were going to hide what the U.S. was doing in Syria or what USAID was doing because they thought President Trump would find it objectionable and I reported that up the chain. But the bureaucrats got away with it. They got away with far too much.
And so, we're seeing now -- the Trump administration has had four years to think about this, and they've come in and gone in a way that's stunning, but it's been very effective because every other way that's been tried to get information has been stopped.
HANNITY: Yeah. All right. So you worked there and you were you became a whistleblower and you thought you were doing the right thing and you were explaining that there was corruption and there was politics within the agency and we're supposed to have whistleblower protection laws in this country is my understanding, and you were not protected.
Tell us what happened and the current actions you're -- you're -- you're taking after they did this to you.
MOYAR: Yeah, and that's one of the reasons I decided to write a book about this because it's just astonishing how whistleblowers get treated and there's many others besides me, most of whom you'll never hear about.
And it was just astonishing to me that once you report corruption, then they come after you, there is supposed to be whistleblower protection. So I filed a whistleblower protection complaint with the inspector general, thinking that they would help me. But it turned out the inspector general's office was in cahoots with the agency leaders and so they tried to just claim I wasn't even a whistleblower.
Then, we had Senator Charles Grassley get involved and they did an investigation which was a sham and so then he demanded more information from Samantha Power who by then was running the agency. But as we you know heard from your previous guests, even if you're a well -- a highly respected senator, they will just tell you they're not going to give you the information.
So after going through all that, I ended up having to sue the government simply to get them to turn over the supposed evidence that they had used to try to fire me. And that's been in court now for three years. So five years later, I still don't have any resolution to this.
HANNITY: So were they aware -- were you aware that like for example we've been scrolling all of this money that was going to promote this very woke agenda, green new deal agenda, DEI agenda, transgenderism agenda, were you aware this was happening back then? And when they classified or they chronicled how the money was being spent, did they specifically hide how it was really being spent?
MOYAR: Yes, that was a common tactic and we'd had the Obama people put in some of these similar kinds of programs. And then when Trump administration came in, one of the themes in the first administration was we're going to promote self-reliance because we don't want these countries receiving aid forever. So that's going to be one of our big objectives.
So then they would say -- well, we've got a gender-affirming care program or a climate change program but now, we're going to say this is a self- reliance program because, of course, you can't be self-reliant unless you have transgender rights or climate change. So that happened all the time.
Now, there would certainly efforts to crack down on it and it sort of resurged openly under the Samantha Power's rule.
But, you know, you've also got a bigger problem too that I think we were even less effective in dealing with which is the massive overcharging through overheads and this is something Senator Ernst has really been strong on. The attack on these massive overhead or indirect cost fees, and we're just getting our hands around that to see how much, you know, even on worthwhile programs we're vastly overpaying for these.
HANNITY: Knowing that that the average American only makes $66,000 a year on average, and they're seeing, you know, what will eventually be hundreds of billions of dollars in waste fraud and abuse for foreign countries, why are Democrats calling this a constitutional crisis? How does that benefit them politically? Do they -- are they that out of touch with the American people? They're -- American people pay for this crap.
MOYAR: Yeah, I do think they are out of touch with the American people. I mean, from the get-go, the Biden administration pushed -- pushed this radical DEI agenda. They pushed radical transgenderism, and I think they found even within their own party, these have turned out to be very unpopular.
But this is the swamp and you've got to remember, people who are in the swamp have lost touch with the rest of the country and that's why they don't seem to have any problem continuing in this way.
HANNITY: Dr. Moyar, I really do wish you well in your suit. We should protect whistleblowers like yourself. You tried to warn the American people we could have saved tens if not hundreds of billions of dollars. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it.
All right. When we come back, President Trump expected to become the first sitting president to attend the Super Bowl this Sunday. Patrick Mahomes, Travis Kelce, they're excited about it. We'll bring you the latest. We got reaction from Michele Tafoya, Clay Travis and what's your prediction, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: We are now less than 48 hours from the Super Bowl and this year's matchup has an extra layer of intrigue because Donald Trump, President Trump is set to become the first sitting U.S. president to attend the Super Bowl, leading to an extra buzz and excitement this week.
Now, here's what the Kansas City Chiefs star quarterback Patrick Mahomes and Travis Kelce had to say about it. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PATRICK MAHOMES, KANSAS CITY CHIEFS QUARTERBACK: Always cool to be able to play in front of a sitting president, someone that is at the top position in our country.
TRAVIS KELCE, KANSAS CITY CHIEFS: I'm excited because it's the biggest game of my life, you know? And having the president there, you know, it's the best country in the world. So it'd be pretty cool.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Now, Patrick Mahomes' mom echoed their comments calling a, quote, need for a president to come support the teams in the Super Bowl. President Trump expressed his excitement about attending what he says will be a great game and a post on truth social. He also took a shot at the league's new kickoff rule that's Donald Trump, right?
Here with reaction, former NFL sideline reporter Michele Tafoya, and Outkick founder Clay Travis.
I can't believe, Michelle, this is the first time a sitting president went to the Super Bowl.
MICHELE TAFOYA, FORMER NFL SIDELINE REPORTER: It is kind of hard to believe. I remember interviewing George W. Bush at a game on veteran around -- right around Veterans Day and -- but that wasn't a Super Bowl, you know? I think the layers of security are such that it's probably been a little bit prohibitive in the past.
But there is nothing that gets in the way of Donald Trump and anything that he wants to do and that's including being at this Super Bowl. So I don't envy the fans, the security is going to be brutal.
HANNITY: Well, that -- you know, and that should be the case anyway. I talked to the governor of Louisiana today. I talked to Pam Bondi last night. We had Kristi Noem on this program. It seems like it's all hands on deck. I talked to the head of the Secret Service.
I feel confident in our people and they know these are -- are tough times.
Clay Travis, I think -- I think I'm 2-0 against you in terms of predictions, but I don't want to remind you of that. I think I'm 2-0.
CLAY TRAVIS, OUTKICK FOUNDER: Yeah, you would -- you wouldn't -- you wouldn't point out that I think I owe you 500 bucks and that I've been dodging you for a while.
I'm in New Orleans right now, Sean, shifting subjects quickly and the police and the security and the personnel are blanketing this city. And I have to tell you, I love those clips you played of Travis Kelce and Patrick Mahomes and I bet Michele Tafoya feels the same way as I do which is it feels like all of America's coming back together again.
I love that the president's going to be here I can't believe it hasn't happened before but all of the Trump dancing from the players, it reminds me and I know you guys remember this when George W. Bush came out at the World Series and through the strike in Yankee Stadium. None of those people had voted for him, but remember, one month ago by in large in that stadium, they hadn't voted for him, one month ago, 14 people lost their lives.
I think that's a big reason why Donald Trump is going to be here. I know FOX Sports is going to do an incredible job honoring the memories of all those people who lost their life on Bourbon Street, and it just feels like when that National Anthem happens, the whole stadium is going to be chanting "USA".
I think it's going to be an incredibly aortic moment to bring all the nation together.
HANNITY: I totally agree with you and you know I remember Derek Jeter said to then President Bush, you don't want to skip it. You know, you -- you got to throw a strike you got to get it there. You know, without hitting the ground which was pretty funny.
All right. Michelle predictions who's going to win this game? Eagles got a great defense. You can't beat Kansas City's offense. Who wins?
TAFOYA: I mean, to me, it really comes down to two players and that's not to say that two players are going to be responsible for the outcome of the game but Patrick Mahomes is a magician. You know, he's very Brett Favre- like in the way that he can just make things happen at will. And that has not changed.
In addition to that he's just an even keeled leader. Nothing ever rattles this guy, that's why he's able to create so many game-winning drives, comebacks the things that he's done and he's always been this way, Sean, from the -- from the first time that he became the starter of the Kansas City Chiefs.
On the other side, you have Saquon Barkley and he's had a magical season this year and he has a great offensive line to run behind. So if he gets started quickly and he gets the support he needs from Jalen Hurts in his line, I think Saquon Barkley can be the difference maker in this game.
So to me, if you're going to boil it down to a couple of elements, that's - - that's what it comes down to for me because Mahomes makes everything go for the Chiefs.
HANNITY: All right. So I have, Clay, my kids, I got family and friends coming over. You're going to miss my cooking. I'm making pork ribs. I'm going to be making steaks. I'm going to be making Chicago hot dogs. I'm going to be -- oh a friend is bringing over sausage and onions, then we're going to have -- do you ever melt Velveeta cheese with ground beef and Rotel. It's -- and then use chips, it's great. I love to cook.
So you're going to be missing out on that part while you're in New Orleans but you probably have a better view of the game.
So I'm ready for our bet and you're 0-2 if my memory serves me right. I'll go double or nothing, I'm wherever we are.
TRAVIS: All right. Double or nothing, Sean. I'm going to tell you exactly what's going to happen. I want everybody to clip this. I want you all to run to your bookie like I'm going to run to mine.
And here's what's going to happen, Patrick Mahomes going to get the win. It's going to be his fourth Super Bowl. Tom Brady, remember, is calling it on FOX. You can also watch it on Tubi.
It's going to be the most watched NFL game of all time, going to come down to the wire. Harrison Butker field goal, Chiefs win 23-20. Travis Kelce goes out, this is his final game has a good game, at least one touchdown.
Michele Tafoya mentioned Saquon Barkley. He's going to score a touchdown as well. But 23-20, Harrison Butker wins it for the Chiefs.
Sean Hannity, we're square because I'm going to even up things there and you know where I'm headed right now, Sean? Right out to Bourbon Street to have a couple of drinks and start celebrating Super Bowl weekend.
HANNITY: Whatever -- whatever you do, don't drink a hurricane. Bad idea, and that's for everybody in New Orleans right. Stay away from that poison.
TRAVIS: Pat O'Briens don't get to you. Pat O'Briens --
HANNITY: It's not good. I used to a bartender.
TAFOYA: I hope it's that closer a game, Clay, I hope so.
HANNITY: Here's the problem -- I agree with you. We don't have a bet. I agree with your analysis completely. So we'll have to --
TRAVIS: Oh, wow. I was so good you walked away.
HANNITY: I'm not walking away I'm just giving you my opinion.
All right. Anyway, Michelle, good to see you. Clay, good to see you.
TRAVIS: Another one coming up.
HANNITY: All right. It'll be a good game, that's what I hope for.
Coming up, Donald Trump bringing back plastic straws. Thank you, God. I want plastic. I hate paper straws. What do you hear what Kamala said about her political future also.
Jimmy Failla weighs in on all of it, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: Earlier today, President Trump announced that he would sign an executive order next week to undo a Biden era plan. Thank you, Jesus, to -- plan to phase out plastic straws by 2027. I hate -- I hate paper straws.
Anyway, Biden's push for paper straws is ridiculous he said, adding, they don't work. You may remember, Kamala wanted to ban them and but recently she went shopping with her wannabe first dude. Look at that and they were using plastic bags. Hypocrisy? Anyway.
Here with reaction, the one and only FOX host of -- FOX News Saturday Night, Jimmy Failla, I want my plastic straws. I'm not -- I don't complain -- I'm -- I'm unapologetic.
JIMMY FAILLA, FHOST OF "FOX NEWS SATURDAY NIGHT": A hundred percent but paper straws were the perfect metaphor for the Biden administration because they cost a lot of money and they didn't work, okay? Have you ever tried to drink with a paper straw, it gets stuck, it breaks, you don't taste anything.
This for all the things, Sean, that we talk about that Trump has done in these first or days if he's serious about Mount Rushmore, this was the day he might have cemented his legacy because there is not a person, not a vegan, not a Democrat not a climate change guy, do you know what John Kerry does with his wife on date night? They get frisky and they use plastic straws.
Nobody likes a paper straw. You know that.
HANNITY: Nobody. Nobody.
FAILLA: The guy -- they're the worst dude and they, Sean --
HANNITY: Just get -- get out of our lives, leave us alone, give us some liberty and freedom.
FAILLA: And do you know what the original justification was like? Well, you got to have a paper straw because the turtles eat the plastic and die? Like what -- I don't know --
HANNITY: Oh, gosh, stop.
FAILLA: I don't know -- these turtles some of these turtles could be jerks.
HANNITY: Me either.
FAILLA: Yeah, thank you. We move on. We got bigger fish to fry than the turtles and the straw-eating turtles which are dumb.
HANNITY: Well, you can -- you can make turtle soup, don't forget.
FAILLA: Hey, thank you. My Ohio family -- yeah, they love that. Go ahead. Sorry.
HANNITY: All right. Switching gears. All right. Thursday, Jimmy was a big day for Kamala. First, the former VP finally toured the damaged areas in California because of the wildfires. She was asked is she going to run for California governor. Here's what she said.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KAMALA HARRIS, FORMER U.S. VICE PRESIDENT: I have been home for weeks and days my plans are to be in touch with my community, to be in touch with the leaders and figure out what I can do to support them.
REPORTER: Does seeing this change the way you think about the question of whether to run for governor?
HARRIS: I am here and would be here regardless of the office I hold.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Oh.
FAILLA: Goodness gracious.
HANNITY: She hasn't changed. Oh my gosh.
FAILLA: The problem is --
HANNITY: By the way, then she attended a Lakers game and nobody seemed to care she was there.
FAILLA: Well, there's the one thing about that. I will -- I -- you know, I can't stand her but they were in like the last row of the mezzanine because those are clearly the tickets Doug buys when he's taking the nanny to the game and he doesn't want to get seen. Those are not Kamala seats. Those are nanny seats.
Sean, they're against the wall. I get better seats and I wasn't even vice president of my fantasy football league. So those are nanny seats, but the one step further.
She can't talk about running for this campaign of governor because she's still busy getting out of debt from the last campaign, you know? That's the crazy thing. I have a lot of family in California --
HANNITY: Listen, I love that you go there. You know, the first dude had already picked out the nanny if she won the presidency. I read that somewhere.
FAILLA: No, no, you didn't read it but you might have heard it at the Patriot Awards from the guy who hosted the show and killed by the way. You're still the best --
HANNITY: A guy that hosted the show used that joke then, you're right. You know, you're recycling occasionally.
FAILLA: This is the only time right-wing people recycle is in comedy. We don't believe in the other thing. But yeah, Kamala is in town.
HANNITY: That's true, no other recycling. Exactly.
FAILLA: Yes, go ahead. The best, Sean, you're the best.
HANNITY: All right. Democrats embarrassing themselves, trying to protest Donald Trump and all this reckless you know foreign spending, Chuck Schumer, Democrats holding a protest. You see, they've gone from the shock stage to denial stage. Now, they're in the rage stage.
Here's Chucky Schumer trying to start a chant that didn't really catch on. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): We are going to fight this fight. I am going to stand with you in this fight. And we will win. We will win! We will win! We will win! We will win! We will win!
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: No, you lost.
FAILLA: You already lost. That's my favorite thing about this is the whole -- you know, when they talk about DOGE, which is, by the way, the most popular thing in the country right now with Americans -- Americans of all persuasions know the government was doing us dirty. Sean, they spend $6 million on tourism in Egypt. That's literally a pyramid scheme, okay? But stick with me.
When Schumer gets out there and they keep doing the whole we didn't vote for this, yeah, we know you lost. That's how elections work. That's the craziest part of right now is the people who told us they were protecting democracy are now irate that democracy played out in a way they can't fathom. But that's who Schumer is, he is a part-time villain on --
HANNITY: All right.
FAILLA: Yeah, go ahead. I'm sorry. I was -- I was emotional.
HANNITY: No, you don't have to apologize.
All right. What are you doing for the Super Bowl, who's going to win? We have 20 seconds.
FAILLA: Listen, I root for the Eagles because of Watters, but I'm torn because Elizabeth Warren says she's a Chief. So I don't know what to do. Go Eagles!
HANNITY: I can't get a straight answer out of you. Yeah.
FAILLA: Why would you?
HANNITY: All right. Well, you should be at my house, pork ribs, steaks, sausage and onions --
FAILLA: Thanks for the invite.
HANNITY: -- Velveeta cheese, ground beef, Rotel. You're missing it all. Jimmy Failla.
More "Hannity" next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. That's all the time we have left this evening. Before we go, don't forget, watch my interview with the great champ Mike Tyson online, what an amazing life, career. He's an incredible guy.
Thank you for being with us. Thank you for making the show possible. Set your DVR so you never, ever, ever miss an episode of Hannity. In the meantime, let not your heart be troubled, Greg Gutfeld's next.
Have a great Super Bowl weekend. We'll see you Monday.

Load-Date: February 8, 2025


End of Document
