




Fox News THE WILL CAIN SHOW 4:00 PM EST
February 12, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; International
Length: 8848 words
Byline: Dan Hoffman Will Cain
Guests: Eric Burlison, Kirk Lippold, William Timmons
Body


WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Well, live from the heartland, this is "The Will Cain Show."
We pan across America back to Washington, D.C., where once again, Democrats hooping and hollering about President Trump's team and his agenda. Today was the first ever DOGE Subcommittee hearing on Capitol Hill.
And despite the fact our U.S. debt keeps ticking up, House Democrats still melting down, but not over the government waste and not over the debt or deficit, but over the guys trying to fix it.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: While we're sitting here, Donald Trump and Elon Musk are recklessly and illegally dismantling the federal government.
REP. ROBERT GARCIA (D-CA): This is not about working with the richest man on the planet. This is actually about empowering -- this committee wants to empower the richest person in the world to hurt people.
REP. GREG CASAR (D-TX): They're not looking into billionaires who don't pay their taxes. They're not looking into billionaires who get rich off of government contracts. They're not looking into Elon Musk firing watchdogs who are supposed to keep him accountable. They're looking at cutting your public schools.
REP. JASMINE CROCKETT (D-TX): He sat there in the Oval Office yesterday and he admitted that he was lying, and he was using his propaganda machine to do it, when he said that we send millions of dollars to Gaza for condoms. That was a lie.
So let me tell you something.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The gentlelady's time has expired.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: I don't know what would make your heart rate speed up faster, watching that deficit and debt clock per taxpayer continually tick up on your screen or listening to that ranting, raving and shrieking.
Our next guests had to do so in person,the Republican lawmakers who were at that hearing with a very commonsense message most Americans seem to understand, even if it's not understood by Democrats.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. ERIC BURLISON (R-MO): We're spending $2 trillion in debt every year. Folks, we're at the precipice of a debt -- like a debt cycle.
REP. WILLIAM TIMMONS (R-SC): I would just ask my colleagues across the aisle to get out of the way if you don't want to help. If you don't want to help right the fiscal ship in this country, get out of the way. Stop filing lawsuit after lawsuit.
We do not have the financial ability to continue down this path. And we're going to save this country with or without you. You can kick and scream all the way or you can get out of the way.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: South Carolina Republican William Timmons and Missouri Republican Eric Burlison join me now.
Gentlemen, thanks for being with us here today this afternoon. You were in that hearing subcommittee meeting. I'm curious. There's a concept, I'm sure you're familiar with it, called straw-manning your opponent, where you offer up their weakest argument and then you attempt to knock it down.
Let's do the opposite if we might for a moment. Let's steel-man the Democrats. Let's put their best argument forward. As you sat in that meeting today, what did they say that made sense?
Congressman Burlison, I will start with you. What was their biggest concern about Elon Musk?
BURLISON: Yes, you're right. I mean, they're making an ad hominem attack against Elon Musk. They're attacking the messenger, as opposed to attack the policies.
We really had -- it was like a desert of discussion from the left about when it came to discussing any policies whatsoever. They really just were trying to throw shade at Musk.
CAIN: It was a personal attack, as you mentioned, an ad hominem attack.
Congressman Timmons, on that note, they brought up potential conflicts of interest for Elon Musk. He does have very big contracts with the DOD and through NASA. He addressed that yesterday. He said, but I'm an open book. If you see a conflict, if you see a problem, point it out and I will address it.
Was there any substance, though, to their attack on the person conducting the government efficiency audit?
TIMMONS: I didn't hear any. Honestly, it was disappointing that they refused to engage in the actual substance of the purpose of the hearing.
Medicaid fraud is real. And if we just introduced enhanced identity verification and enhanced income verification, we could save $200 billion. Why aren't they working with us on that? Why are they complaining about the decisions that the president that 77 million Americans elected?
I mean, it really is ridiculous, especially considering that Joe Biden tried to sign an executive order to forgive $250 billion in student loans that was clearly unconstitutional. But, again, if they don't have double standards, I mean, I don't even know.
CAIN: Well, Congressman Burlison, you brought up, OK, it's a personal attack on Elon Musk. It's an attack on his character, who he is, a person, his potential conflicts of interest. But it didn't stop at Elon Musk.
Here's some of what they had to say about the people working within DOGE.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GARCIA: Elon Musk is sending his unqualified DOGE staff to carry out this agenda across all these agencies, and, in some cases, actually teenage staffers,no accountability, no experience, and problematic records.
They're trying to rob you, and they're probably a minor.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: I believe that was an attempt at comedy. That was a riff off of Kendrick Lamar's halftime show at the Super Bowl, where he attacked Drake with that line from his song, accused Drake of being a pedophile, and that line being a minor.
Now, he employs it in your subcommittee hearing about DOGE.
BURLISON: Yes, I mean, this is what we have to work with, is people that are doing these things. It was almost -- it's -- it would be comical if it wasn't tragic. And we're really at a very serious situation.
We have got to cut spending. And if we don't, we're -- as I said before in the hearing, we're going to enter a debt spiral. And that's about 15 years down the road. It's going to probably happen. There will be members of Congress still in office today that will experience this.
CAIN: Three-hundred-plus-thousands in debt per taxpaying American citizen, $2 trillion a year in deficit, $36 trillion in debt.
And believe it or not, Congressman Timmons, what you just heard in the subcommittee hearing and we played might have been substantive compared to what we heard from some federal workers talking about -- excuse me -- let me correct myself -- singing about Elon Musk. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
(SINGING)
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Congressman Timmons, I think you have arrived at the new Lincoln- Douglas debate.
TIMMONS: You know, it's really incredible.
These are the same people that are mad that we are not using taxpayer dollars to fund drag shows in Ecuador, that we're not going to have a version of "Sesame Street" in Iraq. We have hit the end of the road. We have $36 trillion in debt. The American people spoke when they told President Trump to task Elon Musk with righting our fiscal ship.
And that's exactly what we're going to do. The Democrats can help or not. It's up to them.
CAIN: Lastly, I will go quickly to both of you here. This is a fight right now about simply cutting the fat, the waste, the fraud, the abuse, the blank checks, the fraudulent checks going to people who may no longer be alive.
What happens when you have a real debate in Congress about a substantive matter of spending, meaning whether or not that's entitlement spending or the Defense Department budget? Like, how are we supposed to ever get to a substantive debate about really reducing our debt if this outrage is what you get when you talk about cutting off DEI plays in Ireland, Congressman Burlison?
BURLISON: Yes, I think that this is a political foible on their part. I think that their antics right now about, to your point, these ridiculous spending cuts that you can't justify, they're -- the way they're throwing a tantrum now is going to undermine when we get to other issues.
And so the American people are going to see this. They're going to say, cry wolf all you want.
CAIN: Finally, Congressman Timmons, much of this, as we pointed out, is focused on Elon Musk and his staffers within DOGE. I heard one of the Democratic congressmen saying, he's not an auditor. He's a tech bro.
Is there an auditor they would have accepted who looked for government efficiency?
TIMMONS: They would attack anyone that was tasked with this endeavor. And at the end of the day, 77 million people voted for President Trump because President Trump told them that he would fix this problem.
And he said that Elon Musk would be the person that would help him. President Trump is the one that's accountable. He is the person that was elected by the people. He has chosen Elon Musk to pursue this endeavor. And Elon Musk is taking time out of his insanely busy schedule to help right the ship and to save this country for another generation.
And I'm very thankful that he's willing to do that.
CAIN: He's worth $400 billion. I don't know what they think he's trying to pull out of finding a little inefficiency within the federal government.
Congressman Burlison, Congressman Timmons, thanks for being with us today.
TIMMONS: Thank you. Thanks for having us.
BURLISON: Congratulations on your show.
CAIN: You bet. Thank you so much.
All right, we want to try to keep up every day because it is a blizzard of activity from the White House, from Washington, D.C., so we're going to institute our daily check on President Trump's to-do list.
Here's what's happened in the past 24 hours. He's in the process of signing more executive orders, helping to solidify Americans' unified message on foreign policy. It comes after President Trump spoke with Russian President Vladimir Putin and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy today.
The president says he's being told -- he's told his team it's time to begin negotiations to end the war. Also checked off the list, more American prisoners released. Marc Fogel was released from Russia, another American released from Belarus. The president's special envoy is crediting the president.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
STEVE WITKOFF, SPECIAL ENVOY TO THE MIDDLE EAST: There's this sort of secret sauce when you work with President Trump. It's hard for me to describe it, but everybody operates in the same way. It's this can-do atmosphere. And we're all out there to get it done. And he encourages us. And that's how it -- that's how it happens.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Another big item checked off today, Tulsi Gabbard confirmed as the new director of national intelligence. She's bringing in not just her experience, her patriotism, and her service, but bringing in yet another disrupter into the federal government.
She was officially sworn in inside the Oval Office. We're going to share that with you when that video comes available. She's the 14th Trump Cabinet to be confirmed.
Now, it's a big list, and there's one more item on it, President Trump restoring common sense, rolling back some Biden era regulations on lightbulbs and everyday appliances. Promises made, promises kept.
All right, is it the beginning of the end of the war in Ukraine? We have a panel up next to discuss.
But, first, I want to take you to the corner of Wall and Broad, stocks mixed today on the heels of inflation coming in hotter than expected last month.
More from "The Will Cain Show" straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: All right, breaking news on the war on Ukraine, President Trump speaking with Russian President Vladimir Putin after the release of American schoolteacher Marc Fogel yesterday.
Trump says the two agreed to start negotiating an immediate end to the war. Then, shortly after, he spoke with Ukrainian President Zelenskyy, where he was told they're ready for peace.
Now, let me catch you up on how we got here. What is the history of this war? A short CliffsNotes, back in 2021, Ukraine said Russia had amassed 100,000 troops along its border. That had then-President Biden saying this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOE BIDEN, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I think what you're going to see is that Russia will be held accountable if it invades. And it depends on what it does. It's one thing if it's a minor incursion and then we end up having to fight about what to do and not do.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Minor incursions seeming to get the green light.
Now fast-forward to February of 2022. Russian troops invaded its neighboring country, starting what is now a three-year war. It's been a deadly war; 80,000 Ukrainian troops have been killed and more than a million Russian troops are estimated to have lost their lives.
So, joining me now is former CIA chief -- station chief in Moscow and FOX News contributor Dan Hoffman and the former USS Commander -- Cole Commander Kirk Lippold here with us.
Dan, today, the secretary of defense, Pete Hegseth, the part that I left out of that brief history is, from Russia's perspective there was some fear that Ukraine might join NATO, putting NATO on the Russian doorstep. Today, the secretary of defense, Pete Hegseth, said that is not in the future for Ukraine. Your thoughts?
DAN HOFFMAN, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Russia's concern about NATO, that's a Kremlin propaganda ploy.
Vladimir Putin launched that war to topple the government in Ukraine because what scares him the most is democracy, freedom, liberty, what's enshrined in our Constitution and Bill of Rights. And what he couldn't have is a neighbor like Ukraine with a sizable Russian-speaking population with close ties to Europe militarily, commercially and economically.
There's no question that Ukraine is not in a position to join NATO. I think Secretary Hegseth was stating a fact there and also that Ukraine can't go back to those 2014 borders. I think that's the starting point for negotiations. And I think that, on the Russian side, they probably had some back-channel discussion with the Trump administration.
I wouldn't be surprised if that happened, where they discussed these precursors to start negotiations in earnest. We have got a channel now established by this exchange, where the Trump administration brilliantly secured the release of Marc Fogel. And so it's onward now to negotiations, which need to ensure that Ukraine can remain independent and sovereign country.
The last thing we want is for Russia to cast their shadow over Europe, with which we enjoy a $1 trillion trade.
CAIN: Well, Dan, you and I have had a lot of conversations and I respect your opinion.
I think by suggesting that Russia was concerned about NATO potentially sitting at its doorstep to Ukraine is not me at all accepting or repeating a Russian talking point, a Kremlin talking point. It really doesn't matter if we call it NATO, if we call it Western economic or military ties. What Russia didn't want was exactly what you just described.
It's not something as benign as democracy, but something that represented the West, its influence on their border. That's not a justification. That's attempting to understand what Russia might have been concerned about here at the advent of this war. It doesn't make them right or wrong. It's just attempting to understand their motivation.
I agree with you it's a start of realism to say, OK, what Hegseth said, that's not on the table. I think it's also realism for Hegseth to say the following, which he did, which is there will be no American troops in Ukraine. Let's watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PETE HEGSETH, U.S. DEFENSE SECRETARY: Returning to Ukraine's pre-2014 borders is an unrealistic objective. The United States does not believe that NATO membership for Ukraine is a realistic outcome of a negotiated settlement.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: So, Kirk, realism, right, the NATO, the NATO point, realism, the American troops point, realism. There's not a possibility to return to pre- 2014 borders. What do you make of that realism?
KIRK LIPPOLD, FORMER COMMANDER, USS COLE: Well, I think, Will, one of -- the thing you have to worry about is that already the United States has created two negotiating points in favor of Russia, they will not be able to join NATO and they will not go to the pre-2014 borders, because let's not forget, the war didn't start in 2021.
The war started in 2014, with the seizure of the Crimea illegally by Russia back then. What has happened since then is, they have continued this war with a massive amount of loss and destruction of property, killing of civilians, including women and children, throughout Ukraine.
And at the end of the day, Dan's absolutely right. Russia initiated this conflict, in violation of international law, and there is no justification. The fact that freedom was knocking on Russia's doorstep right there is not grounds for Putin to launch an attack. NATO is not a threat to them. Freedom is.
And that's part of Putin's problem is, he's going to have to come to grips with that. But the two points that both Secretary Hegseth and perhaps the president gave up is, we're already starting negotiations giving Russia terms favorable to them without any discussion of where we're going to go with Ukraine.
CAIN: I think the problem I'm having with our conversation -- and, look, a healthy debate is a good thing -- is, explanation and understanding are not the same thing as justification.
And trying to understand your enemy's motivation is not giving a green light to your enemy for whatever action they take. So, if Russia is worried about Western incursion, under whatever guise, on its doorstep, we might have to understand that to arrive at some potential peace.
I hear from both of you. Well, I didn't hear this from you, Dan, so I will put that back to you. Do you agree with Kirk, oh, my gosh, We have started off here by giving Russia two of its big points here? Are you concerned then with what you just heard from Hegseth?
HOFFMAN: I actually think that was probably the requirement to get the negotiations started.
And, look, Will, I spent my whole career at CIA trying to see the world through the twisted eyes of our adversaries, starting with the KGB operative in the Kremlin. That's why I learned Russian and served many years there. And you're right, seeing the world through his eyes is important.
But, look, NATO's a defensive alliance. It's on Russia's doorstep already with the Baltic states and now Finland. It's Russia that's the aggressor. And we need to deter Russia. That's, I think, got to be the goal of whatever settlement is reached in Ukraine to ensure that there are -- maybe there are going to be boots on the ground, European boots on the ground in Ukraine, and a vibrant post-conflict reconstruction plan to ensure that Ukraine is no longer vulnerable to Russian threats.
Because, as long as Putin is in the Kremlin, they have to be concerned about that.
CAIN: We have to deter Russia. It seems, though -- I will give final words to you here, Kirk -- the goal right now is to start with peace, is to end this war and see how we can then maintain the peace.
LIPPOLD: Oh, well, I would absolutely agree that you have to get to peace. The issue is going to be, what do we give up to get there?
Because part of what you're also doing is, this is not just Russia, Ukraine, and Europe in the United States. Don't think for one minute that Iran, who is in pursuit of nuclear weapons, isn't watching what happened to a country that gave them up when Ukraine gave those weapons up in 1994.
So there are ripple effects from how this entire conflict is brought to the peace table, what negotiations produce, and what is compromised and given away at the end of the day, because Dan's absolutely right. Russia's going to have to be deterred in the end.
CAIN: OK, I appreciate this conversation, even if we have a little bit of different approach to how that conversation unfolds. As Dan knows, I appreciate the debate, and it's always welcome here on "The Will Cain Show."
Dan, Kirk, thank you so much.
LIPPOLD: Thank you.
HOFFMAN: Thanks.
CAIN: I want to share one thing with you before we go, if I might.
I want to show the audience this, because we just got done talking about the secretary of defense. Yesterday, in Germany, he worked out. He did P.T. with some of the soldiers based there in Germany. If we have that, I'd love to just share that with the audience, because here's why I think it's of note.
You have probably seen it by now. There's a decent chance you have. And, by the way, that guy running with Hegseth is gigantic.More of those soldiers for America. I can't tell you how many texts I got from people within the military about what this does for morale at the ground level for America's warriors.
You may think or you could dismiss it as a publicity stunt. I'm here to tell you how many people I heard from that this means something to America's soldiers.
All right, some judges helping to block President Trump's agenda. Now Attorney General Pam Bondi says her department is going to fight back. We're expecting that later this hour to hear directly from the attorney general.
But, first, today I spoke with Joe Piscopo, "Saturday Night Live" legend on the Will Cain digital show. We spoke about his favorite person he ever worked with.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Who was your favorite guy to work with?
JOE PISCOPO, COMEDIAN: Well, I will tell you, my favorite guy and my -- the guy I admire and is kind of a mentor and I think embodies everything about "Saturday Night Live" that is great as Dan Aykroyd.
Aykroyd's my guy. But to work with, and I have worked with everybody -- I have been on stage with Mr. Sinatra. That was a thrill of my life, of course, but I will tell you, nobody better than Eddie Murphy, man.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: All right to the White House, Tulsi Gabbard officially sworn in just moments ago.
Let's listen to the president.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: ... immediately, but we had a very good talk with -- people didn't really know what President Putin's thoughts were, but I think I can say with great confidence he wants to see it ended also. That's good.
And we're going to work toward getting it ended, and as fast as possible. It's a horrible situation going over. It's flat land. And the bullet goes off and the only thing it can hit is a body, a human body, a young human body. And they're losing just tremendous numbers of mostly soldiers.
The cities and towns have been largely demolished. It's a shame what's happened to that country. It would have never happened if I were president. That, I can tell you. It would have never happened. It's -- to look at that. And October 7 would have never happened either, by the way, Middle East.
But we will get it. I think we will it. We will get something done. We're going to be meeting. Actually, tomorrow, they're meeting in Munich, as you know, and we're going to have some other meetings. And we will be -- I will be dealing with President Putin largely on the phone. And we ultimately expect to meet.
In fact, we expect that he will come here and I will go there.And we're going to meet also probably in Saudi Arabia, the first time we will meet in Saudi Arabia, see if we can get something done. But we want to end that war,. That war is a disaster. It's a really bloody, horrible war.
(CROSSTALK)
QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) Saudi Arabia you -- the first meeting you will have?
TRUMP: I think so. We think we're going to probably meet in Saudi Arabia the first meeting.
QUESTION: Do you have any idea when?
TRUMP: Hasn't been set, but not-too-distant future.
QUESTION: Will Zelenskyy be part of that meeting?
TRUMP: We both understand. We know the crown prince, and I think it'd be a very good place to meet.
QUESTION: So it sounds like that would just be a meeting between you and Putin, and perhaps the crown prince, but not President Zelenskyy?
TRUMP: Probably, we will have a first meeting, and then we will see what we can do about the second meeting.
QUESTION: Do you also commit to go to Ukraine?
TRUMP: What about Ukraine?
QUESTION: Do you commit to go to Ukraine?
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: No, I haven't. I haven't committed to go to Ukraine.
QUESTION: Would you go?
TRUMP: I would think about going. I think about it, no problem.
QUESTION: Can you say today, Mr. President, that they receive your vision? What is your plan to end this war? Like, today, Secretary...
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: Well, I'm not going to tell you my plan. I can just tell you we have made a lot of progress. This should have been done by Biden, not by me, because this has been going on for now a long time, years. And it should have been done by Biden, just like the young gentleman that I brought home yesterday after two weeks.
We worked on it for two weeks. He was a fine man, and he was in there for 3.5, almost four years. And they weren't able to do a thing. And I got him out. And, as you know, I didn't pay $6 billion. I didn't pay anything. We did a trade. And we did a good job. We got him out in two weeks. Should have been out years ago. Really should have been out years ago.
QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) oppose NATO membership for Ukraine?
TRUMP: I don't think it's practical to have it, personally. I know that our new secretary of defense, who's excellent, Pete, made a statement today saying that he thinks it's unlikely or impractical.
I think probably that's true. I think, long before President Putin, they said there's no way they'd allow that. This has been going on for many, many years. They have been saying that for a long time, that Ukraine cannot go into NATO. And I'm OK with that.
I just want the war -- whether they are or they're not. But it certainly would seem to be that most people have said that that is something that's not going to happen.
(CROSSTALK)
QUESTION: Are you freezing out President Zelenskyy in this process? Isn't there a danger of that?
TRUMP: No, I don't think so, as long as he's there. But, at some point, you're going to have to have elections too. You're going to have to have an election.
(CROSSTALK)
QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) assurances, Mr. President. What does that look like?
TRUMP: In terms of what?
QUESTION: The war were to end, he says he wants guarantees of security.
TRUMP: We will see what that means. We have -- I think, when the war ends, one thing he was very strong about, he wants it to end. And that's President Putin said that. He wants it to end. He doesn't want to end it and then go back to fighting six months later.
We talked about the possibility, I mentioned it, of a cease-fire so we can stop the killing, and I think we will probably end up at some point getting a cease-fire in the not-too-distant future.
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: Say it? What?
QUESTION: Do you view Ukraine as an equal member of this peace process?
TRUMP: It's an interesting question. I think they have to make peace. Their people are being killed, and I think they have to make peace.
I said that was not a good war to go into. And I think they have to make peace. That's what I think.
(CROSSTALK)
QUESTION: Would you support Zelenskyy ceding territory or exchanging territory in any agreement to end the war?
TRUMP: Well, he's going to have to do what he has to do, but his poll numbers aren't particularly great, to put it mildly. He's got a country where it's been savaged and attacked, and he's got an army that's been very, very brave, actually, despite the fact that we have given them, in my opinion, $350 billion.
That's what the real number is. You don't hear that number. And Europe has given, in my opinion, $100 billion, and they have done it in the form of a loan. And I have a secretary of Treasury right now who's actually quite brave. He's over in Ukraine on a train, and there's a lot of things happening around that train that aren't so good.
And he's going there to get a document done where we're going to be assured that we're going to, in some form, get this money back, because we're putting up far more money than Europe, and Europe is in far more danger than we are. We have an ocean in between. Europe has nothing in between.
You know what they have in between? They have Ukraine in between.
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: So -- so, wait a minute. So, as you know, Europe is putting up money. They're getting it in the form of a loan. And the United States under Biden didn't do loans. They just handed money. Every time somebody walked in from Ukraine, they just handed them money foolishly.
This should have never happened. It should have never started. And once it did, other things should have happened. Other things should have taken place. So we're getting security on our money. We're going to have it secured by -- they have rare earth and they have oil and gas and they have a lot of other things. And we're asking for security in our money.
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: They have agreed to it. Ukraine has agreed to it.
QUESTION: Does that mean you are not sending any more aid to Ukraine?
TRUMP: No, we are, but we want it secured. And the money is going to be secured.
(CROSSTALK)
QUESTION: When would the U.S. stop sending funding?
TRUMP: Because, if we didn't do that, then Putin would say he won. We're the thing that's holding it back. And, frankly, we will go as long as we have to go, because we're not going to let the other happen.
But President Putin wants to have peace now. And that's good. And he didn't want to have peace with Biden.
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: And you tell me why that is, OK?
QUESTION: Was that conversation with Putin to start these negotiations part of the deal to bring Fogel home?
TRUMP: No, but it was a nice thing that he allowed Marc Fogel to leave. In fact, Marc is -- wasn't feeling well. But he was all of a sudden -- about two weeks ago, he started being treated very nicely. He said they took him out for haircuts. They took him out.
They helped him out a little bit and made him feel better, made him look better. And they were nice to him. And he said, I saw something happening. And it coincided with when I came into office. So that was nice. And he was -- he's a fine person. He was so happy to be out.
He was there for 3.5 years-plus. And he shouldn't have been there at all. He should have -- they should have had him out much faster than that.
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: Wait. Go ahead, please.
QUESTION: Sorry.
Sir, just to be clear, do you see any future in which Ukraine returns with pre-2014 borders?
TRUMP: Well, I think Pete said today that that's unlikely, right? It certainly would seem to be unlikely. They took a lot of land, and they fought for that land and they lost a lot of soldiers. But it would just seem to me -- and I'm not making an opinion it, but I have read a lot on it and a lot of people think that that's unlikely.
Some of it will come back. I think some of it will come back, yes. Some of that land will come back.
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: Who are you with?
QUESTION: Me?
TRUMP: Yes.
QUESTION: AFP.
TRUMP: Who?
QUESTION: AFP, Agence France-Presse.
TRUMP: OK.
QUESTION: I just wanted to ask you. You -- the things that the secretary of defense was talking about, the 2014 borders and the lack of NATO membership, ultimately, these are both demands that Russia has made in the past.
Is there not a danger of having Russia kind of win on this?
TRUMP: Well -- well, I think that, if you look at the war, the way the war is going, you will have to make your own determination. I'm just here to try and get peace.
I don't care so much about anything other than I want to stop having millions of people killed, killed. Last night, Kyiv got hit very, very hard. I want to see people stop getting killed. That war is ridiculous. It should have never happened. And it would have never happened.
Yes, a couple of more questions.
(CROSSTALK)
QUESTION: Are you planning to sign an executive order of a reciprocal tariffs, sir?
TRUMP: Yes, I am. In fact, I may do it today. And if I do it today, I could almost do it right now. Would you like me to talk about that? No, I don't want to take anything away from this young lady's day, because this is her day.
And I may do it later on or I may do it tomorrow morning, but we will be signing reciprocal tariffs. The world has taken advantage of the United States for many years. They have charged us massive tariffs that we haven't charged them. And, as you know, I just did something on steel and aluminum, 25 percent.
That will go up at some point, but 25 percent, which will level the playing field quite a bit. I did it previously, 50 percent, and Obama was very weak. And Biden was even weaker on steel. Steel was just absolutely -- it really started with Obama. The world really took advantage of us.
And then that morphed into Biden. And what they did was, he was so worried about trying to attack his political opponent that he didn't know what he was doing with respect to countries taking advantage. He should have looked at the countries, both friend and foe, taking advantage of us.
So we're going to be doing reciprocal tariffs, which is whatever they charge, we charge, very simply. But we're going to be...
(CROSSTALK)
QUESTION: ... talk about widespread fraud and abuse.
TRUMP: Oh, yes, tremendous fraud. There's tremendous fraud. And it's hard to believe that you can have that kind of fraud. You're talking about -- like, are you talking about what?
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: Wait, wait, wait. Which are you talking about? You're talking about with regard to all of the investigations that are going on about this stupidity.
What we're going to do is, tomorrow, I'm having a news conference. I'm going to read to you some of the names that hundreds of millions and even billions of dollars have been given to. And if you tell me that we should be giving money to those things, those entities, I think you will probably have to leave as a reporter, because you're not very talented.
When you look at the kind of money, billions and billions of dollars being thrown away illegally, and there's no chance -- I mean, I say in front of our attorney general. There's no chance that there's not kickbacks or something going on.
When you give millions and millions of dollars to somebody that stands to look at something for 15 minutes and walks away with millions of dollars, that money's coming back in some form. And that's only one form of corruption.
The biggest thing is, what they do to our country, they're taking massive amounts of money and spending it on items. I went through a list of 200 expenditures that were made. And I found three that looked like they were reasonable, OK, three, And we will be talking about that tomorrow. We have a lot of stuff.
And I want to commend Elon because he's done a fantastic -- he doesn't need this. And he's abused by you people every day. He's found more things than anybody could find. I think he's got the credibility to do it. I know he does.
And it's his group of people. They started off with 12. I call them 12 geniuses. They started off with 12, and they went to 20 and 25, and now they're up to almost 100. People are joining to help them, because this is a massive fraud that's taking place.
And then you have judges that are activists, and they sit there and they say, oh -- as an example, $59 million going to a little small group in New York City. You get nothing going to North Carolina to help the -- nothing. They say, we don't have any money because they have given it away on the border. But you have nothing.
What they did to North Carolina is a shame. And then they sent $59 million to New York City for a hotel for a little -- a little bit of nothing, what they have done, a hotel that was not luxury, that's getting luxury rates for migrants, where they're making a fortune, and we catch them. We catch them.
And -- but a judge says, well, even though it may be a fraud, you have to send the money in anyway, send the money. I said, wait a minute, we have money that shouldn't go because we caught it before it was sent out, but they want the money to go anyway.
And I think you're going to have a lot of things to look at, Pam. I really do, what's going on with this whole thing. And this is just one group. We haven't talked about Department of Education. We haven't talked about the military. We haven't talked about a lot of things that are very big.
And what's happened is, as an example, you will have cases where you have a three-month contract, and maybe the guy that signs the contract leaves, maybe he gets rich. All of a sudden, he leaves for that reason, but you have a three-month contract, and maybe he leaves, so the contract is sitting there.
And the people signing the checks don't know it's three months, and it goes on for years. The three months turns out to be three years, five years, 10 years, just goes on forever. And the guy on the other side of the contract just keeps getting check after check after check, because Elon had an expression yesterday, because nobody cares.
It's a great expression. Nobody cares. The guy that signed the contract didn't care, may be there, may not be there, may be crooked, who knows. But you have to care. Otherwise, you can't really run a thing like that, or you can't run a country, really, because there's so many transactions, thousands and thousands of transactions.
And if you don't have people that care, you're going to lose control, and that's what's happened. And we have caught it. Now, what we caught is billions and billions of dollars, but it's a tiny fraction of the real number, because you can never catch the real number, because people have gotten away with tremendous amounts of money.
But I said we have to make our government smaller, more efficient, more effective, and a lot less expensive, and we could find a trillion dollars. But we're being hindered by courts, where they file in certain courts where it's very hard to win, and a judge will stop us, and a judge will say that it doesn't make any difference what you find, you just keep paying the money.
That's a hell of a way to be. And I follow the courts. I have to follow the law. All it means is that we appeal. But that gives people time to cover their tracks, and that's what they do. So it's a very bad thing that's taking place. But, hopefully, if the courts -- hopefully, the courts will be fair.
They don't have to be very fair. They just have to be a little bit fair, because this is so egregious, what's taken place. Nobody's ever seen anything like it. Nobody's seen numbers like this. These are massive numbers, $9 million for somebody to go and stand in a store and see how people shop, OK?
I mean, you take a look at these things. It's a disgrace. And then you have a country that we want to make America great again. It's very hard to make America great again when you have things like this. And you're going to see the same thing. Department of Education is going to be a disaster.
The military, I mean, I see it. Look, I bought -- I came in. They had a contract done, as you know, for $5.7 billion for airplanes. It was Air Force One with Boeing, 5.7. I got it down to $4 billion, little less than that, one penny less than that, $3.999.999.99. They said -- I said, it has to have a three in front of it, because I wouldn't sign the contract for $5.7 billion.
I was able to cut $1.7 billion off the price. And it didn't take me long, $1.7 billion. If people would care, they'd be able to do that with every single contract that's put before them. And we wouldn't have deficits. We'd have nothing but a tremendously low-taxed, wonderful country. But they have to care.
And speaking of that, Boeing, we're not happy with the service we're getting in terms of those planes. They would like to get more money. We're not happy about that whole thing. We signed a very strong contract. I signed a guaranteed maximum contract, which they haven't seen in a long time. And they're saying they're getting hurt by it. But they have to produce the product.
And we expect them to produce the product. They have to produce the product. They agreed to build planes at a certain price. They're not used to that. They used to having time and material contracts, where it's whatever it costs, time and material, no dates, no anything. It ends up costing five times more.
You look at some of the ships that have been built. Look at -- take a look at the Gerald Ford, the aircraft carrier the Ford. It came -- it was supposed to cost $3 billion. It ends up costing like $18 billion. And they make, of course, all electric catapults, which don't work. And they have all magnetic elevators. They lift up 25 planes at a time, 20 planes at a time.
And instead of using hydraulic, like on tractors, that can handle anything from hurricanes to lightning to anything, they use magnets. It's a new theory. Magnets are going to lift the planes up. And it doesn't work. And they had billions and billions of dollars of cost overruns.
I met the architect. I said, have you designed a ship before? This is one of the biggest ships in the world. It's like landing at La Guardia Airport. But you look at the kind of waste, fraud and abuse that this country is going through, and we have to straighten it out.
We have great people going into the military in terms of, we need ships, we need a lot of things. We have great people going. We have businesspeople going in. But when you look at what's happened to our purchasing, the purchasing, and when you look at the USAID, when you look at the things that they're giving to them, the billions, the billions of dollars that they're giving to, and it doesn't make sense.
It is interesting that, when you're looking for fraud, you look at items, hundreds of items, and you will find one or two maybe, if you're lucky. Here's something where you look at it, and they're all fraudulent. By just looking at the topic, they're all fraudulent, except it's the opposite.
You will find one or two that's like a legitimate reason. So I just want to thank Elon for going through it. I want to thank all the people that are working with them. We have a big group of people. All -- I think the lowest I.Q. is about 160. That's very high.
I think you have a couple of 182s in there, but they're doing a fantastic job. They don't -- he doesn't need it and they don't need it, but we're showing things. And it's going to be -- it's a big -- people have no idea how important it is.
Yes.
(CROSSTALK)
QUESTION: How soon do you want the Department of Education to be closed?
TRUMP: Oh, I'd like it to be closed immediately. Look, the Department of Education is a big con job.
We're ranked -- so they rank the top 40 countries in the world. We're ranked number 40th, but we're ranked number one in one department, cost per pupil. So we spend more per pupil than any other country in the world, but we're ranked number 40. We have been between 38 and 40. The last time I looked, it was 38.
And then I looked two days ago, it came out, the new list. It came out at number 40. So we're ranked 40. Norway, Denmark, Sweden, I hate to say it, China, as big as it is, it's ranked in the top five. And that's our -- that's a primary competitor. We're ranked number 40.
So, if we're ranked number 40, that means something's really wrong, right? And I say send it back to Iowa, to Idaho, to Colorado. Send it back to places that -- and a lot of Indiana. You have a great new governor. You have a great senator, that Jim Banks just got elected.
You got great people. I will tell you what. Indiana is going to be fantastic. We probably have 35, maybe 37 states that will do as well as Denmark, Norway, Finland, Sweden. They will be just as good. Then you have the ones that we all know about. It'll be the same story.
But you know what? Even they will be good, because you look at New York, you give it to Westchester County, you give it to Long Island, you give it to Nassau County, you give it to Suffolk County. Same thing, you go out to -- and you give it to Upstate New York. So you would have four or five sections. You give it to Manhattan. Manhattan's a little bit tougher, for some reason. I don't know why it would be tougher. But it is.
You give to California, and you go to various areas outside of Los Angeles, and you might have six or seven different subgroups. But, generally, like, if you go to Iowa, you give it to Iowa. You don't have subgroups. You have Iowa and other places that do a good job.
If they do a good job, they're going to do a great job on education. Those places will be every good -- every bit as good as the various countries that do so well, all the time. It's the same countries that are doing well.
And so we have a Department of Education where people from Washington, D.C., who many -- in many cases don't care about the kids out in the country. They don't care about the farms and the farmer's daughter and the father's -- farmer's sons.
We have a massive bureaucracy in Washington, D.C. We have buildings that are all over the city, Department of Education. I never saw -- Department of Education is on all these buildings. By the way, nobody shows up to work because they're all working at home -- quote -- "working at home."
They're not working at home. And a lot of them have second jobs. And that's the other thing that Elon Musk is looking at. How many of these people are getting checks, working at home, but they're not working because they have second jobs and even third jobs? You're going to find a lot of them.
And those people are going to be fired, because we have to make our government smaller.
All right, one more question?
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: Yes, Jennifer, go ahead. Nice to see you.
QUESTION: Oh, thank you, sir.
Two questions, one on Ukraine again and then another one on the Kennedy Center. Do you think that by -- as far as your negotiating tactics go, did Pete Hegseth take away some of your negotiating abilities with Putin by taking Ukraine's sovereign integrity off the table, by taking...
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: No, I haven't done that. I'm backing Ukraine. I'm backing Ukraine. Don't say that. I'm approving, but I do want security for our money.
Europe is getting security. You know that, right? They are giving their money in the form of a loan. Nobody knows that. And why are we at $350 billion and Europe, which doesn't separate with an ocean, like we do?
We have a little thing called an ocean in between. Why is it that Europe is paying 200 billion less than us to help Ukraine? Very similar size. If you add up all the European countries, it's a little bit smaller than the U.S. in terms of the economy.
Why is it that they're not paying the kind of numbers that they should be paying? And then on top of it -- and I have been saying this to Biden -- I told Biden, I said, you ought to be asking for either a loan or some kind of a security, like their oil and gas or something, for the money, because you're putting up much more money than Europe, and you have no security.
Europe's putting up a much smaller amount, and it's in the form of a loan, because we have people that were incompetent in the last administration, grossly incompetent. And we're changing it. But we change it. And we all we do is, we get hit by lawsuits from the radical left all the time.
But here we are. We stand, and I guess we have done OK.
Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: That was President Trump taking questions after the swearing-in of his new director of national intelligence, Tulsi Gabbard.
A quick explanation of how this works every day. Right now, you can see in the bottom corner of your screen there is a protest taking place over the new education secretary, Linda McMahon. Pam Bondi is making remarks, which you should see here on the FOX News Channel probably within the next 10 to 15 minutes.
The Tulsi Gabbard swearing-in has not yet been provided to media outlets, which will also air at some point. So, these things come in, we juggle them like dominoes, and we get them to you as soon as possible.
What you heard there, though, is another wide-ranging Q&A. A lot of focus on the war between Russia and Ukraine. He says he's trying to push for peace, push both sides for peace. He also talked about tariffs and how he will keep using them to level the economic playing field with the rest of the world. And he talked a lot about waste being uncovered within our government, DOGE.
In fact, that takes us to today's "Big Three."
What we heard yesterday at this very time right here on this program was an honest assessment of trying to save the American taxpayer money from Elon Musk and Donald Trump. The national debt clock currently looks like this. It's $36 trillion and counting. Don't let your blood pressure get raised, but that's over $323,000 per U.S. taxpayer.
Musk pointed out yesterday that his goal, and he thinks it's possible by finding all of this, what you just heard from President Trump, waste, fraud, and abuse, is to take the annual deficit down -- now, this is how much we are in the red every year -- from $2 trillion to $1 trillion.
He pointed out that the way to do that is to start looking at, yes, the number of federal employees, which is 2.3 million federal employees, but also to look at why checks are going out with no one in the field to pay, or going to people that couldn't possibly still be 150 years old, and, in some cases, as pointed out by Elon Musk, not even Americans.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ELON MUSK, OWNER, X: What we're finding is that a bunch of the fraud is not even going to Americans.
So I think we all agree that, if there's going to be fraud, it should at least go to Americans. But a bunch of the fraud rings that are operating in the United States and taking advantage of the federal government, especially in the entitlements programs, are actually foreign fraud rings that are operating in other countries and actually exporting money to other countries.
We should stop that. And this is big numbers -- we're -- big numbers, from about $100 billion to $200 billion a year, serious money.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: In response to that, this is the rebuttal from many on the left, cursing, yelling, screaming. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. JASMINE CROCKETT (D-TX): What we're not going to do is stand around while they pull this (EXPLETIVE DELETED) that they're trying to pull right now.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This will be a congressional fight, a constitutional fight, a legal fight, and on days like this a street fight.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I said (EXPLETIVE DELETED) Trump.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I don't swear in public very well, but we have to (EXPLETIVE DELETED) Trump.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (EXPLETIVE DELETED) Donald Trump and Elon Musk.
GOV. CHRIS SUNUNU (R-NH): FEMA money for migrants, that's OK now?
ANDERSON COOPER, CNN HOST: No, I'm not saying it's OK. I'm not saying it's OK. Don't put words in my mouth.
SUNUNU: So would you stop that? Would you stop that process?
COOPER: Don't be a (EXPLETIVE DELETED).
GARCIA: In the last Congress, Chairwoman Greene literally showed a (EXPLETIVE DELETED) pick in our oversight congressional hearing. So I thought I'd bring one as well.
(LAUGHTER)
GARCIA: Now this, of course, we know is president Elon Musk. He's also the world's richest man. He was the biggest political donor in the last election. He has billions of dollars in conflicts of interest. And we know that he is leading a power grab.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Now, if you thought that rhetoric was low, wait until you hear a Tennessee preacher at a Mission Baptist Church from the pulpit, again, all of this in response to finding waste fraud and abuse.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No one likes violence, but sometimes violence is necessary. When Elon Musk forces his way into the United States Treasury and threatens to steal your personal information and your Social Security check, there is a possibility of violence.
Sometimes, the devil will act so ugly that you have no other choice but to get violent and fight.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Calls for violence for trying to save the American taxpayer and reducing the deficit from $2 trillion to $1 trillion.
OK, it's time for "Will of the People."
You folks out there watching like Rick say: "Will, please promise me that you will never make me go through having to hear those Democrats trying to sing again."
I can't make that promise. When it's newsworthy, and that singing voice was certainly newsworthy, you will hear it here.
Another user says: "Please don't play the video of the worker singing anymore. The dogs are starting to howl."
Calm the dogs down. It's over.
Sean says: "Will's a great guy, loves his country, family and, most importantly, the Mavs, even if they lost Luka to the Lakers."
Hard days, Sean.
Ken writes: "Will, you have a great show. Unfortunately, the president seems to want to take your slot."
He is. He is.He's taking my slot here on the FOX News Channel.
Linda says: "Love your show. Really appreciate your professionalism and impeccable dress."
Thank you, Linda.
I appreciate all of that. I appreciate you joining us.
I appreciate the debate we had a little bit earlier on Ukraine and Russia and the war. This is going to be a home to that kind of debate, where people disagree with me, and they will hear when I disagree with them as well. Every day, we want to have that conversation and have it with you as well as part of "Will of the People."
Thanks for joining us, as we get to the heart of the matter from the heart of America.

Load-Date: February 12, 2025


End of Document
