




Fox News FOX SPECIAL REPORT WITH BRET BAIER 6:00 PM EST
January 27, 2025 Monday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 9438 words
Byline: Bret Baier, Jackie DeAngelis, Jacqui Heinrich, Jennifer Griffin, Brit Hume, Charles Payne
Body


DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: And as we are fighting hard to get birthright citizenship or automatic citizenship for the children of illegal aliens. That's another way. It's automatic citizenship for children and aliens. That's the other term that they use, which is actually more accurate, more understandable, and it's ridiculous. We're the only country that has it, and certainly the only country that has it to that extent. And it wasn't meant -- if you look, it was really meant for children of slaves. This is when it happened, the children of slaves. It was not meant for everyone to come into our country by airplane or charging across the borders from all over the world and think they're going to become citizens. It's not meant for that. It wasn't meant for that.
And hopefully, at some point, the courts will understand that, without having to go through a whole big deal. This was meant for the children of slaves, and look at the timing of it, and you'll see. And I hope judges will understand that, and it has to stop, because it's really hurting our country very badly.
In the coming weeks, I'm looking forward to working with Congress on a reconciliation bill that financially takes care of our plans to totally and permanently restore the sovereign borders of the United States once and for all. This should include full funding for a record increase in border security personnel and retention bonuses for ICE and Border Patrol. These people are incredible people. I got to know them so well. I was on the phone with them all the time when I was president, when she was the border czar, she never called them.
Remember, we went like four years, and they started asking her, did you ever speak to him? No, we asked the Border Patrol, did you ever speak to the president -- the head of the Border Patrol, did you ever speak to the vice president who was your border czar? No, I never got to speak to her. This was a terrible thing that was going on. This was a con job.
We also need a massive increase in the number of detention beds and funding for all border security infrastructure and barriers, including the completion of the border wall. We did 500 miles of wall, and that's one of the reasons we had the lowest number. You remember the famous chart that I looked to my right, bring down the chart, and I looked at my right, something went right by here.
And -- but that chart, I don't know if they have it now, frankly, I didn't tell them to bring it, but they're very competent people. They might -- if you have the chart, put it up. If you don't, that's OK too.
But that chart showed that we had the lowest number of illegals coming into our country in history. And it was -- I love the chart, even if it didn't show that, I would have loved that chart, because that chart, I wouldn't be here right now without that particular chart, but it was -- it was pretty amazing. It was pretty really amazing, and we did a great job. We had the lowest. The week I left office, we had the lowest number of illegal immigrants coming into our country that we ever had.
Simultaneously, we must make a record investment in interior enforcement, including deportation flights and aircraft, as well as funding for our new task force to eradicate the presence of foreign gangs. We have some of the worst foreign gangs. It's not even believable and criminal networks that have brought devastating crime to American soil. We're getting them all out. We're getting them all out.
I want on that, you know, it's like some of some people explain it very well. They say, gee, whiz, you know, they look at the people as, you know, in Colombia, they agreed with us almost immediately after I got involved, and Marco Rubio and I worked together, did a great job, and we really did. And Mike Waltz, we have a great group of people.
But we were being scolded because we had them in shackles in an airplane. And he said, this is no way to treat people. Now, you understand, these are murderers, drug lords, gang members, just the toughest people you've ever met or seen. How would you like to be the pilot of a plane? You got two pilots up there, and you got 300 people sitting in a plane, every one of them either a murderer, a drug lord, a kingpin of some kind, a head of the mob, or a gang member. And you're flying that plane, it's not going to end well. Do you ever see the movie "Con Air?" That's what it is. Except here's the difference. The people in "Con Air" were actors. They weren't nearly as tough as these guys.
I would say that that plane would be gone before it ever left. Those pilots would be gone before it ever left. So, they don't want us to shackle them. I don't want to be in that plane.
I want to thank every Republican House member for voting to pass the Laken Riley Act, the first enforcement. The only bill that's been passed in three decades.
I met the parents of Laken, and they were incredible people. They were just so devastated. I mean, can't even explain to you. You can't say somebody's life is over, but essentially, their life is so different, and it can never be the same. She was beautiful. She was great, great person.
But to have a bill of such importance, named after her is a great tribute. But what these parents, and you know, you have so many of them, where they've lost a loved one to crime, but to this new form of crime, criminal illegal aliens, it's massive. The numbers are massive. And you add that to the crime we already had.
This shows the potential for additional enforcement bills that will help us crack down on criminal aliens and totally restore the rule of law in our country. I'm also eager to get to work with Congress on the largest package of tax cuts and reforms in American history. We got to get that done.
And we don't want to get hung up on the budget process. We just want whether it's one bill, two bills, I don't care, let these guys are going to work it out. They're going to work it out one way the other.
But the bottom line, the end result, is going to be the same. We want to have all of those benefits, and we want to keep people's taxes low and actually make them lower. And that's not just rich people. That's everybody. It's, frankly, proportionately the lower scale, much more so than a higher scale. Not only must we permanently extend the Trump tax cuts.
You know, if we don't, you're going to have about a 60 percent tax increase, but I also intend to keep my promises, starting with no tax on tips, no tax on Social Security and no tax on overtime. We're working very hard to get them done.
And we are -- I went to Nevada just this last couple of days. I started off in North Carolina because I didn't want to forget the people of North Carolina were treated so badly by FEMA, and they came to me. They said, sir, you're going to California tomorrow. I said, well, what about North Carolina? Well, we'll do that another time. And I said, no, we won't. I'm stopping in North Carolina first. And we stopped there. We met great people. Franklin Graham has done a fantastic job. He's done a great job, but others also.
And I met people that were devastated. The Democrat party with FEMA, there, FEMA did absolutely nothing, and we have that worked out. Your congressmen are helping very much there. Your three Congress people are working very hard on that whole thing, along with Michael Whatley and Laura wants to be involved too. Laura Trump, she's doing great jobs. She's done a great Michael and Laura have been unbelievable as the head of the RNC, they've been unbelievable. Unbelievable.
You know why I picked Michael? I said, who ran North Carolina? Tell me. Because in the 2016 election, we did so -- we did so well. And then in 2020, we did great in North Carolina, but others we watched, (INAUDIBLE). What the hell is going on?
But with North Carolina, when he had 600 lawyers -- 601 lawyers working for him, and they didn't play games in North Carolina, I said, that's the guy I want to run it. And Michael Whatley has done an unbelievable job, and he worked with Laura so well. She comes from that state, from North Carolina. They've done such an incredible job.
So, thank you very much. I want to just thank you, in front of leadership, incredible.
And I really don't want to give another job, to be honest, that's the most important job. He said, sir, I'll go anywhere. I said, I don't want you to go anywhere. I want you to stay where we are, we'll give you plenty of money to get the job done, right? But we don't want to -- we don't want to lose you. I mean, he's really -- he could do anything actually, but he's a very talented person. There's nothing more important, because we have to win in two years. We have to win in four years. There's nobody better to head it up.
So, thank you very much, Michael and really, stand up. Just an incredible job, really amazing.
I wanted to save that for leadership, because I say it all the time. People don't know what the hell I'm talking about, but leadership knows what I'm talking about, and it's really incredible. The two of you as a team are unbelievable.
Our administration will also be working to implement the make it in America plan that I outlined very successfully in my campaign. You know, I think my campaign, I really focused on the border more than anything else. A lot of people said the biggest thing was inflation and the economy, and then maybe the border was third. I felt the border was first, because I felt that people could really understand that you can't have people pouring in from the prisons all over the world and from mental institutions all over the world and dumped into our country.
So, I talked about that much more so than I did inflation. I mean, inflation was terrible. Was the worst -- I think it was the worst in the history of our country. But you can only talk about it so long.
You know, the price of apples doubled, the price of bacon is quadrupled, the price -- everything is a disaster. And you say it, and then what do you do with this? I could give examples of what they're doing to destroy our country. And I felt it was the strongest thing.
You know, it's funny, in 2016 I went on the border. In 2020, we did so well, I couldn't talk about the border. My people would say, sir, don't bring up the border. Nobody wants to hear it. I said, no, I did a great job. It was -- it was a horrible border in 2016 and then, but that border was beautiful compared to what we have now.
So, I didn't talk about it, and we did great. I mean, look, we got -- I got millions of more votes in 2020 than I got in 2016. Nobody ever got to get the most votes of any Republican in history in 2020.
But this time I said, let's make it too big to rig. We're going to make it too big to rig, and that's what happened. And they couldn't -- they tried. They tried these cheating guys, these cheating people, but they tried, but they gave up.
I brought taxes down from 40 percent to 21 percent which everybody said was impossible, and I did it with these people up here, and a lot of the people there. A great congressman. I want to name every one of them, but I be naming them all night. I'm looking at them. Look at all these people. They're great. They're so great, Russell and you and every single. Virginia, look at Virginia. She's a killer. Nobody would know she's a killer.
But I got all these congressmen. I want to name every one of them, but I got like a hundred and something, things like people would say, let's get the hell out of here, this is getting very boring, right?
But I will tell you, as a group and individually, they're incredible people, every one of them I like, although every once in a while, if somebody votes against me, I don't like him for a little while, but we like every one of them.
And this guy has the ability to get along with everybody, which he has to when you have a majority of really, five. You know, they say one, but it will be, but right now, it's one. I want to make him sound a little but he has an ability to get along with people, and he's very smart, very tough, but he -- everyone likes him because he's a high quality person, very religious person, and he's a high quality person.
You know, we have other guys here, and I know that everybody likes them, but they're about like one of them in particular. I love this guy so much. I won't name him because I don't want to embarrass him, but I don't know if he'd be happy or not happy. But he's very, very strong, very, very popular, but he has 36 people that won't vote for him, it's 36, that's not a lot. That's a small percentage.
Tom is incredible. But Tom has a couple of people that probably have been beaten badly and beaten up. You beat up some people badly, and it's said a little tougher and but he's done an unbelievable job. I become friendly with him. I just I didn't really know him.
And over the last year or so, I've become friendly. He's incredible. He's an incredible leader. You really are, but you have a couple of people that may be more than one. Let me put it that way. They all love him. Your wife loves you, that I can tell you, he's got a great -- where are you? Where are you? Stand up, please. Just stand up. Come on. What a great wife and family. It's true. Thank you. She is a great -- look at her. She's very popular, isn't she? She's great, more than you, you're very popular.
And now I'm bringing them down. I'm bringing the taxes down from 21 to 15 percent but only if they make their product in America. So, if they make their product in America, we bring it down.
So, if you think about we took it down from 40 to 15 percent but again, you keep 21 but you go down to 15 if you make your product here, we are going to have so many business moving back into our country.
And remember, again, the word tariff. We're going to protect our people and our businesses, and we're going to protect our country with tariffs. And you got a little indication of that yesterday with what happened with a very strong country. Colombia is traditionally a very, very strong, willed country. If they don't make their product in America, then, very simply, they should have to pay a tariff, which will bring in trillions of dollars into our treasury from countries that never paid us 10 cents. We're not going to let that happen. We're not going to let them destroy our country.
In the words of President McKinley, who is the tariff king, the protective system invokes the highest law of nature that a self-preservation. And that is self-preservation. There is every reason founded in justice why the American producer should in every way be favored against a foreign producer whose products compete with his. This is our natural market. We have made it. We have made it an enormous cost, capital and exertion.
And think of this, and we did that through exertion and brain and muscle and guts and stamina. We preserved it against foreign wars and domestic conflicts, at great sacrifice of men and women, the foreign producer has contributed nothing to the growth or development of this country.
So, if you want to share with the citizens of the United States, our home market, then you must pay for the privilege of doing it. In other words, you have to pay for the privilege of coming into our country, taking our jobs, taking our product, destroying our countries.
We mentioned North Carolina, the furniture business. What they have done to these great artisans. I used to go down to North Carolina all the time to buy furniture for hotels that I was building, and they had the most incredible artisans. That whole thing was wiped out by China, mostly, but others and just wiped out. But it's going to come back. It's going to come roaring back. It's all going to come roaring back. We're going to put tariffs on outside countries and outside people that really mean us harm.
They want -- well, they mean us harm, but they basically want to make their country good. Look at what others do. China is a tremendous tariff maker, and India, and Brazil and so many -- so many countries, and so, we're not going to let that happen any longer, because we're going to put America first. Always put America first. That's what's going to happen.
We're going to establish -- we're going to establish a very fair -- a very fair system where money is going to come into our coffers and America is going to be very rich again. And it's going to happen very quickly.
It's time for the United States to return to the system that made us richer and more powerful than ever before.
Do you know, the United States in 1870 to 1913, all tariffs, and -- that was the richest period in the history of the United States, relatively speaking, in other words, relatively and we -- they set up the great Tariff Commission of 1887. And this commission had one function, what to do with all the money that we took in.
It was so enormous that they had no idea it was a blue-ribbon committee was set up 1887, and what to do with all of the money that we had. And again, Teddy Roosevelt was a beneficiary, because when McKinley was killed, he took over this vast sum of money, and he did all of those national parks and all of the other things.
And I'm not knocking him, but he was given a vast amount of money, and that was all made through tariffs, as say we had no income tax. The income tax came in in 1913. As I said in my speech last week, instead of taxing our citizens to enrich foreign nations, we should be tariffing and taxing foreign nations to enrich our citizens. Does that make sense? Right?
Under the American first economic model, as tariffs on other countries go up, taxes on American workers and businesses will come down, and massive numbers of jobs and factories will come home.
The job creation will be enormous. In particular, if you look at the automobile sector, I mean, we're just being wiped out. You just take a look at what's happened -- what's happened to that over the years. And the auto workers voted for me. I have an obligation to do what's right, and I'm going to do that.
Do you know, in Mexico, they were going to build the largest auto plant anywhere in the world, and it was during the campaign, my campaign, my most recent campaign, and a very great gentleman, all he does is build -- he builds auto plants. He was building this factory. And I said, how is it going? I said, I want to go around and take a look at one of your factories that you're building, one of the big ones, one of the good ones.
I said, OK, are you ready? What are you going to do? This is eight months ago, nine months ago. He said, you'll have to go to Mexico. I said, What about the United States? He said, we're putting up a couple, but they're small. He's the biggest guy at doing it.
He said, in Mexico they're building massive automobile factories. I said, you mean they're doing it, and who is the owner of the factories? He said, mostly China. One in particular is massive, and it's built fairly close to the border. So, they were going to build cars and send them into the United States for no tax or very little tax, and destroy Detroit. Just destroy the rest of it. What's left of it. Because they've already taken -- Mexico has taken 32 percent of our business over years, over 30 years.
And the other one is Canada. Canada has taken massive amounts of -- you know, they said they send us millions of cars. We don't need them for that. We don't need -- we want to have the cars made in Detroit or South Carolina or many other locations, whether it's union or not union.
But we -- I said to him, I said, so, when is this plant going to open? He said, well, we're going to start in a couple of months, and it will be open in about a year and a half. It's the largest plant in the world. I said, I'm not happy with that, and I said in my next speech that I am going to charge them if it takes 100 percent or 200 percent. No car is coming in from Mexico into the United States without a massive tariff. And I said it three or four times.
And what happened is, about two months later, I see that same gentleman who was in the audience, and I said, I want to see him backstage after I'm finished with the speech, and I met him back stage. And I said, John, let me ask you, what happened with that plant? Where is it now?
He said, Sir, China has canceled it. Why? Because they think you're going to be elected. And they thought you were going to charge big tariffs on the cars coming in. And it doesn't work if you're going to charge.
So, they canceled the plant, and Detroit now will breathe, and we're going to do just the opposite. We're going to have these companies come in and they can build that plant if they want, but they have to build it across the line. They have to build it in the United States.
Amazing, amazing. We did so many things, and we weren't even elected yet. That would have been a disaster. If that, if that plant were built, it would have been a disaster. That would have wiped out. That was bigger than most of the factories put together, the auto plants put together.
In particular, in a very near future, we're going to be placing tariffs on farm production of computer chips, semiconductors, and pharmaceuticals, to return production of these essential goods to the United States of America.
They left us and they went to Taiwan, where, which is about 98 percent of the chip business, by the way, and we want them to come back, and we don't want to give them billions of dollars, like this ridiculous program that Biden has give everybody billions of dollars.
They already have billions of dollars. They've got nothing but money, Joe. They didn't need money. They needed an incentive. And the incentive is going to be they are not going to want to pay a 25, 50, or even 100 percent tax. They are going to build their factory with their own money. We don't have to give them money. They are going to come in because it's good for them to come in.
They are giving them money. They don't even know what they're going to do with it. I had people tell them we have no idea. We didn't need money. They don't know. They're even -- they're probably going to use the money to build another places, other countries. It's a ridiculous plan, very expensive and ridiculous.
The only way you'll get out of this is to build your plant. If you want to stop paying the taxes or the tariffs, you have to build your plant right here in America. That's what's going to happen at record levels.
We're going to have more plants built in the next short period of time than anybody ever envisioned before, because the incentive is going to be there, because they have no tariff whatsoever. In fact, they have help from us if they build their plant in America. And we're going to look at pharmaceuticals, drugs. We're going to look at chips, semiconductors, and we're going to look at steel and some other industries, and you're going to see things happening.
If I didn't put on the massive steel tariffs, you wouldn't have one steel plant right now in the United States. If I didn't put on the tariffs on washing machines, dryers, and the like, you wouldn't in Ohio, you would have lost all of those companies that made washing machines and dryers.
Jim Jordan is the one that got me started. Was Jim here, by any chance? Is Jim here? Where is Jim? Where is Jim? Oh, look at him. Wow, that's not a great seat for a man of such power.
Do you know that Jim has a -- couple of -- he's a great wrestler. He was all American wrestler three times, 128 and one. That's not a bad record, and that's the way he fights, too, but he has a better record.
Undefeated as a wrestler in high school. And I say, how can you do that? Because a freshman can't beat a senior, but he figured out how to beat seniors. So, I stand up again, Jim. Let's give you a hand for as a wrestler.
As a wrestler, big hand. As a politician, very good. But, Jim, is it true that we saved -- we went up there. Remember, we had 25,000 people standing in the streets in this little, beautiful town with whirlpool, right? And they were going to close up their factories because they were -- South Korea was dumping washing machines and other things like that. And they were dumping, and we put a 50 percent tariff that 75 even 100 percent. And now, they are thriving. Right?
Without Trump, they wouldn't -- they would have been closed up. But Jim was the one that got me involved. Are you guys all happy with Jim? Do you like him? Because I like him. I like him. Right? We like, Jim.
What's not to like? He gets on television. He's like -- he's like a wrestler. He's got this boom, boom, boom, boom. Very impressive., Jim, Anyway, it's good to see you. I like that guy a lot. I like a lot of the people in the audience a lot.
I like the people in this room. We have the same basic philosophy. We have the same thoughts. What's not to like? But I'll also be placing tariffs on steel, aluminum, and copper, and things that we need for our military thing. We have to bring production back to our country.
You know, there was a time when we made one ship a day, and now, we can't build a ship. We don't know what the hell we're doing. It's all gone to other locations and other lands.
And to further return production to the United States, we're going to environmentally free up our rare earth minerals. We have some unbelievable sites. We have some of the best rare earth anywhere in the world, but we're not allowed to use it because the environmentalists got there first.
They said, you cannot touch that land. I look at the land, looks like every other piece of land. What? What is it? Well, this is very protected. They have no idea what they are doing to our country. They use the environment to stop progress, and we're not going to let that happen.
We have Lee Zeldin. I don't know if Lee's here today, but Lee Zeldin is going to be fantastic. He's going to head up the whole environmental --
And I said, Lee, if we have a -- we put in for a power plant, and if we don't get the approval, like that, you can start within 12 days, one day would be even better, but 12 days, 14 days, see what you can do.
And Lee is great. Lee knows what's good and he knows what's bad, and he'll be very fair, but we have to get it moving, because some of these jobs, like the ones in Louisiana, they were 14, 15, years they couldn't get their approvals. We can't let that happen.
When people come here with massive amounts of money, they want to start, they want to go, and well -- we know what's good and we know what's bad too. And Lee Zeldin is going to do a great job environmentally. As we fix our tax system, we can also cut colossal amounts of government waste, fraud, and abuse, of which is a lot.
But tonight, I restate my pledge from the campaign. I will not sign any bill that cuts even a single penny for Medicare or Social Security for our great seniors. We don't have to do that.
We don't have to do that. We'll not touch those benefits in any way, shape or form. I want to use that because during the campaign, they had these fake ads that Trump is going to cut Social Security. No, they are the ones, they are going to cut it, because the country is going to go bankrupt under them, and that's why it's going to cut because they're not going to have a choice, not that they're saying we're going to cut it. But the country was -- our country was heading for absolute bankruptcy using reconciliation.
I also look forward to working with you to make our energy policies permanent and making our historic deregulation efforts a fixture of U.S. law, so that no future president like they did with ANWR. I got ANWR approved. Nobody could do it, including Ronald Reagan in Alaska. It's the largest site, potentially the largest site in the world, larger than Saudi Arabia.
And I got it done. Ronald Reagan couldn't get it. Nobody could get it done. They tried, but they couldn't get it done. I got it done. And the first thing they did was end ANWR in Alaska, the biggest, most powerful site may be anywhere in the world. And we got it done. And we're going to get it done again very quickly.
Now, I think we I think I do it with an executive order, because they didn't go through Congress. I got it approved through Congress. So, I think we get it done fast, but it's going to be -- that can supply all of Asia with its location.
All of Asia can be supplied by ANWR. So, there is so many things, but we don't want to have any future president ever sabotage our economy with out- of-control regulations, as the last two Democrat presidents have done. They went crazy.
Last week, I signed an order, revoking Joe Biden's destructive artificial intelligence regulations so that A.I. companies can once again focus on being the best, not just being the most welcome.
Today, and over the last couple of days, I've been reading about China and some of the companies in China, one in particular, coming up with a faster method of A.I. and much less expensive method. And that's good, because you don't have to spend as much money. I view that as a positive, as an asset. So, I really think if it's -- if it's fact, and if it's true, and nobody really knows if it is, but I view that as a positive, because you'll be doing that too, so you won't be spending as much, and you'll get the same result, hopefully.
The release of deep seek A.I. from a Chinese company, should be a wake-up call for our industries that we need to be laser focused on competing to win, because we have the greatest scientists in the world. Even Chinese leadership told me that. They said, you have the most brilliant scientists in the world, and Seattle and various places. But Silicon Valley, they said, there is nobody like those people. This is very unusual. When you hear a deep seek, when you hear something -- somebody come up with something.
We always have the ideas. We're always first. So, I would say that's a positive. That could be very much a positive development. So, instead of spending billions and billions, you'll spend less, and you'll come up with, hopefully the same solution. Under the Trump administration, we're going to unleash our tech companies, and we're going to dominate the future like never before.
And finally, we need to work together on a defense bill that, once again, fully rebuilds our military for our great warriors. We have to have a strong, strong defense.
And in a little while, I'll be signing four new executive orders. First is that up directing our new Secretary of Defense, Pete Hegseth, who's going to be great, by the way.
Thank you for the support. Thank you very much for the support. You really did support him greatly. I think he's going to be fantastic. I know him very well. I think he's going to be fantastic. He is what we need to immediately begin the construction of a state-of-the-art Iron Dome missile defense shield, which will be able to protect Americans.
You know, we protect other countries, but we don't protect ourselves. And when Ronald Reagan wanted to do it many years ago, luckily, we didn't. We didn't have the technology. Then, it was a concept, but we didn't. And now we have phenomenal technology. You see that with Israel, where out of 319 rockets, they knock down just about every one of them.
So, I think the United States is entitled to that, and everything will be made right here in the USA, 100 percent. (APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: And next, to ensure that we have the most lethal fighting force in the world, we will get transgender ideology the hell out of our military. It's going to be gone.
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: In addition, we will stop our service members from being indoctrinated with radical left ideology such as critical race theory. We're going to stop it. It has already been stopped. It's already been halted, totally halted.
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: And finally, we will offer full reinstatement to any service member who was expelled from the armed forces due to the covid vaccine mandate.
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: And we will restore them to their former rank with full pay. And I think we're going to have a lot of people that join.
And one thing I will say if you looked at our recruitment over the last week or so, two weeks, it's through the roof. We were having a lot of -- a lot of people weren't signing. We were having a hard time recruiting people because they would looking at these people that they were supposedly be their leaders, and they weren't happy. They didn't like people that fall going upstairs. If you are going to fall, at least go downstairs from the plane. That triple fall. I used that thing in more ads. I didn't have an ad where I didn't put that in. Just a little quick one, two, three. It reminded me of Joe Frazier when he went down. George foreman, Joe Frazier. Three falls in matter seconds. I said, can you speed it up a little bit. People are getting tired of it.
But no, we have the best recruitment we have seen in a long time. There's a tremendous number of people wanting to sign up. January 20th, 2025, was a turning point in American history. Starting last week, we're ending years of incompetence, radicalism, and betrayal. And we're ushering in the most exhilarating era of reform and renewal in the 250 year history of our country.
And just in conclusion, I just want to say that this has been a very exciting and will be a very exciting new chapter. There is nothing we cannot achieve as long as the Republican Party remains united. I hope you can remain united.
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: And there's one thing I give the Democrats a lot of credit for, because they have lousy policy. I think, frankly, half of them are totally crazy. But they do stick together. They stick together on stuff that nobody can -- how can you want prisons emptied out into our country? They stick together. They stick together in everything. Impeachment hoax number one, impeachment hoax number two. They stick together. All right, I must tell, you gave me great support during those two problems, those two fake witch hunts which have now turned out to be totally fake and disgusting. But you gave me tremendous support.
But the Republican Party has to stick together. We just can't have people going one, two, three votes. And we don't have that luxury. It would be different if we had 20 point, 30 point, 30 person majority, but we don't. We have to help leadership.
And you can be assured that you have certain philosophies, that if you are going to have most of the people, almost all of them voting for something, you're really, you are going to be OK. It's not going to be bad. You have to stick together. It's the one thing that I would say we don't get very high marks. Everything is so hard. We always have two or three or five or something, people that just don't want to do it. And you just got to do it. You've just got to do it. Make life easy, just got to do it.
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: So right now we have a very special period because we have the House, we have the Senate, and we have the White House. And we're a team. And we're really good team. And I appreciate so many times, and even Mike, I call three or four people, and they said, OK, sir, I'll do it. I'm going to vote. I'm going to positively. And they're very happy they did now.
But when I called, we have gotten such a great response. We just had that what happen Pete Hegseth, and we have had happening with others. But we really appreciate it with the House. The house has been, it's a very difficult situation when you have that small of a majority. But in a certain way it brings you together. It actually can unify more than anybody would ever know. And a victory is sweeter, as they say, because of it. And I think we're going to have a lot of victories. But we have stick together, we have to work together, we have to fight together, we're going to win together. We're going to win like never before.
We have a chance to win like never before. As long as we stay united the 119th Congress will be remembered the most successful and accomplished Republican majority in American history. I believe that. I think we have a chance of doing it.
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: And in January, 2027, we will have a larger Republican House, a larger Republican Senate, and our country will be richer, safer, stronger, prouder, greater, freer than ever before. I really think that we are going to have some big victories coming up. And I'm going to helping every single one of you. I'm raising a lot of money, and I want to use it for the House and I want to use it for the Senate. I raised a lot of money.
And I told my people, we raised $1.7 billion. They raised $2.6 billion. I have the unions with checkoffs, which is always tough, $10 a month times millions and millions of people. And then we won, and we won by a lot. And they wanted to go out, and they still haven't raised it. They're trying to raise $28 million. They cannot raise 10 cents. It's good to win, I will tell you, it's really good win. But they can't raise money.
But I told my people the morning after, normally because we have so many donors here and so many people that I love and respect, a lot of great friends of mine, but I told my people, Meredith and Susie. And by the way, how good is Susie? The "Ice Maiden." Where is the Ice Maiden. She is so great.
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: She is so great. Stand up, Susie. The Ice Maiden, ladies and gentlemen.
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: Wow, look at that. Most powerful woman in the world, they say, most powerful woman in the world. She is made of ice. She is great.
When I came to Florida, Florida was Democrat state, had a Democrat governor. They had one Democrat senator. It was largely a Democrat state. And through various reasons I ended up with Susie running the campaign, and she was unbelievable. We won it in a landslide. And then the second time we won it in an even bigger landslide. And when it came time to choosing somebody to run the campaign, the whole campaign, I said what about Susie from Florida? She never lost. I won every primary. I won every -- I didn't lose anything. Again, it was a Democrat state. And it was a landslide both times.
And all the Republican stuff it was almost like it didn't exist. It was amazing. And I said what about Susie? Sir, a woman has never been in this position before. I said, really? By the way, we have Kellyanne Conway, she didn't do too badly either, right? She did a great job 2016.
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: And when it came time to chief of staff, do you know that there has never been a woman chief of staff? But there is now. There is now. Right?
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: I didn't know that. I'm so surprised. I'm very surprised. But it came time to running the campaign, and I said, well, I have never had a loss with Susie. She comes from great stock. Pat Summerall is her father. Pat Summerall was a football player, a great football player, but a really great announcer. The voice of the NFL for 27 years or something. He was great, and a leader. He worked with John Madden. And he was able to get John Madden to do. They'd call him and they'd say, Pat, John is really difficult. I hear John was a difficult guy, but he got big ratings and he was good. And Pat would go up, come on, John. Let's get this done. Come on. I know you don't like the heads of the company. That's it. They are paying you a lot of money. Come on, John, let's get it done. And he'd go into it.
And this went on for 27 years, right? But he was a leader, her father, and this is somebody that has the gene. I will tell you, she is great, and she has done a fantastic job. So she was so good with the campaign, I said let's let her do the campaign. And it was flawless. And, again, I said before, we had to win a lot of votes because it's crooked as hell. And I hope, I hope you can go Vo voter I.D. and same day voting and paper ballots and all of those things, because ultimately we will never lose a race if we do that. I'm tell you, you'll never lose a race.
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: And I hope you can get that. And that's said to the governors mostly, but, you know, you people have a lot of power over it. But Susie ran the race and we did phenomenally. And then we just made her the chief of staff, and she is doing great. They say it was the greatest week, opening week in presidential history. And I think it could be a hell of a lot. Even CNN is saying this guy is amazing. I couldn't believe it. I said, did CNN really say that? Because nobody watches, so nobody was able to confirm.
(LAUGHTER)
TRUMP: But it was pretty amazing. That camera just went off.
(LAUGHTER)
TRUMP: It's always tough. Usually you get them by surprise.
But I just want to thank everybody. We're going to make this tremendously successful. We're going to have -- I believe we are going to have one of the greatest four years in the history of our country. We are going to turn it around quickly, and then we're going to go on and we're going to progress like nobody ever thought possible. And I want to thank these great four people because they really are leaders, and they are phenomenal people.
And I want to thank all of my friends in the audience, many of whom are congressmen and congresswomen and people that have just tremendous talent. Every single one of you, I know every one of you, and you have tremendous talent. And if we stick and we fight together, there is nobody can stop us. We are going to have -- because they have bad policy. Their policy is so bad. Nobody could win with this policy, nobody. And we have the best policy. And again, as they say and we say and I've been saying for a long time, we're the party of common sense, and we're the party that's going to have the best four years ever. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. Thank you very much.
(APPLAUSE)
BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: President Donald J. Trump in Doral, Florida, for the House GOP Conference meeting down there, a retreat, the Congressional Institute, speaking for an hour and five minutes. Here comes the dance.
(MUSIC)
BAIER: Exactly one week to the day since being inaugurated the 47th president of the United States, speaking to lawmakers he needs to vote for big things for his legislative agenda. He covered all kinds of topics, and we're going to deal with some of them on the rest of this show.
Good evening. Welcome to SPECIAL REPORT. I'm Bret Baier.
Breaking tonight, just moments ago as the president was speaking, the Senate confirmed President Trump's nominee for treasury secretary with 68 Senators voting in favor, 29 against. At least 16 Democrats voted in favor Scott Bessent. Scott Bessent will be the new treasury secretary of the United States.
Also tonight, the world, as you heard the president talking about there, has reacted to news that China has developed its own artificial intelligence start-up and it might be very good. In fact, scary good, according to some. The news sent global tech stocks plummeting today. USAI leader Nvidia lost 17 percent, erasing about $593 billion in market value. It was the largest ever one day loss for a company on Wall Street, largest ever. An index of semiconductor stocks saw its biggest single day drop since March of 2020, falling 9.2 percent. The Dow overall bounced back 289 up, but the S&P 500 lost 89, the Nasdaq fell 612.
Let's get details tonight from FOX Business correspondent Jackie DeAngelis with this story. Good evening, Jackie.
JACKIE DEANGELIS, FOX BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT: Good evening to you, Bret. That's right, it was a large scale sell off on Wall Street, and it was led by big tech, and of course, those chip stocks. Now, the pressure was coming from China and this company called DeepSeek. It powers A.I. models and its own version of ChatGPT, temporarily only available to users in mainland China.
U.S. investors realizing now that the A.I. race is on and China is hard at work. Silicon Valley adviser to President Trump, Marc Andreessen, said this on X, "DeepSeek R1 is one of the most amazing and impressive breakthroughs I've ever seen." DeepSeek's R1 and V3 models are also performing well, the company says better or close to western models, and they are cheaper to produce. One of the latest models costs only $5.6 million to produce, which was far less than $100 million to $1 billion range that it usually cost an American company.
But industry insiders are saying that DeepSeek's threat could actually be overblown, that copying an existing U.S. model is easier than actually innovating. Trump's newly appointed crypto and A.I. czar posted this on X. David Sacks said "President Trump was right to rescind the Biden E.O. which hamstrung American A.I. companies without asking whether China would do the same. Obviously not. I'm confident in the U.S., but we can't be complacent."
Another issue with DeepSeek is equity. DeepSeek's model is said to be biased when it comes to criticizing the CCP. John Moolenaar, chairman of the House select committee of the CCP, said in part, "U.S. cannot allow CCP models such as DeepSeek to risk our national security and leverage our technology to advance their A.I. ambitions." He also called for more export controls on technologies relating to the platforms and A.I.'s infrastructure. Bret?
BAIER: OK, Jackie, more on this with Charles Payne and Brit Hume in a bit. Thank you.
The Trump administration says Colombia has agreed to accept deportation flights from the U.S. The South American country had initially refused to take the detainees, sparking threats of tariffs from President Trump. Senior White House correspondent Jacqui Heinrich has details tonight, plus breaking news on a major piece of legislation. Good evening, Jacqui.
JACQUI HEINRICH, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Good evening, Bret.
President Trump will sign the first bill of his second term on Wednesday. The Laken Riley Act, excuse me, requires detention of illegal immigrants accused of theft or violent crimes. That means that ICE's job is about to get bigger. And it comes after Trump weaponized tariffs, sanctions, and travel bans to force a key deportation agreement.
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
HEINRICH: President Trump's brief game of trade war chicken ended with Colombia's president backing down, offering his presidential plane to repatriate deported criminal migrants. But it just wasn't the U.S. ratcheting up pressure.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator): It affects us. It will affect all people exporting their products. This will put a halt on Colombian commerce with the United States. This will completely affect us.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): If you come to your own country, how you cannot be accepted? It's not logical.
HEINRICH: But congressional Democrats were quick to criticize Trump. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez posting, "Remember, we pay the tariffs, not Colombia. Trump is all about making inflation worse for working class Americans, not better." "The New York Post" headline that followed, "AOC roasted over post about Colombia tariffs and coffee prices that aged like hot milk." Republicans ended the day with a victory lap.
SEN. ERIC SCHMITT, (R-MO) SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE: We can do this the easy way or we can do it the hard way. But one way or another, the American people have spoken on this.
HEINRICH: House Speaker Mike Johnson says all nations should be on notice to take their people back or else. In Chicago on Sunday alone, ICE says it arrested nine Tren de Aragua gang members, one allegedly selling guns and more.
TOM HOMAN, WHITE HOUSE BORDER CZAR: We arrested two illegal aliens that had murder convictions that were walking the street. We arrested at least seven sexual predators, mostly child predators. We arrested people with assault allegations, extreme sexual assault.
HEINRICH: Meantime, illegal crossings at the southern border are still a problem. Border Patrol agents changing fire today with suspected cartel gunmen near Fronton, Texas, blocking a group from crossing the river.
(END VIDEO TAPE)
HEINRICH (on camera): DHS tells FOX that ICE agents will descend on New York next. The target list will also expand to include 1.4 million fugitives who have already had due process. Tom Homan also says third countries are lining up to take deportees from countries with which the U.S. does not have repatriation agreements, Bret.
BAIER: Jacqui Heinrich live on the north line. Jacqui, thank you.
The president's new defense chief is on the job tonight. Pete Hegseth was confirmed by the Senate last Friday. He quickly outlined after being sworn in his focus, echoing President Trump's agenda for reforming and strengthening the U.S. military. Chief national security correspondent Jennifer Griffin is at the Pentagon tonight.
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
JENNIFER GRIFFIN, FOX NEWS NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth was met at the Pentagon by Chairman of the Joint Chiefs General C.Q. Brown.
PETE HEGSETH, DEFENSE SECRETARY: Fully support on removing DEI inside the Pentagon, reinstating troops who were pushed out because of COVID mandates, the Iron Dome for America. This is happening quickly.
GRIFFIN: An executive order calling on the Pentagon to examine the issue of transgender troops in the military, which could lead to an eventual ban impacting an estimated 14,700 transgender troops already serving according to the Palm Center, an LGBTQ advocacy institute. An executive order to reinstate with backpay the 8,000 U.S. troops separated from service for refusing to take the COVID vaccine during the pandemic. Congress forced the Biden administration to rescind the mandate in 2023. When the U.S. Navy reached out of to all 1,878 sailors who had been separated, only two wanted to rejoin the Navy.
HEGSETH: The war fighters are ready to go. There is emergencies at the southern border. As a result, this Pentagon snapped to last week. We helped move forward troops, put in more barriers, and also to ensure when mass deportations.
GRIFFIN: When referring to the troops, the new defense secretary used the prior names for two bases named after Confederate generals whose names were changed by Congress in 2020.
HEGSETH: I'm thinking about the guys and gals in Guam, in Germany, in Fort Benning and Fort Bragg.
GRIFFIN: Hegseth was asked whether he planned to follow through with threats he made last year prior to being nominated to fire General C.Q. Brown.
HEGSETH: Meeting with him right now. I'm looking forward to working with him.
(END VIDEO TAPE)
GRIFFIN (on camera): Over the weekend, the Pentagon's inspector general Robert Storch, who has overseen many critical reports on Pentagon waste, fraud, and abuse, was one of 17 inspector generals fired by President Trump. Bret?
BAIER: Jennifer Griffin at the Pentagon. Jennifer, thank you.
Next up, we'll talk about China's A.I. technology, the markets, and the first week of the Trump administration with Brit Hume and Charles Payne.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DAVID SACKS, SPECIAL ADVISOR FOR A.I. AND CRYPTO: We're basically announcing the administration's policy to make America the world capital in artificial intelligence and to dominate and to lead the world in A.I.
DONALD TRUMP, (R) U.S. PRESIDENT: So that should take us to the forefront, right?
SACKS: Absolutely. We've got to win.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: Trying to be the forefront of artificial intelligence, but some news out of China about something called DeepSeek. The headlines reading that "China's DeepSeek A.I. app sends tech stocks reeling." "DeepSeek forces a global technology reckoning." "Does DeepSeek spell doomsday for Nvidia and other A.I. stocks?"
Let's talk about this, the markets in the first week of the Trump administration. Joining us tonight, FOX News chief political analyst Brit Hume and Charles Payne of FOX Business. Charles, the markets got jumpy today, especially tech stocks. Is this an overreaction or do you think this is the real deal?
CHARLES PAYNE, FOX BUSINESS: I think it's an overreaction. But listen, these stocks were arguably priced for perfection. Nvidia had the largest one-day loss in history. But if you look at the 10 largest one day losses in history, Nvidia has seven of them. So this isn't the first time we have seen this crazy adverse reaction.
But it is a great wake-up call, no doubt about it. These stocks have been cruising up almost every single day for the last two years. But Nvidia is in a pretty good position. They have this thing called CUDA which is a language. But let's face it, DeepSeek used Nvidia chips. Apparently they said they used the more inferior GPU chips, but they used a lot more. They piggybacked off of open A.I. There were a lot of sort of gimmicky things to this. But by no means should it be downplayed. This was a huge salvo in the war for A.I. supremacy.
BAIER: And it is a big war, Brit, because the president is clearly investing in it. You had Marc Andreessen say that this DeepSeek is the A.I. Sputnik moment for China, saying the Chinese artificial intelligence breakthrough is shaking the foundation of the dominance. But you can see that President Trump is clearly committed to that race.
BRIT HUME, FOX NEWS SENIOR POLITICAL ANALYST: Yes. Bret, Marc Andreessen is somebody you should always pay attention to. But it would really be quite remarkable if it turned out that that China with these inferior chips, no matter which Nvidia ones they may be using, is able to produce application as effective as the ones we are producing, and it turns out to be as good as it's cracked up to be, because the United States possesses, and the companies in this country possess chips that are far more powerful and thought to be necessary for the kind of computational power that A.I. requires than anything China has or is likely to have anytime soon.
So they may have pulled off a real magic trick here with this A.I. app that they have. But I think it's well to remain skeptical until it's really been proven over time.
BAIER: Brit, we also saw over the weekend the pushback to Colombia when the Colombian president said they weren't taking any of the flights from illegal immigrants from Colombia that were being flown back in there. Then there was the threat from President Trump for tariffs, and he turned around, the Colombian president. They turned 180.
I'm always reflecting on history. Back in the first temple for President Reagan he had this standoff with air traffic controllers, and this is what he said.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
RONALD REAGAN, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT: I must tell those who fail to report for duty this morning, they are in violation of the law, and if they do not report for work within 48 hours, they have forfeited their jobs and will be terminated.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: People at the time, Brit, said that's crazy. That standoff is crazy. But it ended up working, and it was a show of strength. I'm not saying it's apple to apples, but it is something like that.
HUME: Well, there was a lot of handwringing about that when Reagan did that. I will never forget it. And it turned out to be quite popular, and it turned out also to be effective. What we see this president doing now is a blizzard of action. It's not mere activity. There is real action here. And that episode yesterday with Colombia, which triggered some semi-hysterical reactions from Democrats and other Trump critics, worked. The guy, the Colombian president backed down, and the next thing you know he's volunteering to send his own personal airplane to pick up these criminals.
So, it was a complete success in a matter of hours. And looking at this, you know, the Democrats are looking at Trump's, looking for something to attack him on. My thought would be they might ought to wait until he does something that is not popular, because that move, I think, will prove popular, and I think also the things he's doing to round up these people are equally popular.
BAIER: Charles, I only have about 10 seconds. But the economy right now, the fear of tariffs, right now he is choose using them as a weapon in negotiation.
PAYNE: Yes, he's using them as both. And by the way, he points to two periods when we had amazing success as a nation, the McKinley and the roaring 20s. They had three things in common -- tariffs, technology where we dominated, and tough immigration policies. Those two eras where we've had amazing economic prosperity, President Trump is trying to recreate them.
BAIER: Guys, it's great to have you on the show in an abbreviated format. We appreciate the time. Thank you.
Tomorrow on SPECIAL REPORT, our "Common Ground" segment deals with a bipartisan effort to help families of first responders who die or suffer permanent disability from service-related cancers.
Thanks for inviting us into your home tonight, a unique show tonight for SPECIAL REPORT, but we have you covered, fair, balanced, and still unafraid. THE INGRAHAM ANGLE is now.

Load-Date: January 28, 2025


End of Document
