




Fox News FOX HANNITY 9:00 PM EST
February 25, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7621 words
Byline: Sean Hannity, Lara Trump
Guests: Ted Cruz, Jim Jordan, Byron Donalds
Body


SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS HOST: And welcome to "Hannity".
And tonight, you may want to check in on your Democratic friends. They're not really seemingly doing very well. Trump derangement syndrome, radical rage is on the rise and perhaps, no one has it worse than our old friend, our old Twitter buddy Alec Baldwin.
Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ALEC BALDWIN, ACTOR: My kids live in this building, right, but I want you to know.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We love the children. We're doing great deals for the children.
BALDWIN: Be real careful.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: OK.
BALDWIN: If this camera wasn't there, I'd snap your (EXPLETIVE DELETED) neck in half and break your (EXPLETIVE DELETED) neck, you know that don't you?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: I mean, you can't make it -- my message to Alec Baldwin, that'll be coming up, but I do hope he takes my advice, but the odds are pretty low.
It is obvious why many on the left are so triggered not only did Trump win a second term and an electoral landslide, taking all seven swing states and beating Kamala Harris by millions of votes in the popular vote but now that he's president, well, the winning continues. I'm not sick of it either.
Anyway, breaking only hours ago, a deal with Ukraine has been negotiated, giving the U.S. a vested interest in Ukraine's vast supply of rare earth minerals, critical to our country and critical to them. This deal will help Ukraine pay off its war debt, rebuild their country. It will link our two countries together and after days of panic from the state run legacy media mob, Trump did what he did best, he made a deal. And now, Ukrainian President Zelenskyy is headed to the White House on Friday to formally sign the agreement.
Ending this war is in everyone's best interest. We don't need more people dying. We don't need more buildings blown up. The fact that Donald Trump has been on the political scene for so long and they know so little about him is actually frightening, let me give you a clue, for those of you in the state-run media mob that I know are watching, here's a clue, and those of you on the left, he is in a perpetual non-stop state of negotiation, and he puts America first.
Just keep those thoughts in your head so you don't bubble and fizz like Alka-Seltzer in water. And back in the Oval Office, President Trump celebrated another momentous day with a brand new hat. Let's take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATE: Look, see that? Trump was right about everything, just came in. Somebody said, I said, this was sent in by a fan. I said, I think we should make some of them, right? But we were pretty much. You want one?
REPORTER: I'll pass.
TRUMP: Are you allowed to take one because he'll consider it. I know him well. A sort of stiff.
Brian, you're not a stiff. You're sort of a stiff guy, he'll take other things but not a free hat.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: What? They're going to get in trouble if they took a hat.
As you might have noticed, President Trump was once again surrounded by reporters. This is by far the most transparent, accessible White House in modern American history. In fact, in his first month, Trump answered more than 1,000 questions from the press, from interviews to press conferences, to speeches, gaggles, the behind the scenes videos, President Trump is seemingly everywhere. His agenda is being felt far and wide.
Illegal border crossings are down almost 100 percent. The FBI and DOJ, which had been weaponized and politicized is now getting dismantled, major companies look at Apple and they're now pledging $500 billion do to be spent inside the U.S., building a plant inside the U.S., creating tens of thousands of job right here in our country. DOGE has already saved on record, you the American people, an estimated whopping $65 billion and that number is expected to go up dramatically.
Federal employees are officially back in the office after years of lackluster remote work, 75,000 plus took a buyout offer, and America's great meritocracy is now making a comeback. Even the CEO of JPMorgan is now praising Trump and DOGE for taking on America's out of control bureaucracy. This is all really good news.
And President Trump's approval ratings are through the roof on top of it. But if you have a terminal case of Trump derangement syndrome, this is a nightmare for you come to life and now top Democrats, they just can't help themselves. They lash out morning, noon and night, including the party's rising star, Congresswoman Jasmine Crockett. Here's her from earlier today.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REPORTER: If you could speak directly to Elon Musk, what would you say?
REP. JASMINE CROCKETT (D-TX): (EXPLETIVE DELETED) off.
REPORTER: That's it.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: So enlightening, so productive from the party you love. Now, unfortunately, that's about as measured and as eloquent as you know, it gets across the Democratic Party.
Inside the capital, Congressman Hank Johnson, remember, he's the one that famously speculated the island of Guam my capsize and tip over is now fantasizing about President Trump getting arrested by U.S. Marshals. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. HANK JOHNSON (D-GA): If a president willfully failed or refused to comply with a court ruling, they could be held in contempt of court theoretically but it would be up to the U.S. Marshal Service, which is a part of the Justice Department, to be the enforcement arm for the federal courts. Is that correct?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Your hypothetical would have to play itself out.
JOHNSON: It would be the U.S. Marshals who fall under the Department of Justice who would have to carry out the contempt order.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: I can't help it. I -- every time I see this guy, I think of Guam is going to tip over.
Anyway, it's funnier and gets funnier, and it also gets worse. Another leftwing member of Congress is now asking this age-old question posed by Democrats for centuries. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. PRAMILA JAYAPAL (D-WA): We can't let them deport the millions of families across this country who have been doing the work that keeps our economy going every day. If you look at the food that's on your table, think about who picked it. If you look at your homes, think about who built them. If you look at your vulnerable elders and your kids, think about who's taking care of them.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Well, the more things change, the more they do say -- stay the same.
Once again the Democratic Party seems to value cheap labor above all else. As it turns out, this is not the party of compassion. Instead, this is a hate-filled group of radicalized socialist statists who will say and do anything for status, money, power. It's all about them.
In fact, according to the free beacon, left-wing groups, oh, you heard all this weekend about all these -- these protests going on in red districts and -- and how they were angry and lashing out at Republican lawmakers and -- and they're so against the Department of Government Efficiency and that's all that the mainstream media mob talked about. Poll after poll, however, shows just the opposite, like we showed you last night.
The Harvard-Harris poll which found 77 percent of American support and effort to eliminate waste, fraud, abuse and corruption. At the very same time, far-left Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, Rhode Island, now facing scrutiny after reportedly playing a key role in sending millions of taxpayer dollars to his own wife's environmental organization. Now, it looks like the good old boy swamp is still alive and well. That has to be taken care of too.
Now, Democrats are much more worried about Trump and Musk following the money. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
RACHEL MADDOW, MSNBC HOST: You have ideas about how to interrupt what feels like something that we have not experienced since the civil war and in terms of the threat to our republic.
REP. HAKEEM JEFFRIES (D-NY): Well, it's certainly the case that we understand the scale of the threat that can't be doubted. The CBC, which I'm a part of, definitively understands the scale of the threat. Our communities have been under siege as you pointed out since before the civil war.
SEN. AMY KLOBUCHAR (D-MN): We need help, okay? We need reinforcements and we need all of you to stand with us. We simply cannot do this alone.
SEN. RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (D-CT): I think what President Trump is doing is essentially putting extortionist pressure on a vulnerable ally that is fighting for its life.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You could pee on my leg but don't tell me it's rain and Trump is raining on America.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: It's no wonder congressional Democrats are suffering now from the lowest approval rating in history. Now, even Jon Stewart, so frustrated with his own party, apparently accidentally hurt himself during a fit of rage. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JON STEWART, TV HOST: Can it be the companies we subsidize with billions of dollars are allowing us the privilege to negotiate the price of 10 of their drugs and 10 is all of them, right? It would be embarrassing if it was a small drop in the bucket and that the American people didn't expect that we should negotiate for all their (EXPLETIVE DELETED) drugs because we've already paid for it with our subsidies. Come on!
It's fine!
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: I just want to know that he need stitches or not, I hope he's okay. Where did -- where did Democrats go from here?
Is there anyone in the party who's going to actually work with the president for the good of the country?
Here with more, Texas Senator Ted Cruz.
You know, this is, you know they go through their stages of grief. They go through denial, depression, now rage. And I think they'll pretty much get locked into the rage stage forever. It -- but it's falling on deaf ears. I mean, I keep going back to the hills they're dying on.
What, they want to spend tens of billions of dollars on radical environmentalism, DEI, transgenderism abroad, they want men to play in women's sports, and they want to put the rights of illegals over the rights of -- and safety of Americans. Is that their agenda?
SEN. TED CRUZ (R-TX): Sadly, it is. And -- and it's amazing. It seems like Democrats and the media, they didn't learn anything from this election. Normally, when -- when you get your rear end whipped in an election, you stop and say, hey, what went wrong? What did we do wrong? Let's recalibrate.
The Democrats are not. They're doubling down. They are the party of waste, fraud and abuse. They are the party of -- you know, you don't see a single elected Democrat saying this is great that Elon Musk is tracking this down. Instead, they're defending -- they are defending sex change surgeries in Guatemala, $20 million.
I mean, they -- they are defending $58 million in FEMA funds meant for disaster recovery used to house illegal aliens and they're defending open borders. They're attacking Israel and they're defending boys in girls sports.
And you look at the Democrats, and you're like, did you hear a word the voters said and they're not. This is their agenda.
I got to say, Sean, the waste fraud and abuse that most needs to be cut is the Democrats that's who they are.
HANNITY: It seems like I'm having a hard time understanding. Now, here's what -- what I want to know and it's a question that's not been asked or answered is all of this money was being spent but was it being spent on a false pretenses. In other words, until Elon Musk came in and got to the specifics of where that money was actually going, what was it under -- what headline was it under? Some broad, generalized term money to Burma for -- you know, do we know if they purposefully lied about it? Because I can't imagine, you know, that would say -- well, 45 million for DEI programs in Burma and nobody would notice and nobody would care.
I know that congressional oversight was attempted but they never cooperated. So it's -- it had to be in there deep in the weeds is what I'm thinking. Do we know?
CRUZ: So we know they lied about a lot of it. For example, USAID sent hundreds of millions of dollars to Gaza. That went straight to Hamas and we know they lied about that. That was something actually that I made public, caught them in their lies, but they were funneling money that was going directly to terrorists to fight against Israel, to fight against America.
So -- so that we know they lied about. But I got to say, there's not a Democrat in Congress that I know of that cares about finding any of this stuff, that they are defending -- look, when President Trump took the oath of office, the average occupancy rate in federal office buildings was 5 to 8 percent, more than 90 percent of the employees were at home. You'd go to a federal agency and they were empty.
And by the way, these federal employees, the Democrats had told them they had a right not to come to the office apparently to work from home in pajamas and bunny slippers. The rest of America's gone to work. If you're in the private sector, COVID has been over for a long time and yet, and by the way, Joe Biden on the way out did something I've never seen a president in our lifetimes do, Sean, which is he dug in to try to do everything he could to prevent Donald Trump from following the mandate from the voters.
So, one of the things he did is he negotiated new collective bargaining agreements with government employee unions, giving them a right to work from home. And it was clear, Trump had said, you're going to come back to work and Biden tried to frustrate it.
Look, George W. Bush didn't do that when Barack Obama was coming in. Bill Clinton didn't do that when George W. Bush was coming in. By the way, Barack Obama didn't do that when Trump was coming in.
Biden and his team, they have a contempt for the voters and you would think, some of these examples, if there were a sane Democrat, instead of Jasmine Crockett just cursing at Elon Musk, which really does capture today's Democrat Party, maybe one of them would say, hey, I'm glad we're capturing some of this stuff, I'm glad we're -- we're finding some of the waste, but therefore waste.
You know, one stat that DOGE has put out is that according to the Social Security records, there are more than 13 million people on the records receiving benefits who are over 119 years old. Now, that on the face of it is obvious fraud. If those stats are correct, and that's what DOGE has put out, I haven't heard any Democrat address that and say well maybe we shouldn't be sending Social Security benefits to someone who's 150 years old. They are for fraud.
HANNITY: Well, we know they're on the --
(CROSSTALK)
HANNITY: But we never got the answer as to whether or not they or somebody in their family is getting paid. We've not gotten to that point yet, and I'd like to get an answer to that.
CRUZ: And look, I assume DOGE will lay that out in time, that initially as they just looked at, all right, tell me the age of everyone receiving benefits, they had people listed as receiving Social Security benefits who were 300 years old and older. And that's obvious -- it's either fraud or at the very minimum a very serious mistake. But 13 million people is not a small amount. And so --
(CROSSTALK)
HANNITY: If you go back to people just over 100 and than 130 and even people 150, you can't make it up. You really can't. And then to complain or the Democrats to complain that somehow this is a constitutional crisis that we are getting to the bottom of it is just obscene.
Senator, we appreciate it. Thanks for being with us.
Go ahead, you want to finish your thought. Go ahead.
CRUZ: Sports, no matter what.
HANNITY: Yeah, all right.
CRUZ: So, look, you look at the governor of Maine and tell Donald Trump, we're going to have boys and girls sports. We don't care about the voters and we don't care if Maine loses hundreds of millions of dollars in federal funds. We, the Democrats, are so radical, to hell with the voters. That -- that's really an unfortunate -- it's the attitude sadly of most of the elected Democrats right now.
HANNITY: Well, we'll see -- we'll see them in court and you know what? I don't think they have a strong case as they thank they do.
(LAUGHTER)
HANNITY: You are the attorney. Senator, good to see you, thank you.
Now, when you think the left can't get any more extreme or desperate, think again. Russia, Russia, Russia is now making a comeback. I'm not making this up. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I think this president unfortunately perhaps either doesn't understand geopolitics and doesn't understand the importance of having allies and the importance of our allyship, or perhaps there is a reason why to your point, Joy, he is so enthralled with Russia.
ALEXANDER VINDMAN, LT. COL. U.S. ARMY (RET.): I start to wonder, you know, I'm not big into conspiracies because I've seen government as a leaky sieve, things - things just don't stay secret. But now, I'm starting to wonder is, what -- what does Putin have on -- on Trump that he's willing to bend over so hard to back -- bend over backwards to really support Putin's agenda.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Here we go. We're going to be hearing about hookers and the Ritz Carlton urinating on Donald Trump again. They just make it up. And that was Hillary Clinton's bought and paid for dirty Russian dossier ironically.
All right. Joining us now, the host of the brand new hit show "My View", shattering ratings records during its debut on Saturday night, even beating college basketball on ESPN, Lara Trump is with us.
Look at this, going to start out, I'm going to hold up, Lara Trump dominates in FOX debut, even crushed ESPN basketball. You know how hard it is to beat ESPN basketball, that's rock star status. Congratulations.
LARA TRUMP, FOX NEWS HOST, "MY VIEW WITH LARA TRUMP": Oh, well, thank you, Sean. I just want to say thank you to the FOX audience for tuning in. You know I'm so excited every Saturday night to be able to bring the people who watch FOX every single Saturday, a great perspective in my view as is the name of the show into, you know, different people in this administration and what's happening in our country, the big movers and shakers and the change that's going on. I'm going to bring you my perspective on it.
So thank you, thank you, thank you for tuning in. I'm so excited.
HANNITY: Oh, congratulations. Great to have you.
Are they really going to go back to the Russia conspiracy? All of the comments we just played ironically were before the president made a deal apparently with Zelenskyy is coming to the White House on Friday to sign the deal, the mineral partnership with the United States, which will be great for them, hopefully bring an end to the war, hopefully the gives them money to rebuild their country and helps our country, we get repaid the money that we -- we gave them to fight that war which was way over the top I think by Biden. It'll have European troops, that component involved and hopefully peace in the region and no more death.
L. TRUMP: Yeah, it's a great thing to be able to make some sort of a peace agreement here and the sad news is that these folks, if they are going back to these hoaxes, especially as it relates to Russia, Sean, they're scraping the bottom of the barrel. They tried this stuff eight years ago, and the American people rejected it. I'll remind all of them that it took us $20 million of taxpayer money two years to get through the Mueller investigation to prove that it wasn't Donald Trump who had any collusion with Russia. It was the Hillary Clinton campaign who colluded with Russia.
It's -- it's absolutely outrageous and my question -- actually, if they want to dig deep on Russia is when is someone held accountable for those lies. You know, they didn't just damage and tarnish Donald Trump which was their intent, there are so many staffers from the campaign, volunteers from the campaign who had their lives ruined, who were bankrupted by those lies.
When is Adam Schiff who jumped in front of a television screen any chance he got to perpetuate this particular lie -- when is he actually held accountable?
The truth is we have a man in office who they tried desperately to lie about, to throw in jail, who has taken the slings, arrows and literal bullets for the American people to serve as our 47th president. The American people rejected all of these lies, all of these witch hunts, and all of these hoaxes, especially the Russia collusion hoax.
We want peace. We want a peace agreement. Thank you to Donald Trump for bringing us that.
HANNITY: But look at all the people who got these preemptive pardons from - - from Biden, interestingly. You know, the January 6 Committee --
L. TRUMP: Yeah.
HANNITY: -- they had a predetermined outcome. There's so much information that they kept from the American people was beyond corrupt. So they had to get rid of all the evidence, so they needed a preemptive pardon.
Hunter, the brother, preemptive pardon. The congenital liar who when Donald Trump was leaving office in 2021, and Biden was coming in, you know, was speaking out loudly against preemptive pardons. Now that he's the beneficiary of one, what does -- what did he need a preemptive pardon for, the lying, the corruption before the American people?
Devin Nunes told the truth. Adam Schiff lied, he's a congenital liar and now he's a congenital liar with a pardon.
L. TRUMP: Yeah. Well, exactly right, and it's sad that that has happened because we do need accountability for a lot of these people. This is the reason the Democrats and the mainstream media, by the way, are at all times -- all-time lows in terms of their approval rating. The approval rating for the Democrats, 33 percent, the approval rating for the legacy media, 31 percent.
The American people know they cannot trust these entities anymore. They have wholly rejected them, and unfortunately, they're not doing themselves any favors. They're not doing anything to make up -- it up to the American people and get themselves back in any good graces. They keep doubling and tripling down on the nonsense, and the lies.
So I wish, we could have some sort of accountability there because I think that's what the American people and certainly the volunteers and the campaign staffers from 2016 deserve.
HANNITY: All right. Lara Trump, I will end with this. Lara Trump dominates in FOX News -- FOX debut, even crush the ESPN basketball. I'm just saying. That's pretty cool.
I think -- I think Eric owes you a dinner for that at the very least, just an idea. We --
L. TRUMP: I let him know.
HANNITY: Congratulate you again. Oh, I'll let him know, too, don't worry. We'll -- we -- we'll team up on.
L. TRUMP: Thank you.
HANNITY: We appreciate you being with us. Congratulations.
All right. Coming up, far left activists now are doxxing law enforcement officers around Los Angeles, a new low even for the radical left. Tom Homan will respond with reaction, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. Democrats, they're melting down over Donald Trump's immigration policies. Left-wing filmmaker Michael Moore is now accusing the administration of deporting child science prodigies. In a blog post, Moore questions, quote, who's really being removed by ICE tonight? The child who would have discovered the cure for cancer in 2046? The ninth grade nerd who would have stopped that asteroid that's going to hit us in 2032. Do we care?
Actually, Michael, of course, we care. It -- maybe the person being deported is the next murderer of an American citizen, somebody like Laken Riley, Rachel Morin, little Jocelyn Nungaray. You know, on top of everything else, you're just an idiot.
There are so many Americans that have been murdered and raped and victims of violent crime, never mind the cartel members, known terrorists, gang members, murderers and rapists that they allowed into our country, unvetted.
And that's not all. Two sanctuary cities in Massachusetts that received over $10 million in federal funding are now suing Trump for threatening to cut off that funding because of their sanctuary policies. Good luck losing that lawsuit.
And in Los Angeles, the opposition is veering into very, very dangerous territory. Left-wing activists have now posted Spanish language posters with faces, names, ages, phone numbers of ICE agents around the city, in other words they're doxxing ICE agents and needless to say, that is extremely dangerous for law enforcement.
But ICE, DHS, are undeterred by these threats and in fact, they're doubling down on aggressive immigration enforcement. Secretary Noem is no longer allowing illegals to use Biden CPB One app, instead of, you know, to use to board flights unless those flights are leaving the U.S.
The Department of Agriculture is issuing new guidance to make clear that illegals are not eligible for food stamps.
And Border Czar Tom Homan has a clear message for all the illegals in the country, "We are coming". And he joins us right now with reaction all of this.
The doxxing thing upsets me the most because between tipping off various groups about ICE raids in advance it takes away the element of surprise, that puts agents lives in jeopardy. Now, they're doxxing them. What are they saying, go to this guy's house and kill this guy? Sounds like a threat to me and what is the -- what will the reaction be?
TOM HOMAN, BORDER CZAR: Well, it's under investigation right now. Matter of fact, I have a meeting tomorrow morning with Department of Justice. I think that's crossing the line of impediment, and I hope the Department of Justice agrees with me, so we find out who's doing it. Hopefully, we can prosecute them put them him in jail.
Look, I know all about doxxing, Sean. I got a state -- Governor Youngkin has assigned a state trooper to my home 24/7. I have a marked car outside my door right now. I got a security detail.
The left has lost their minds. The one is -- all of a sudden, the ones who enforce law, the bad guys, the one who break the law, the victims.
We're not going to let them slow us down. We're not going to be bullied. We're not going to be intimidated. What we're going to do in these cities, we'll double the manpower. We'll flood those neighborhoods with DEA, ATF, FBI, ICE. We'll double the effort. And we'll -- it will increase work side enforcement operations in those communities.
We're not going to play a game with these people. We made it clear we're concentrating on public safety threats and no one should disagree with taking child sex predators off the streets. ICE just took nine sexual predators off the street of Massachusetts because they won't honor detainers. ICE made those communities safer and we're going continue to make those communities safer.
HANNITY: What do you make of these two cities in Massachusetts now that are suing because of the public officials that want the right to put -- put the rights of illegals over the safety of citizens in their towns?
HOMAN: Look, the people -- the people who vote these people, they need to take under consideration what these people are doing. I'll say it again, we are prioritizing public safety threat, child predators, rapists, murderers.
These are the worst of the worst walking around in communities and you would think any elected mayor, any elected governor, any elected city councilwoman would want public safety threats removed from their communities. They have responsibility to the taxpayers, the voters. They expect a safe community.
So, I hope people are waking up to these far left nuts who want to push back against ICE and what we're doing. We are making communities safer, and we're keeping President Trump's promise to make communities safer an end illegal alien crime in this country.
HANNITY: You know, for the longest time during the campaign on the show, we would roll the names of people that were murdered. And a lot of names that that people have not heard, people that were raped, people -- other victims of violent crime. That list gets longer and longer and longer, and then I listen to, you know, idiots like Michael Moore, oh, we're deporting maybe the person that will cure cancer in the future.
Okay, they can cure cancer in their country and we'll pay them a lot of money for whatever they discover. That -- to me, you know, what part of murder, rape, violent crime, drug dealing are they not understanding, known terrorists in this country -- what part of that being dangerous to every American are they not comprehending.
HOMAN: Oh, you know, a couple of things. He wants to talk about, you know, young adults, young children. You know, most of the young adults that came across that border during the Biden administrations were between the age of 15 and 17. Many are gang members.
We did a -- we did an operation in New York City and arrested almost 500 gang members, Operation Matador. Forty-eight percent of them came in this - - come across the border claiming to be a child. So you don't know what you have. There lot a lot of these -- lot of so-called children are actually, you know, dangerous gang members.
And I wish Michael Moore would go talk to an Angel Mom and Dad, talk to a few of the angel moms that dads I've talked over my career. I've talked to hundreds of them, American citizen, parents who buried their children because their children was murdered and raped by an illegal alien. Talk to the parents of the young lady that burned alive on a subway in New York City.
Governor Hochul comes out and says she agrees criminal illegal aliens should be removed, but yet, she wants to fire Mayor Adams for speaking with me about getting back into Riker's Island to arrest the bad guys who commit crimes in New York City. She wants a green light law where CBP and ICE officers can't even run a license plate number for New York state license plate, they don't know who they're pulling over. That's a dangerous situation.
There's another nut that should be removed from office. It's disgusting. But they're not going to slow us down, Sean. We're coming.
HANNITY: Yeah.
HOMAN: We're coming across this country. We're going to arrest criminal aliens. You're not going to stop us.
HANNITY: I've never been in met anybody in my life. I've known you a long time. That it is -- when they get their -- their focus and they're dialed in on a mission, they are committed to finishing it.
Last question, are you making progress. I was asking DHS Secretary Noem about this.
Are you making progress finding the people that are endangering ICE agents lives by tipping off people of pending raids by ICE? Are you making progress finding those people?
HOMAN: Yes, made progress. We know who leaked the Aurora, Colorado operation. That is under investigation as we speak. And we don't keep looking for any other leaks.
I just came back from Colony Ridge, Texas. Great operation, arrested over 100 people, most of them criminals. Operation went great. No leaks, operation security was the finest, so it's a great operation.
HANNITY: Yeah. Well, I will say this, I've known Pam Bondi, the attorney general a long time. I'm pretty sure when she finds out, ICE agents are being doxxed, that's going to be a major legal issue in the lives of the people that are doing that.
We appreciate the good work. Appreciate your time. Thank you so much, Tom Homan.
All right. When we come back, Democrats claim to care about your private information but now, we discover under Joe Biden, Kamala Harris, tax documents, IRS documents, of over 405,000 Americans were leaked, including tax records belonging to President Trump.
House Judiciary Committee chairman, our friend, Jim Jordan, will join us more, update us on that, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: And earlier today, President Trump, he made remarks from the Oval Office while signing executive orders and schooled one reporter on what it's like to be targeted, something they may want to pay attention to.
Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REPORTER: What do you say to people who worry that targeting an individual firm or individuals who, you know, aren't Jack Smith for his actions --
TRUMP: Excuse me, I've been targeted for four years, longer than that. So you don't tell me about targeting. I was the target of corrupt politicians for four years and then four years after that. So don't talk to me about targeting.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Ouch!
Meanwhile, scandal-plagued Fulton County D.A. Fani Willis wrote House Judiciary Committee Chairman Jim Jordan a letter, accusing him of bullying her and telling him to instead visit children in his district and celebrate black history month.
And meanwhile, one anti-Trump IRS contractor allegedly released information on what now appears to be hundreds and hundreds of thousands of taxpayers, but the left is worried about DOGE?
Anyway, according to the House Judiciary Committee Republicans, new disclosures show that Charles Littlejohn leaked information on more than 405,000 taxpayers including President Trump. Littlejohn is currently serving a five-year sentence for the leaks, but the new filings reveal the leak was nearly six times larger than previously known.
Here with more, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Jim Jordan.
All right. I'd like the answer the president gave on targeting.
REP. JIM JORDAN (R-OH): Yeah.
HANNITY: Let's talk about targeting and you were involved -- you were on this program a lot when they lied and peddle the conspiracy theory about the Russia hoax. You were on about FISA abuse quite a bit on this program. You were on when they targeted Donald Trump with jacked up charges in New York and a false valuation of Mar-a-Lago and a double standard when it came to top secret classified information. Let's talk about targeting.
Are we going to get to the bottom of these issues and who is corrupt?
JORDAN: Yeah, that's why we sent subpoenas to the FBI yesterday to get the answers to the questions the American people have but you're exactly right, Sean, President Trump was targeted by Jim Comey, Peter Strzok, Lisa Page, Alvin Bragg, Fani Willis, Jack Smith, and now, we learn the IRS. This Charles Littlejohn guy, he went to the IRS as a contractor with a specific goal to get President Trump's tax return and release it to some leftwing media publication, which is what he did.
But he also did it for 405,000 other entities, individuals and businesses, and he gets charged with one count. One count, it's all the Biden-Garland Justice Department went after this guy for. So, yeah, you're -- you're exactly right as well that when they go after Elon Musk, oh, he's going to get access to information, he shouldn't. Are you kidding me? Look what they did look what this guy did to the president of the United States and 405,000 other Americans.
HANNITY: Didn't we learn that little old Sean Hannity, just a little talk show host that I am, that my personal information was gone through. Didn't they my social media accounts? Didn't thousands of my personal text messages get released? Do I not have privacy as a as a member of the press? Nobody seemed to care when that happened to me. I don't recall anybody in the -- in the state-run legacy media mob defending me, not that I would expect it.
JORDAN: No, they didn't defend you, but it happened to you because you make a difference, because you have an impact. That's why it's always. You know, I always tell folks, if -- if the left isn't coming after you, you're probably not doing anything worthwhile and you're doing things worthwhile that's why they came after you.
I remember when we got shadow-banned back in 2018 during the whole Trump- Russia collusion thing, there were four members of Congress who just happened to be digging into what the Comey FBI had done to President Trump and we get shadow-banned. Thank goodness we've changed what Michael Shellenberger who wrote some of the Twitter files called the censorship industrial complex.
Thank goodness, Elon Musk, President Trump, and I'd like to think some of the work we've done on the judiciary committee has made a difference in that area as well. So we just got to keep that effort up and make sure that this censorship stuff doesn't happen anymore.
HANNITY: Okay. What about Fani Willis writing you a letter, accusing you of bullying her? Really, what would you like to know from Fani Willis?
JORDAN: Well, we've had outstanding requests to her for information. We've gotten some. There are people we want to talk to, who worked on the Fani Willis investigation.
We've deposed Nathan Wade. He came here and said basically -- didn't answer hardly any of our questions. So we want to do some follow-up. We're committed to getting the answers for the American people on that ridiculous investigation that she undertook, as well as the subpoenas we've sent to Kash Patel to get information on the school board's issue, the memorandum which said pro-life Catholics are extremists in the Richmond FBI field office.
We want information on those 26 confidential human sources, 17 of which entered restricted space, none of them were charged. They weren't authorized to go there. Four went in the Capitol, and two of the four who went in the Capitol were asked to be here that day by the FBI.
I want to know how much were these people paid how long they work lots of questions that we want to get answers to that we think the American people would like that information. So we're going to work on all that.
HANNITY: Let me go back to weaponization for example. Those people that were involved in the weaponization of the DOJ, FBI intel community, the people that did the day-to-day work on issues that they never should have been involved in, what should happen to them?
JORDAN: Well, that's up to the Justice Department, and I'm very confident in Pam Bondi, Todd Blanche who was going to go there as deputy attorney general, Kash Patel, Dan Bongino, that team that President Trump's put together, I'm confident and they're going to dig into this stuff just like we are.
And if they think someone needs to be prosecuted, someone needs to be looked at, that's the Justice Department's decision, but I trust these individuals. They're the kind of folks we want in these positions who are going to focus on protecting the American people, not going after the American people.
HANNITY: All right. Jim Jordan, we really appreciate you being with us and it's going to be interesting days ahead. And we got to clean it up, got to return the FBI to the world's premier law enforcement agency, you can't have a weaponized Department of Justice. Those people that have been involved, they've got to be removed and you got to have people of integrity put in their place.
All right. When we come back, Congressman Byron Donalds will join us, apparently has an announcement. You don't want to miss it, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. Late last week, President Trump endorsed Congressman Byron Donalds for governor of my free state of Florida but now, Donalds has yet to announce his candidacy, but he is already receiving a lot of support. However, it does look like an early fight could be emerging. Reports in Florida suggesting that Casey DeSantis, Ron DeSantis's wife is considering a run as well.
Here with more, Congressman Byron Donalds.
Congressman, great to have you. How are you?
REP. BYRON DONALDS (R-FL): It's good to be with you, Sean. Thanks for having me on.
HANNITY: All right. If you want to make -- any announcements to make? Is it truth? I mean, you got the support of President Trump. Where do you stand? Are you -- are you ready to make the plunge?
DONALDS: Well, look, Sean, after a lot of prayer, a lot of thoughts with my family and my friends, I'm here to announce my candidacy to be the next governor of the great state of Florida.
And, Sean, we have a wonderful state. I got to Florida when I was 17 years old, off of a Greyhound bus with just a trunk full of clothes. And over the rest of my time in Florida, I built a family. I built a career 17 years in financial services.
I joined the Tea Party movement, was in the conservative movement. I was able to serve four years in the state legislature, four years in Congress and I think now is the time to now take the mantle and lead our state into the future. We've have a great governor, Ron DeSantis has done a tremendous job for our state, but now, the job is to keep the best state in the country as the best state in the country.
And so, that's going to be the mission at hand and I'm excited to announce my candidacy with you tonight.
HANNITY: We -- we -- we appreciate the announcement. What do you make of the reports that the governor's wife is considering a run? She's very well- like first lady.
DONALDS: Well, I mean, honestly, right now, it's very early. I'm the only person in this race right now. So we'll see what happens. But I will tell you, Sean, I'm excited to have the full endorsement of President Trump. He has a lot of faith in me.
And to the people of Florida, I would tell you that for a long time, I've been in the trenches in a lot of these battles dealing with conservatism. A bill I passed when I was a freshman in the state leg -- in the state legislature, Sean, allowed parents to examine the materials in front of their children. Then Governor Rick Scott signed that bill into law.
So I have a long history in the conservative movement and I have one of the strongest conservative records both in the state house and up here in Congress that proves that I will not let you down, that all of the victories and the successes that Florida has been able to accomplish, we're only going to take that and build upon it. We're going to continue to be the freest state and the best state going forward.
HANNITY: What would you like to build on? What would your -- your agenda be? Obviously, I have a vested interest in this, living in the state that I love that that you've lived in since you were 17 as you said, and I've had property down here for almost three decades for crying out loud, and it's for me home and obviously, I have a vested interest in the state doing well.
Big shoes to fill. I think Governor DeSantis has done a great job for the state and, you know, what are the -- what are the issues you see that you would want to maybe take to another level?
DONALDS: Well, Sean, I agree with you. Governor DeSantis has done a tremendous job. So, a couple of things.
First, we have an insurance problem in our state. You know, my career in banking insurance and in financial services, I want to make sure that we solve this problem for the people of Florida and it's going to mean bringing every stakeholder to the table because the people of Florida is what's going to matter. We got to solve it. We got to stabilize those costs.
I want to turn Florida into the financial hub of the world. Digital assets has made a home in south Florida. I want to make sure that we become the most business-friendly state in our country, for businesses to incorporate in our state. But then also for the state to take the lead on cryptocurrency and digital assets, I would even consider having crypto be a part of the state's financial portfolio.
We're going to build on the work that Governor DeSantis did when it comes to our environment, making sure that we finished a job on restoring the Everglades waterways, having clean water for all of our constituencies and for our environment.
And last but not least, education, Sean. We've been doing a great job in our states, but my focus would be on making sure that every child has the tools available to them to be proficient in math, in reading, in writing and in reasoning. Those are the things that are going to take our state from being great now to being even greater.
HANNITY: Can you -- I hate -- I hate to lose one seat. We're very close in the house in terms of margins. Can you remain congressman and run at the same time? We only about 20 seconds.
DONALDS: Yes, sir. I'm -- Sean, I'm not going anywhere. We were -- we really did a really good job passing the resolution tonight. I'm here to make sure we get the president's agenda done. So rest assured I'm staying in place. We're going to make sure we continue to fix Washington and make America great again.
HANNITY: All right. Congressman, appreciate it. Congratulations. We appreciate you making the announcement on our show. And we'll be following up closely.
When we come back, Alec Baldwin caught on tape threatening to snap a comedian's neck. We'll play the tape.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: Apparently, actor Alec Baldwin has a new reality show, says that he wants to be a new person, not return to the person he was.
Well, he just threatened to a Trump impersonator that he knew was filming him. Can't make it up. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BALDWIN: You've got a camera on me here?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The ring, no, it's the ring.
BALDWIN: Do you realize that my kids live in this building, right? But I want you to know something. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We love the children. We're doing great deals for the children. OK.
BALDWIN: If this camera wasn't here, I'd snap your (EXPLETIVE DELETED) neck in half and break your (EXPLETIVE DELETED) neck. You know that, don't you?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: OK. All right, Alec Baldwin. I love you, Alec.
Alec, look, you don't want -- you don't want to attack your favorite president, Alec.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: I guess he's changed. Not a good look.
All right. Programming note, by the way. Tomorrow night on this show, we'll have an exclusive interview with the new director of the Secret Service, Sean Curran. You don't want to miss that.
That's all the time we have left this evening.
Thank you for being with us, and making the show possible. Set your DVR so you never, ever, ever miss an episode of "Hannity".
Let not your heart be troubled. Greg Gutfeld is next. He'll put a smile on your face. Good night.

Load-Date: February 26, 2025


End of Document
