




Fox News THE WILL CAIN SHOW 4:00 PM EST
January 21, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; International
Length: 7223 words
Byline: Jesse Watters, Greg Gutfeld, Jessica Tarlov, Jeanine Pirro, Dana Perino, Adam Klotz, Chad Pergram, Peter Doocy, Will Cain
Guests: Joe Lonsdale, Ron Vitiello, Dave Portnoy
Body


WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Well, thank you so much, Martha. I appreciate it.
I will try to live up to the billing that you have said at, inherit the baton, pass it on to "The Five," live up to the high standards. I'm nervous, Martha, but I'm excited and grateful, and I can't wait to see you every day here right about 4:00.
MARTHA MACCALLUM, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Looking forward to it as well.
CAIN: Thank you, Martha.
MACCALLUM: Welcome. Welcome to the early evening.
CAIN: All right, thank you so much, Martha.
Welcome to the first episode of "The Will Cain Show."
We are coming to you live from the heart of America, as we look live at the White House. I am Will Cain.
President Donald Trump, he's keeping up this breakneck pace to start his second term. This hour, in fact, we expect the president to make a big announcement of a $100 billion investment in a project focused on artificial intelligence.
The first data center, by the way, in this project will be right here in Texas. This will be the latest in a flurry of moves our president has taken in just over 24 hours. It's 46 executive orders and actions on issues that people care about, like the border, energy, helping Americans keep more of their own money, good old common sense for all Americans.
And they're ready for it. We're ready for it. We're ready for it in America.
So let's go to Peter Doocy live at the White House, as President Trump gets ready to speak soon this massive new investment -- Peter.
PETER DOOCY, FOX NEWS SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: And congratulations on your massive new show, Will. Good to see you every day at 4:00.
CAIN: Thank you. Thank you, Peter.
DOOCY: Today's big announcement here, though, it's about project -- of course -- it's about Project Stargate. That's what they're calling it.
The CEOs of OpenAI and Oracle and SoftBank are going to be here talking about this $100 billion joint data center venture that they have. The action today follows about 200 executive actions yesterday.
And the most immediate policy changes that we have seen so far are immigration policy changes. In fact, right now, ICE agents are out there rounding up and arresting illegal immigrants.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
THOMAS HOMAN, TRUMP ADMINISTRATION BORDER CZAR: The president's been clear, I have been clear that, right out of the gate, we're looking for public safety threats. ICE agents are out there doing that now.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
DOOCY: The president has also canceled DEI funding, said the U.S. is only going to recognize two genders, and said that the U.S. is now going to call the Gulf of Mexico the Gulf of America.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: And you're witnessing the dawn of the golden age of America. That's what it's going to be. We're bringing it back. We're going to bring it back fast.
(CHEERING)
TRUMP: We're going to bring it back fast.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
DOOCY: The president and Vice President Vance attended a prayer breakfast today, and they wound up getting an earful from the reverend.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BISHOP MARIANN EDGAR BUDDE, EPISCOPAL DIOCESE OF WASHINGTON: There are gay, lesbian and transgender children in Democratic, Republican and independent families, some who fear for their lives.
QUESTION: What did you think of the service?
TRUMP: What did you think? Did you like it? Did you find it exciting? Not too exciting, was it? I didn't think it was a good service. Thank you very much.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
DOOCY: Many, many changes around here on Trump's first day.
I was in the Oval Office with him last night and I noticed that the valet button, famously known as the Diet Coke button, is back on the Resolute Desk. So the staff here remembers what the big boss likes -- Will.
(LAUGHTER)
CAIN: OK. Thank you so much, Peter.
By the way, what an incredibly shameful display from that bishop this morning in Washington, D.C. It represents the insanity of yesterday. But what an exciting new project we may hear about in this hour, an A.I. project named Stargate.
This yin and yang, this balance, is a balance that has to be struck by President Trump, quite honestly, for us here at "The Will Cain Show," for all of us in America. It's the balance between holding accountability for what happened yesterday, while holding to the promise and hope of what can be tomorrow.
So, as with this new dawning, this new golden age of America, in this busy 24 hours, here are the three things that have stood out to me about the first day of Donald Trump's presidency.
First, while we were all watching the dawn of the golden age, Joe Biden was slinking away into the dark. He was pardoning members of his own family, his brother Jim. He was pardoning General Mark Milley. He was pardoning Dr. Anthony Fauci, which leads to an obvious question.
Pardon? Pardon for what? The implication of guilt is enough to even surprise Donald Trump. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: I didn't know that he gave a pardon to his family because he did it during my speech.
DOOCY: He didn't tell you this in the letter?
TRUMP: No, he didn't tell me. No, no, he didn't. They released it during my speech. I mean during my speech. So all I could do was say, excuse me, I'd like to come back and speak some more. So, no, we were surprised by that.
It's bad precedent, obviously.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: And that, of course, was Donald Trump in a 60-minute freewheeling executive order signing Q&A.
Now, it's not just the implication of guilt that stands out about these pardons. It's the hypocrisy. It's an obvious point, but a point that needs to be made. Four years ago, Democrats hyperventilated about the possibility that Donald Trump may preemptively pardon members of his own family.
But like with so many sins, they project their own onto their opponent. Here we are four years later, and Joe Biden has done exactly what they all choked on four years ago. He's swallowed this level of hypocrisy. But, again, that's not the most important takeaway.
Neither is Joe Biden breaking the norms of the presidency, something he promised to take us back to, a return to normalcy. Now, my biggest takeaway on the pardons right now is that somehow Joe Biden has managed to take away the right against self-incrimination for Dr. Anthony Fauci, for Mark Milley, for Jim Biden.
No longer can they appear before Congress and invoke the Fifth Amendment. As such, they should be appearing before Congress, as we pursue the truth and justice.
Speaking of justice number two, Donald Trump pardoned over 1,500 January 6 defendants and prisoners last night. Now, it should be noted that, of these 1,500 prisoners, over 1,000 of them were charged by the federal government and DOJ with simple misdemeanors, parading around, disorderly conduct.
These are not the kind of charges usually brought by the Department of Justice. But this was an attempt to cook the books within the DOJ and the FBI, to suggest that domestic terrorism was on the rise and to make a case that January 6 was not unlike 9/11.
But real people had their lives ruined. Real people sat and rotted in jail. And Donald Trump today, for those real people, brought justice.
Then we look to tomorrow. Donald Trump has promised a golden age, a revolution of common sense. I believe that, for over a century, we lived in a false dichotomy. We lived in the age of political ideology between left and right, Republican and Democrat.
Yes, Donald Trump is a Republican. And, yes, he is conservative. But he's practical. He is transactional. And so the policies pursued in the first 24 hours reflect the will of the people. Look at this poll on immigration, energy and inflation. Donald Trump reflects what you and I and the majority of Americans want to see from our government.
That's empowering. That tells you you're not alone. That tells you this represents real hope and change for America.
Now, as we await that A.I. infrastructure announcement, President Trump has been meeting with House and Senate GOP leadership all afternoon.
Let's head out to FOX News' Chad Pergram on the Hill.
CHAD PERGRAM, FOX NEWS CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Will, good afternoon and congratulations on your new show. Good to be on with you today.
This marks, this meeting down at the White House, kind of the starting line here to try to get some of this legislation through in the Republican Congress. They have the House, they have the Senate, they have the White House. And so this is kind of a touching of the gloves here. They want to get these guys together. They want to be on the same page. They have this narrow majority in the House of Representatives.
They can only lose one vote. That's a problem, but that could mandate cohesion. Listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
QUESTION: Speaker Johnson, how are you feeling ahead of your meeting with President Trump?
REP. MIKE JOHNSON (R-LA): Really excited. We have got a lot of important work to do and a short amount of time to do it in.
QUESTION: Do you have to come to a consensus on reconciliation? Do you know what he's feeling about it?
JOHNSON: Yes, he's for one big, beautiful bill, and so am I. So we will get it together.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERGRAM: In 2017, President Trump only had tepid support from congressional Republicans. That's not the case today. The MAGA movement now dominates the thinking of most Republicans on Capitol Hill.
Republicans are excited about DOGE.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. MIKE ROUNDS (R-SD): The fact that we have got an executive branch that now wants to work with the legislative branch to reduce the size of the federal government, that's a positive thing. What we have got as a president who is saying, no, I want it done now.
So, man, bring it on.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERGRAM: But it will take months to approve the GOP agenda to cut spending and reduce taxes. However, the House will approve the Laken Riley Act tomorrow. That will be the first piece of legislation for the president to sign.
Now, on nominations, Democrats are starting to throw up roadblocks.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): Sadly, too many of the president's nominees do not match Senator Rubio's caliber. Too many have troubling backgrounds. Too many seem unprepared for the job and proved so during testimony.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERGRAM: Now, later today, we expect them to confirm John Ratcliffe, the former Republican Texas congressman, as the CIA director.
He served as the director of national intelligence in the previous Trump administration, maybe Kristi Noem for DHS in the next couple of days here. But I want to throw a stat at you, Will, here. In the first three days of Barack Obama's first administration, this is 2009, they confirmed nine nominations. President Biden, he got one four years ago. Donald Trump got one yesterday, and two for Donald Trump in 2017 -- back to you, Will.
CAIN: All right, thank you, Chad.
John Ratcliffe, by the way, at one time, the congressman from my home district in North Texas, now to run the CIA.
It was a busy night for me. I was working the channel changer like a champion. I was hopping back and forth between President Trump's freewheeling Q&A and executive order signing extravaganza and Ohio State beating Notre Dame in the college football national championship game.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ANNOUNCER: The longest, toughest, postseason climb in the history of the sport, and after all that, it's Ohio State together at the mountaintop, champions of college football.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: It was the Buckeyes' first title in a decade. Congratulations, Buckeyes.
I will have to say, not for nothing, and to be completely honest, I did find FOX News Channel and Donald Trump's amazing executive order signing extravaganza a little more riveting, and that's coming from a huge sports fan.
We're awaiting a major A.I. infrastructure announcement from President Trump. When that happens, we're going to take you there.
But, first, first the signing, then the enforcement, Trump's border actions already making an impact. We're going to ask a key new adviser to the administration about that next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BUDDE: The people who pick our crops and clean our office buildings, who labor in poultry farms and meatpacking plants, who wash the dishes after we eat in restaurants and work the night shifts in hospitals, they may not be citizens or have the proper documentation, but the vast majority of immigrants are not criminals.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Inappropriate on so many levels, inappropriate to use a worship service as a political speech, inappropriate to give a sermon, instead of seeking out a conversation with President Donald Trump, but, most inappropriately, to caricaturize your political opponents into the worst cartoon figures who would make LGBTQ kids fear for their life or that we don't see the humanity even in an illegal immigrant.
Still, we are a nation of laws, and you must enforce the law.
Senior adviser to the U.S. Customs and Border Protection under the new Trump administration is Ron Vitiello, and he joins us now.
Ron, thanks for being with us this afternoon.
As you listen to that, but also think about where we're moving forward, what's being implemented, what can we expect when it comes to not just border enforcement, but perhaps deportation and enforcing our laws on illegal immigration?
RON VITIELLO, FORMER ACTING U.S. IMMIGRATION AND CUSTOMS ENFORCEMENT DIRECTOR: Well, thanks for inviting me, Will. Congratulations on the show.
And just a moment to think about our agent that we lost yesterday in Vermont, Agent Maland, been with the agency for several years. And so yesterday and today, like the rest of this week, I'm sure, we're working hard at Customs and Border Protection in the Department of Homeland Security on behalf of the president to secure the border and to make America safe again.
And so there's lots going on, more than I have ever seen in my career as a federal employee. But what I can assure you is, is that the men and women of the front line understand what the bishop was talking about, but that's not what they're most interested in. What they're most interested in is keeping bad people and bad things out of the country.
And the front line is compassionate. They understand where people are when they make arrests out in the field, and they're very good at what they do. I thank those professionals that are out there because they're going to have an opportunity now to do the things and apply the skills that they have to solve problems at the border for their communities, for the country writ large, and even the individuals who are in the pipeline, which they will save from things like human trafficking or being forced into drug smuggling.
CAIN: Ron, but what -- tell me -- help me understand what's already happened.
One of my cameramen who's with me here in Texas was just at the border yesterday. He's reported on the border for years, and he said it was one of the most -- it was stark how few people were actually crossing the border. At times, there have been thousands flowing over that border. Yesterday, it was virtually no presence of illegal immigrants, at least at that border station.
We saw that the CBP-1 app was canceled immediately that Joe Biden was using to process asylum claims. So what is happening right now that is different than what was happening 24 hours ago, 36 hours ago under Joe Biden?
VITIELLO: Well, there are several.
I think 11 executive orders that have been directed toward the department and certainly within CBP. So we're going to end the nonsense at the border. We're going to end the abuse of parole. That's why the CBP-1 app was shut down in, like, the minutes after the president was sworn in. We're going to end catch-and-release at the border.
We're going to give the front line the tools that they need, like infrastructure, like walls and buoys and the things that help them control and patrol and the border. And we're going to give them the tools to deter traffic at the border by not letting people be released into the United States.
So, all that started to end yesterday. And we will continue to implement the strategies, the tactics and the plans that allow for a safe border. That's what the president asked for. That's what Americans voted for.
And now it's our turn to apply the skills and knowledge and the strategies that we have to secure that border with real material things like a wall, like access to the border, like agents and then allowing the policies to work on behalf of Americans, keeping people who are suspects, who are criminals, people who have been arrested in communities within the United States referred to ICE and put on a path for removal and deportation.
All of those things are happening. I know my colleagues in ICE are working diligently to employ the largest deportation effort ever seen. And we're doing the same and supporting them on our Southwest border and the northern border.
CAIN: Right. Well, thanks for getting us up to date on that, Ron.
By the way, I do want to, as you opened this segment, say our hearts and prayers, our thoughts are with you, the CBP, and the agent and his family who was lost or shot yesterday in Vermont.
Thank you so much, Ron. Thank you.
All right, we are awaiting a big announcement from President Trump on an artificial intelligence investment. We're going to bring that to you live.
But, first, a friend of Elon Musk and a key adviser on DOGE is here with an update on the new agency.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: Waiting on a major announcement from President Trump. It will consist of billions of dollars in private sector investment to build artificial intelligence infrastructure here in the United States.
And now to a top tech player in all of this, Palantir Technologies co- founder Joe Lonsdale, who helped found the University of Austin and many other tech companies joins me now.
Joe, it's great to talk to you, I think for the first time, I think you're the perfect guest to talk about this.
I will confess to you and everyone watching, I'm not an early tech adopter. I don't really understand the full suite of applications for artificial intelligence, and I don't know what this billion-dollar investment will mean for America and A.I.
JOE LONSDALE, CO-FOUNDER, PALANTIR TECHNOLOGIES: Well, it's been an amazing 24 hours. There's so many things going on right now for America's new golden age, as Trump calls it.
Listen, if America is going to solve all its problems, we need to increase productivity in this country, right? We have all sorts of issues. Trump's been very clear he's not going to cut things like entitlements.
Well, what's the answer to that? The answer to that is growth. And what growth is, is productivity growth. And A.I. is a key to unlocking productivity growth. We have that infrastructure here. America is the best in the world in these industries, and he's going to move to accelerate that, which is a great thing.
CAIN: Well, talk about what that infrastructure is, with specifics, if we could. If there's a government and private partnership to build the needed infrastructure, I have read a lot about the need for electricity and the need for storage.
Is that what we're talking about when we talk about infrastructure?
LONSDALE: You know, there's really five layers to invest in A.I.
At the very bottom, before any of those five layers, there's energy infrastructure. There's all these things that Trump's already declaring in his E.O.s we need to focus on as a crisis and have enough energy, have enough of that for America. Above that is the chips production and chips companies.
Above that is data centers. Then you get into the software, the model companies like OpenAI and X. Then you get into software infrastructure and then the services themselves. And so a lot of people at my level, we're building companies to actually deploy A.I.
We can only do that if you have all the data centers, all the chips, and all the power available. So there's a lot of infrastructure to build to allow this productivity to work.
CAIN: You know, Joe, it's notable that, at Donald Trump's inauguration, there in the Rotunda, behind him were several people, billionaires, who have been skeptical, and, in fact, I would say antagonistic in the past to Donald Trump, Mark Zuckerberg, Sundar Pichai from Google, Jeff Bezos.
There was also Sam Altman, by the way, from OpenAI. I have listened to you, Joe, on, for example, "The Shawn Ryan Show" talking about what you -- how you explain or how you understand the conversion of Mark Zuckerberg into what looks like now supporter of Donald Trump.
How skeptical should we be of all these tech bros now in their embrace of MAGA?
LONSDALE: Listen, these people have been living and floating and existing within this woke mind virus-infested part of our society. There's some really bad ideas, that we are still at war against in our civilization.
They have conquered our universities. They have conquered our tech companies. As you were talking about, Will, they have conquered the Episcopalian Church, it seems like too, with the bishop yesterday, right? So we are at war against this.
And I think a lot of these people in those powerful positions, I don't trust them as far as I could throw them. Now, I do think Mark probably does have some biases more on the right that are coming out that are great to see, but would he respond correctly if Trump hadn't won? I don't know.
So I think we got to watch all these people closely. You guys see, are they actually willing to courageously fight these bad ideas the same way Trump has been fighting them with these hundreds of orders yesterday, and are they going to come on side or not? I don't know, but all of us have to be wary and we have to keep fighting this battle. This battle is not yet won.
CAIN: This battle is not yet won. And I have seen you again say that Mark Zuckerberg, for example, maybe is less ideological and more weak, that he gave in to the ideology of the activists within Facebook for many years.
While it might not have represented him, it did represent his own weakness in not being able to stand up, as so many have, importantly, to this virus. But you have also said this, Joe, and it left me with an open question. You said you thought something broke in 2014.
I don't know if that was an exact date that you had pinpointed, but an approximate date, that you thought this woke mind virus took over everything, corporate America, tech, in about 2014. What happened that year?
LONSDALE: You know, the university -- universities had been conquered earlier, and they became really dominant in these tech companies.
And the ideology spread through them, probably through social media and through them becoming ascendant and starting to put in some of these cultural norms that kind of spread from there. It became something that all of a sudden you had to be part of to be a good person. It became something where they started to cancel people and proved they could cancel people, right, if you didn't go along.
I mean, that had been happening increasingly, but it really spiked those cancellations there. So, it's just this power in society that the far left gang to terrify us. And it's actually like waking up from a bad dream now 11 years later and seeing all these things turned off.
I love the graph that shows the number of genders in our society goes from two forever. It spikes up right around then. And then it goes back down now yesterday to two with Donald Trump's executive order. I think we are finally turning off a lot of this insanity.
CAIN: All right, Joe, I want to ask you this about this as well.
You know Elon Musk. I think you might even be as well involved at some level with the Department of Government Efficiency. You know a lot of the guys at least that are involved as well.
LONSDALE: Yes.
CAIN: It's been established now with an executive order. It's already facing resistance. There's already lawsuits.
Vivek Ramaswamy has stepped away. He suggests he's going to run for the governor of Ohio. What do you expect? What -- better yet, what should we expect out of DOGE?
LONSDALE: You know the way I think of DOGE -- and this is not speaking for them. This is speaking as Joe Lonsdale, but the way I see DOGE is, it's really infused throughout this administration, right?
Elon and others were there helping figure out to make sure they hired the right people as secretaries and undersecretaries to make sure the strategy of the whole thing was tied to the Department of Government Efficiency. When you see these executive orders, when you see them freezing any new regulations that are allowed, I was up last night, by the way.
I'm sure you were too. You're watching these things. When you see them turning off all this crazy aid -- we give billions and billions of dollars, tens of billions of dollars a year was through State Department foreign aid just to nonsense stuff all over the world, tens of thousands of crazy leftist orgs that, as Trump said in his order, are against our values.
When you see them basically banning any new regulations for now until they get a handle on things, these are DOGE-like things happening right now already, right? So DOGE is already in action with the executive orders. It will be in action with every agency of this government. And there's just so many of our smartest friends working on this...
CAIN: Right.
LONSDALE: ... so many of the best lawyers. And on the right, this is a really exciting time.
CAIN: All right, Joe, I hope you won't be a stranger to us here. We'd love to have you back on a regular basis here on "The Will Cain Show."
LONSDALE: Thanks, Will.
CAIN: Joe Lonsdale, thank you.
It's a new dawn in Washington, Donald Trump ushering in a new age of common sense. To someone else who speaks that language, El Presidente. Dave Portnoy is next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: We will forge a society that is colorblind and merit-based.
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: It will henceforth be the official policy of the United States government that there are only two genders, male and female.
(CHEERING)
TRUMP: I will reinstate any service members who were unjustly expelled from our military for objecting to the COVID vaccine mandate with full back pay.
(CHEERING)
TRUMP: The future is ours and our golden age has just begun.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: The beginning of a golden age and returning to common sense, President Donald Trump vowing to bring American values back to our nation's capital.
Let's bring in now El Presidente, Dave Portnoy, to discuss the return to normalcy. He is Barstool Sports' founder.
And, Dave, I think you're a practical man. That's how I think of you. I don't think of you as left or right. I don't even know if I think of you as that political. When I hear Donald Trump talking like that, that's my big takeaway. That's what this represents, a return to normalcy, practicality, common sense.
DAVID PORTNOY, FOUNDER, BARSTOOL SPORTS: Yes, I totally agree. I think that's why he won the election. I think that's what a lot of people want to hear.
And I think more people probably think that way in this country that don't think that way. You have both extremes. But I don't think it should be wild to be proud to be American. When you really think about make America great again, that becomes such a controversial term. Shouldn't everybody want that?
Shouldn't everybody want secure borders and less crime in cities and to be proud to be American? So, again, I agree with your assessment of how I view politically, if at all. But everybody wants a better America, and it really shouldn't be a controversial thing.
And I think what Donald Trump does, President Trump, that a lot of people love, including myself, you don't always have to love everything he's saying, but he's pretty frank, pretty up front, pretty clear, and that's super refreshing.
It's very refreshing for a guy like me when you had a former President Biden, who you couldn't even find. So, to at least have somebody stand up, say, this is what I think, this is what I believe in, you don't have to agree, that's super refreshing for somebody like myself and I think a lot of America.
CAIN: So refreshing, Dave.
You and I are both big sports fan. Last night was a national championship game between Ohio State and Notre Dame. So refreshing for me, Dave, that I really honestly had trouble changing the channel away from Donald Trump and that freewheeling Q&A he had while signing executive orders, even for the national championship game, because, to your point, it was a president not afraid of a single question and thinking it all out loud, not handled, not scripted, not on talking points, but right there confidently thinking it all out loud.
PORTNOY: Yes, I mean, that's what you want from a president.
Again, you don't have to agree with him, but seeing somebody that you have confidence, if they're going in a meeting or anything like that. And I'm with you will. I'm a huge football fan. I can't believe they scheduled this the same day as the inauguration. That was crazy. And it was such a long wait.
And you got two teams that, I don't know, do people even care about. I fell asleep at the end of that game. I was more locked in on the inauguration. It's like the football game didn't even happen for me and most of the country.
CAIN: Well, we should also point out, because this is a place of authenticity, we're going to evolve on this show, but we're always going to be real. It's because you're a Michigan guy, and you're taking your shots at the national champion. And the audience needs to know that. You're, go, Big Blue.
So that might have been part of why you weren't too excited about the game.
PORTNOY: Well, I don't know about that. I mean, I like -- keep Ohio State, keep the title in the Big Ten. We beat the crap out of them every time I play them. So, I -- good for them. I don't care. I'm not -- I'm not hostile.
CAIN: Oh, good. Oh, good. The Big Ten is doing the SEC thing, rooting for the entire conference.
Hey, I want to ask you about this. You have been -- you have been banging your drum about TikTok. And this is a confusing issue, I think, for a lot of people. Should we ban it because it has Chinese spyware embedded or is it a platform for free speech?
You have been making a different argument about small businesses. This is some of what you have had to say.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PORTNOY: This reminds me COVID in a way when the government is just like, poof, and cut the legs out of so many businesses. Like, you can't open your doors. You can't do business. We got to protect you.
There are so many creators, small businesses who have worked for years, for years to build their livelihoods, their careers on TikTok. You finally become successful and the government's like, boop, sorry, cut your legs out. You're done.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: You see this like COVID, Dave.
I got to be honest. This one is incredibly complicated for me. I mean, there is no doubt that it is a spying tool for China. And Donald Trump was thinking it out loud, by the way, in that Q&A. I just don't know what the reasonable landing spot is for TikTok in America.
PORTNOY: Yes, it's -- I will grant it that. The spying tool -- I get the disinformation. The spying tool on who they're spying on, like teenagers making little dances and what information they're gleaming for that.
They have the phones, maybe smarter people than me. But, to be honest, all these social media networks -- you talked a little bit earlier. Like, Zuckerberg wasn't affecting how people thought? And I don't trust any of the social media networks.
So this is just one. And it's successful. But you have -- you cannot underestimate how many people are earning a living. So I agree with you. I don't have Secret Service telling me everything they're worried about.
I get the disinformation to a degree. The spying? I don't know. I'm just a common dude sitting here looking on TikTok and asking, what are they talking about? But I'm very concerned about how many people earn a living. It's huge. You can't underestimate that. And just to cut it out, and you got people who are investing in Meta, writing the bills. It's all pretty confusing.
CAIN: By the way, you -- speaking of investing or betting, I don't know which one of your more recent bets is more speculative.
So you made a bunch of money on Trump coin, which I don't get meme coins. I don't get them at all, but good for you, Dave. You made like a million bucks on Trump coin. But I don't know if that was riskier than your bet on the Bills to win the Super Bowl.
What do you have? You have a million dollars riding on that as well? Which, by the way, that means you're betting against not just the Kansas City Chiefs. You're betting against NFL referees. You and I both know that the guys in black and white stripes are also wearing red for the Kansas City Chiefs.
PORTNOY: Yes, they certainly seem it.
So I made a million bucks in that Trump coin. And it is all speculative, by the way. It's just gambling. I get that going in. I was willing to lose my money. I made it. So it's like free money.
And Buffalo -- I love the people of Buffalo. I'm a Patriot fan. We have an interesting relationship, but maybe it's their time. They were lucky to escape Baltimore. They will have a tough game with Kansas City, but it's a million to win $5.5 million. Free money. I like rooting for Buffalo. It's a great American city. I love Josh Allen. So who knows?
CAIN: I like that you feel that way about the people of Buffalo. That's how I feel about Texas A&M fans. I respect them. They're my rival, but I respect them in their craziness. And I feel the same way about Philadelphia Eagles fans and the people of Philadelphia. I'm a Cowboy fan, but I respect your insanity.
I like that you can respect your rival, Dave. And I always respect you coming here, hanging out with me. Thank you so much.
PORTNOY: Congrats on the new show.
CAIN: Thanks, Dave. We will see you around.
All right, up next here on "The Will Cain Show," we're going to hear some of what you think about our first show.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: Turning now to a historic story involving the South, where I am, a first-ever blizzard warning issued along the coast of the Gulf of America.
Let's head over to FOX's Adam Klotz now with the latest.
What's up, Adam?
ADAM KLOTZ, FOX NEWS METEOROLOGIST: Hey there, Will.
Yes, freezing temperatures across a huge swathe of the country. Look at this. Feels like negative-18 in Chicago, 15 degrees down in Atlanta, where you are, will, 27 degrees. Because it's your first show, I wanted to give you a personalized forecast, tomorrow morning, 15 degrees. You're going to need to bundle up.
It does warm up as you head into the weekend. The more serious weather is a little further off towards the east. You're looking at those winter weather advisories stretching from the Gulf Coast all the way across the southeast with winter weather warnings, New Orleans currently snowing, Mobile up towards Montgomery.
You're about to start to see some snow in Panama City Beach, Florida, as well. You mentioned this is the first ever across all of Louisiana where we're seeing this blizzard type of warning, as much as 10 inches of snow, Will, across the part of the country where they typically do not see it.
CAIN: That is crazy.
KLOTZ: Yes.
CAIN: That is absolutely crazy.
OK, thank you, Adam.
KLOTZ: You got it.
CAIN: I wanted to share with you a little bit of my mission for this show, let everyone at home understand what I believe will be "The Will Cain Show."
And I believe it will be an evolution. It's a process. It's a ride. I'm super grateful to have this show and incredibly grateful to be able to do it from America's heartland. But I can only make you one promise. And that is that I'm going to be real, I'm going to be authentic, and that I'm going to seek the truth.
I believe that is a process as well. I don't believe I sit behind a desk and get to speak from high on the mountain and my word is the word of God just because I have a microphone. Instead, I will go through that process with you curiously, honestly, of seeking the truth.
In that same way, we will evolve as a show. And I hope, together, you and me, we can go along that ride.
OK, so show number one is almost in the books. So we want to know what you, the viewers, think. So it's time for "Will of the People."
One user writes on X: "I can say, I was watching from the start. I love it. Way to go, Will. I hope you add a sports segment once in a while, even if it's at the end of a Friday."
I think you can probably count on that, Crypto Grappler, every once in a while. We will be talking about sports.
Robin writes on Instagram: "I love the look of the show. Will did a great job and deserves his own show. We will miss him on the weekends, but love the new show."
OK, I told the producer, she talks about the look of the show. I am aware. I see your comments. So let me just say this. This microphone works and this is what I use on "The Will Cain Show." This graphic is America. Nothing is fake. So here's the deal. We're going to own it and be real with you.
This microphone will be a part of "The Will Cain Show." And, by the way, we will probably be growing more and more into authentic elements of when we put on a show.
Ms. Woods writes on X: "So proud of our Northeast Texas talent. Congratulations to my fellow Texan."
Thank you so much, proud Texan.
Now I need to get some advice from some of the best. They know what it takes to be number one in all of cable, so joining me now are the hosts of "The Five," Judge Jeanine, Jessica Tarlov, Jessica Watters, Dana Perino, and Greg Gutfeld.
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Jessica Watters.
(LAUGHTER)
JESSICA TARLOV, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: I love it.
GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: They laugh.
WATTERS: I was going to say something nice.
(LAUGHTER)
JEANINE PIRRO, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Transgender route.
WATTERS: And now I'm just going to blank all over the show.
I don't like the microphone. I don't understand it.
CAIN: I knew it.
WATTERS: What town is in the background?
And the graphics package, they got to go back to work. Anything else?
TARLOV: Jessica, that was rude.
CAIN: Jesse, I will pass all those notes on to all of the people involved in all those decisions, but I think they might have just heard you as well.
So...
WATTERS: Well, I'm not going to be misgendered and just take it laying down.
CAIN: ... advice?
Noted.
GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: I actually like the way everything looks. I like the big mic. Obviously, that was a tribute to Michelle.
(LAUGHTER)
GUTFELD: But I got to ask you, why the big mic and a microphone on your lapel? That seems redundant to me.
CAIN: Well, they're both working. Watch this, Greg. They're both working.
GUTFELD: I can't see you.
(CROSSTALK)
CAIN: I think as we grow...
GUTFELD: We can't -- we don't have...
(CROSSTALK)
CAIN: Well, gosh, you guys up there in that fancy studio in New York.
TARLOV: Exactly.
CAIN: And you don't even get a return. Fancy studio in New York.
DANA PERINO, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: I love that you had Joe Lonsdale.
CAIN: Greg, I think, as we go along, the aesthetics of this show will continue to lean into where this show started. So the microphones will most likely continue to use the big mic, maybe even lose the regular TV mic.
Dana, I love Joe Lonsdale. I thought he was good.
PERINO: You know, Will, what that tells me that you use the two mics is that you're not real confident yet in your big mic, so you're relying on a little mic.
But, from me to you, I am thrilled for you. We're very happy to have you as a lead-in. I think you're a superstar and you're really smart. And I saw the last 10 minutes, and I was impressed.
(LAUGHTER)
CAIN: Judge, are -- but am I going to get to toss it to you, Judge, on a regular basis?
(CROSSTALK)
CAIN: Your hand got raised on...
PERINO: Yes. Yes. Why not?
CAIN: OK.
TARLOV: Is there a toss?
WATTERS: Oh, we're tossing now?
CAIN: Meaning, I feel good you're going to be on "The Five."
(CROSSTALK)
WATTERS: Wait, so we're doing a toss now? We have to get into the studio even earlier?
PERINO: No.
WATTERS: No one told me about that.
(LAUGHTER)
TARLOV: Will, what are you most excited about doing with your new -- and you're five days a week now, so that is a change from what you have been doing on the weekends, though you have had your podcast.
But what are you most excited about for your new show? And congratulations. And I hope that you will have me on, like you did on your podcast.
CAIN: Thank God for Judge Jeanine, Jessica, because everyone -- and Dana - - because the guys would have us think that the liberal is the most -- the nicest person the panel who's sitting here asking a real question.
(LAUGHTER)
CAIN: But Judge Jeanine and Dana brought it up for everyone else with their nice manners, not like Jesse and Greg.
(CROSSTALK)
CAIN: Jessica, I am -- if I'm being honest, one of the most things I'm most excited about is being able to broadcast from Texas. I really am. I mean, this is who I am.
(CROSSTALK)
CAIN: I was born and raised. My family's here. I don't have to travel away from them anymore.
But, separately, I now get this hour to eventually and over time figure out how to put my thumbprint on an hour of FOX News and be real be me and be curious and opinionated. And I don't know. We will see where it goes. I can only hope to be as successful as everyone else right there sitting at that table.
PERINO: Are you going to provide any sports content, so that I can know what I'm talking about tomorrow morning?
CAIN: Sports content tomorrow morning? What's tomorrow morning?
(CROSSTALK)
PIRRO: He doesn't know.
(CROSSTALK)
PIRRO: "Dana Reads Sports."
PERINO: Every morning, it's "Dana Reads Sports." Thanks for watching it. We appreciate it over at "America's Newsroom."
PIRRO: Yes.
(LAUGHTER)
CAIN: I missed that this morning, Dana. I will be at the Super Bowl.
GUTFELD: Any guests, though, Will, that you want to have on, that you're looking to?
CAIN: Yes. You ready?
GUTFELD: Yes.
CAIN: Pete Hegseth, Vivek Ramaswamy, Robert F. Kennedy Jr., and the rest of the Cabinet that used to be with us here. I do want to be a place where they will come and have a full conversation, yes.
PIRRO: Yes, you going to have any horses or cows on? You're in Texas, right?
(LAUGHTER)
CAIN: If you can see where I am right now, Judge, it would take a little tiny horse to fit in this studio right now.
PIRRO: All right, well, how about the chickens?
CAIN: A little miniature pony wouldn't fit next to me.
PIRRO: Some chickens.
CAIN: I don't have chickens. I don't have chickens, Judge.
PIRRO: Oh. You got to get chickens. Get some eggs.
(CROSSTALK)
CAIN: Not yet. I play country...
(CROSSTALK)
WATTERS: Will Cain, we are really proud of you. You're a great guy, a real smart guy. And the show is going to be great. And everyone's looking forward to it.
I was kidding about all the graphics packages.
GUTFELD: You feel pretty bad now, right, Jesse?
WATTERS: I don't want the graphics department to take it out on "Jesse Watters Primetime."
(LAUGHTER)
WATTERS: But, no, your show is great.
CAIN: No, you know I appreciate you.
WATTERS: I do like big mic and little mic.
And congratulations.
PERINO: Congratulations.
WATTERS: Great job.
PIRRO: Yes, we love you.
(CROSSTALK)
WATTERS: Congratulations. We love you.
CAIN: Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
Dana, Greg, Jesse, Judge, Jessica, thank you all so much. Have a good show. Appreciate you.
PERINO: Great first show. Thanks.
PIRRO: Thank you.
(CROSSTALK)
WATTERS: Good luck.
PIRRO: Bye.
TARLOV: Bye, Will.

Load-Date: January 21, 2025


End of Document
