




Fox News FOX SPECIAL REPORT WITH BRET BAIER 6:00 PM EST
January 20, 2025 Monday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7872 words
Byline: Bret Baier, Peter Doocy, Nate Foy, Chad Pergram, Brit Hume
Guests: Mark Penn, Alex Castellanos, Trey Gowdy, Kellyanne Conway
Body


DANA PERINO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: You both have great shows tonight, and we will see you tomorrow. Thanks for joining us. We're going to go warm up. Hi, Bret.
BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: All right. Thank you. Good evening, I'm Bret Baer. We are live on Capitol Hill tonight where Donald Trump was sworn in as the 47th president of the United States just a few hours ago.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: The Golden Age of America begins right now. I return to the presidency confident and optimistic that we are at the start of a thrilling new era of national success.
I stand before you now as proof that you should never believe that something is impossible to do in America. The impossible is what we do best.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: It was the climax of what's being called one of the greatest political comebacks in history. The new president says he wants to be a peacemaker and a unifier. He has declared national emergencies at the southern border and concerning energy production, he promised to launch astronauts to Mars, take back the Panama Canal and rename the Gulf of Mexico.
As you look there live at Capital One Arena, let's dip in give you some flavor of what's happening there on the ground.
That's the Mississippi Valley State University band, the Delta Devils taking to the floor of Capital One Arena as the president and first lady look on. We're expecting to sign some executive orders and actions up on a big desk there, up in front of 20,000 fans and Trump supporters.
We have Fox team coverage tonight. David Spunt is at Joint Base Andrews with some important parting shots from President Biden in his final hours. Chad Pergram is at the Capitol looking at the fast start for the new president's legislative agenda. Nate Foy in the D.C. Plaza with President Trump signing executive orders in front of his supporters, as we just said.
And senior White House Correspondent Peter Doocy, he starts us off tonight with a recap of this historic day so far, live from the North Lawn. Good evening, Peter.
PETER DOOCY, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Good evening, Bret. I've just come from the West Wing, where photos of the new president have already been printed, and they are in frames on the walls that had pictures of President Biden in them this morning, the social media accounts have already been turned over as well the first post from the new pres sec account on X says, America is back, let's get to work.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
TRUMP: January 20th, 2025 is Liberation Day.
DOOCY (voice over): And with that, the transfer of power is complete. After waiting four years, the swearing in happened so quickly, the Trump family wasn't fully gathered behind him, and the first lady hadn't yet arrived with the Bible.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Congratulations.
DOOCY (voice over): President Trump reflected briefly on July's assassination attempt.
TRUMP: I was saved by God to make America great again.
DOOCY (voice over): But the bulk of his inaugural address read like a to-do list.
TRUMP: First, I will declare a national emergency at our southern border.
DOOCY (voice over): Inflation, another day one priority.
TRUMP: I will also declare a national energy emergency. We will drill, baby drill.
DOOCY (voice over): Billionaire tech CEOs were given prime seating in the rotunda today, including Elon Musk, who celebrated the president's promise of a mission to Mars.
TRUMP: We will pursue our manifest destiny into the stars, launching American astronauts to plant the stars and stripes on the planet Mars.
DOOCY (voice over): Later, in an overflow room, the president prioritized relief for people convicted of crimes and protection to the January 6th Capitol riot.
TRUMP: You're going to see a lot of action on the J6 hostages.
DOOCY (voice over): He had less to say about President Biden granting unconditional pardons to his siblings and their spouses.
TRUMP: I'm not going to discuss it now. I think it was unfortunate that he did that.
DOOCY (voice over): Per tradition, Trump loaned the Bidens Air Force One for a final trip to a vacation in California.
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Can I go walk this way?
DOOCY (voice over): Unlike Trump's first inauguration, protests in Washington were muted, and unlike Trump's first inauguration, the first lady's fashion was widely celebrated on social media, particularly her hat.
TRUMP: With the hat that she's wearing, she almost blew away. We almost lost off her. She was being elevated off the ground.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
DOOCY (on camera): So, there's a lot more executive actions and orders that are going to happen -- that are going to be signed within the next couple hours. First, at the arena up the street, and then back here, when President Trump returns to the Oval Office, that is also when we are finally going to find out if President Biden left him a letter, and hopefully what it says, Bret.
BAIER: I've noticed you've had just a slight stumble at President Biden, President Trump, you're going to get used to it.
DOOCY: It's going to take a while, yes.
BAIER: Peter Doocy live on the North Lawn. Peter, thanks.
President Trump is wasting no time on working on what he says is the mandate he received from the American people. One of his main points of emphasis, immigration and the border. Correspondent Nate Foy shows us tonight.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
TRUMP: With these actions, we will begin the complete restoration of America.
NATE FOY, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): During his inaugural address, President Donald Trump laid out his priorities to begin his second term.
TRUMP: I will declare a national emergency at our southern border. All illegal entry will immediately be halted.
FOY (voice over): Trump is reinstating his Remain in Mexico policy, ending catch and release, building a border wall, and terminating the Biden administration's CBP One app used to parole more than 900,000 illegal migrants into the U.S., drawing emotional reactions like this at the southern border today.
TRUMP: We will also be designating the cartels as foreign terrorist organizations.
FOY (voice over): Trump will use U.S. military force to secure the border and will attempt to end birthright citizenship for the children of illegal immigrants, reinterpreting the 14th Amendment in a move expected to face legal challenges.
TRUMP: Today, I will also declare a national energy emergency. We will drill, baby drill.
FOY (voice over): The president plans to utilize natural resources and decrease regulation to spur economic growth and lower prices.
TRUMP: We will end the Green New Deal, and we will revoke the electric vehicle mandate.
FOY (voice over): Trump is pausing all offshore wind leases, withdrawing from the Paris Climate Accord and directing federal agencies and departments to halt any actions that result in higher prices for Americans. He's also addressing the debate over gender identity.
TRUMP: It will henceforth be the official policy of the United States government that there are only two genders, male and female.
FOY (voice over): The president is ending all DEI programs in the federal government.
TRUMP: America's decline is over.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
FOY (on camera): Tonight, the White House is thanking Vivek Ramaswamy for helping create the Department of Government Efficiency, but they are also announcing his departure from it. Sources tell Fox News that Ramaswamy will launch a campaign to become Ohio's next governor sometime early next week, which requires him to remain outside of DOGE, Bret.
BAIER: Nate, thank you. Meantime, Congress is poised to act on the president's ambitious agenda, the Laken Riley Act, cabinet confirmations expected very soon. Senior Congressional Correspondent Chad Pergram has that part of the story live from Capitol Hill. Good evening, Chad.
CHAD PERGRAM, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Bret, good evening. The Laken Riley Act is going to be the first bill ready to go to President Trump for his signature. The Senate is going to vote probably here in about the next half hour on that bill. There's probably going to be about a dozen Democrats who vote with all Republicans for that. It then has to go back to the House of Representatives to line up, and then they can send it to the White House for signature.
Then it is on to nominations. Marco Rubio, the Republican senator from Florida. He is up for Secretary of State tonight. His nomination was passed unanimously out of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee tonight.
But Rubio indicated just a bit ago that he might, in fact, vote for himself. Now, that is not the custom in the United States Senate. There have been 44 senators who have been up for cabinet nominations before, and most of them have recused themselves or voted present.
Jeff Sessions, the former Republican senator from Alabama who was Trump's first attorney general. He was the last one in that position. We think that the Rubio confirmation vote will come sometime tonight, after the Laken Riley vote, maybe sometime after 7:00 Eastern Time.
Also, in the mix tonight, John Ratcliffe, who's up to be CIA director. His nomination came out of the Intelligence Committee. The vote there was 13-4. We don't think that's going to go to the floor tonight.
And later this week, we might see something on Pete Hegseth. He is up for defense secretary. The Armed Services Committee approved his nomination tonight, 14-13. They are trying to broker a deal to confirm him sometime before Friday, Bret.
BAIER: Chad Pergram live on Capitol Hill. Chad, thanks. Let's go back to Capitol One Arena. Steve Witkoff, the president's Middle East envoy is speaking now with ahead of President Trump, if we take that live shot, he's speaking about the deal to get hostages. The families themselves have these yellow scarfs on in Capital One Arena, some of the family members, let's listen in.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
STEVE WITKOFF, SPECIAL ENVOY TO THE MIDDLE EAST: -- leader who delivers results resonates far beyond Washington. Leaders in the Middle East know he means what he says. His ability to cut through bureaucratic grid lock and focus on tangible results is the game changer. It allows me to approach delicate negotiations with the confidence that the full weight of the United States is behind me.
The principles President Trump has laid out for our approach to the Middle East and foreign policy in general are four fold, and they are clear.
One, respect for sovereignty. Every nation deserves the right to determine its own destiny free from the interference of external powers.
Two, economic prosperity as a bridge to stability. Through economic partnerships and investment, we can build a foundation for cooperation that transcends historical grievances.
Three, courageous diplomacy, real progress requires difficult conversations and bold decisions, and is through -- it is through these that trust is built and maintained.
And finally, four, reciprocity and accountability. The United States requires reciprocal actions from our partners, we are done carrying the financial burden for nations that are unwilling.
We are done carrying the financial burden for nations that are unwilling to fund their own progress. The days of blank checks are over.
Partnerships under President Trump's leadership must be equitable, and contributions must reflect shared commitments to our goals.
In my work, I've seen firsthand how these principles resonate. They provide a foundation that transcends politics and speaks to the shared humanity of all people in a region. Leaders across the Middle East recognized that this Trump administration is serious about results, not symbolic gestures, but real, meaningful progress that improves lives.
Thank you.
It's not always easy. There are moments of deep challenge and frustration, decades of mistrust cannot be undone overnight, yet I take comfort in knowing that I am not in this alone. President Trump's clarity of vision ensures that I never have to question what success looks like. His leadership provides the confidence and direction necessary to navigate these complexities.
As we move forward, my commitment is to continue the work of advancing President Trump's vision for the Middle East, whether through expanding the Abraham Peace Accords, fostering economic development or facilitating dialog between long standing adversaries. My focus remains on action -- actionable results.
Let me close by saying this, a stable and prosperous Middle East, is not an unattainable dream. It is -- it is -- it is a goal within our reach, made possible by strong leadership and unwavering commitment.
Under President Trump's guidance, we are proving that the impossible can become reality. Thank you. But I have one more thing to say. We have some special people for me to introduce you to tonight.
President Trump has been talking to them as well. They are the families of hostages from Israel who have been in Gaza for the last year and a half. There are many of them here today. Several of the families have lost children and loved ones, and they are here because they're part of an effort to retrieve their bodies, so they can be buried in a proper way.
Several have children who are still in captivity. There is an American family here who is -- whose loved one is scheduled to come out in 14 days, and they're going to be meeting the president tonight.
So, let's give them all some love and a big hand. Come on up.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
BAIER: President Trump meeting the families of Israeli-American hostages. You can see them there with the yellow scarves at Capitol One Arena where he is getting ready to address supporters there.
As this moment happens, we're going to bring in our panel now. Trey Gowdy, former congressman from South Carolina, "THE FIVE" co-hosts, Jessica Tarlov, Kellyanne Conway, former senior counselor to President Trump, and Alex Castellanos, political consultant, co-founder of the chairman, and chairman of Purple Strategies.
Kellyanne, this is a powerful moment. Steve Witkoff has been praised by the outgoing Biden administration. He has been praised by President Trump, and now, these families are meeting with the president.
KELLYANNE CONWAY, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: Yes. And Steve Witkoff, of course, is doing this for none of that praise, but he does deserve it. Has very little experience in this particular kind of diplomacy or hostage release.
Bret, we're looking at the screen. I think there is no discussion, no disagreement whatsoever as to which president, Biden or Trump, these families credit with the fact that the loved ones are coming home soon, we hope.
But look, this is part of what President Trump has said all along. It's part of why he's a commander in chief again. He reminded people, no new wars under his watch. He's going to bring peace to Ukraine and Russia, peace in the Middle East. Bringing hostages and detainees home was part of his first term -- big part of it.
And I think in his remarks today, when he says, the promise of America is really all of us, they see it here with these hostage families.
BAIER: This is President Donald J. Trump, 47th president of the United States.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: So, now, the work begins. We won. We won. But now the work begins. We have to bring them home. And, you know, tonight, I'm going to be signing on the J6 hostages, pardons, to get them out.
And as soon as I leave, I'm going to the Oval Office, and we'll be signing pardons for a lot of people -- a lot of people. And thank you to Steve Witkoff. He's a great guy. He's a friend of mine. He's been a very successful man. He's a great negotiators. Wonderful guy. People love him, and he's got a tremendous power of persuasion, and that's what we need. We don't need stiffs. We don't need stiff. We got a lot of stiffs. You just had -- you just had a load of them.
And to the former hostages with us today, welcome, and welcome home. Some of the folks are former hostages, not a good situation. The three young ladies that came home yesterday, you saw that. The more coming home every day. Now, they are coming home. But they were hurt. They were hurt. They were hurt.
One had her hair -- head blown off, fingers on her hand, and her hand indeed was blown off. She was trying to defend herself from a bullet being fired. You believe this? A bullet knocked off her hand? I don't know, it's -- you look at it. It's a disgrace.
We never stopped praying for you, and we are so glad that you're reunited with your friends and families. And God bless you all. And some of them are just saying, no, my son is gone, but please just bring home his body. Right, Steve?
Any of you have told me that, that your son is gone, but bring home his body. It should have never happened. Three years, it's ridiculous. Should have never happened. Wouldn't have happened.
I also want to express my tremendous gratitude to the hundreds of thousands of proud American patriots who came from all across the country to join us in this celebration. It's a celebration of a big win.
And you're witnessing the dawn of the golden age of America. That's what it's going to be. We're bringing it back. We're going to bring it back fast. We're going to bring it back faster.
Let us also thank the incredible service members, national guardsmen, police, Secret Service, and law enforcement personnel are keeping us all safe, even though -- they are great people. New York's finest -- I grew up with New York's finest, and we got to give them their authority back. You won't have any crime. There will be no crime. You give them little authority back.
The whole way they run things in this country now, it's disgraceful, but it's going to change rapidly. We're going to make our city safe again too.
Even though we're indoors, we've had a magnificent inaugural parade, and let's give a big round of applause. They were great to all of the incredible performers and hard-working men and women who made it possible, those people, really talented, amazing people.
I also want to thank my wonderful family for being here, especially, my beautiful wife, our first lady, Melania.
I love our first lady.
And also, J.D. How good is J.D. been? And his beautiful wife, Usha. How good is J.B.? J.D., has been great.
He is another good negotiators, and he is a great negotiator too. We need negotiators in this country. But so many of the people on the stage behind, not only family members. As an example, Lara Trump, the wife of Eric, she was the head of the Republican Party, along with my friend -- Michael, stand up, the two of you. What a job. What a job they did.
They work so hard, they knew they'd be rigging, but they said, we're going to make it too big to rig, and we did. We made it too big to rig.
We won every swing state by a lot. We won the popular vote by millions and millions of votes. We won the whole ball of wax, and now we're going to go and drill, baby, drill into all the things that we've wanted to do and bring your costs down, your prices down, and make our country safe.
So, thank you very much. Michael, thank you very much. What a job you've done, Michael. I'm never moving you, you know?
He was thinking about getting a nice job in the administration. I said, no, I'm leaving you right where you are. You've done a very good job.
We are not moving you, Michael. I'm sorry. Anyway, thank you very much. Appreciate it. Appreciate it very much. Right here with us, also in the arena, I'm about to sign some very important executive orders of our new administration.
Hey, Don, will you stand up, please? Don is another one. How about, Don? Please, Don.
He is a popular one. He goes out and speaks. He gets that big crowd. He is a little on the rough side sometimes, if that's what you want. He's done -- he's done a fantastic job, and he loves our country. Thanks, Don. Great job. You've done a great job.
And Ivanka!
And you know, Jared negotiated the Abraham Accords, which are the biggest - - is the biggest deal made in the Middle East in many, many years, and it's really some -- Jared, stand up, Jared.
The Abraham Accord.
And Tiffany is going to have a little baby, and Michael.
And then, I have a very tall son named Baron. Has anyone ever heard of him?
Thank you.
He knew the youth vote. You know, we won the youth vote by 36 points. And he was saying, Dad, I got to go out and do this one of that one, and we did a lot of them. And he respects them all. He understood them very well. And he said, Dad, you got to go out to Joe Rogan, to all these guys, and we did.
AMERICAN CROWD: Yes!
TRUMP: We did, and Joe Rogan was great. They were all great, right? There, and they were all good. He understood the market. Another famous one. How about Kai. Stand up, Kai.
Is that Byron Donalds back there? Stand up, Byron. Stand up. What a future this one has. What a future.
That's great, Byron. Thank you very much.
And how about Lutnick, secretary of commerce. He is going to take in more money than any country has ever even thought about. He is going to take in some money. And we have many others. Look, I'm not going to go through them. But we -- we're going to sign some orders right now, and I'm -- that's really what I want to do.
So, we're going to sign executive orders first. I'll revoke nearly 80 destructive and radical executive actions of the previous administration, one of the worst administrations in history. Maybe the -- I'm not one of them, the worst. Anybody that would allow millions of people to pour through our borders, from jails, prisons, mental institutions, insane asylums, gang members to be taken off the streets of Venezuela and deposit in our country, and many.
Not just Venezuela. You know, crime in Venezuela is down 74 percent because they took their criminals and gave them to us through an open border policy of the previous administration.
(BOOS)
TRUMP: All over the world they are emptying their prisons into our country. They are emptying their mental institutions into our country. It stops as of 1:00 this afternoon, OK? It stops.
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: So I'm revoking nearly 80 destructive radical executive actions of the previous administration. They will all be null and void within about, what, five minutes? Is that them over there? Five minutes.
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: And next to gain immediate control of the vast federal out-of- control bureaucracy. I will implement an immediate regulation freeze which will stop Biden bureaucrats from continuing to regulate. Most of those bureaucrats are being fired. They're gone.
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: Should be all of them, but some sneak through. But we have to live with a couple, I guess.
I'll also issue a temporary hiring freeze to ensure that we're only hiring competent people who are faithful to the American public. And we will pause the hiring of any new IRS agents. We will also require that federal workers must return to the office in person.
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: And we're going to take the 88,000 people that they hired to go after you with guns, by the way, they are allowed to use guns, and harass you like they were so many other people. Remember this, OK? Remember, we got -- do you remember a little statement about tips? Does anybody remember that little statement?
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: I think we won Nevada because of that statement. But they went out and harassed you over the tips. In other words, we are restoring control of our government to the people. We're going to take those 88,000 -- let's see if they would like to work on the border because that's where we want them, really.
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: So we're going to have no tax on tips, right? No tax on tips.
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: We may have, like the Speaker of the House. Is he here? He has done such a good job. Is Mike here? He's around here someplace. I saw him just a little while ago. Hello, fellas. Look at you guys. Yes. I know it. He's great. He's doing great. They are all doing good. The Republican Party has never been unified like it is right now. They want to save our country. And we're going to more than save it. We are going to make it greater than it's ever been done before by a lot.
Next, I'm going to sign a presidential memorandum directing every member of my cabinet to marshal every power at their disposal to defeat inflation and rapidly bring down the cost of daily life, because your costs have gone through the roof in the last four years. Perhaps you didn't notice. Does anyone notice that costs are like double, triple, quadruple, you can't buy bacon. Apples have doubled in price. You want an apple, anybody? Pay twice what you did two years ago. We'll put more money in your pocket, and we'll bring back the American dream.
And to reduce energy costs and liberate our economy so we have more oil and gas than any country in the world. And we're going to use it. We are not going to do the wind thing. Wind, woo.
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: Big ugly windmills, they ruin your neighborhood. If you have a house that's near a windmill, guess what? Your house is worth less than half. And did you see up in New England with the whales? Do you see what's happening? So they had two whales killed in about 14 years. Last year and the year before total they had 28. So if you are in to whales, you don't want windmills either. And they're the most expensive form of energy that you can have by far. And they are all made in China, by the way, practically all of them.
(BOOS)
TRUMP: And they kill your birds and they ruin your beautiful landscapes. But, other than that, I think they are quite good, right?
(LAUGHTER)
TRUMP: No, remember when we used to joke and kid when we were kidding, but we don't kid anymore. They want to watch the debates on television, they want to watch your favorite president on television. But the wind isn't blowing so we can't watch television that night, Gladys. Remember? Gladys, I'm sorry, the wind is just not blowing. We're not watching Trump tonight.
(LAUGHTER)
TRUMP: But I'm immediately withdrawing from the one-sided Paris Accord rip-off.
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: The United States will not sabotage our own industries while China pollutes with impunity. You know, China, look, they use a lot of dirty energy, but they produce a lot of energy. And when that stuff goes up in the air, you know, it doesn't stay there. It is not like you got a wall -- we love walls, don't we? Not like you have a wall around you. It floats into the United States of America after three-and-a-half five-and-a-half days. It floats across the oceans, and it comes right over your neighborhood and it falls into your neighborhood. So they all say we have to fight for cleaner air. But the dirty air is dropping all over us. So what the hell are they talking about? Unless everybody does it, it just doesn't work.
You know, we had the cleanest air and the cleanest water that this country has ever had under the Trump administration. And we didn't do anything to stop jobs and stop production. Believe me, you're going to see a lot of companies come pouring back because tariffs, I always say "tariffs" is the most beautiful word to me in the dictionary. Then I was reprimanded by the fake news. They said what about "love," "religion," and "God"? I agree. Let's put God number one, let's put religion number two, love, I don't know. We've got to put that number three, I guess. And then it's tariff, because tariffs are going to make us rich as hell. It's going to bring our country's businesses back that left us.
And I'll also sign executive order to immediately end federal government censorship of the American people. In America we believe in free speech and we're bringing it back starting today. To stop the weaponization, oh, do I know about that? These creeps. Deranged Jack Smith, you ever hear of him? Deranged. He is a deranged prosecutor. They stuck him on me. He has now been reduced to getting on an airplane going back to the Hague or whatever the hell he came from. We got to get rid of that guy.
Was he one of the many people that got a pardon today? Did they pardon Jack Smith? You know, did you know that Biden while I was making my speech pardoned his whole family?
(BOOS)
TRUMP: The brother, the whole deal was pardoned. Can you imagine that? While I was making my speech.
Did everyone hear my speech? Did you like my speech?
(CHEERS)
TRUMP: Thank you.
The only thing wrong with it is I had a lot of tough things to say. And I have some great people that work for me. Sir, this is such a great speech. It's so unifying. Don't talk about Biden with his pardons of his family. We want a unified country. They said, don't talk about the J-6 hostages that you are going to be releasing today.
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: Sir, don't put that in your speech, please. I said, but really I want to put it in my speech. They said, sir, it won't be unified like it is. It's so beautiful the way it is. And it is getting great reviews. If I put things like that in, I'll get terrible reviews. One little paragraph that's a little bit wrong and the fake news goes crazy, right?
(BOOS)
TRUMP: So, I said all right, I won't put it in my speech. But you know what? I'm speaking in front of a hell of a lot of people at a place called Capital One Arena, and I'll talk about it there.
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: So we're going to -- we're going to be going over the beautiful Oval Office, one of the great offices in history. Even if it wasn't beautiful, it's the Oval Office, but it is beautiful. And we love the Oval Office. It all starts with the Oval. Every, the wars start and end there. Everything starts and ends at the Oval Office. We love it.
But we're going to the go to the Oval Office. We're going to sign. We're going to release our great hostages that didn't do, for the most part, they didn't do stuff wrong. You take a look at what went on. And look what happens in other parts of the country, in Portland where they kill people. They destroyed the city. Nothing happens to them. In Seattle where they took over a big chunk of the city, nothing happened. Minneapolis, where they burned down the city, nothing happened, essentially nothing happened. All they want to do is go after the J-hostages.
A 76-year-old grandmother was arrested the other day, because she looking, I think because she was looking at the Capitol or something like that. No. We're not going to put up this with that crap anymore.
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: And to stop the weaponization of law enforcement. I have been investigated more than any human being in the world. I believe I have the all-time record. Every day a subpoena, subpoena. Every single day we'd get subpoenas. I was more than any person, Alphonse Capone, remember I used to talk about him? Alphonse, Capone, Scarface, he was a pretty rough guy. He was investigated about one-100th what Trump was. My father is looking down at me, my mother, how the hell did this happen? Do you know what it is? They investigated their political opponent, the opponent of Biden, and then ultimately, Kamala. Has anyone ever heard of Kamala?
(BOOS)
TRUMP: We had to beat two opponents. We had to beat Biden, and we beat him. Now he goes -- the guy was like 39 points down. I think I could have beat Trump. They should have left me. I would have beaten him.
(LAUGHTER)
TRUMP: His debate performance wasn't the best, right? That's what killed him. And then they had a change. That's like you get into a fight. The great Dana White spoke last night. We love Dana White, right? UFC.
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: That's like he puts in two fighters. One of them is getting creamed, getting really beaten. And they say, all right, take him out and let's put somebody else in to finish up the fight. That's what they did to us. They gave us somebody new, but we took care of them. So we beat actually two, we beat actually two opponents.
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: But to stop the weaponization of law enforcement and our government, I will also sign an order directing every federal agency to preserve all records pertaining to political persecutions under the last administration of which there were many, and beginning the process of exposing any and all abuses of power, even though he has pardoned many of these people. Can you believe it? He's pardoned them. You know why he did it while I was speaking, because that way I couldn't speak about it. I was speaking. I didn't know he did it. I finished my speech, and they said, sir, he pardoned his whole family. I said oh, can I go back out there and talk about it?
(LAUGHTER)
TRUMP: Somehow that wouldn't be very elegant. Our first lady would say please don't do that.
(LAUGHTER)
TRUMP: But we have plenty of time to talk about it. And we will. We're doing all of this on our very first day in office. Don't forget, we've been in this position, really, where we won the primaries in record time. The fastest win of a primary ever in political history, which is a very nice thing. It's nice to know. Well, the second election was rigged, so we knew we were doing well.
And if it wasn't, you know what, if it wasn't, I would have never run. But the third one was just a monster. Boy, was that was a big one, huh? That was a big one.
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: On the second one we like 12 or 10 million votes more than the first one. How about that? We did great on the first one. We did much better on the second one. But man, did we do well in the third one. So we're going to, we're going to have some fun.
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: It's very simple. We're going to make our country great. We're going to make our country great again. We're going to make America great again. How good a name is MAGA though, right?
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: You know? I was going to say keep America great. But unfortunately, it wasn't great. Can't say keep it great. It will be great again. But KAG, keep America great, KAG, I don't think it's ever going to replace MAGA. Does anybody like KAG? I don't think so. It's never replacing MAGA. Nothing will ever replace MAGA. MAGA was the most successful political operation, political movement, in the history of our country, maybe in the history of the world. Let's see what happens, because we're not finished yet.
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: We're not finished yet. We got a long way to go. But we are doing this in a very first day in office, and in just a few moments, I'm not only signing the release of the J-6 hostages, I'm signing other things that you are going to love. Oh, you are going to be happy reading newspapers tomorrow and the next day and the next day and the next day.
(APPLAUSE)
TRUMP: So I just want to thank -- look at this place. It's full to the rafters. You don't have any -- look at those people up there.
(CHEERS)
TRUMP: You don't have any empty seats. And by the way, the Capital One owners, they are so good. We've got root for their teams because they have been so great to MAGA, to us. And I just want to thank Ted and everybody, you guys have been fantastic in there. The ice hockey team is doing great. Ovechkin. Ovechkin is pretty good, right? They're doing great. So I want to thank them, Capital One arena owners. They have been absolutely fantastic.
And thank you once again to everyone. And I can only tell you, you are going to be very happy. You are going to watch a lot of good things happen. We've got to stop some wars that are happening and going on. Some stupid things are happening. The war with Ukraine would have never happened, and it has. As you know, Israel would have never been hit on October 7th. None of you would be up here, none of you would even know anything about this tragedy that you are going through right now.
But Iran was broke. Anybody that bought oil from Iran, they couldn't do any business with us. You're not going to do business with America. China passed. Everybody passed. They were broke. They didn't have money for Hamas. They didn't have money for Hezbollah. And your sons would be alive, and they certainly wouldn't be incarcerated like they are. It's a shame. But we're -- we're getting a lot of people out in a short period of time.
So I'm going to go right over to here and I'm going to sign in front of you. Is that OK? Good.
(CHEERS)
BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: President Donald Trump talking to about 20,000 supporter there in Capital One Arena, shaking the hands now of families of Israeli and American hostages. He is walking and making his way to a desk set up there to sign a number of executive orders. He referred numerous times to J-6, meaning January 6th hostages, talking about those who have been incarcerated after the January 6th riot of 2021. We don't know the extent of that. It seems like it might be widespread as far as the numbers that are going to get pardons or commutations. He'll go over to this signing, and there will be more 100, possibly up to 200 executive actions and orders that he will sign over the next few days.
Let's see if they announce each one.
TRUMP: Why don't you say what I'm signing?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Sure. The first item that President Trump is signing is the rescission of 78 Biden era executive actions, executive orders, presidential memoranda, and others.
(APPLAUSE)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you, sir.
(APPLAUSE)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you.
The second item, President Trump is a regulatory freeze, as you announced in the speech, preventing bureaucrats from issuing any more regulations until we have full control of the government in this administration.
(CHEERS)
(APPLAUSE)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Sir, can I have a pen?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The next item, sir, is a freeze on all federal hiring, excepting the military and a number of excluded categories, again, until full control of the government is achieved and we understand the objectives of government going forward.
(CHEERS)
(APPLAUSE)
BAIER: We have never seen a day like this. We have never seen an inauguration like this.
TRUMP: Could you imagine Biden doing this? I don't think so. I don't think so.
(APPLAUSE)
BAIER: Essentially, he is commander-in-chief, he is president, he is also producer, as he talks about each one of these and asks the guy to speak up, saying what each executive order and action is.
As we're listening, we'll dip back in, but joining us, FOX News chief political analyst Brit Hume and Mark Penn, former adviser and pollster for President Bill Clinton. He's CEO of Stagwell and chairman of The Harris Poll.
Brit, I want to start with you. This is, we've never seen anything like this. There's 20,000 people cheering for every executive order signed.
BRIT HUME, FOX NEWS SENIOR POLITICAL ANALYST: No, look at this event. What is this event? It's not an inaugural parade. The weather took care of. Is it really an executive order signing by the president of the United States? Well, yes it is. But it's not like one, as you pointed out, Bret, we have ever seen. This is a rally that he combines with other things.
So, these people, there was not going to be a parade for these people. And there are not nearly enough of them by his light in this arena, it's too small for that. But what it is, is a rally. And that's what he does. And he has made, he has done more with the political rally as an instrument of power and popularity than any politician that I think we have ever seen, Bret. And this is just yet another example of it.
BAIER: And think about how much social media has been created today, just today, with the 47th president of the United States.
Mark Penn, speaking of social media, I follow you, and I saw you react after President Biden pardoned his family members, and it seemed pretty disgusted.
MARK PENN, FORMER BILL CLINTON ADVISER: I am. These last-minute pardons after all the elections are over, even of your family itself, and hiding and lying about everything that occurred relative to the Biden business, before any legal process whatsoever has done, so you've taken it out of the hands of all juries and all processes, which probably wouldn't have happened anyway, to be honest, because of what has happened here. But yes, I think that Joe Biden has a 39 percent rating, 35 percent on things like inflation and immigration, and I think this further takes him down in the history books.
BAIER: I want to listen back in to see what the next executive order is here as he is signing them. We'll have a list. He also will go to the White House after this before the three balls and continue signing. Let's listen.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: -- sir, before we go back to the Oval Office to sign a large number of other items, is a directive to the federal government ending the weaponization of government against the political adversaries of the previous administration as we have seen.
(CHEERS)
(APPLAUSE)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you very much, sir. Appreciate it.
(CHEERS)
BAIER: Brit, as I said, he's going to go from here to the Oval Office and continue signing as he is tossing some pens into the crowd. And you think about Trump supporters and all that they have been through. Think about the lawfare. Think about this president sitting in a New York courtroom time and time again throughout this process, and still, despite all of those things, and two assassination attempts, coming to this moment.
HUME: Well, exactly, Bret. And I don't think we can think of a president who has overcome more in his effort to get back to the Oval Office. Certainly I didn't think after January 6th, 2021, that this was -- this day would ever come where he would be able to do this. And, yet, he did it. And he did it by a sheer -- a combination of the sheerest sort of determination and grit and refusal to be done in by the unbelievable anxiety that I think a normal human being would feel under that kind of pressure. And he somehow bore it all, and he has never lost his optimism about this, or did his determination ever waver or fade.
And I think that is a big part, Bret, of why his achievement is so extraordinary. Even though in the end the margin was narrow, yes, it was, but he won all seven of those battleground states, which I didn't think many people thought was possible. And having done that, I think people look at him and they say wow, what -- just look at what he did. And I think that applies across the political spectrum. There's simply no getting around the fact that this was an extraordinary achievement. And it established that his popular support and his program and he himself are real in terms of their electoral power.
And that's why I think the resistance to him hasn't crumbled and probably never will. But it's nothing like what we saw eight years ago when people were screaming in the streets and women were howling and wailing and being photographed with tears streaming down their faces and all the rest of it.
BAIER: Marc Penn, final word here. As we wrap up this event at Capitol Hill arena, the Senate has passed the Laken Riley bill, 64-35. That required a number of Democrats to vote with it. Also, Secretary of State Marco Rubio received a confirmation vote 99 to zero. So his Senate colleagues, 99 to zero.
Mark Penn, is there a chance that Democrats are going to shift, and that there will be more and more Democrats, especially in red states, that realize maybe it's time to work with the Trump administration?
PENN: I think that's definitely going to be the case. I think you see the politics shifting. Look, it's always Trump v Trump, but right now this President Trump, he is ready to take on this presidency. His administration is organized, obviously 10 times better than it was the first time. They know what they are doing. They know where the soft spots are.
And he is out there gaining support among the popular will. I think he's going to move all the politics, maybe not to the right, but definitely to the center. And I think that is going to bring some Democrats with him.
BAIER: Mark and Brit, thank you very much.
We are back with the panel here, Alex, Jessica, Kellyanne, and Trey. Alex, just your thoughts overall on the day. What we just witnessed at Capital One Arena is really something the country has ever seen.
ALEX CASTELLANOS, POLITICAL CONSULTANT: Unprecedented. We are seeing a new era here. Biden governed inside-out. Make some policy in a room, sell it to the American people. Donald Trump is the social media president. He governs outside-in. And he has created something we have never seen before. The Trump communications governing flywheel -- say or do something that's never been done before, create content, attract eyeballs, turn those eyeballs into supporters who then help you drive policy and change the world. Donald Trump is going to be an overwhelming force these next few months, and I don't think the Democrats can stand against it.
BAIER: I only have one minute left. Trey, final thoughts?
TREY GOWDY, FORMER SOUTH CAROLINA REPRESENTATIVE: Political resurrection. It wasn't a comeback. It was a resurrection after January 6th. He has a mandate. What he did tonight required no help from anyone else. But what he needs legislatively requires a cooperative house, and he needs to put the hammer down on some of the more rambunctious members of the House.
KELLYANNE CONWAY, FORMER SENIOR COUNSELOR TO PRESIDENT TRUMP: The old saying, if you can't beat them, join them. Barack Obama yucking it up with him at Jimmy Carter's funeral, John Fetterman making the pilgrimage to Mar- a-Lago, and some of these Democrats tonight voting for this legislation. Smart people around Donald Trump are going to make the Democrats see the benefit of that tax cut and jobs act, the dereg agenda, so many other things, and say your businesses and your individuals in your state have benefited. You've got to give yes vote to extending that.
BAIER: Thank you all for being here. Thank you for inviting us into your home tonight. That is it for this SPECIAL REPORT, fair, balanced, and still unafraid.
Even through the freezing weather and limited access to today's events, Americans from across the country came to see this historic event in person. It was the first time in 40 years the inaugural swearing in was held inside the Capitol Rotunda. President Trump then attended the indoor inaugural parade inside Capital One Arena. You just saw some of that, signing several executive orders. Earlier today, former President Biden welcomed the incoming commander-in-chief home to the White House, saying welcome home.
Today's events in Washington reinforce one of the basic principles of American government, the peaceful transition of power. We leave you with some of the sights and sounds of Inauguration Day.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
(MUSIC)
DONALD TRUMP, (R) U.S. PRESIDENT: So help me God.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The 45th and 47th president of the United States of America.
TRUMP: Here I am. The American people have spoken. From this moment on, America's decline is over.
(SINGING)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: God shed his grace on thee.
TRUMP: My proudest legacy will be that of a peacemaker and unifier.
Today is Martin Luther King Day, and we will strive together to make his dream a reality.
JOE BIDEN, (D) PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: It's been the honor of my life to serve as your president.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Mr. President, we present to you these flags that were flown over the United States Capitol at full mast in honor of being sworn in.
(MUSIC)
TRUMP: I stand before you now as proof that you should never believe that something is impossible to do. In America, the impossible is what we do best.
(MUSIC)

Load-Date: January 21, 2025


End of Document
