




Fox News JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME 8:00 PM EST
January 20, 2025 Monday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 9911 words
Byline: Laura Ingraham, Jesse Watters, Johnny Belisario, Kayleigh McEnany, Charlie Hurt
Guests: Hulk Hogan, Sage Steele, Riley Gaines
Body


DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: -- boats all over the place, warships and they can't maintain it.
REPORTER: (INAUDIBLE)
TRUMP: Who?
REPORTER: Are you going to meet President Putin, sir?
TRUMP: I'll be meeting with President Putin.
REPORTER: When do you think?
TRUMP: I don't know. I can't -- it is being set up.
REPORTER: So for your first trip -- foreign trip, thank you, sir.
TRUMP: So first foreign trip typically has been with the UK, but we did it. I did it with Saudi Arabia last time, because they agreed to buy $450 billion worth of our products. I said, I'll do it, but you have to buy American products and they agreed to do that.
They bought $450 billion. It was the least reported story I've ever been involved in.
REPORTER: And now? Where do you plan to go now?
TRUMP: Well, I don't know. If Saudi Arabia wanted to buy another 450 or 500, we will up it for all the inflation.
REPORTER: Mr. President, you said you were going to end the wars --
TRUMP: I think I probably got those.
REPORTER: -- first day. How do you plan to end the Ukraine war?
TRUMP: Well, we're going to try and get it done as quickly as possible.
REPORTER: Do you want to push Israel and Saudi Arabia --
TRUMP: It should have never started. You know, the war with Ukraine and Russia should have never started. It would have never started if I were president.
REPORTER: Will you push Israel and Saudi Arabia to normalize relations?
TRUMP: I don't think I have to push them. I think it's going to happen, but maybe not quite yet, but they'll end up being in the Accords -- the Abraham Accords.
REPORTER: President Trump --
TRUMP: I think Saudi Arabia will end up being in the Abraham Accords.
REPORTER: This year?
TRUMP: Could be, but you know, soon. Not in a very long way. Oh, look at that. It says TikTok. My, my, my, what is that all about?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: First, we have Alaska, sir. This is an executive order relating to unleashing Alaska's potential as an energy reservoir for the entire nation.
TRUMP: And what about ANWR?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I believe that would be included in aspects of the order, sir.
TRUMP: So we are opening up ANWR.
PETER DOOCY, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: On the same piece, President Trump, you and your members of your team now used to warn about the dangers of TikTok spying on Americans. What changed that you're not worried about that anymore?
TRUMP: Well, it depends on the deal. I mean, I may not do the deal, or I may do the deal. TikTok is worthless -- worthless -- if I don't approve it. It has to close. I learned that from the people that own it.
If it -- if I don't do the deal, it's worthless, worth nothing. If I do the deal, it's worth maybe a trillion dollars, a trillion. So if I do the deal for the -- I'm talking about doing it for the United States. If I do the deal for the United States, then I think we should get half.
DOOCY: The TikTok CEO --
TRUMP: In other words, right, I think the US should be entitled to get half of TikTok, and congratulations, TikTok has a good partner, and that would be worth, you know, it could be $500 billion or something. It's crazy. The numbers are crazy.
But it's worthless if I don't -- if the president doesn't sign, then it's worthless. If the president does sign, it's worth maybe a trillion dollars.
So I think, like a joint venture. I think we would have a joint venture with the people from TikTok. We'll see what happens. I mean, that's one of many ideas I've had.
DOOCY: The CEO, Shou Chew, did he say that he is open to that idea?
TRUMP: Who?
DOOCY: The CEO of TikTok is around?
TRUMP: Oh, I think he'd probably like it, because he's got nothing. They really have nothing.
It's passed in Congress. It gives the president a right to make it -- make a deal, or to close it, and we have 90 days to make that decision. But I could see making a deal with the US gets 50 percent of TikTok, polices it a little bit or a lot. It depends on them.
But remember, they make telephones in China. They make all sorts of things in China. Nobody ever complains about that. Here, they are complaining about this.
There are so many different products made in China, nobody ever complained about. The only one they complain about is TikTok. And TikTok is largely young people. I guess, I have a warm spot for TikTok that I didn't have originally. But did I win on TikTok? And I won young people up by 36 percent, Peter, and Republicans typically don't do too well with young people, but it's a different Republican Party.
REPORTER: -- US TikTok then or how would it get that 50 percent?
TRUMP: No, you take 50 percent of TikTok for the approval that TikTok could continue in business, and they'd have a great partner. The US would be their partner, but the US essentially would be paid for doing that half of the value of TikTok.
REPORTER: Would there be a private sector owner?
TRUMP: Could be. Yes. Could be a lot. I will tell you what? Every rich person has called me about TikTok.
REPORTER: You wanted to block TikTok. Why did you change your mind?
TRUMP: Because I got to use it. And remember, TikTok is largely about kids, young kids.
If China is going to get information about young kids, I don't know.
REPORTER Are you --
TRUMP: I think, to be honest with you, I think we have bigger problems than that. But you know, when you take a look at telephones that are made in China and all of the other things that are made in China, military equipment made in China.
TikTok -- I think TikTok is not our biggest problem, but there's big value in TikTok if it gets approved. If it doesn't get approved, there's no value.
So if we create that value, why aren't we entitled to like half?
REPORTER: Sir, (INAUDIBLE) shut them down?
TRUMP: Because Biden never do news conferences like this. How many news conferences, Peter, has he done like this?
DOOCY: Like this?
TRUMP: None.
DOOCY: Zero.
TRUMP: And it would be zero for the next, infinity, for infinity, it would be zero.
REPORTER: Mr. President, (INAUDIBLE) talk to Elon Musk is going to help implement the executive orders. I think you mentioned --
TRUMP: No. No. No. Elon. No. He is --
Elon is very busy sending rocket ships up to various places with lots of satellites.
REPORTER: What is your reaction to the confirmation of Marco Rubio? And what does it mean for Latin America?
TRUMP: Which one?
REPORTER: Marco Rubio?
TRUMP: Marco Rubio. You said Maco -- Marco --.
REPORTER: Marco. Marco Rubio.
TRUMP: Yes, I think he is great. I thin Marco is doing a fantastic job. I think he's going to get a lot of votes. I think he's going to be at 90 percent or something. I mean, I'm hearing very good -- people know him. They know him in the Senate. They know he's good.
He's doing a good job. I don't know. I can't tell you. I don't know what's going to happen with that. He's got -- he's got some very strong ideas, that Marco.
REPORTER: Did you sign the TikTok order, Mr. President?
TRUMP: Yes.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes. That was just signed.
REPORTER: Well, President, Marco Rubio say yes, he is --
TRUMP: I just signed it.
REPORTER: -- still changing Venezuela, changing power, are you still committed with Maduro leaving power in Venezuela?
TRUMP: Well, we're going to find out about that too, because we're going to probably stop buying oil from Venezuela. We don't need their oil.
REPORTER: Another embargo like the first term?
TRUMP: Well, it could be, but we don't want to buy -- we don't have to buy their oil. We have plenty of oil for ourselves.
DOOCY: President Trump --
TRUMP: That will change Venezuela quite a bit.
DOOCY: President Trump, there was a lot of concern about this during the campaign. A question that only works today, are you a dictator on day one?
TRUMP: No, no. I can't imagine even being called that. No, I believe in the sanctity of the vote. The Democrats didn't because they cheated like dogs, but I believe in the sanctity and this was too big to rig. This last election was just too big to rig. No, really the opposite.
REPORTER: When do you plan to speak to President Putin?
TRUMP: It could be very soon.
REPORTER: And you talked a bit about Ukraine and Russia, but how long do you think it would take to end that conflict and --?
TRUMP: I have to speak to President Putin. We're going to have to find out. He's not -- he can't be thrilled. He's not doing so well.
I mean, he's grinding it out, but most people thought that war would have been over in about one week, and now you're into three years, right?
So he can't be -- he can't be thrilled. It's not making him look very good. Now, eventually, you know? I mean, it's a big machine, so things will happen, but I think it would be very well off to end that war.
We have numbers that almost a million Russian soldiers have been killed. About 700,000 Ukrainian soldiers are killed. Russia is bigger. They have more soldiers to lose, but that's no way to run a country.
REPORTER: What did your TikTok order do, Mr. President?
TRUMP: It just gave me the right to sell it or close it. Essentially, with TikTok, I have the right to either sell it or close it, and we'll make that determination. And we may have to get an approval from China, too. I'm not sure.
But I'm sure they'll approve it, and if they don't approve it, it would be somewhat of a hostile act, I think. But it's good for China if it gets approved.
REPORTER: So you're not guaranteeing that TikTok will be around after 90 days from today?
TRUMP: No, but it could very well be. It makes sense for it to be, because it's got tremendous value. But if we create the value by approving, you know, in other words, that approval gives a tremendous value, if that's the case, then we should be entitled to 50 percent as a country. We are going to see.
And you haven't heard that one before, right? It's called a joint venture, and nobody ever thought that way before.
REPORTER: Who is your partner?
TRUMP: Well, I don't know. I think it's -- I think it's, I think you have a lot of people that would be interested in TikTok with the United States as a partner.
REPORTER: Mr. President, what was it like walking into the Oval Office this evening?
TRUMP: Oh, what a great feeling. One of the better feelings I've ever had.
REPORTER: Do you like this time better now than in 2017?
TRUMP: Well, we're very experienced now. You would say nobody's ever had experience like I have.
I've dealt with some very good people. I've dealt with some very bad people, and I know who the bad ones are and the good ones are. You know, don't forget, I was very successful in, primarily, the real estate business and people used to say; Who's worse? A politician or a vicious real estate developer? And then it was a -- you know, the real estate developer is far worse.
But after about three months and getting to know scum like Adam Schiff and other people like that, I said, no, actually, real estate people are quite nice by comparison.
REPORTER: You said you plan to speak with President Putin soon. What about President Zelenskyy? And what's your message to him?
TRUMP: Yes. I want -- but he has told me he wants to make a deal. He wants to make -- Zelenskyy wants to make a deal. I don't know if Putin does, he might not. I don't know. He should make a deal.
I think he's destroying Russia by not making a deal. I think Russia's going to be in big trouble. You take a look at their economy. You take a look at the inflation in Russia.
So I would -- I would hope -- I got along with him great. And, you know, I would hope he wants to make a deal.
REPORTER: Mr. President, you keeping US sanctions on Russia until he makes a deal?
TRUMP: Well, sanctions or tariffs, I think the word tariff is much better because it keeps your dollar stronger. I think tariffs are more effective. I used sanctions on Iran. Iran was broke.
When I left office, Iran was broke. They had no money for Hamas or Hezbollah, none. They were flat broke, and October 7th would have never happened. And I think you all know that, it would have never happened. They had no money. Now they're rich, but you know, they're weakened in a different way. I would say that the one attacked by Israel really set them back and really set them back -- the pagers. The pagers and others.
You know, the attack on air defense was a -- that was a bad attack.
REPORTER: What are you signing now, sir?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's an executive order relating to reforms to the federal workforce, including to the Senior Executive Service.
TRUMP: We're getting rid of all of the cancer -- I call it cancer, the cancer caused by the Biden administration.
REPORTER: How confident are you, Mr. President, that you can keep the ceasefire in Gaza and conclude the three phases of this deal?
TRUMP: I'm not confident. It's not our war, it's their war. But I'm not confident, but I think they're very weakened on the other side.
REPORTER: Do you support a two-state solution?
TRUMP: Gaza -- boy, I looked at a picture of Gaza. Gaza is like a massive demolition site. That place is -- it is really -- it has got to be rebuilt in a different way.
REPORTER: Would you help rebuilding Gaza?
TRUMP: I might. You know, Gaza is interesting. It's a phenomenal location on the sea, best weather. You know, everything is good. It's like some beautiful things could be done with it, but it's very interesting, but some fantastic things could be done with Gaza.
REPORTER: How do you see the future in governance for Gaza?
TRUMP: Well, it depends. I can't imagine. You could have -- well, you certainly can't have the people that were there. Most of them are dead, by the way, right? Most of them are dead, but they didn't exactly run it well. Run viciously and so you can't have that.
REPORTER: Mr. President, on TikTok, sir. Would you pause any decision on Chinese tariffs until you know what the resolution on TikTok will be?
TRUMP: No. If China didn't approve it, we could put tariffs on China. Don't forget, China charges us tariffs, and we charge them very little, except for what I did. I put a lot of -- we took in hundreds of billions of dollars.
But until I came along, China never paid 10 cents to this country. They ripped us off and they never paid anything. But like, if we wanted to make a deal with TikTok and it was a good deal, and China wouldn't approve it, then I think ultimately they'd approve it, because we'd put tariffs on China.
Maybe. I'm not saying I would, but you certainly could do that. And if we said, well, if you not going to approve it, then that's a certain hostility, and we'll put tariffs of 25, 30, 40, 50 percent, even a hundred percent, and if we did that, I think they'd approve it.
DOOCY: President Trump, you've seen the other living presidents a couple times in the last few months. If you ever had to call on one of them for advice about anything that's going on here, which one would you call?
TRUMP: That's interesting. Well, I thought Bill Clinton was a very good politician. I don't think he was used properly. I think they disrespected him.
When Hillary was running, he came back and he said, you know, you better get up to Michigan and Wisconsin. You remember that, Peter. Every house has a Trump sign on it, and they all laughed at him because the Republicans had won Michigan and Wisconsin for decades, long time, and they all laughed at Bill Clinton like, what the hell does he know?
And he turned out to be right because I won both of them, and then we just won both in this election, too. We won Wisconsin and Michigan and every other swing state. We won all the swing states, all seven.
They talked about seven swing states. We won them all so, but Bill Clinton was -- he had a great political sense, I think.
REPORTER: It looked like you were having a good conversation with President Obama at President Carter's funeral?
TRUMP: I was, and you'd like to know what it was? Oh.
REPORTER: Everybody wants to know.
TRUMP: Everybody wants to know. I know. I wouldn't want to lie, but we were having some crazy conversation.
REPORTER: About?
TRUMP: Why are asking a question like that? You don't -- I don't think you want to know. You might not --
REPORTER: What did you just sign?
TRUMP: You might be insulted.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It is an executive order relating to holding former government officials accountable for unlawful disclosure of sensitive information.
This next one, sir, is a declaration of a national energy emergency.
REPORTER: Sir, you also --
TRUMP: That's a big one. You know what that allows you to do? That means you can do whatever you have to do to get out of that problem and we do have that kind of an emergency.
DOOCY: President Trump, at some point will you use your power from the presidency to tell Americans who are concerned about the drones --
TRUMP: Yes, I will.
DOOCY: Can you tell us now?
TRUMP: In fact, I'd like -- no, because I just got here.
DOOCY: Why do you think that?
TRUMP: I just came here. I've been here for what? Fifteen minutes. No.
DOOCY: With people listening, because this is going on out live.
TRUMP: And I've got to read this letter too, because of you, I found this letter.
DOOCY: I can read it for you.
TRUMP: It is interesting. Yes, I know you would. Your father would, too.
DOOCY: But is it anything with drones? Did they --
TRUMP: I think it's -- I think it's terrible. I would like to find out what it is and tell the people.
DOOCY: And can you commit to some kind of --
TRUMP: In fact, I'd like to do that. Could we find out what that was, Susie? Okay? Yes. Why don't we find out. Immediately. I mean, I can't imagine it is an enemy, or there would have been -- you know, people would have gotten blown up, all of them.
Maybe they were testing things. I don't know why they wouldn't have said what it was. They had a lot of them flying over Bedminster, which is interesting, right?
DOOCY: And with the events today and yesterday, was everything moved inside just for cold weather? Or was there some kind of security?
TRUMP: No, no, no. No security, because they had everything shut down to drones. You know, you can shut that down pretty easily if you're sophisticated. They're very sophisticated, these people.
No, it was just cold weather, and we made a good move because, first of all, I thought it was incredible at the Capitol today. You know, I liked it because I got great reviews on that speech. I got great reviews. Can you believe it? They actually were fair.
Maybe the fake news is changing --
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Unleashing energy.
TRUMP: Yes, unleashing energy production.
But I thought it was, I think having it in the Capitol is great. Obviously, you can take care of the people you have to take care of. The city was booming, and if we would have done it outside, people would have been hurt, because it was really cold. You know, it was like -- it looked sunny, but when you stood outside for 10 minutes, people were running back in. It was really cold and really windy. The wind brings it down a lot.
So we've made the right decision. You couldn't have stayed -- I don't think you could have had it out. You knew how cold it was today.
It was -- people went out for a little while just to test it. They couldn't stay out more than 10 minutes, they all came back in. So we would have had a disaster if we did that, and people would have been hurt.
REPORTER: Mr. President, the unlawful disclosure, do you know if that is related to the Hunter Biden, situation?
TRUMP: Which one?
REPORTER: The one on unlawful disclosures by federal officials? Is that related to --
TRUMP: No, I think it's just more general than that. It is not Hunter Biden. I was -- I was surprised that President Biden would go and pardon his whole family, because that makes him look very guilty.
I could have pardoned my family. I could have pardoned myself, my family. I said, if I do that, it's going to make me look very guilty. I don't think I'd be sitting here frankly. If I did that, I don't think I'd be sitting here right now, because I would have -- it would have shown that you're guilty.
But by pardoning his brother or brothers, by pardoning all of those people that he pardon, by pardoning J6 -- the unselect committee, they destroyed all of the documents. They deleted all of the information. There's no information.
And a lot of the information pertains to Nancy Pelosi because she was given one -- I mean, you know this, it's on tape with her daughter.
Nancy Pelosi was responsible for not taking advantage of 10,000 soldiers or 1,000. You wouldn't have needed -- you could have used 400. It was a relatively small crowd. It wasn't the crowd that was at The Mall. It was a small crowd.
So I was -- I was little bit surprised that he did it, because it makes him look guilty. I mean, he's going to have to live with it. Now, with that being said, it's unbelievable precedent it creates for a president, but the precedent is unbelievable.
Now, maybe every president that leaves office, they're going to pardon every person they ever met, so they don't have some lunatic like deranged Jack Smith, who's a total lunatic, by the way, not a smart guy. He is a dummy, but we beat the hell out of him, and I upped my reputation.
REPORTER: Do you think you'd have to do the same thing at the end of this term?
TRUMP: Well, I guess now I have precedent to do it. I don't -- I wouldn't want to do that. No, I think it makes you look very guilty. I think it makes Biden look very bad, very weak, and very guilty.
And I mean, he pardoned everybody. How about this, J6 Committee? How do you -- why is he pardoning them? The reason is because, if you delete and destroy documentation, everything. They have nothing, because they were guilty as hell.
They rigged it. It was a rigged deal. And when you do that, they look very bad. But I was a little surprised he did it.
Liz Cheney, I mean, she is a lunatic, and she lost by the greatest margin in the history of a politician running for Congress, like 40 points. The reason it was the greatest is because anybody losing that badly is going to drop out, but she's a nut job. She doesn't drop out.
You know? She just keeps chugging forward, and she lost by almost 40 points. That's the biggest number anybody has ever lost by.
But why would Biden do that? He pardoned her and pardoned everybody. The reason is that they destroyed documents. And if you're even in a civil case, which this wouldn't be, I mean, people go to jail for a long time for doing that.
What's this one?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: That's unleashing American energy, sir. It relates to using permitting processes and other regulatory systems to ensure that we can produce energy efficiently to drive the American economy forward.
TRUMP: All right.
DOOCY: President Trump, looking around the office, we noticed some changes from the way the Biden had it set up. Can you confirm that you have added back the Diet Coke bar?
TRUMP: I think this -- we -- first of all, I just got here. So my people came in. They have extraordinary decorator's sense, right? Let me just see some of the pictures there. That's a good one. I could live with him. I can live with George Washington. I can tell you,
I can live with Thomas Jefferson. I can live with most of them. They took a very safe route. They don't have any bad ones up there.
What is this?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Withdrawing from --
TRUMP: What is this one?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Withdrawing from the World Health Organization, sir.
TRUMP: That's a big one. So we paid $500 million to World Health when I was here, and I terminated it. China with 1.4 billion people, we have 350 -- we have -- nobody knows what we have, because so many people came in illegally. But let's say we have 325, they had 1.4 billion. They were paying $39 million, we were paying $500 million. It seemed a little unfair to me, so that wasn't the reason, but I dropped out.
They offered me to come back for $39 million. In theory, it should be less than that, but you know, and when Biden came back, they came back for $500 million, he knew that you could have come back for $39 million. They wanted us back so badly. So we'll see what happens.
REPORTER: Mr. President --
TRUMP: Pretty sad though, think of it. China pays $39 million, and we pay $500 million, and China is a bigger country.
REPORTER: Mr. President, you spoke about inflation today in your remarks. What actions are you taking today that will have the direct impact for Americans on their everyday costs to bring cost down?
TRUMP: The biggest thing and factor for inflation is energy. They screwed up my energy policy, and then they went back to it. You know, they hurt it really badly, and then they went back to it, and they started drilling more. But by that time, it was too late.
Many of these things that we are signing, and that Doug Burgum is going to be signing, and Chris Wright who is phenomenal, you know, energy -- Department of Energy -- we're going to be taking a lot, we're going to make a lot of money from energy. We have a -- we have more than anybody else. We're going to make a lot of money from energy. We're going to make a lot of money from tariffs.
You know, European Union charges us -- they have a VAT tax of 20 percent, but it's really much higher than that, and that's the equivalent, almost the equivalent of a tariff, and they're tough. They're very tough.
They don't take our cars, they don't take our farm product, they don't take almost anything. And yet, we take their cars, we take their farm product. We take a lot from them.
So, you know, we have, like, a $300 billion deficit with the European Union. So we'll straighten that out with either tariffs or they have to buy our oil.
The one thing they can do, our oil and gas, the one thing they can do to catch up quickly, buy our oil and gas and they should do that.
REPORTER: Will they travel to China this year?
TRUMP: Yes, could be. I've had the invite.
REPORTER: Mr. President Xi has invited you?
TRUMP: I would do it. Yes, I would --
REPORTER: Talking about the European Union, the tariffs, like, what do you mean when you mean when you say that European Union conflict that it is parts of BRICS?
TRUMP: That are what?
REPORTER: BRICS.
TRUMP: Oh, BRICS. No. I was talking about BRICS -- BRICS is six nations. I think it's seven nations and they were looking to do a number on the United States. And if they do that, they won't be happy about what's going to happen to them.
REPORTER: Are you still considering a universal tariff, Mr. President, on all countries?
TRUMP: I might. Yes, but we're not ready for that yet. We may put it rapid, because essentially all countries take advantage of the US. We don't make any good deals in the US. It's amazing in a way that we exist, we don't make good deals. We don't have any good deals.
We have a -- we have a deficit with almost, not all, there are a couple, I won't tell you their names, because I don't want them to find out about it, because they will feel stupid. But there are a couple of countries that -- there are a couple of countries that actually don't make money with us, but I don't want to let you know, because they'll immediately change that.
But we're going to do -- I'll tell you what, we have -- our country has an amazing economic future. Everybody believe that.
REPORTER: What kind of universal tariff if you did do one?
TRUMP: Well, you put a universal tariff on anybody doing business in the United States because they're coming in and they're stealing our wealth. They're stealing our jobs. They're stealing our companies. They're hurting our companies. So you put a tariff on to keep them from doing that.
REPORTER: Mr. President, you surrounded yourself with a whole bunch of billionaires today. President Biden, in his farewell address warned about oligarchy. I was wondering how you would respond to that?
TRUMP: Well, he was -- he had a lot of guys, and then they found out that he didn't know what the hell he was talking about. And I think they deserted him. They deserted him, those same guys.
Look, I don't make pretense with smart guys, but there are a lot of smart people around. But they did desert him. They were all with him, every one of them. Now they're all with me. I don't know. They are not going to get anything from me. I don't need money.
But I do want the nation to do well and they're smart people, and they have -- you know, they create a lot of jobs, and if they don't do it, China is going to do it. You know, what they've done is they've taken industries and they've taken it away. They outsmarted China. And, you know, we sort of like that. It is okay. They've done a great job, a lot of them. Not all of them.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Protecting women from radical gender ideologies.
TRUMP: Oh.
REPORTER: Mr. President, going back to the World Health Organization. You were the president during COVID. Don't you see the importance of an organization like that to coordinate a global response?
TRUMP: Sure, I do, but not when you're being ripped off, like we are by the World Health. The World Health ripped us off. Everybody rips off the United States, and that's it. It's not going to happen anymore.
Thank you very much, everybody.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: All right, guys, let's go.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: One last one, sir. This is your --
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you, guys. Thank you to the press.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you, sir.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you, press.
TRUMP: Thank you very much.
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST, "JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME": That was President Donald Trump signing a series of executive actions from the Oval Office. He's scheduled to appear here at the Liberty Ball. In just a bit, he just said, he will change into a tuxedo.
Let's bring back Laura Ingraham, host of "The Ingraham Angle."
Laura, I heard a lot of thick, black, wet Sharpies just streaking across these pages.
LAURA INGRAHAM, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST, "THE INGRAHAM ANGLE": He loves it.
WATTERS: He was holding court for almost 40 minutes, signing everything from energy to bureaucracy to immigration. What was your highlight of your executive order?
INGRAHAM: I think the birthright citizenship, Jesse, was huge. There's going to be an immediate lawsuit filed against that because, of course, there's a constitutional provision about birthright citizenship that the court has not resolved, but most constitutional scholars believe the Constitution requires it.
There is an interesting debate that you can actually -- an argument that you can make for President Trump's position on this. It's obviously ludicrous. That was called the J6 pardons.
WATTERS: What did he do?
INGRAHAM: Sixteen hundred pardons for Jay 6ers who were arrested. His point was, and a lot of them were sentenced to two, three, four, five years in jail. His point is, documents were destroyed, which they were and these people never had the real chance to put on a proper defense. That was really big.
I think he had another executive order about federal employees. They're going to have to come back to work, and the way federal employees are classified, he's going after that.
Energy, Jesse, radical gender ideology. I mean, this was the greatest hits of Donald Trump, and he enjoyed every minute he was -- it was almost an hour, by the way.
WATTERS: And at one point, one of the reporters asked, hey, did Joe Biden leave you a letter in the desk?
INGRAHAM: He held it up. He said, should we read it right now? And I think that's not really protocol, but he has his pictures up. It's like he never left office.
WATTERS: They had done some redecorating.
INGRAHAM: Yes, and he is already, sort of -- he's already gotten into it. You made the point that he loves the banter with the press, but think about the difference between him and Joe Biden and the press. Think about that for a moment.
WATTERS: He actually said Joe Biden would never be able to do this.
INGRAHAM: Of course.
WATTERS: He stretched his camera time, and it's not like he doesn't like camera time, but Donald Trump has been on television from the moment this morning he woke up until now. Usually these things aren't televised like that.
INGRAHAM: No. And Jesse, I was in that St. John Church this morning for the service. He was fresh as a daisy. Walked in there, did the slow walk down the aisle. He does a slow walk out. He is a performer, and we haven't had a performer who enjoys politics as much as he does, really.
Obama was a performer too. Clinton a little bit, but he's of a different creation. No one like him.
WATTERS: And Obama didn't really like people very much.
INGRAHAM: No.
WATTERS: Donald Trump likes people, and you saw all the people surrounding him today.
INGRAHAM: No, and TikTok, Jesse, he's like, well, TikTok is not that bad. Well, he didn't say that a while ago, but we'll see how TikTok -- he has it in his mind. There's going to be some deal on TikTok and there's going to be debate about that as well.
WATTERS: Yes, there is going to be a lot of debate on TikTok.
Laura, thank you so much. You look beautiful.
INGRAHAM: Oh, it's great to hang around. You look well, too. I hope he shows up to do the dance for you guys.
WATTERS: Any minute.
INGRAHAM: Any minute.
WATTERS: Enjoy the balls. All right, thank you.
INGRAHAM: All right, you take care. Thank you.
WATTERS: All right, great to see you. Thank you so much.
Well, the country is about to radically change. For the first time in a very long time, America feels like we can reach our full potential. It feels electric.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
(PEOPLE chanting "JD.")
(PEOPLE chanting "USA.")
JOHNNY BELISARIO, ASSOCIATE PRODUCER, FOX NEWS MEDIA: Donald Trump is sworn in as the 47th president of the United States. How does it feel?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It feels great. America is back, baby. Let's go.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I'm more excited for this than for my wedding day.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: MAGA has arrived. We've come. We did it. We worked together, and we got it done.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I feel like the country is finally going to turn around. It's been a long time coming.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's good to have positivity back.
BELISARIO: The Democrats, the media, they counted this guy out. They said he'd never become the president again, but today, Joe Biden said, "Welcome home." How did this happen?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The liberal mainstream media, they tell lies. We, the people, we saw through it all.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They were never in touch with the people. We had a different thing in mind, and we knew what we wanted and we got it.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: People were just fed up with how this country was moving, and they looked at his four years versus these past four years.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They threw the book at this guy. They threw everything at this guy, and you can't stop the will of God.
BELISARIO: Inaugural ceremonies, they look quite different this year.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes.
BELISARIO: We're inside because of the cold, and you're watching on a TV screen.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes.
BELISARIO: Why did you even show up?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I showed up because I'll do anything I can to support him.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I've got to show up for Trump. He shows up for us every single day.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It could be out in the middle of a river, I would come and see this man.
BELISARIO: We have a great four years ahead of us. What are you looking forward to the most?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Lower gas prices and affording groceries and rent.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Food being affordable again.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Getting some money back in my pocket, common sense coming back into the country.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'm just looking forward to prosperity and positivity again, you know?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I'm looking forward to seeing the most, make America healthy again.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What I'm really excited about is, as I hope he's going to get out there and drain the swamp.
BELISARIO: You know, President Trump doesn't need advice, but President Trump has always listened to the people. So what advice do you want to give them?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Keep doing what you're doing. You got it.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Keep God first.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do what you promised us.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: My man doesn't need any advice. He's got this in the bag. Thanks, Trump. We love you.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Let the Golden Age begin.
We're here now with former White House press secretary and co-host of "Outnumbered," Kayleigh McEnany.
All right, Kayleigh, so you were here a couple of years ago.
KAYLEIGH MCENANY, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CO-HOST "OUTNUMBERED": I was.
WATTERS: You've got Michael Jackson here in the background now. Great playlist. This place is on fire. How are you feeling now compared to 2017?
MCENANY: I'm feeling great. First of all, I got to know the DJ, so I got her to put on Lynyrd Skynyrd and Toby Keith, which is wonderful.
WATTERS: Yes, baby.
MCENANY: But this is way more Gen Z. The vibe is young, fun, and we didn't have a president that at that time signed 200 executive orders at the Oval Office Desk.
WATTERS: What just happened? I mean, that guy just signed about a thousand executive orders. I can't even keep track of what he just signed, but he gave it like a play-by-play, like he was doing his own color commentary on his own signing ceremony.
MCENANY: Jesse, he's been president for eight hours and 36 minutes. He has spoken more in eight hours than Joe Biden has spoken in eight months. It was amazing to watch.
Joe Biden said, here are 15 Eos. I'm upping the ante. But Trump comes in and goes I'll raise you 185 -- two hundred executive order.
WATTERS: He still hasn't pardoned as many people as Joe Biden yet, and we'll get to that a little bit later.
He did mention that Joe Biden was a cancer on the country. He said we're removing by signing these orders, the cancer that had infected this nation. That was a pretty strong statement.
MCENANY: Well, when CNN goes out and conducts a poll, and their own poll comes back and finds 61 percent of voters say Biden is a failure, that's a CNN poll. What does that tell you? This is reality.
People want Biden excised out of life. According to reporting, he's in a very dark place, apparently rough on Joe right now. He's back in Delaware, and he's having to watch all of this.
WATTERS: What was it like for Joe Biden to sit there right behind the president of the United States, talk about how he had betrayed the American people and how everything needed to be uprooted from the ground and replaced? That had to hurt.
MCENANY: It had to hurt, but think about what he left us. He was given 1.4 percent inflation. He gave us 9.1 percent. He was given an Afghanistan deal to withdraw. He messed it up. We lost 13 heroes at the Abbey Gates.
He gave Trump two wars. And this is honesty, it's truth, it's transparency. That's what Trump gave. Look, I thought there would be a lot of flourish and rhetoric about unity. Trump said, no, I've got business to do. He laid out a to-do list.
This was a president with unfinished business, and he went a long way tonight in finishing some of that business.
WATTERS: He is aspiring for unity. I think there was one line from the speech where he said, I want to be remembered as a peacemaker and a unifier. And I think the unity is going to come through success. It's going to come through bringing people together through action, not through false promises.
MCENANY: But one thing I realized is, yes, it's about unity, but this is a man who wants accountability too. I think the pardons frustrated him. I think he wants accountability for people who engaged in wrongdoing. I think we'll end up seeing those accountable who made Afghanistan go so poorly. You're going to see generals who will lose their stars, lose their titles.
You need unity, but you need accountability within the bounds of the law.
WATTERS: All right, many people say that Kayleigh can't dance. We're about to find out. She's going to go hit the dance floor right now.
MCENANY: I will. I've got some country music.
WATTERS: See you later, Kayleigh. Thank you so much.
Well, today, the greatest comeback in American political history is complete. Donald Trump's back in the White House, and DC is buzzing with electricity. Here's what it was like in the Capitol today.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ANNOUNCER: Ladies and gentlemen, the President-elect of the United States, the Honorable Donald John Trump.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
ANNOUNCER: Ladies and gentlemen, the heroes of Butler County are here.
(PEOPLE chanting "JD.")
(PEOPLE chanting "USA.")
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: WWE Hall of Famer, Hulk Hogan joins me now. How you feeling, Hulk?
HULK HOGAN, WWE HALL OF FAMER: Brother, I am so, so stressed out. Brother, you know, riddle me this, riddle me that nobody's afraid of the old man who don't know where he's at, brother.
What a day.
WATTERS: What a day, and now he left. We saw him leave on the helicopter.
HOGAN: Oh my gosh. No, but he's not going anywhere. You know what he's doing? Pardon me this. Pardon me that. Pardon my brother, my uncle, my sister, Cheney. Everybody in the world. Fauci, he pardons. The only person he didn't pardon was Hunter's little baby with a stripper in case he does anything wrong.
WATTERS: Oh my gosh. Nothing says I'm guilty than pardoning your entire family.
HOGAN: Brother, I am so stressed out. Everywhere I go, all around, everybody is so happy that we got America back. Everybody is elated that Donald Trump is our president. But everywhere I go, nobody recognizes me.
WATTERS: What are you talking about?
HOGAN: They say, is that Hulk Hogan over there? Oh, wait, no, that might be Hulk Hogan. Hulk Hogan. No, that's not Hulk Hogan. He doesn't wear a suit.
You know, Jesse, that suit is holding me down, just like that four-year administration.
WATTERS: What are you going to do?
HOGAN: The lies, the cheating, all the stuff that's going on, brother. I feel like the veil has been lifted and that dark cloud. If I wasn't so tired, brother, I'd just rip all my clothes.
WATTERS: Oh, you're not tired.
HOGAN: You know what? Donald Trump lifted the veil of America. Hold on, Jesse.
WATTERS: All right, here we go.
HOGAN: It's Real American Beer in the house. We've got Real American Beer. Trump-a-mania, brother, we've got Trump-a-mania, running this country, brother. One nation under God.
Jesse Watters, this is your world, brother.
WATTERS: Yes, baby. I know a tuxedo can't control you. I knew there was no way Hogan was coming in here with a tuxedo for that long.
HOGAN: I had a moment, brother. I just had to do that. Thank you.
WATTERS: Amazing job. You are one of the biggest icons in America. You were of the generation of Donald Trump. You spoke at the convention. You're here now at the Inauguration. What has this movement been like for you?
HOGAN: Brother, it is like when I was a kid and I could ride my bike around all night long until the street lights came on. It was like I used to be able to go to the movies and not lock my bicycle up.
We have our country back. We're going to get everything back to where it should be.
WATTERS: I like what you said about that. You cannot lock your bike up. You trust your neighbors. We're in a good place again. This country has ambition. We're getting back to our roots what made this country great, and we're not ashamed of who we are anymore.
HOGAN: But you know what? It's really cool. There are a lot of good Democrats out there, brother. The Democrats are stepping up, too. The good ones. All of those four left wing rebel crazy ones, those liberal ones, those radical left, they're the ones that are still whining and crying and trying to put a roadblock in America's future, man. I can't believe it.
WATTERS: We're actually hearing rumors, and I think you'll like this Democrat, Fetterman might actually switch parties we're hearing. Now, I don't know if that's true or not, but that's something that's been kicked around a little bit today.
HOGAN: Well, if Fetterman doesn't switch parties, I know someplace called the WWE that he could be great at, brother, just as long as he keeps that hoodie on.
WATTERS: All right, this is where it happened, Hogan-Fetterman in the ring, cage match?
HOGAN: Well, all I would say, brother, is what you're going to do when Hulk Hogan-Jesse Watters-Donald Trump and all of America run wild on.
WATTERS: You love you, Hulk, man.
All right, we got to go. Hulk-a-mania is running wild, baby.
HOGAN: Ragged, brother. We're running ragged.
WATTERS: Glad to see you. All right.
Every president signs executives orders on his first day in office, but no president ever signed him in front of a packed arena until Trump.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: So I'm going to go right over to here, and I'm going to sign in front of you. Is that okay? Good.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: All right, today is declaring the southern border a national emergency, eliminating catch-and-release, designating cartels as terrorists, ending DEI funding, recognizing only two genders, that's male and female; killing Biden's federal EV mandate and promising to drill baby drill on federal lands.
The winning is only just beginning. "Fox & Friends" Weekend co-host Charlie Hurt joins us now.
I think Hulk just popped my earpiece out. So tell me what you think of this night, Charlie. This is crazy.
CHARLIE HURT, FOX NEWS CHANNEL "FOX & FRIENDS" WEEKEND CO-HOST: Well, I don't know that I can follow the Hulk. I mean, he said it all right there, and he left his sleeves on the ground right here, and the whole place went completely nuts when he did it.
But, you know, it's amazing. And you know, I get it. That Inaugural Address today is not your normal, like Lincoln's second Inaugural Address. It was different.
And the reason it was different is because he was going through all of those things you just mentioned right there, all of the policy items that got him elected and that allowed Donald Trump to steal voters from the Democratic Party, and the guy is still selling. He's still selling his agenda.
And you know what? You want to unify the American people, you keep pushing that message and talking about common sense solutions to issues that people care about, and he is going to build a massive coalition.
WATTERS: Those major "USA" chants breaking out. I think Hulk Hogan is continuing to rip his clothes off. Charlie Hurt not taking anything off.
HURT: No.
WATTERS: These don't come off, do they? Okay. I didn't think so.
So that speech today, you talk about ambition, you talk about a radical revolution of common sense, massive change he's promising. Do you think we're in revolutionary times?
HURT: I do think we are. And I think that this is what a popular movement looks like.
WATTERS: You're right.
HURT: This is what a popular president looks like. We've never had a president in our lifetime this level of popularity. And I get it. You can look at the -- you can say that half the country doesn't like him. About 100 percent of the country is invested in this guy. The half that loves him loves him to death.
And I think one of the things that really broke in this election is that all of the lies that Democrats have told about this guy have started to kind of fall away, and more and more people start listening to him.
And that's why you look at these polls and you see his straight up popularity higher than it's ever been. And again, I don't think that's the ceiling. I think Jesse, that with this agenda, because it is a very common sense. It's not a conservative agenda.
WATTERS: No, it's not. It's a nationalist agenda. He just wants what's right for the American people. And already, the Gulf of Mexico is no longer, Charlie. I believe that the governor in Florida has officially named it the Gulf of America.
HURT: And when he mentioned the Gulf of America, nobody in the Rotunda was like cheering. They were kind of politely clapping, like looking around like they were on "Candid Camera."
But the camera that we had up in the arena where -- they went completely nuts, they're like, yes, global America, baby.
WATTERS: And then it was -- I thought it was a pretty clear threat to Panama.
HURT: Yes.
WATTERS: To Panama, he said, we're going to take it back. That sounded pretty direct to me. Also, there was a little difference between how it was received in that room with how it was received in the crowd.
When he said, there are only two genders -- a man and a woman. That might have been one of his biggest applause lines, and that really is talking about common sense. We're getting back to reason, logic, and natural law.
HURT: Who would have ever thought that that would have been a controversial statement? But this is, and by the way, that's the what made all of this possible. It is the complete lunacy of the left that has carried us so far into this wacko world where, I mean, you and I go on national television talking about gender and all this stuff. It's embarrassing.
WATTERS: We don't want to talk --
HURT: No.
WATTERS: -- about ladies bathrooms.
HURT: No.
WATTERS: We don't want to talk about surgery on kids. We hate talking about it, but we're forced to talk about it because of the last four years.
Now, the next four years, they're promising a return to a new Golden Age. What does that mean to you?
HURT: I think a new Golden Age means first of all, common sense about things like gender, but also something simple, like putting America first and making our foreign policy, building it around what's best for America.
And you know, and I think it's so interesting that the left freaks out when you say that, it's a big tell about what they really care for.
WATTERS: Well, in this country, we used to have a pretty unified idea of foreign policy back in the 19th Century. But we'll see if we can get back to that.
Charlie Hurt, everybody. His arm sleeves don't rip off, and that's how we like it. Thank you so much.
Today was a great day for America, unless you're legacy media, who seemed pretty upset.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
NICOLLE WALLACE, MSNBC HOST: You just witnessed the first inauguration of a convicted felon to become the president of the United States of America.
TIM MILLER, HOST, "THE BULWARK PODCAST," MSNBC ANALYST: I just -- I've had to watch all this stuff today, and I'm going to say, I don't really love that everybody's just participating in this farce.
DAVID AXELROD, CNN CHIEF POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Sort of dystopian rhetoric that is -- that he ran on, to be fair, that was -- that included his personal grievances and some false assertions.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Sage Steele, host of "The Sage Steele Show" is right here.
How are you doing, Sage? You look gorgeous in that dress.
SAGE STEELE, HOST, "THE SAGE STEELE PODCAST": Thank you, Jesse. I have thawed. My toes about fell off.
WATTERS: How long were you outside?
STEELE: I think about 40 minutes.
WATTERS: No?
STEELE: Yes.. I got -- I don't know. I don't follow maps well. It was a disaster, but I'm here, and I'm so glad to see you in person, finally.
WATTERS: If it makes you feel better, I got lost too, and I had to carry my wife's train of her dress like I was her bridesmaid.
STEELE: Okay, that train is worth carrying. That was beautiful.
WATTERS: All right, so chivalry is back, along with the new Golden Age, Sage. Tell me what the vibes are like here.
STEELE: Okay, I've been to about 15 straight Super Bowls, right?
WATTERS: Yes.
STEELE: This, to me is a Super Bowl party on steroids. Here's the difference. Everybody is so happy. I'm blown away by the energy in this city. I lived in this city for many years. It never felt like this.
Also pride, because I think a lot of people waited a long time to be able to be vocal about believing in Donald Trump and believing in America, and people now have been validated. They worked hard, they took chances to be here. I think there's a lot of pride in the city.
WATTERS: We took this in "The Five" about the fear is gone in America.
STEELE: Yes.
WATTERS: We used to be very concerned about cancel culture, about being censored, maybe even being indicted.
STEELE: Yes.
WATTERS: That fear has been eradicated now. It's almost like this country and he said it, "This is Liberation Day."
STEELE: It is.
WATTERS: And do you feel that way?
STEELE: Absolutely. I will say there was a time during the ceremonies today where I looked and you see Mark Zuckerberg and Elon Musk and all of those dignitaries and Jeff Bezos, people who were part of the problem for a very long time, who silenced people like us, right? It's okay. I forgive. I don't forget. I can be petty in this case.
But it's okay. Everybody is coming around, and I think deep down, they knew it was wrong, right?
WATTERS: So why do you think they did that? Why do you think you saw the Zuckerbergs and the Bezoses and all of those tech pioneers, Kamala donors there today at Trump's Inauguration. Do you really think they have a change of heart?
STEELE: They're good businessmen. That's what they are. I don't know them. I've never met any of them. Maybe someday I will. At the end of the day, I can't judge their heart. All I know is that I'm an Army kid, you know that. My dad talked about track record. Their track records sucked as far as how they, I think, judgment calls, and how they truly treated the American public. But they're smart businessmen, and they knew that if they didn't fall in line, it would hurt their business.
It's okay. I will take it better late than never.
WATTERS: All right, and we also had Dana White there, so that was good, too.
STEELE: That's my guy.
WATTERS: I know, that's your guy.
STEELE: That guy has been consistent from day one.
WATTERS: All right. Sage Steele, good to see you so much.
STEELE: Thank you, Jesse. Thank you.
WATTERS: Johnny is live on the floor here at the Liberty Ball. Let's go see what he's up to.
BELISARIO: All right, Jesse, this is the hottest ball to be at, and I've been out for the whole weekend. Everybody's dancing, everybody's having a good time, and they're excited because President Trump is going to be here tonight.
President Trump is going to be here. He's our president again. How'd you feel at that ceremony?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: So excited. I can't wait to take back America. Take back the world. This is the new Golden Age. Go, America.
BELISARIO: Go America. And now we have probably one of our youngest Trump supporters here. What is your name?
SMITH SPIVEY, TRUMP SUPPORTER: I'm Smith Spivey.
BELISARIO: Smith Spivey. Now why are you so engaged in politics right now?
SPIVEY: Because I love President Trump.
BELISARIO: You love the president. What do you want to be when you grow up?
SPIVEY: I want to be you Johnny, or I want to be Jesse Watters.
BELISARIO: All right, I think you should stick with Johnny, but Jesse is doing pretty well up there.
All right, now, who do we have over here? Now, do you do the Trump dance? Let's see it. What's the vibe for these balls right now?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Oh, it's the best. It's the best. Not having him for four years, getting him back. It's the best feeling in the world.
BELISARIO: What are you doing tonight, though?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: To celebrate, to celebrate --
BELISARIO: Now, it is a party in the. USA. How are you feeling over here?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I'm feeling real good.
BELISARIO: Yes. What's going on at the balls right now? We've got performers.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes, we've got performers. We've got good conversation. We've got good supporters all around. Go Trump. I love America. MAGA.
BELISARIO: MAGA, Make America Great Again. Who do we have over here? You guys are having a good time?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We are having a great time. Loving it. Make America Great Again.
BELISARIO: Now, someone told me -- there you go. Someone told me that you're going to miss Joe Biden,
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Oh, not at all. Not for one second. Bye-bye.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Go away.
BELISARIO: By the way, how good did Melania look today?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: So gorgeous. So sophisticated. You can't have a better first looking lady.
BELISARIO: You look the best. And what was your favorite part of President Trump's speech today?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: My favorite part of his speech is when he said he's going to close the border and make America great again.
BELISARIO: And what about the Gulf of America. Are we happy about that? How do you feel about it?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It's a new idea, but I'm for it.
BELISARIO: It is a new idea. Everybody is having fun.
Jesse, back to you.
WATTERS: All right. Thanks a lot, Johnny. And it looks like we may have Billy Ray Cyrus on deck pretty soon. Do we want to go to him? Let's Listen.
(BILLY RAY CYRUS PERFORMING.)
WATTERS: All right, let's bring in Riley Gaines. Outkick, we all know who she is.
So Riley, how you feeling about tonight?
RILEY GAINES, DIRECTOR, RILEY GAINES CENTER: Oh my gosh, I am so excited. The patriotism in this room is surging, and just the feeling of optimism and hope that is radiating from people. It's an exciting time, a historic time.
WATTERS: You went through some tough times, personally. You had guys in your locker room. That's not going to happen anymore, according to some of these executive orders that were just signed.
GAINES: Well, thank goodness. We had our voices heard. Understand when I assumed the position that I did, I wasn't just speaking for myself, but for so many people like me who reject the notion of absurdity, that the Democratic Party has become entirely and thoroughly absurd, putting men in women's sports, putting men in women's locker rooms, putting tampons in boys bathrooms.
They just lost the ability to communicate with your common sense, everyday American who intuitively knows that men and women are different.
So very excited for President Trump. He's a man of promises. Promises made, promises kept.
WATTERS: And you took a big risk to come out there and say that. I mean, you were the face of that for a good amount of time, and you were rewarded, and the whole country was rewarded. Is there anything you'd like to say to young women out there who are afraid to take a risk?
GAINES: Well, let me tell you. I would do it 10 days out of 10 days. Yes, you might face pushback. Yes, you might face personal attacks, even speaking in my own personal experience, I mean physical attacks, if you can remember, I mean I've been assaulted, I've been held for ransom. I've been barricaded in rooms for hours.
But I would do what I've done every single day out of the week, because it's worth it and it's easy, truthfully, when you know you're on the right side of history.
WATTERS: A lot of people were talking about Melania's outfit today. What a statement.
GAINES: Stunning, beautiful. Imagine being Jill Biden in that room in the inaugural speech, looking over at Melania, who is stunning, and the outfit that she was wearing, which she kind of looked a little bit terrifying, to be honest with you, she's up there.
Her husband is at the podium, talking about how bad your husband is and basically saying he's going to undo everything that he has spent four years doing. I'd hate to be Jill Biden in that room.
WATTERS: All right, well, we're not going to have to deal with the Bidens that much anymore, although Joe says he's writing a book. So I don't know if he's going to write it, but I don't know if anyone's going to read it either, because at this point he's been pretty discredited.
Thank you so much for joining us, Riley Gaines, and thank you so much for your bravery over the last couple of years. You were a big inspiration to a lot of young people who were afraid to speak up. So, thank you.
GAINES: Well, thank you, Jesse.
WATTERS: Be very proud of yourself.
GAINES: Thank you, Jesse.
WATTERS: All right, well, tonight was a great night for this country, and we have very high expectations. Trump said America does the impossible, and he's living proof of that, getting shot, almost going to prison, coming back and winning. He promises a Golden Age and the country is unifying around that.
Up next, Sean Hannity live from --

Load-Date: January 21, 2025


End of Document
