




Fox News FOX NEWS @ NIGHT 11:00 PM EST
January 20, 2025 Monday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 8141 words
Byline: Sean Hannity, Trace Gallagher, Peter Doocy, Kevin Corke, Nate Foy, Steve Hilton, Matt Finn
Guests: Jessica Millan Patterson, Erin Perrine, Robby Soave, Rachel Bovard, Rebecca Heinrichs, Bethany Mandel, Erick Stakelbeck, Jennifer Sey
Body


SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Unfortunately for us, that's all the time we have left this evening. Thank you for being with us. Don't forget our town hall tomorrow, and we will have that with Speaker Johnson and other Republicans. Stay with Fox News Channel, continuing covered throughout the night. Thank you for being with us. Our town hall from Congress tomorrow. Trace Gallagher, next.
TRACE GALLAGHER, ANCHOR, FOX NEWS @ NIGHT: Good evening. I'm Trace Gallagher. It's 8:00 p.m. on the East Coast, 11:00 here in Los Angeles and this is America's late news, FOX NEWS @ NIGHT.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Good morning, sir. How are you --
DONALD TRUMP (R) PRESIDENTIAL-ELECT OF THE UNITED STATES: Good morning, everyone. Thank you.
I, Donald John Trump who solemnly swear.
CARRIE UNDERWOOD, AMERICAN SINGER-SONGWRITER: You know the words, help me out here. America, America.
TRUMP: I will very simply put America first.
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We're leaving office. We're not leaving the fight.
TRUMP: Could you imagine Biden doing this? I don't think so. I don't think so.
In America, the impossible is what we do best.
And you're witnessing the dawn of the golden age of America.
PETER DOOCY, FOX NEWS SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: (INAUDIBLE)
TRUMP: No.
DOOCY: Did President Biden need you a letter?
TRUMP: He may have but -- oh.
DOOCY: Was it empty --
TRUMP: Peter, it could have been years before we --
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: And breaking tonight, the celebration galas and balls are in full swing after one very historic day. Donald J. Trump again taking the oath of office, officially sworn in as the 47th president of the United States. Trump also signing dozens upon dozens of executive orders, both in front of a packed arena this afternoon and back at the White House a bit later.
And he took more questions in one hour than Joe Biden took in -- I don't know, maybe years. Meantime, President Biden at the 11th hour of his presidency pardoning five members of his family, critics say the move is a permanent stain on his legacy. Even Democrats are deeply disappointed. But tonight, President Trump and the First Lady making appearances at three inaugural balls throughout the nation's capital sharing their first dance just minutes ago.
And we have team Fox coverage across Washington. Matt Finn live at the starlight ball. Nate Foy live on Capitol Hill. But we begin with Kevin Corke. He is live at the Commander-In-Chief Ball where President Trump just finished speaking. Kevin, good evening.
KEVIN CORKE, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: What a night, Trace. You know, had a chance to cover so many inaugural balls going all the way back to George W. Bush but this was truly unique, absolutely electric atmosphere. As you mentioned, the president and the First Lady not long ago having a chance for their first dance as POTUS number 47 gets a chance to say thank you to the women and men of the armed forces.
Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines, Space Force and, of course, the Coast Guard as well. This was really a night and Mark, go ahead and show them the crowd here. This was a night not just to celebrate what this means to this president, someone who relishes the role as commander-in-chief. But this was also a chance for the troops, everyone from PFCs and privates and specialists all the way up to flag officers.
Admirals and generals to say, thank you, Mr. Trump, for all you have done for the armed forces. It's no surprise trace that this group in particular has an affection for this president and he promised that with peace through strength, the best days are yet to come. Of course, we all got a chance to see Melania. I'm not going to get into the fashion of it all, because I don't know enough about it.
She looked amazing, as did the second lady, Bucha Vance, it has been a tremendous night here, and more of that happening across the way here at the Liberty Ball. Trace, back to you.
GALLAGHER: Yes. And just to back you up, Kevin, I talked to some good sources who also said she looked amazing tonight. Kevin Corke live for us at the Commander-In-Chief Ball. Kevin, thank you. As promised, in the hours after his inauguration, the President signed dozens of executive orders and while he was in the Oval Office putting pen to many papers, Trump fielded questions on a wide range of topics from reporters, including our own senior White House correspondent Peter Doocy.
DOOCY: Trace, President Trump says walking back into the Oval Office tonight is one of the best feelings he's ever had and he gave us a chance to pick his brain about all these executive actions that he has taken today ahead of expected deportation raids tomorrow.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DOOCY: If the cartels are now going be seen as foreign terror organizations, would you think about ordering U.S. special forces into Mexico to take them out?
TRUMP: Could happen. Stranger things have happened.
DOOCY: The bulkiest bunch of tonight's orders, pardons and commutations for 1500 people convicted of crimes during the January 6 Capitol riot.
TRUMP: Well, I will say this, they've been in jail for a long time already. I see murderers in this country get two years, one year, and maybe no time. So, they've already been in jail for a long time.
DOOCY: The press pool was let into the Oval Office only moments after Trump's return, and we learned he hadn't even had a chance to check for a long-standing tradition that presidents pass along to their successors.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DOOCY: President Trump, did President Biden leave you a letter?
TRUMP: He may have. Wait, don't they leave it in the desk? I don't know. Oh.
DOOCY: What's in there?
TRUMP: Thank you, Peter. It could have been years before we found this. Wow. Thank you.
DOOCY: Can you read the [inaudible] on the outside?
TRUMP: Maybe we should all read it together.
DOOCY: Let's read it.
TRUMP: Well, maybe I'll read it first and then make that determination.
DOOCY: That sounds great.
TRUMP: Peter, thank you very much. I may not have seen this for months.
DOOCY: Happy to help with the passing of the torch.
TRUMP: I did. I left him one in the desk just like this.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
DOOCY: We still haven't seen the letter, but President Trump revealed that in the limo to the Capitol today, he and President Biden talked about unifying the country. He says that President Biden did not give him a heads up that he was issuing pardons for several members of his family. Trace?
GALLAGHER: Peter Doocy at the White House. Peter, thank you. Well before Peter's extended Q and A with President Trump tonight and the glitz and glamor of the inaugural balls, there was the important business of swearing in Donald Trump as the 47th president of the United States. Nate Foy is live with the highlights of that. Nate, good evening.
NATE FOY, FOX NEWS NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Trace. Good evening. A historic victory for President Donald Trump, and he says that we are on the verge of the greatest four years in our country's history. Says it's the beginning of a golden age. Take a look at the moment that he took the oath of office administered by Chief Justice John Roberts. In this moment, Trace completes a stunning political comeback with legal cases and two assassination attempts and Trump reflected on that during his inaugural address.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: My life was saved for a reason. I was saved by God to make America great again. The Golden Age of America begins right now. America's decline is over.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
FOY: Trace, as you mentioned, Trump signed dozens of executive orders already, many of them undoing actions taken by former President Joe Biden. Trump's day one priorities are securing our southern border, increasing energy production and ensuring the federal government isn't weaponized or used for censorship.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: So revoked nearly 80 destructive and radical executive actions of the previous administration, one of the worst administrations in history. The Republican Party has never been unified like it is right now. They want to save our country.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
FOY: Trump also pardoned 1500 January 6 defendants. He delayed the TikTok ban and pulled the U.S. out of the World Health Organization in the Paris Climate Accord. The President also promised to send American astronauts to Mars, much to the delight of Elon Musk, and he signed executive orders proclaiming that the federal government only recognizes two sexes, male and female, and he is ending DEI programs within the federal government.
We'll send it back to you, Trace.
GALLAGHER: Nate Foy live for us near the Capitol. Nate, thank you. Let's bring in California GOP Chairwoman Jessica Milan Patterson, Fox News Contributor Steve Hilton and Axiom Strategies Erin Perrine. Thank you all for coming on, Jessica, great dress. You look nice down there. The gala kind of thing going on here. You're the farthest away, so you're the first question. President Trump said this about the crisis at home. Listen to him.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: For many years, a radical and corrupt establishment has extracted power and wealth from our citizens while the pillars of our society lay broken and seemingly in complete disrepair. We now have a government that cannot manage even a simple crisis at home.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: He's right and you and I kind of witnessed this firsthand, that past couple of weeks in California, changes need to be made, Jessica.
JESSICA MILLAN PATTERSON, CALIFORNIA GOP CHAIRWOMAN: Absolutely. And President Trump ran on bringing back the forgotten man and woman. And we're seeing Americans all over our country. They want someone who's going to rein in inflation. They want someone that's going to secure our border. They want someone that can manage a natural disaster, as we're seeing in California, not happening.
They want accountability for their government, and that's what they're going to get from a Trump-Vance administration.
GALLAGHER: He talked a lot, Steve Hilton, about national unity, and he said this, in part. Watch,
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: National unity is now returning to America and confidence and pride is soaring like never before. In everything we do, my administration will be inspired by a strong pursuit of excellence and unrelenting success.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Yes. I mean, he said it before a lot of times, Steve, he's done. He's finished with this push for mediocrity.
STEVE HILTON, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Yes. But by the way, Trace, where's my compliment? Do I look nice?
(CROSSTALK)
GALLAGHER: Steve, you look amazing.
(CROSSTALK)
HILTON: Just for you. OK. So, I just wanted -- to your question, a couple - - I want to make a political point, but also a personal one. On the political front, and actually falling off speaking as a new American, someone who became an American citizen since the last inauguration of a president. This is the America that we signed up. For those of us who came here and wanted to take part in the story of this great country.
This nation that has swagger and confidence and the energy that's been on display all through the weekend, but especially in that speech is so inspiring to everyone. Everyone saying this phrase, America is back. Boy, is America back. So that's the political point. Just quickly, on the personal front. I have to say, watching all of this and just thinking about what Donald Trump as a person has been through over the last few years and more.
I just feel happy for him. I really do, just on a human level, what an incredible fighter, what a fierce patriot and I think he absolutely deserves this wonderful day.
GALLAGHER: Quite the victory lap for him, it really is. Erin Perrine, I'll see you look amazing.
ERIN PERRINE, AXIOM STRATEGIES REPUBLICAN STRATEGIST: No. Thank you. I did not have a ball down the street.
GALLAGHER: Trump said this on free speech and weaponizing the government. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: They'll also sign an executive order to immediately end federal government censorship of the American people. In America, we believe in free speech, and we're bringing it back, starting today to stop the weaponization.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Novel concept in America. We believe in free speech.
PERRINE: We believe in free speech, and we believe that the federal government should not be weaponized against her citizens and that's what Donald Trump promised and delivered on today. If you are part of this team that is now transitioning into the White House on day one with Donald Trump, you have to feel very good about how the success went today. He signed a slew of executive actions.
He is turning the table now on energy, on the economy, on the border for the American people. He is taking a sledgehammer to D.C. and he's unapologetic about it, but he's doing it for the American people. And everything he has talked about, it's about getting government out of the way so America succeeds. And you're seeing a lot of that.
GALLAGHER: It's amazing because Erin talks about the border, Jessica, we talk about this a lot. I mean, he in essence, well, all these executive orders, he shut down the border, not just shut down the border. He's sending military to reinforce the border. It is drastic difference at the southern border.
PATTERSON: We've seen the last four years with the open border policies that the Biden-Harris administration has turned every single state in our nation into an open -- to -- into a border state. When places like Chicago and New York are buckling to the migrant situation, this is a huge problem, and Donald Trump knew it needed to be fixed on day one.
GALLAGHER: Yes. So, in December of 2020 as we all know, Joe Biden, you know, he preemptively pardoned five members of his family. Joe in 20, Joe. Steve, he preemptively pardoned five members of his family. But back in December of 2020 he was asked about that very thing and he said this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Does this concern you? All these preemptive pardons?
BIDEN: Well, it's -- it concerns me in terms of what kind of precedence sets and how the rest of the world looks at us as a nation of laws and injustice.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HILTON: All B.S., oh, in the --
(CROSSTALK)
HILTON: -- said that. I mean, look, it's a very happy and positive day. I almost don't want to waste energy on this person that we're all so glad to see the back of. It's a fitting end, actually, to what has been a lamentable presidency. I think he's destroying his reputation, such as it was, and I don't know. I just think it's almost not worth bothering with. He's -- he ends as he has been throughout his career, a corrupt machine politician doesn't really believe in anything other than his own political advancement.
He's in it for what he can get out of it, and it's been true, what his family can get out of it. And people don't like hearing that, but it's true. All those people he pardoned today, they've all been enriching themselves. They've been exploiting public office for private, personal financial gain and that's why he's done this, because he knows they're guilty of it.
GALLAGHER: Jonathan Turley said the following about what Steve's talking about here. Biden has long exercised situational ethics and with his powers coming to an end, the situation demanded that he cash out before his credit ended. In granting these pardons, Biden was seeking to protect not just his family but also himself in this.
PERRINE: That's right, that situational ethics. It's just a matter of the question being asked, will you pardon your son? No, well, when I got the opportunity, he was fast to sign that. Will you pardon your family? Will you do preemptive pardons? No, I don't want to do that. And only -- the ethics only matter to Joe Biden until the moment he actually had to face them. And then that's a sign that. Will you pardon your family? Will you do preemptive pardons? No, I don't want to do that.
It only -- the ethics only mattered to Joe Biden until the moment he actually had to face them. And then that point, that 50-year career being an entrenched D.C. politician, he grabbed that power as fast as he could on the way out the door and made sure that none of his family would get in trouble for whatever they allegedly did. And this is the thing. He bemoaned extreme wealth and extreme power and extreme influence, but had no problem doing it on his way out the door.
GALLAGHER: Do you think he had it planned or do you think this is --
PERRINE: Oh, 100 percent he had this planned. He lied to the American people for years about this.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Erin Perrine, Steve Hilton, Jessica Milan Patterson, thank you all.
Well, the President also made a stop tonight at the starlight ball featuring singer songwriter Gavin DeGraw and plenty of Trump's big dollar donors. Matt Finn is live in Washington keeping tabs on all the big donors and big names in attendance. Matt, good evening.
MATT FINN, FOX NEWS NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hi, Trace. The Starlight Ball is considered one of the most exclusive and elite balls of the evening. It's an opportunity for President Trump to meet face to face with some mega donors, dignitaries and celebrities. It's being held inside of the iconic Union Station. Here you can see the intense security behind me, the United States Army, the Secret Service and local police.
So, who's all here tonight? Well, here's just a taste. Celebrity trainer and Trump supporter Jillian Michaels posted a photo of her Hall ball passes with the caption, LFG, let's blinking go. Derrick Utley posted a photo of himself along with actor Vince Vaughn. Mario Constance posting pics and photos with Jake Paul and Mike Tyson, among others. Of course, Paul famously defeated Tyson in the historic fight a few months ago.
Gavin DeGraw is scheduled to be performing. I also talked to Alina Habba here tonight. President Trump's newest adviser, who took the same office as former adviser, Kellyanne Conway. Vivek Ramaswamy in the House as well. Now President Trump is scheduled to be speaking at this event tonight. He is understandably running very far behind, which is just fine. He's had a pretty busy day.
And, Trace, the temperature outside right now and now in the single digits, the wind has been kicking up. So, I think a lot of the people inside of this party tonight are happy to not be outdoors. Trace?
GALLAGHER: That's an understatement. Matt Finn, live for us in Washington. Matt, thank you.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: After being after being criticized by the liberal media for her appearance at the ceremony today, Carrie Underwood, absolutely, did you see it? Killed it. Following a musical mishap in the inauguration. Let's bring in Reason senior editor Robby Soave and the conservative partnership Institute's V.P. of programs, Rachel Bovard. Thank you both for coming on tonight.
I mean, Carrie -- unbelievable, Robby, you look at that and she's like, listen, join in if you want, but I'm going it alone. And she was exceptional.
ROBBY SOAVE, SENIOR EDITOR, REASON: Absolutely. Classy is the word that I used. You know, we know that in a high-pressure moment when something goes wrong with the audio and T.V. and entertainment, it can be really stressful when you're expecting it to be one way and at the last minute, you learn it's going to be some other way. She did a fantastic job, invited everyone to join in.
And of course, the broader lesson here is that, you know, a celebrity culture that was just totally antagonistic and wanted nothing to do with Donald Trump now understands that they don't have to endorse him or agree with everything he does, but for the good of the nation, this is a unifying moment. It's healthy for the continuation of our government to show unity and strength in this moment and all creditors. She did a fantastic job.
GALLAGHER: She did indeed. And Kevin, if you can, can we play this video of Elon Musk that we asked for? Elon Musk, of course, a big -- the big thing was, oh, Elon Musk, here he is right here. He made this Nazi sign. I mean, Rachel, it's -- we are right back to find people on both sides. We are right back to all these lies. And it's day one.
RACHEL BOVARD, V.P. OF PROGRAMS, CONSERVATIVE PARTNERSHIP INSTITUTE: They couldn't even get through day one, right? We're not at the end of day one before we're diving in on this media hoaxing all over again. And it's unbelievable. They've learned nothing. We're right back where we started. The difference here, though, is that Americans aren't listening. We're not doing this again.
We believe what our own eyes tell us, and these people trying to lie to our faces, it's not going to work anymore.
GALLAGHER: You know, it really is fascinating, because as soon as I started hearing that, you go on some social media and everybody who's saying this is been knocked down. I mean, they people are like stop it. Stop it. You look and sound foolish. They keep doing it. But man, it was 31 on comments, negative and positive on this. Meantime, speaking of negative comments, Gayle King said the following.
"I have to say I'm looking at this crowd speaking of the inauguration, I do not see many people of color. Does anybody -- does anybody else besides me, observe that? I'm fascinated by why that is, Robby.
SOAVE: It's like when you say, oh, how did X or Y win the election, I didn't see enough yard signs. Look, look at the numbers. Donald Trump made tremendous gains with all sorts of minority groups. If you look at the numbers, he's improving with all sorts of demographics, young people coming out for a Republican president. So just look at the numbers. And also, we're not doing speaking of things. We're not doing anymore.
We're not doing DEI anymore. We just want, you know, regardless of race, creed, gender, sexuality, et cetera. It's what you believe in and what you stand for that matter.
GALLAGHER: By the way, you have Melania and the President now arriving at the Liberty Ball in Washington. This is the second of their third balls. They just left the Commander-In-Chief Ball a short time ago. They're at the Liberty Ball now. And of course, when the President steps to the microphone and speaks, we will, of course, bring that to you live.
Meantime, Rachel, as we watch them, we're going to put this in a smaller box. I want to play this sound bite. This is the dance, and they'll dance at every one of them. I want to play this sound bite if we can put it in the lower part of the screen, Kevin, that would be great. This is Chris Hayes comparing Trump to a cult leader.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
CHRIS HAYES, MSNBC HOST: There's something strange about time. Of course, the first one was the American carnage. It's a little like a cult leader who keeps predicting different days for the end of the world because it's kind of like, OK, the first time you did this, we've had all these corrupt, terrible elites, and they've taken I'm here as your retribution. I'm going to make America great again. And then it's like, well, you did try that once.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: So, you have the same thing. Apparently, Hitler is they were like, well, I guess he's not Hitler. He's a cult leader. Of course, he's a cult leader. They're just the new thing. And you will hear this on CNN, and you will hear it for the next several weeks.
BOVARD: Well, we are back to self-awareness level zero. They have no idea why Trump won the election. And more than that, you know, it's just -- they repeat it ad nauseam, and no one is listening. To Robby's point. He won the popular vote. He won the Electoral College, and everything they've said that Trump would do, they themselves had done. Look at Biden's executive orders on the way out the door, saving democracy by pardon his own family.
GALLAGHER: Right. It is -- it is unbelievable. You know, you see this, and you're like, OK, yes, the guy on the screen dancing with his wife, cult leader. I mean, it get cult leader written all -- it's unbelievable what they're doing well.
BOVARD: And it's incredibly condescending to the Americans that voted for Donald Trump for many, many reasons that apparently Chris Hayes has no interest in.
GALLAGHER: Yes, it really is. And, you know, Robby, when you look at these types of things as we watch the President dance, and you look at the new names, right, it's -- and they had a bunch of them last time. They're coming up with new it, and what they're doing is they're just taking them for a test ride. They're seeing how they rate. They're seeing if the numbers go up. Last night, they didn't take the president -- they didn't take Trump's speech at all before the inauguration, nothing, not a word of it.
They just ran normal program. Nothing was going on in the world. And they're test driving everything.
SOAVE: I mean, who's in a cult, isn't it? The people who believe that the world is going to end because Donald Trump is about to be president again, even though they already went through four years of Donald Trump. And even if you don't like everything that happened, it was not the end of the country or the world. We're going to have another president four years and four years after that, and four years after that, this globe spins on.
I think those networks have done Boy Who Cried Wolf type stuff with their audiences, and have no credibility anymore to say this is fascism, this is cultism. This is Nazism. American people just -- they don't buy that. They voted for change. They voted to go back, change from what the last four years, go back to the four years before that.
GALLAGHER: But nobody is reading the room. I mean, that's the whole thing, Rachel. Nobody's reading the room because they know the American people voted for change. By the way, after the dance, the customary thing is, we expect the President to actually speak, and when he speaks, we will bring that to you live. They'll have a dance. They might do some other things. The Vice President and Usha, his wife, will come out, and they will also dance and join them.
And then we will bring you, of course, the speech of the president live. It will be about the sixth time that he's spoken today, and he's got to be very tired, but you go back to what we were talking about there, as we see all the dancing Rachel, and it really is one of those things where the American people voted for change and there are some media institutions in this country that will not change.
BOVARD: Well, it's really remarkable because they missed it in 2016 and there was no self-reflection for the four years of Trump's presidency. And we're seeing it happen again. You can't believe they're doing it again, but they are. And again, it's this idea that you'd think the second time around they'd be mildly curious. They are in the news business. For why Americans are pulling the lever for Trump after four years of them, you know, wish casting all of these horror -- parade of horribles into existence, people didn't buy it.
And instead of being like, hey, maybe it's me, maybe we're the ones that got it wrong, they're like, no, no, no. It's you. It's everyone else in America that disagrees with me, castigating them. I mean, it is a failure of American media for this to continue.
GALLAGHER: Catch me on this, Robby. Is this the Everly Brothers? Is this way -- who sings this, right? Let's see if we can -- it's like trivia. Let's see it we can --
(CROSSTALK)
GALLAGHER: -- dip in and listen to this for a few seconds and bring it full screen.
CROWD: USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA.
TRUMP: (INAUDIBLE)
J.D. VANCE, UNITED STATES VICE PRESIDENT-ELECT: I just want to say we're so grateful to all of you. So grateful for making sure that we made this election too big to rig, because that's exactly what we did and we did it together.
And of course, I want to thank my dear friends and I think the best president that this country has had. A man -- a man who has put everything on the line for the United States of America and gets an opportunity to serve this great country, once again, President Donald J. Trump.
So do we want to hear from the 45th and 47th president of the United States? Take it away, sir.
TRUMP: Thank you. J.D., this is a hell of a day we're having. Right? It began very early, and then we decided, you know, we made a good decision, by the way, doing it in the rotunda, as opposed to in about four degrees with the wind chill factor, that would not have been pretty. And, you know, if I made it, did you ever speak in really cold weather? You can't. They would say the fake news over there that say he's cognitively impaired, there's something wrong with him.
So, we didn't want to give the chance to do that. Did we? We had a great time. We had 72-degree temperature in the rotunda. We had the people that we needed. We had two people that we need tonight, because you guys are unbelievable. We love you all. And we said a lot of things today. I think we got tremendous reviews on the speech. And, you know, I wanted to put in some really rough stuff. And all of my people, including J.D., they said, you know, let's not put that paragraph in. Oh, I love that paragraph.
There was a paragraph on Biden shouldn't be pardoning his family. And we had a couple of others that were far worse than that. But they said, you know, the speech is so nice and it's so unifying. I said, all right, we won't do it. I'll do it about two hours later. So, we've done -- we've been doing it all night long. But you know, we're going to turn this country around and fast.
We have we have assets like nobody else. Number one, we have our people. That's our greatest asset -- the people of our country. And I just and I have a great family. I really do. I just look around. My son, Eric, has been so incredible, married to a woman who became the head of the Republican Party. I wonder how the hell did that happen.
And she's, she really, her and Michael Watley from North Carolina did a great job and then you have where is my Ivanka? Have you ever heard of Ivanka and Jared? And we have, Tiffany's here someplace. There's Tiffany have with, with child, I have to say. And Michael, thank you very much. And what? Look at that group back there. That's Kai, our great golfer. She's a great golfer, that one.
And Don, and Don, and Chloe -- Chloe, I don't know if she might be as good as this one. You have to see her athletic ability. You wouldn't believe it. You look at it. She looks so innocent. She's a killer.
Chloe is a killer. And we have a great vice president, I want to tell you, what a fantastic -- and he's got a fantastic wife and helper and she's done, she's done just incredible things for the party and for him. And I want to thank you.
Great job. Great job. J.D. Vance, great job. So, so, we're going to keep it going. We're going to have it turned around quickly. This big ship, we got to turn it a little bit slower than I'd like, but we're going to turn it around. We have things that nobody else has.
You know, we, we also have something that it's not politically correct to say, but it's becoming very politically correct. We have more liquid gold under our feet than any other nation in the world. And if you don't mind, we're going to use it, right?
And we just left the commander in chief ball, which is like a similar size everyone. And we're going to another one in a little while. We needed three because we have such support. There's a longing for competence in this country.
There's a longing for common sense in this country. And I was saying before, with a party of common sense, you know, we, we don't want to have men playing in women's sports. We don't want to have transgender operations for everyone.
And we just want to have a great country. Well, we want education we want houses that don't cost a fortune. We want low interest rates. We want low taxes. We want a strong, powerful military. We're going to have that. We did it once.
We did it in 2017. We rebuilt our entire military. It was giving away a lot of it. Can you believe it? Given away so foolishly, given away. But we'll have it back again very, very soon. And we'll be making some announcements. You're going to be so thrilled. But we love you all.
We're going to be you know, I'd like to say we are a great nation. We will soon be the greatest we've ever been, and that won't take long. So, I want to thank you all for being here tonight. Special people. And we'll see you soon. Just watch what happens.
It's going to be big progress. Thank you, everybody. Thank you very much. Thank you!
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Well, fascinating! There you have YMCA, remember that they used to battle Donald Trump for using this song and they came out of the stage but not too long ago saying their preferred candidate was Kamala Harris but, listen, Donald Trump won this thing, he used their song and so they were excited and they played yesterday's event, they're playing again at tonight's event. And the song by the way is steadily climbing the charts, if you don't know.
This, by the way, is the second ball, The Liberty Ball. The commander-in- chief, was it the Commander-in-Chief Ball first? And we are waiting for one more ball and the President again will speak at the final ball and then he will get a much-needed rest because of it has been a very long day. Meantime, we have more news coming in about this historic day. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: Our power will stop all wars and bring a new spirit of unity to a world that has been angry, violent, and totally unpredictable. America will be respected again and admired again, including by people of religion, faith and goodwill.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Well, the President's stated intent to make America respected and admired again could very well have a significant impact on the military. Let's bring in Hudson Institute Senior Fellow, Rebecca Heinrichs. Rebecca, great to have you on.
I mean, do you think, as the president was saying there, do you get a feeling that America has lost a little bit of its zip, but lost a little respect, or is it just that military overall tends to be depleted?
REBECCA HEINRICHS, HUDSON INSTITUTE SENIOR FELLOW: Well, I think it's a couple of things going on. Clearly, we have a depletion in the morale in the military and that's reflected in low recruitment numbers. And we have low recruitment numbers and then you have trust in the military is down including among veterans.
Veterans are the ones that recommend to their children and grandchildren to join. That's down so we need to boost that, and you can get back to lethality, that increases morale. We also must increase the production rate of ships, munitions, airplanes, bombers, and so that's also what I think the president is now talking about as well.
GALLAGHER: And it kind of goes hand in glove for another comment that he made today. Let's listen to this one and we'll get your response.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) TRUMP: We will again build the strongest military the world has ever seen. We will measure our success not only by the battles we win, but also by the wars that we end, and perhaps most importantly, the wars we never get into. My proudest legacy will be that of a peacemaker and unifier.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: I mean, it really is a page out of Ronald Reagan, right? It's peace through strength, and that's what he wants. He wants to build up a military, and so that, you know, nobody starts to mess with us.
HEINRICHS: Right, of course, we've had a degradation in deterrence over the last four years and so it's a priority of the Trump administration to restore deterrence, make our enemies fear us, build a military that's so strong that our adversaries don't want to pick a fight for the United States, and should the United States be threatened and we do have to engage in warfare. Of course, we got a fight to win.
GALLAGHER: Let's listen the president is speaking again, let's listen quickly.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: They're the number one show in town. And I want to just congratulate you've been with this song a long time, right? You did -- well, you're a talented guy. Number one, we love it. And you're number one, too. Thank you, everybody. And our country is number one, most importantly. Thank you very much! Congratulations! It's fantastic.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you, sir. Thank you very much. Thank you. I love you. Thank you. Thank you, sir!
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: There you go. So, the President, of course, thanking the village people because they have had a number of hits, and this was probably the biggest one of all. Mike Waltz, who, of course, dropped out of congress. He resigned, because you get to the National Security Adviser. He said the following thing, Rebecca, and I want to get your take on this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MIKE WALTZ, NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER: We have made clear to Bibi Netanyahu, to his government, and I want the Israeli people to hear me loud and clear. If Hamas reneges on this deal, if Hamas backs out, moves the goalpost, what have you, we will support Israel in doing what it has to do, number one. And number two, Hamas will never govern Gaza. That is completely unacceptable.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: But the question is how does Israel, how does the United States and maybe others stop Hamas from governing in Gaza?
HEINRICHS: Well, you have to eliminate them. They're not a legitimate governing power, they're a terrorist organization, they don't want peace, they're bloodthirsty, they're cruel, they renege on every deal they've ever had. And so, of course, it makes sense that Mike Waltz would make that point. I think it's also important to note the change. This administration is different than the last administration and then it fully backs our allies.
It's going to fully back our allies, clearly identify our shared adversaries, and do what's necessary to end these wars on terms that benefit the American people. And of course, our allies who help us keep safe.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Rebecca Heinrichs, great to have you on. Thank you.
HEINRICHS: Thank you.
GALLAGHER: Well, Trump says, he wants to be a peacemaker and a unifier as Rebecca was just alluding to. How he plans to handle multiple global crises left behind by Joe Biden. That story is next with our continuing coverage of the big balls, the inaugural and more historic day in America.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: My proudest legacy will be that of a peacemaker and unifier. That's what I want to be, a peacemaker and a unifier. I'm pleased to say that as of yesterday, one day before I assumed office, the hostages in the Middle East are coming back home to their families.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Let's bring in the host of "Stakelbeck Tonight", Eric Stakelbeck; and co-author of "Stolen Youth," Bethany Mandel. Thank you both for coming on.
The President there, talking about the hostages, talking about the fact that he wants to be a peacemaker. The Jerusalem Post had this headline, I know you know this story, but I wanted to get your take because everybody here, all of our team thought it was horrific says, quoting here: "Hamas gave completion certificates to release hostages with Red Cross signatures."
It goes on to say, "The items inside the bag because they gave them gift bags, gave a clear depiction of the psychological torture methods Hamas used on captives." What, what's your reaction, Bethany, you followed the story from the very beginning, and, and before. When you see this kind of psychological warfare what, what is it make you think?
BETHANY MANDEL, "STOLEN YOUTH" CO-AUTHOR: I mean, it does two things, it terrorizes the women that they've held for 471 days, but it also feeds into a propaganda narrative that they've seeded in Western media in Al-Jazeera, and by the way Al-Jazeera had great coverage of, of the whole release at almost as if they had some inside people in Hamas who were helping them out.
All of this feeds into this narrative that is being just eating up hook line and sinker by their allies in western media, and also in like wider Arab media as well.
GALLAGHER: Yes, it really is kind of, kind of astounding, isn't it? But Mike Pompeo, former secretary of State said this about Trump's, Trump's effect on the Middle East.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MIKE POMPEO, FORMER SECRETARY OF STATE: This will fundamentally reshape how leaders in the Middle East think about the United States and our presence. The Israelis now know they have an ally that they can count on at its most difficult moment. And while we, it was glorious to see these three folks return to their home today, we know there are still prisoners held, hostages held.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Great to see the hostages come out, these three. There's four more coming out, we presume, on Saturday. I mean, this is just the first part of this thing, Erick, but you know you see Benjamin Netanyahu, totally different demeanor, the way he is, he is, you know, talking to President Trump versus the way he talked to Joe Biden. There's a different feel in the room.
ERICK STAKELBECK, AUTHOR AND TV HOST: No doubt, Trace, it's peace through strength, it's back and it actually works. And we saw that yet again with this deal. I think Bibi felt comfortable, for all its flaws, I think Bibi felt comfortable making this deal because he trusts President Trump. Look, during his first term, a proven track record as Israel's greatest friend. I mean, in terms of an American president, no one has been a greater friend than Donald Trump.
And, Trace, I think this will extend to Iran. And this is really 2025 is the year of reckoning for Iran's nuclear program. We're going to know by the end of this year which way it's going to go. Either Iran's going to break out and announce they've got the bomb or Israel, perhaps with the U.S., will take action.
GALLAGHER: It's a good point. The Associated Press writes the following here, Bethany. Many colleges accused of tolerating anti-Semitism on their campuses have been settling with federal civil rights investigators in the weeks before the inauguration of President-elect Donald Trump, who urged a rougher response to campus protests against the war in Gaza. Settle before the penalties get worse, I think is the theme.
MANDEL: Yes, yes, so that happened. So, for Fox News, David Spector, my good friend, wrote about Rutgers doing that, my alma mater, and so I followed that very closely, and that's exactly what they did. They saw the writing on the wall, and they decided to keep all of the bad actors in there.
And you know, right, right as the inauguration was happening, Rutgers slipped in the fact that they gave tenure to one of these awful professors who was cheering the Israel genocide and all of those talking points. This is exactly what happens at Rutgers. It's been happening at colleges nationwide and I'm so thrilled that we're finally going to have a president who cares and who will kick out these students.
He did it in an executive order. He will kick out students who are here on student visas who hate everything we stand for.
GALLAGHER: Yes, it's amazing. Speaking of a president who cares, he wants to get rid of wokeness in the military. Listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) TRUMP: I will sign an order to stop our warriors from being subjected to radical political theories and social experiments while on duty. It's going to end immediately. Our armed forces will be freed to focus on their sole mission, defeating America's enemies.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: And the people I've talked to enlisted and officers applauded this.
STAKELBECK: Yes, it's called making America sane again. And I can't imagine that China, Russia, Iran and North Korea are quaking in their boots when they see our woke military in the recruitment drives with the transgender focus and all the rest.
So, the gender madness, I think, will be front and center and President Trump's going to tackle that especially in the military of all places and he said it very correctly today, Trace. The military essentially should be focused on killing the bad guys not social projects.
GALLAGHER: Erick, Bethany, stand by. We'll get you next hour as well. The president is heading to his third ball of the night. Matt Finn is there, live at Union Station in Washington with more. Matt, good evening.
MATT FINN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Hi, Trace. We were just inside. Intense security in there. The United States Army, local police, and the Secret Service. Right now, we hear the choppers hovering above Union Station. President Trump is on his way here.
And the Starlight Ball is really one of the most exclusive and elite balls of the night. It's called official pick, meaning Trump and his team hand- picked the people inside of the party tonight. Just some of the names in there: Jillian Michaels, actor Vince Vaughn, Mike Tyson, Jake Paul, among many other dignitaries and some major names.
The energy inside of the party really kicking up. Gavin DeGraw performing tonight. We also heard someone singing the national anthem and a huge cheer erupted. So, we will update you on who sang that, I believe the national anthem, but our understanding is President Trump is now on his way here with the first lady. We will keep you updated from the grand and iconic uni-station here in Washington, D.C. Trace.
GALLAGHER: Matt Finn, we'll get back to you. Thank you. Trump already making good on his campaign promise to dismantle Joe Biden's woke policies with executive orders targeting gender ideology and DEI. Let's bring in Jennifer Sey, former Levi's Chief Brand Officer and XX-XY Athletics Owner. Jennifer, great to have you on.
Trump said this about gender today. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) TRUMP: As of today, it will henceforth be the official policy of the United States government that there are only two genders, male and female.
(END VIDEO CLIP) GALLAGHER: Imagine living in a world with two genders, Jennifer.
JENNIFER SEY, XX-XY ATHLETICS OWNER: Two sexes, I want to clarify it.
GALLAGHER: Two sexes.
SEY: Gender is squishy, but the actual executive order does say there are two sexes. I mean, Trace, it feels like America is back. It feels like reality is back. Free speech is back. It's a really exciting day.
But if you had ever said to me five years ago that we would need an executive order to outline the fact, the biological reality that there are two sexes, I would have said you were nuts. But the left has gone so far off the deep end, we actually do need it.
GALLAGHER: Meantime, Riley Gaines calls Trump a champion for women. She said the following, "We have a true champion for women in the White House. Sex-based definitions are already law in eight states and introduced in eight more. Today, it'll be established at the federal level." She had a lot of support on this on the internet, Jennifer.
SEY: Yes, it's outstanding. He's definitely setting the standard and I don't want to be a Debbie Downey here, but I just want to caution people, this is not over yet. It didn't start with legislation, and it won't end with legislation or an executive order.
Everything that he did today, and I agree he is championing women's sex- based rights, but everything he did today protects our rights within federally funded institutions, schools, the educational system.
More than half of sports that happen in this country, youth sports and the Olympic movement, happen outside of the federal government's oversight. And so, this is still an issue. Private camps, where I live, are marketing the idea that you get to bunk according to your gender identity, your self-ID.
So, you know, the blue states, they're going to keep pushing. Trump did his part. We have to do ours. We need to stand up and say stop the madness everywhere.
GALLAGHER: I've run out of time but I want to play Al Sharpton on MSNBC because he said something kind of interesting. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
AL SHARPTON, MSNBC HOST: These companies that are now saying they're going to back up off of diversity and equity and inclusion should therefore not have a diverse consumer base. You don't want diversity? Then you should not buy your products. Donald Trump can't make us spend money for companies that will not deal and commit and continue with diversity and equity and inclusion.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Yes, we have about 15 seconds for you, Jennifer, but Sharpton wants to punish companies that treat people equally.
SEY: We need to hire based on merit. If part of the job description is to attract a diverse consumer base, then that's going to be part of the job description. But when it comes to firefighters in Los Angeles, I think it's based solely on merit and qualification.
GALLAGHER: Yes, yes, it was a bad, bad couple of weeks in Los Angeles. Jennifer Sey, great to have you on the show. Thank you so much. We will have more Fox News coverage coming up. President Trump on the way to his final ball. We will bring you the latest on the gala's the balls and everything else live, next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

Load-Date: January 21, 2025


End of Document
