




USA Today Online
February 20, 2025 10:44 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Section: BLACK INTEREST NEWS
Length: 623 words
Byline: Bart Jansen, USA TODAY
Body


WASHINGTON –  celebrated  on Thursday after ordering federal agencies to  and firing those staffers.
Trump had already saluted the contributions of  on Jan. 31. But he also issued several executive orders  and the  declaring “Identity Months Dead at DoD."
"We're going to be fighting long and hard for Black Americans and all Americans − we're going to be fighting for all Americans," Trump told the enthusiastic crowd of more than 500 people in the East Room.

White House celebration features political, civil-rights leaders
Guests joining him in the East Room included Sen. Tim Scott, R-S.C.; Rep. John James, R-Mich.; Scott Turner, secretary of Housing and Urban Development; Brooke Rollins, secretary of Agriculture; , whom he pardoned in 2020; Rev. Martin Luther King; and golfer Tiger Woods.
Every president since Gerald Ford  recognizing Black History Month. .
“Throughout our history, black Americans have been among our country's most consequential leaders, shaping the cultural and political destiny of our Nation in profound ways," it read.
Trump said his priorities of strengthening border security, providing job security through tariffs on imported goods and reducing federal spending through the Department of Government Efficiency are shared goals with Black Americans. He noted that a similar event during his first term attracted only about five Black people compared to the cheering, standing-room crowd that chanted "four more years" at one point.
"I said is anybody else coming. Is this it? Are we open?" Trump said of his first term. "That's all changed. One of the reasons I'm president today is because of the Black vote."

Trump event follows orders ending federal DEI policies
The White House celebration came after Trump's orders wiped out diversity programs and staffing across the federal government, which advocates said benefitted African Americans and other minority groups. Administration officials said the changes replaced racist policies with merit-based decisions.
“This nation has been plagued and crippled by illegal discrimination of diversity, equity and inclusion policies," Stephen Miller, deputy chief of staff for policy, told reporters Thursday. "It has strangled our economy. It has undermined public safety. It has made every aspect of life more difficult, more painful and less safe."
The administration faces at least three lawsuits asking judges to overturn Trump's orders. Intelligence staffers who work in diversity offices were fired and asked to be reinstated. Higher-education officials and worried their funding will be cut for their diversity policies.
A  Friday from the Education Department told schools nationwide to .
Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth's memo Jan. 31 said his staff could not use official resources, including their time, to host events related to cultural awareness months, including Black History Month, Women’s History Month and National Disability Employment Awareness Month.
"Efforts to divide the force – to put one group ahead of another – erode camaraderie and threaten mission execution,'' the memo read.
Contributing: Deborah Barfield Berry
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: February 21, 2025


End of Document
