




Fox News THE WILL CAIN SHOW 4:00 PM EST
February 7, 2025 Friday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; International
Length: 7409 words
Byline: Shannon Bream, Will Cain
Guests: Jim Gray, Mark Schlereth, Danny Parkins, Craig Carton, Dan Dakich, Jeff Landry
Body


(MUSIC)
WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Live from Bourbon Street in the Big Easy with a saxophone, this is "The Will Cain Show."
We're live from New Orleans about 48 hours from Super Bowl LIX on FOX. Will the Chiefs three-peat? Will the Eagles' Saquon Barkley break the rushing record?
I had a brush with greatness a little bit earlier, as seven-time Super Bowl champion Tom Brady brushed right past me on this balcony, stood right here and joined "FOX & Friends" with a little advice to the players on both teams.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TOM BRADY, FORMER NFL QUARTERBACK: When these teams came together, they had a belief that they would be here in this moment, and that's ultimately what they're preparing for. And that's what championship organizations are all about. You don't wait for big moments for them to become big moments.
You live those moments every day like they are big moments, so you're prepared when the moment arises. What they remember from this week will ultimately be the game. And all these other things are great, but do everything you can to not let anything get in the way of your preparation. And it still goes from now up until game time.
There's a lot of things that can distract you or take your mind away from what ultimately the goal is, and the goal is to go out here and win the game.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: The greatest of all time with some words of advice to at least one man who could be chasing it as the greatest of all time, Patrick Mahomes.
It's loud here on Bourbon Street. There are deejays up and down Bourbon Street, on the balconies behind me. But we are going to share all of that fun and merriment with you here on "The Will Cain Show."
And joining me live now on this balcony here in New Orleans as the city prepares to host its 11th Super Bowl is the governor of the state, Jeff Landry.
Governor, great to see you.
GOV. JEFF LANDRY (R-LA): Will, thank you for having me.
CAIN: This is exciting.
LANDRY: It is. It's exciting.
It's been a lot of work. It -- the -- you go back and you think about the countless man hours and women hours and everyone who has worked. We have been working on this for a year or more, and then, of course, with the tragedy that befell the city on New Year's morning, just kind of recalibrated everything, and everybody stood up, put their best foot forward.
And we are ready to put on a Super Bowl.
CAIN: You know, in that one initial answer that you give me, there are so many places to go to follow up.
But let's start with what it's like to host a Super Bowl in a regular year, the logistics, the hotel rooms, the infrastructure, to invite this many people into one of your cities here, New Orleans.
LANDRY: Well, look we had a big challenge, because, when I came in to the governorship last year, in January last year, New Orleans two years before had been ranked one of the most dangerous cities in the world.
And we were going to work on public safety not only in the city of New Orleans, but in Louisiana as a whole. And the legislature and all elected officials leaned in. We worked on it. This city was on the mend, doing great.
And we knew that this is our opportunity to showcase not only for America, but for the world, what a great city New Orleans is, I mean, because the bones here -- I mean, New Orleans was here before the country was here, right? And so it is. It is a task.
CAIN: New Orleans is alive. New Orleans has character. New Orleans also, as you pointed out, has had some concerns over safety, something you wanted to address going into this Super Bowl.
And I'm sure that was only compounded on January 1 on the New Year's Day terror attack. You mentioned earlier, at that point, you had to recalibrate. What did you go back to the drawing board with?
LANDRY: Yes, look, we -- we did.
We were preparing. In fact, my wife said, why don't we just go to the city for New Year's, right? So we were here in New Year's Eve, and to celebrate, to see the fireworks, to see the security. Everything seemed to be in pretty good shape. Everybody was in good spirits, and then to wake up to that tragedy.
And we had to deal with families whose lives have forever been affected, deal with victims, deal with those that were injured, and then an investigation and trying to get answers, and then put on a Sugar Bowl. We knew that we had to say we needed to make sure that, for our Super Bowl, we were going to lead no T crossed or no I dot -- undotted.
CAIN: And really quickly, how did you make that sure? I have walked the streets. I can walk down to the corner. I see the police. I see the military presence.
I see, I can feel a sense of security, so what did you do specifically?
LANDRY: It wasn't me. It wasn't anything I did. It was an unbelievable effort of the men and women who serve this city to serve this state at the local and state level, working with our federal partners.
We got so much help from Secretary Noem came in. General Bondi came in yesterday. President Trump is going to be here for the Super Bowl. I think that speaks volumes. It was just so many people working together to ensure that Americans got to come and enjoy the Super Bowl.
CAIN: I wanted to ask you about something that took place today in Washington, D.C. It was a wild scene.
School choice has been an issue for here in Louisiana, something you pushed forward for quite some time. Today, at the Department of Education, there's been talks, reform, even whittling down the Department of Education. There was protests, some would say even maybe meltdowns, outside the Department of Education.
Here, Governor, I'd love you to watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What authority can you deny members of Congress their oversight role?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You don't have a business reason to be here.
(CROSSTALK)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You do not have authority, sir.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Are you making a decision for the Department of Education on your own behalf?
(CROSSTALK)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: ... even open the door to this building to members of Congress.
(CROSSTALK)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We are not posing any threat here.
REP. MAXINE WATERS (D-CA): He's standing here today, blocking the door, and he can't give us a good reason why he's blocking this door.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: That's incredible video.
That -- in particular, that last clip is Maxine Waters...
LANDRY: Maxine Waters, yes.
CAIN: ... berating that security guard.
LANDRY: Yes.
CAIN: You have seen this over and over actually in multiple attempts to begin the process of cutting back government bureaucracy.
LANDRY: You know what's amazing? As a former member of Congress, they actually insult me, because I want to know how many times they have gone to that building before.
They have been in that city for years and years and decades, especially Maxine. And how many times has she ever gone to the Department of Education? No, she's responsible for the bureaucracy that's built up that does nothing for our kids.
We know that America is failing in education. We know that. And parents out there know that as well, and they're tired of it. It doesn't matter whether those parents are Democrats, Republicans, or independents. Moms care about their kids. They know that the future of their kids depends on their education.
And shame on them for basically making a spectacle.
(MUSIC)
CAIN: Speaking of a spectacle, we have got a band that's just warmed up down here below us...
(LAUGHTER)
CAIN: ... right here on Bourbon Street.
LANDRY: That's what they think. That's what they think.
CAIN: That's -- yes.
(LAUGHTER)
CAIN: I don't know if we can take that shot, but you got dancers., you got quintessential New Orleans right below us. If we ever get bored, Governor, we can grab a bag of beads right here.
LANDRY: That's right. That's right.
CAIN: We got a bag of beads that we can bring it up, the party up on the balcony.
You mentioned him earlier, President Trump. He's going to be here on Sunday. But you were in D.C. recently. You were part of a contingent of governors, senators, congressmen that have been with the president, action day after day, hour by hour. What do you sense, what do you feel, what do you hear about this administration?
LANDRY: Oh, my word. I sense the energy. I sense the energy from everyday American citizens.
I mean, what they're seeing, what he's doing is a reflective of their will. People want to see action. They're tired of the bickering. They're tired of the showboating. They want results. And that's what he's given them, result after result after result.
CAIN: It is by the hour, Governor.
LANDRY: By the...
CAIN: By the hour.
LANDRY: He has changed the news cycle from seven days to seven hours.
CAIN: You put this recently on X. You said -- you said: "You got to see the people's president. Donald Trump back in his rightful place last week. America is back. And for anybody wondering, the Diet Coke button is working."
LANDRY: Yes. I mean...
CAIN: Did you press the button for Diet Coke?
LANDRY: Absolutely. Do you think there's anything around President Trump that he wouldn't have working? Everything around him works.
(LAUGHTER)
CAIN: Yes.
I don't know if there's a Diet Coke button here on this balcony over Bourbon Street.
LANDRY: It's a hurricane button.
CAIN: I was going to say, but you can press the button, Governor, for a lot of different kinds of drinks.
(LAUGHTER)
LANDRY: That's right.
CAIN: Maybe not a Diet Coke.
Governor, great to see you.
LANDRY: Will, thank you. Thank you so much.
CAIN: Thank you so much.
LANDRY: Thanks to the FOX family. We love having you all.
CAIN: Best of luck this weekend. Thank you so much.
LANDRY: OK.
CAIN: All right, quick note here.
On Wednesday afternoon's show, I made quick mention of the news regarding taxpayer dollars subsidizing high-dollar subscriptions of the publication Politico Pro.
Well, Politico reached out and took issue with my use of the word money laundering. I think it's quite clear I was using hyperbole to describe what I saw as a wasteful use of public funds, and not suggesting a criminal act.
But since we are in the interest of fairness and debate here on "The Will Cain Show," I want to provide you with some additional perspective. This is from Politico.
Nearly 24 hours after our segment ran, Politico said in a release note to its readers from CEO Goli Sheikholeslami and editor in Chief John Harris that read that they have never received any government funding, no subsidies, no grants, no handouts, not one dime ever in 18 years.
They went on to say that Politico has -- quote -- "no financial dependence on the government."
Well, on the issue of subsidies and financial dependence, perhaps Politico and I disagree on the definitions of the two. If a government agency spends taxpayer dollars on a subscription, is that not a form of a subsidy?
And if your publication is dependent on subscriber fees, and if the government is spending millions on said subscriber fees, then there is, by the very nature of the transaction, a measure of dependency.
Regardless of the disagreement, we here at "The Will Cain Show" will always do our best to bring you every side to every story. We owe it to you, the viewers. And if there's new information that changes how we report, well, on this story or any other, we will bring that to you as well.
We will be back from Bourbon Street.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(MUSIC)
CAIN: We are live in New Orleans, and this is "The Will Cain Show."
And we're going to speak above the deejays, above the music, above even the saxophone, because joining us now is the host of "FOX News Sunday," Shannon Bream.
What's up, Shannon?
SHANNON BREAM, HOST, "FOX NEWS SUNDAY": Congrats.
CAIN: Thank you.
BREAM: I love the show. It's great to see you at 4:00 Eastern every day.
CAIN: Thank you.
BREAM: Good to be here with you in person.
CAIN: Well, this has been fun. It's been fun to be here as well, because that's the idea of this show, is to be in touch with America, as you are, and speak to everyday Americans. By the way, we got some fans out there.
BREAM: Oh, we do. They're going to crazy.
CAIN: So, when we want, Shannon, we can make sure that we throw them some beads here.
(CROSSTALK)
BREAM: Yes, they're going to go crazy when you start with this.
CAIN: Here, right here, hold on, let's do it right now.
BREAM: Boom.
CAIN: Let's see. Hey.
BREAM: Now you have got their attention.
CAIN: There we go.
(LAUGHTER)
BREAM: You have got their attention now.
OK, Shannon, today, it was the first meeting between President Trump and Japan's prime minister. And let's just say, first impressions are everything. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SHIGERU ISHIBA, JAPANESE PRIME MINISTER (through translator): On television, he is frightening, and he has the very strong personality. But when I met with him, actually, he was very sincere, and very powerful, and with strong will for the United States, as for the whole world.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Frightening. What do you make of that meeting, Shannon?
BREAM: I love the strong-willed.
Yes, I do think -- a lot of people, I do think, have this impression of President Trump, if you haven't met him, that he's a ferocious negotiator. I mean, he's a serious guy. It is America first, and he's not apologizing for that.
But I do think, when you meet him in person, he's very charming. And people will say he's great with people. And it looks like that's what happened here. I love that when President Trump called him out and they were starting in their meeting, he said, I got a picture of you. What I don't like is that you're better looking than me.
And so for President Trump to say someone else is better looking than him, quite a compliment for the Japanese leader there.
CAIN: I'm not playing the name game or trying to name-drop, far be it for me. But I'm sitting right here. We're today meshed in here together with FOX Sports.
I was just sitting in there with Keyshawn Johnson and Michael Irvin.
BREAM: Wow.
CAIN: We're talking world and life. And I said to them, have you met Donald Trump? And they were like, yes, yes, because, from a distance, maybe, maybe you could be intimidated. But once you meet Donald Trump, I'm telling you, he's one of the most charming and accessible people I have ever met, especially one of that level of superstardom, which is a true rarity.
All right, this is serious. This is interesting as well, Shannon. Tonight, nearly all USAID employees will be placed on leave. This is after Donald Trump's administration flagged nearly $200 million in questionable spending. It includes wild, wild stuff, $10 million on meals that actually went to terrorist groups, $75 million on DEI initiatives in other countries, and more examples, which we can share with the audience, including meddling in countries like Syria, Guatemala, transgender issues, everywhere you go, Bangladesh.
USAID involved in things other than what one would expect, humanitarian relief, 10,000, reports are, Shannon, down to 300 employees.
BREAM: I think it's interesting because we know they do good things that are important for building diplomatic goodwill, like medicines, medical treatment, food, in really critical places. And that is part of building the U.S., their reputation worldwide.
But when you point out the things that have come to light the last few days, I think most people think, I don't get up in the morning and leave my kids and go to work so that my tax dollars can pay for XYZ. I think it's a really tough sell.
And you even have Democrats out there warning, is this the hill you want to die on? Because a lot of Americans, federal spending that goes overseas is one of their last priorities.
CAIN: How do you explain, Shannon -- I think I'm fairly characterizing it -- when I call it a freak-out, the freak-out over DOGE and its microscopic look at government spending.
We just talked to the governor of Louisiana about the Democrats outside of the Department of Education today.
BREAM: Yes.
CAIN: But there's more. How about the members of DOGE, who are actually the ones doing the work?
A university staff member at Boston University made a social media post saying that DOGE employees are wanted dead or alive. How do you explain, I don't know what, this passionate defense of government spending?
BREAM: Right,.
And, again, is that the hill you want to die on? You have got folks like David Axelrod, Rahm Emanuel, James Carville, these are big Democrat voices, saying the optics of this are not good when you're out there saying I want to fight to preserve some of these programs that have come to light.
That's a really hard sell to make with the American people who are trying to put gas in their car and food on their table and take care of their kids. So even Democrats are warning, is this the scene that you want to make? Because a lot of Americans say, we want to cut this stuff.
And, by the way, that rhetoric about dead or alive, both parties for years have been saying we need to stop saying that stuff. These are real people who've been identified. We know their names. We know some of their personal details, their families, where they work or go to school.
CAIN: Right.
BREAM: So that can be perceived as a real threat.
CAIN: They seem to think it's drastic and dramatic. I think a lot of Americans think it's a start.
As I mentioned, we just had the governor Louisiana, Jeff Landry, on here. "FOX News Sunday," you're going to have his wife, the first lady of Louisiana.
BREAM: We are. She's working on this project, Love One Louisiana, which she had started before January. And then, when the terrorist attack hit right here, those 14 families, they have reached out to say, this Love One Louisiana group is going to meet all of your immediate needs, your long- term needs, and the needs of people who were injured, as well as you know there were dozens more.
So we're talking to her about how she's trying to turn some things that was meant for evil into good.
CAIN: Yes.
Well, not only will we be watching. I will be there with you on Sunday.
BREAM: Yes, you are. You're on the panel. And then I get to ask you questions.
CAIN: All right, great to see you, Shannon.
BREAM: You too.
CAIN: Feel free to take some beads with you along the way. And you want to make any new friends, make sure to do that.
BREAM: Yes, I will do.
CAIN: All right.
Here we go. Hold on. I don't want to deprive anybody.
BREAM: All right. Let's go.
CAIN: So, I also don't want to peg anybody. Let's do it. See if I can hit the camera. There we go.
(MUSIC)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: "The Will Cain Show" live from New Orleans. Welcome to Bourbon Street.
Let's take a quick head count. Let me see. One, two, three, four, five Eagles fans. And I did see a group of Chiefs fans walking right underneath the balcony here, where we broadcast to you live from New Orleans.
Welcome back into our balcony. Welcome back to Super Bowl LIX on FOX this Sunday. For now, though, we leave the Crescent City. We go to Chicago, as the Windy City has put itself on thin ice over its sanctuary status.
The Trump administration is suing Chicago and the state of Illinois over its immigration laws, arguing they -- quote -- "interfere with ICE's ability to arrest and deport illegal immigrants.
That brings us to today's "Big Three."
A disturbing trend has developed of Democratic politicians, Democratic officeholders, Democratic leaders at local and state level who not only refuse to obey the law, but are doing everything they can to subvert the law.
I give you an example, Chicago Mayor Brandon Johnson, Illinois Governor J.B. Pritzker, and Boston Mayor Michelle Wu.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BRANDON JOHNSON (D), MAYOR OF CHICAGO, ILLINOIS: We are demonstrating that we are going to protect the residents of this city and we're going to continue to challenge the federal government to make critical investments in the lives of people who want a better, stronger, safer Chicago.
MICHELLE WU (D), MAYOR OF BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS: We don't enforce federal immigration law. We -- our police department takes care of criminal activity and they focus on local issues. And whenever someone breaks the law, we hold them accountable here regardless of their immigration status, which we do not ask about.
GOV. J.B. PRITZKER (D-IL): We also have a law in the books in Illinois that says that our local law enforcement will stand up for those law- abiding undocumented people in our state who are doing the right thing, and we're not going to help federal officials just drag them away because somebody pointed at them.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: What we're watching here is something more than simply refusing to help.
What we're watching here is an open, a declared desire to subvert federal immigration law.
This is what the law says. The Trump immigration executive order reads: "It is the policy of the United States to faithfully execute the immigration laws against all inadmissible and removable aliens, particularly those aliens who threaten the safety and security of the American people. Further, it is the policy of the United States to achieve a total and efficient enforcement of those laws, including through lawful incentives and detention capabilities."
These politicians in Chicago, in Illinois and in Boston have defied the law. It's also, by the way, happening in Iowa, but this time, not with free rein. An Iowa sheriff has said that he also will refuse to comply with detainer request forms from ICE. He said the following: "If their actions or paperwork are not within constitutional parameters, such as non- judicially vetted detainers, which are very different than warrants, and are simply an unconstitutional request from ICE or other three-letter federal agencies to arrest or hold someone, then we will make every effort to block, interfere, and interrupt their actions moving forward."
But this Iowa sheriff is meeting headlong with the governor of Iowa. Governor Kim Reynolds has warned that sheriff to cooperate with ICE or risk losing funding. It's high time these politicians, these leaders, these people in elected offices, from sheriffs to mayors to governors, not just obey the law, but enforce the law, avoid subverting the law.
Super Bowl LIX is on FOX, and look who's here next. It is OutKick's Dan Dakich coming up on "The Will Cain Show."
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: Welcome back to "The Will Cain Show" live from New Orleans.
It was a powerful moment on Wednesday as President Trump signed an order protecting women's sports. He was surrounded by female athletes of all ages. Now the NCAA says it'll abide by the new rules, still, nothing yet from the Olympics.
Meanwhile, California says it's going to buck the order and continue to allow trans athletes in women's sports.
Dan Dakich, the host of "Don't @ Me with Dan Dakich" on OutKick.com, and he joins me now.
What is up? Look at his shirt. Get a good shot of Dan Dakich's shirt, "Keeping Female Sports Female Since 2011. OutKick."
What do you make of all this, Dan? First of all, Trump's signs the order. The NCAA follows suit, but not California.
DAN DAKICH, HOST, "DON'T @ ME WITH DAN DAKICH": Yes, it's odd.
This is something near and dear to me. You know this. my wife is a legend in the softball world, both as a player and a coach. Stepdaughter played softball at Harvard. I think it's a monumental day. It is ridiculous in my brain that we have to have this conversation.
Keep men out of women's sports. I have said all along, I'm inclusive. Whatever you want to do, make everybody, the women that are transitioning to men, men to women, play against the men, see how that goes. But everybody piled on the women.
And I was so happy, so happy to see Trump do that. Charlie Baker with the NCAA, I read his statement, very political statement. They're eventually going to fall in line, I do believe. California just being California, I don't know what that does for them. I don't know how that affects them under the umbrella of the NCAA in terms of competing for NCAA championships.
CAIN: Title IX.
DAKICH: Title IX. It's a great step. We knew what Biden was trying to do and it wasn't good for women. Young women get the chance to play against young women, as ridiculous as that sounds. Thank God it's back.
CAIN: Many people wouldn't know this about Dan Dakich, but I have known Dan Dakich a long time. So I'm not going to simply ask him for his prediction in Super Bowl LIX, because it's a very unique way of analyzing athletes.
He's very into body phenotype, right? Give me a few of the Dan Dakich rules. High butt, good.
DAKICH: You have got to have high butt. If you have a low butt...
CAIN: High calves, good.
DAKICH: High calves are great and you have got to have thin ankles. I mean, you never see a thoroughbred with big, thick ankles. Friends of mine call the Big Ten the thick ankle leak. I think, they can't win national basketball championships. They have got too much thick ankles.
Look at the football, big fat guys running around, before the last two years, all right, in the Big Ten, the thick ankle league. Yes, you have got to have a high rear end, calves up to here and thin ankles.
CAIN: OK. And you're a very big astute analyst of the eyes. You pay attention to the eyes.
So as you look at the Super Bowl and you factor in all your body types...
DAKICH: Oh, man.
(LAUGHTER)
CAIN: ... who's got the right bodies to win the Super Bowl?
DAKICH: I don't care what his body is. Patrick Mahomes has the right everything. But so does Jalen Hurts.
I think Jalen Hurts is terrific. He's been there before. I think they have a better roster. Like, I think the Eagles have a better roster. Will, you watch a game and the Eagles went first last Sunday. And then the next one was the Chiefs. It was clear to me the Eagles are the better team. So I'm taking the Eagles. I'm taking the Eagles.
CAIN: Oh, my God, I was on pins and needles to see if you would do it.
DAKICH: No, I am. I got to.
CAIN: It makes a special kind of moron to say you're betting against Patrick Mahomes in the Super Bowl.
(LAUGHTER)
DAKICH: And I am betting, absolutely. I'm not just sitting here. I'm betting, brother.
(LAUGHTER)
CAIN: All right. He took the Eagles. Thank goodness I found one person willing to bet against Patrick Mahomes.
Hey, by the way, you're not going to be the most famous person at the Super Bowl on Sunday. I'm sorry. It will be most likely the president of the United States. And there's a new hat making the round, Dakich. Have you seen it? Elon Musk is wearing it.
DAKICH: Big one?
CAIN: Yes. Look at it, the supersized MAGA hat.
DAKICH: Would you wear one on your show?
CAIN: Yes.
DAKICH: You have the best hair in TV.
CAIN: Never cover it up.
DAKICH: Would you risk that thing? Come on. Come on.
(LAUGHTER)
CAIN: I'd risk it. Give me a hat. There's got to be one on the streets of New Orleans somewhere, a supersized MAGA hat.
(LAUGHTER)
CAIN: Supersized conversation with Dan Dakich. Check him out, "Don't @ Me" on OutKick.com.
Thank you, Dan.
DAKICH: My friend. Thank you.
CAIN: All right.
All right, let's keep the sports fun going for a minute more, because as I'm bouncing around New Orleans, ran into some of my favorite guys, the boys from "Breakfast Ball" on FS1.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I have the Chiefs and the over with Pacheco and the under. So, yes, I have the Chiefs winning the Super Bowl in a high-scoring game.
MARK SCHLERETH, "BREAKFAST BALL": I'm going with the Philadelphia Eagles as well.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, OK.
SCHLERETH: Because I think the Philadelphia Eagles, you look at them top the bottom, I think they're the best team.
I think Saquon goes for about 150. They control the tempo of the game. They control the carries.
CRAIG CARTON, HOST, "BREAKFAST BALL": Hurts is going to be the MVP of the Super Bowl, throwing for more than 300 yards. As much as it pains me to say it, the Philadelphia Eagles are Super Bowl champions.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: There they are, the boys, Craig Carton, Mark Schlereth, and Danny Parkins, right here on "The Will Cain Show."
Why'd you guys make Stink sit in back?
CARTON: Because he's the only guy that played. And...
SCHLERETH: I just -- I just want to -- I just want to tower over the two of them, right? That's all I want to.
DANNY PARKINS, "BREAKFAST BALL": Remind of us his superiority.
SCHLERETH: That's right.
CAIN: Danny, Mark, great to have you. I guess it's good to see you again here.
CARTON: It's good to see me again.
(LAUGHTER)
CAIN: All right, boys, you have been doing enough TV today. You have probably nailed it down.
As you pointed out, Mark Schlereth, multitime Super Bowl champion, surprisingly isn't wearing his rings.
What do you like here, Mark? When you analyze the Super Bowl, is there any reason to ever bet against Patrick Mahomes?
SCHLERETH: No, there's never any reason, unless you're like me. You just hate the Kansas City Chiefs.
But, like, I look at the resurgence of the running game, the way the running game has taken back over the National Football League. And it's so cyclical. And we have seen backs have a ton of success. And there's nobody that's had more success than Saquon Barkley.
And, for me, one of the big keys of the game is, how many times can that guy touch the ball? If he touches it 20, 25 times, you know there's going to be a breakout run. And that's my hope, that the Philadelphia Eagles and Saquon Barkley can possess the ball, get a breakout type of run.
CAIN: I know this isn't a sports show, but I want to clue the audience in on what to watch for on Sunday.
So what Mark is talking about there is Saquon Barkley. If he controls the game, you could argue that's a win for the Eagles.
The issue, Danny, is, the Chiefs have maybe the best defensive coordinator in the game, who games for every big game, Steve Spagnuolo. And he seems to come up with answers. He can come up with answers Tom Brady. You don't think he's going to come up with an answer for Saquon Barkley?
PARKINS: I think he will.
Steve Spagnuolo is the best defensive coordinator in the game. And there's just a thing about the Chiefs. They're not the most talented team in this game. They're not. Philly is more talented, but Kansas City is better coached on offense, on defense with Spagnuolo.
And they have got number 15. They have got Patrick Mahomes. So will Spagnuolo shut down the Eagles? No. The question is, can he slow them down? And I think he will.
CAIN: So what kind of terrible pick are you making for the game?
(LAUGHTER)
PARKINS: That's the right lead-in.
CAIN: You get it wrong -- you have gotten it wrong on this show.
CARTON: Yes. Yes.
CAIN: I keep telling audience, this guy Carton knows sports and...
CARTON: Yes. Well, you know.
CAIN: And then you come in hot and say that I get my picks wrong.
CARTON: Yes.
CAIN: And then you fall flat.
CARTON: Well, since you have attacked me first, let me say this.
Jesse Watters would have gotten the deejay to stop playing this music.
(LAUGHTER)
CARTON: So let me just say that.
Look, these guys are both right in handicapping the game. The Eagles are the better team. Top to bottom, if you went spot for spot, the Eagles have more talent. Kansas City with the experience and the one guy that matters most, number 15, Patrick Mahomes.
But I think this is going to be the coming out party for Jalen Hurts, and people like Danny are going to stop referring to him as a good quarterback. And he's going to be a great quarterback. And it pains me to say it, because, like you, I hate Philadelphia and their fans. You famously hate them as well.
I like Philadelphia in this game.
CAIN: How many times have you picked against the Chiefs, Carton?
CARTON: Every week.
(LAUGHTER)
CAIN: Every week you, picked against the Chiefs.
(CROSSTALK)
PARKINS: He's been wrong about 17 times.
CAIN: How many times?
CARTON: I'm consistent.
PARKINS: Consistently wrong.
CAIN: Consistently wrong.
You guys having a good time on "Breakfast Ball"?
CARTON: Yes, we started the show at the end of August on FS1. And it's been great. We're having a blast every morning from 8:00 to 10:00.
And, look, we don't take ourselves all that seriously. We're talking sports, which is important to a lot of people, but we have a really good time every morning.
CAIN: Well, I have known these guys, not all of them. Just met Danny.
PARKINS: Yes.
CAIN: Gotten to have become friends with Carton, known Schlereth for a lot of years, a legend in the NFL as a Bronco and a Redskin.
Mark, you have already made your prediction, shockingly, for the Eagles, but for the casual fan watching this game, give them one, two keys to the game they should be watching as it goes along so they know what's happening in the Super Bowl.
SCHLERETH: Well, one Danny talks about it all the time, if the Chiefs have the ball last, they're going to win this game. You don't bet against Patrick Mahomes. You don't bet against the Chiefs when they have the ball last.
Andy Reid, to me, has answers. And that's the biggest thing. They have been together as a coaching staff, as quarterback, coach. They have answers. They have gone through the battles. They have continuity. And so all those things favor the Kansas City Chiefs.
But when it comes to line of scrimmage play, I don't think there's any better team in the National Football League than that of the Philadelphia Eagles, dominant offensive line, dominant defensive line. That's what this game comes down to.
CAIN: And what is it? National anthem is?
CARTON: Over two minutes and 10 seconds. Jon Batiste, yes.
CAIN: Jon Batiste, two minutes and 10 seconds?
CARTON: More than 2:10, whatever the number is, yes, yes, yes.
CAIN: Half time, Danny, Kendrick Lamar?
PARKINS: It'll be a great show.
CAIN: Yes?
PARKINS: It'll be a great show.
CAIN: You a Kendrick Lamar guy?
PARKINS: Oh, longtime Kendrick Lamar guy. I taught him everything he knows.
CARTON: And, by the way, can I just say this? For the FOX News audience that's getting to know Will Cain, the Texas thing is real.
Show them the bell buckle. Come on. Let's see it.
(CROSSTALK)
CARTON: There you go.
PARKINS: There we go.
(LAUGHTER)
PARKINS: Company man.
(LAUGHTER)
CAIN: As they said this morning, company man.
CARTON: That's it.
(LAUGHTER)
(CROSSTALK)
CAIN: All right, guys, thank you so much, "Breakfast Ball" FS1 every morning.
CARTON: Yes. And bottom of my heart, congratulations on the job.
CAIN: Thanks.
CARTON: It's awesome. You're doing a great job. And good to call you a friend.
CAIN: I appreciate you guys. Thank you.
PARKINS: Thanks, Will.
SCHLERETH: Will, man, congrats, man.
CAIN: Thanks, Stink.
SCHLERETH: You're my boy, buddy. Love you, man.
CAIN: Appreciate it, man.
All right, don't go anywhere because look who's here next. It's legendary sports broadcaster Jim Gray, who's going to join us now.
And a couple of FOX News legends are going to appear in a special Super Bowl ad. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: How do you think this story is going to play out?
SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Too close to call.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Five minutes at air.
BAIER: Go big.
HANNITY: Or go home.
Are we in a Super Bowl LIX spot?
BAIER: Feels super.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: We are live in the Big Easy days before the big game on FOX, as the two teams gear up to face off.
Legendary sportscaster Jim Gray got a chance to sit down and speak with Chiefs head coach Andy Reid on how he's preparing for the Super Bowl. Listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ANDY REID, HEAD COACH, KANSAS CITY CHIEFS: I have had a chance to dig in on them a little bit here, and they have got a heck of a football team. Their defense flies around. Vic is a great coach. They're offensive guys. They have got good athletes at the tight end spot, the wide receiver spot, the running back spot. Quarterback is hot right now.
You want to play your best ball right now, so that's what we will strive to do.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: And joining me now is the host of the "Let's Go!" podcast, Jim Gray, here, who's -- by the way, your co-host was here a moment ago, Tom Brady. We almost got him to do a quick sit down with "The Will Cain Show."
JIM GRAY, HOST, "LET'S GO!": You were in a commercial.
CAIN: Tom waits for no man.
GRAY: No.
(LAUGHTER)
(CROSSTALK)
GRAY: Absolutely. No, he's great. Yes. But you can catch him on "Let's Go!" any time with Bill Belichick, myself, Maxx Crosby, Peter King. So check it out Mondays.
(CROSSTALK)
CAIN: Those legends with this legend on "Let's Go!"
You spoke to Andy Reid in preparation for this big game. Everybody -- and all due respect -- and I mean this -- to Nick Sirianni and the entire staff, who's an incredible staff in Philadelphia. Everybody talks about the staff in Kansas City, Andy Reid, Steve Spagnuolo, and, of course, the quarterback.
But the coaching difference, it's real when it comes to what's in Kansas City.
GRAY: They have been so good. I mean, Spagnuolo has just been incredible with what he's been able to do. And Matt Nagy, who, of course, coached the Chicago Bears, he's been a whiz and hopefully he will get another chance to be a head coach. Did well with the Bears.
And then, like all coaches, it doesn't usually end too well. But I think he should be due again. And they're just so creative, so innovative. I mean, I remember Andy Reid telling us last year he went back into the '50s and the '60s to find something, and he says he's going to do the same thing for this game.
These guys are just so studious. And that's -- he lives it. He goes to the office at 3:45 in the morning. And I love Andy Reid. He's the closest thing that we have -- first of all, he's his own legend in his own way, but he's John Madden. He just loves, breathes and eats the game.
And that's what he thinks about. And he's concerned about his family and he's concerned about his community, but he loves football.
CAIN: Hey Jim, how will we know early in the game which coaching staff figured something out with the other squad?
I know to watch Spagnuolo and how much he blitzes the quarterback, how much he will go after Jalen Hurts, how many men he will put in the box to stop Saquon Barkley. When do you think we will see in the game, oh, the chess match has been figured out?
GRAY: I think we will see it at the end, because I think the longer the game goes, the better Andy Reid and that staff is at adjusting and not coming into a plan.
Mike Tyson used to say it. Everybody's got a plan until they get punched in the mouth.
CAIN: Yes.
GRAY: And we saw that with Mike, OK? After these teams get punched in the mouth, it's nothing against Nick Sirianni. He's done a great job and look at what the Eagles have done, but Andy Reid and these guys, they know how to adjust and they have -- look, what are they, 17-0 in these games, one- score games, and they're 23-1 since New Year's Eve.
That's not luck. Yes, there are lucky bounces. Yes, there are good calls. Yes, there are all those things that add up. But guess what? That's because they're great. That's what makes great.
CAIN: Well, your good friend, your co-host on the "Let's Go!" podcast, Tom Brady, was right here this morning, not with me, unfortunately. I was just off to the side, though.
(CROSSTALK)
CAIN: A brush with greatness. But he was standing right here. And he talked with "FOX & Friends" about how -- not how you prepare for the Super Bowl in his past life, but how he's preparing for it now as a broadcaster. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BRADY: Studying a lot of film, reading all the different packets of information that I get, and trying to kind of make my notes and try to be really prepared for anything that can happen. I think the difference is, as a player, you're really prepared for one side of the ball. As a broadcaster, you have to prepare for both offenses, both defenses. There's a lot of things that you have on your sheet that you really want to get to.
But the reality is, and even for this being a long game, I can't even get to all the stuff that I have already prepared for.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Hey, Jim, it's the same thing we heard from him as a player, prepare, prepare, prepare.
GRAY: Nobody's more prepared. Nobody, nobody alive has more knowledge of a Super Bowl. He's won seven of them, OK? This guy knows this inside and out. Nobody has better stories. He can speak to the experience. He knows the experience inside and out.
He's won seven times. He's lost three times. And it's the losses that stick with him. He can tell you about Mario Manningham and David Tyree. And he can tell you all you need to know about not having to punt in that game that they lost to Philadelphia and the Philly Special, where he dropped the ball.
So the losses stick with you much longer. But he can relay all of those stories on Sunday afternoon to FOX. He's done a great job. He's incrementally gotten better and better and better. And we're just tipping to the iceberg here. As he goes on with his FOX career, he will be perhaps the best one to ever do this because he has it inside of him.
And he's so likable. I mean, if you don't like Tom Brady anymore, it's just because he beat your brains in and you were one of those other 30 cities than Tampa and New England.
CAIN: Yes.
GRAY: Because if you don't like him anymore, you better look at yourself.
CAIN: All right, last question for you, Jim. You are a legendary sports analyst, broadcaster, storyteller.
As you look at this Super Bowl, Super Bowl LIX, what's the story?
GRAY: Well, the story is Patrick Mahomes. And the story is, can this man do something that no one has done since the Green Bay Packers before the merger? And that's to win three of these championship games in a row.
And Patrick Mahomes is still a young man. And to have done what he has already done, the statistics that he is compiling, the record that he has, it's about Patrick Mahomes. Usually, the best player wins this game. If you go back and you see it, yes, we have a Trent Dilfer and we have a Jeff Hostetler and Mark Rypien.
And that's not to diminish those guys, because they played well with terrific teams. But usually the best player wins. And usually the best coach wins. And they have the best player and the best coach. And so that's to take nothing away from Philadelphia. Saquon Barkley is incredible. But I just think that this is about Patrick Mahomes and this team.
And he's got all of these guys who figured out how to win when it matters. And that's all that matters.
CAIN: All right, I'm going to say this and I hope Jim won't get mad at me.
GRAY: How would I get mad at you?
CAIN: Because he is the definition of, I think, a humble man who doesn't think the story is about himself. But I just wondered.
I was talking to Jim. I said, where do you live? He said, "Well, I used to live in Pacific Palisades."
We're thinking of you, your family, your entire community. I know you don't want to talk about it. I just want to tell you that I know I'm not the only person watching right now that would want to share those same sentiments with you, Jim.
GRAY: Well, I appreciate that, Will. And do whatever you can to help the folks in Pacific Palisades and Altadena. It's been a really rough go. And people's lives do move on. And everybody will rebuild.
But it's a difficult, tough, awful circumstance. So I appreciate you bringing it up. And help those folks, if you can, please.
CAIN: We will do so.
Jim, thank you so much. Great seeing you.
GRAY: Thanks, Will. Great to be with you. Congratulations to you on all your success. Great job.
CAIN: Thank you so much.
There you go, the legendary Jim Gray.
Now it's time for "Will of the People."
Let's check in with what you're saying as we sit here on Bourbon Street, New Orleans.
Trudy says: "I like it. Let the will of the people be known. Everyday, people, we matter."
That's what we hope to do every day, Trudy. Sean is asking: "Will, who are you rooting for, Chiefs or Eagles? Are you indifferent?"
Note, Sean says he's a big Chiefs fan. All right,
I will answer this question for you, Sean. I'm a Cowboys fan, so I could never, ever, ever root for the Eagles. I respect my Eagles fans, my frenemies. But I can't root for you. Mahomes is from Texas, and although their dynasty would begin to assault the Cowboys' dynasty's place in history, I will root for the boy from Texas. I will root for the Chiefs.
And, finally: "I hope you get my brother on the saxophone a little cash."
That's a good point, Cainelo. Somebody -- me, not somebody, me, I'm headed down to take my man some cash here. He's been awesome with us today here on "The Will Cain Show."
Be sure to tune in to FOX this Sunday for exclusive coverage of Super Bowl LIX, with the pregame show kicking off at 1:00 p.m. Eastern time. Before that, I will be live from New Orleans on "FOX & Friends" all weekend long leading up to it.
It's been fun hanging out with you. And now I hand you off to "The Five."

Load-Date: February 7, 2025


End of Document
