




Fox News MEDIA BUZZ 11:00 AM EST
February 23, 2025 Sunday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7408 words
Byline: Howard Kurtz, Tomi Lahren
Guests: Tim Hogan; Jason Miller
Body


(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HOWARD KURTZ, FOX NEWS HOST:
Jason Miller, the longtime Trump advisor, joins us in a few moments. President Trump is giving the media exactly what they want. Plenty of access. Unprecedented access. Constant access in the Oval Office, in the East Room, by the helicopter, on Air Force One, virtually every day.
Journalists get to question the president on all sorts of issues and you know Donald Trump, he makes news. He doesn't mince words. He doesn't pull punches.
So instead of having to rely heavily on anonymous sources, reporters get to ask the boss, a stark contrast with Joe Biden, who mostly avoided them and more availability than any other president. But that doesn't mean Trump has softened his view of the news business, as he made clear with Sean Hannity.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS HOST: You're both aware. You have to be keenly aware that the media and the punditry class, not that, you know, I think you've proven they have no power anymore, because they threw everything they had at you, and they didn't win. And that was, you know, the New York Times, Washington Post, three networks, every late-night comedy show, two cable channels, they just threw everything, lawfare, weaponization.
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: They're actually bad at it, because if they were good at it, I'd never be president, because I think nobody in history has ever gotten more bad publicity than me. I could do the greatest things. I get 98 percent bad publicity. I could do outside of you and a few of your very good friends.
HANNITY: Right.
TRUMP: It's like the craziest thing.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
KURTZ: Well, I don't know if it's 98 percent. There are some journalists who try to be fair. But clearly the vast majority of the coverage has been negative, especially with Trump and Elon Musk imposing deep spending cuts and massive layoffs.
The president also talked about his least favorite networks.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: When I watch MSNBC, which I don't watch much, but you have to watch the enemy on occasion, the level of arrogance and cheating, they're just horrible people.
HANNITY: Right.
TRUMP: These are horrible people. CNN, likewise. I mean, I watch them asking questions with, you know, the hatred.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
KURTZ: Now CNN would certainly deny that its journalist hates Trump. And MSNBC would insist it doesn't engage in cheating. By the way, MSNBC is cancelling Joy Reid's primetime show, which has been filled with harsh racially-charged rhetoric and has lost half its audience, and replacing her with weekend host Michael Steele, Alicia Menendez, and ex-Kamala aide Symone Sanders Townsend, according to Variety and the New York Times.
But the bottom line the same president who lashes out at major news organizations also spends a lot of time talking to them to get his message out.
I'm Howard Kurtz and this is Media Buzz.
The media are intensively covering Elon Musk who strangely wielded a chainsaw at the C-PAC conference and DOGE's sweeping budget cuts often by spot lining the impact on hard-hit individuals.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BRIANNA KEILAR, CO-HOST, CNN: Andrew Lennox is a Marine veteran who spent 10 years serving. He was fired from a supervisor training program at the V.A. Medical Center in Ann Arbor, Michigan.
ANDREW LENNOX, 10-YEAR MARINE VETERAN: As I packed up my office, it's angered, you know, because I was terminated for my performance. I haven't even had a performance review.
JOY REID, HOST, MSNBC: That includes Arielle Kane. Up until Saturday, she was working at the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation.
ARIELLE KANE, TERMINATED CMS EMPLOYEE: It really makes me sad because I know the work we were doing was so important and I thought it was bipartisan.
UNKNOWN: More than 8,000 USAID employees were sent home by the administration.
ADAM DUBARD, TERMINATED USAID EMPLOYEE: They're not looking for competency, they're not looking for if you're good at your job, they're looking for pure loyalty tests, and if you don't give it, you will be punished.
ELON MUSK, HEAD, DOGE: I'm like, look, it's like being in a room and this target, the wall, the roofs, and the floor are all targets. So it's like you're going to close your eyes and go shoot in any direction. You can't miss, you know?
AINSLEY EARHARDT, FOX NEWS CO-HOST: They're exposing the left and all of the money, the wasteful spending that we all work hard for, our tax dollars, and what it's going to. It's going to all these DEI programs in other countries. That's not what Americans want.
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS HOST: The way they talk about it, it's like the DNC is being audited. And in a way they're right because everybody that works in the government is a Democrat.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
KURTZ: And there's no shortage of critics.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JEN PSAKI, HOST, MSNBC: So as part of its purge of government employees, Elon Musk and his merry band of young DOGE-ax men unilaterally fired 350 workers at the agency responsible for safeguarding nuclear arms components.
ABBY PHILLIP, HOST, CNN: The government wants you to believe that the person putting thousands of people out of work, making them rethink their entire lives, how they (muted) families, technically he has no power to do what he's doing.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
KURTZ: Joining us now to analyze the coverage in Nashville, Tomi Lahren, who hosts the Tomi Lahren Show on OutKick, and Fox News contributor. And here with me, Tim Hogan, former strategist for Hillary Clinton.
Tomi, what do you make of this media approach focusing on one person who lost his or her job, or one person whose program was shut down?
TOMI LAHREN, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: So listen, I want to be compassionate to anybody who loses their employment. That's got to be a difficult thing for anyone to go through. Whether I think their jobs were necessary or whether I agree with the way they're going about it or not, doesn't matter. Someone losing their job. I feel badly for their personal circumstance.
However, Howie, because this is a media show, I just have to point out that back in the years of 2020 through, I don't know, 2023, when the COVID era was all the rage and people were losing their jobs and businesses were being forcibly closed, and you had to choose between employment or a vaccine that you didn't want. I never saw these media folks bringing folks on talking about the heartbreak of them losing everything that they had.
Similarly, Howie, I'm from South Dakota. On day one, President Biden shut down the Keystone XL pipeline, effectively terminating about 12,000 plus jobs in the first hours of his presidency. I didn't see any of those pipeline workers on MSNBC or CNN getting their moment to cry. So, whereas, I understand losing your job is a traumatic thing, I think the media coverage here is imbalanced to say the least.
KURTZ: Well, I think there was a lot of coverage of people lost their jobs during COVID, but not necessarily tied to President Biden.
Tim, the impact on actual human beings clearly is part of the story. But at the same time, is there an unspoken assumption that federal employees should have tenure for life?
TIM HOGAN, DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST: No, I don't think so. I think there is a way to go about cutting federal work even if you want to cut federal government. I mean, the Clinton administration did it in the nineties. They save taxpayers a $100 billion but they did it in the right way.
Look, the federal workers I think people think are just people in D.C. who push paper around 80 percent of these people are actually out in the country, 30 percent of the federal workforce are veterans and you're firing people who look after our nuclear weapons. You're firing people who are trying to stop bird flu. You're firing people who are firefighters in rural communities.
I mean, these are important jobs and the problem is the way that DOGE is going about this is, they're just sending out emails. Some people are getting emails who say, you haven't performed well, they haven't had a performance review, or they've been given good marks.
KURTZ: Right.
HOGAN: And they're getting emails that say, do your first name, last name, you're fired. Not a way to do it.
KURTZ: Well, you know, Southwest Airlines just cut its workforce by 15 percent. I don't see reporters going to interview those people, because in the private sector, this happens all the time.
So, Tomi, Tim sort of anticipated my next question about, you know trying to then they're scrambling to hire back the bird flu experts and the nuclear weapons experts. So, would you agree that Elon Musk approach is kind of cut first and ask questions later or are they moving too quickly?
LAHREN: Well, listen, Elon Musk is an unconventional kind of guy and he's going to do things in an unconventional way, but the way things have been done for the last 30 years apparently has not worked, which is why we have such bloated government and fraud and abuse.
So again, you might not like the way that he's doing it. There might be some mistakes made along the way. That's understandable in my eyes and I think that they're working to correct any mistakes very quickly. I would also point out, you know, this uproar of the nuclear waste folks, OK.
During President Biden's wonderful tenure, my Democrat friends, you had someone in charge of nuclear waste that was stealing ladies' luggage. So again, when we're talking about the federal workforce, you don't just get a job and keep it for life. It's not that cushy. The private sector has to do this all the time.
I agree. Elon Musk is going in quite literally with a chainsaw and an axe cutting things. It might make you uncomfortable, but the American voters wanted total upheaval and they wanted things to actually happen, and things are happening.
KURTZ: Who would have thought that the chainsaw would become a major political symbol? And now Tim, the Washington Post says that even some people who've gotten glowing performance reviews got fired, especially if they were probationary employees, which means they've been there for two years or less. And maybe as many as 200,000 of them being let go, that's going to have an impact.
HOGAN: Yes, right. I mean, it's going to have a huge impact. And also, when you look at how DOGE is categorizing some of these cuts, a lot of them don't make any sense. They just claimed, according to the New York Times this morning, $1.9 billion in savings from cutting an I.T. contract in northern Virginia that was canceled under the Biden administration. They claimed they saved Social Security money under I.T., $223 million. They actually saved $500,000.
They're doing this, they're disrupting people's lives, and it's all also a pretext for a huge tax cut that's coming down the pike. It's going to be $4.6 trillion extending the Trump tax cuts. A bunch of that money is going to go to the wealthiest people. And the money that DOGE is making up is not going to make up that gap. They're going to explode the deficit. That's why they're playing this game where they pick out little items and say, doesn't this sound terrible? But at the end of the day, it's going to be a disaster for the federal budget.
KURTZ: Tomi, some Republican lawmakers, and I'm sure you know this, some of them are doing it on the Senate floor, some of them are talking to reporters, some of them are behind the scenes.
But while they support President Trump's efforts they're saying well you got to spare this program NIH grants because that affects my state. You've got to spare the food program that helps farmers in my state. Doesn't that underscore how hard it is to cut the federal budget?
LAHREN: It's hard to make cuts. Let's just be honest. It's not an easy thing to do. But this is exactly why many Americans support what Elon Musk and DOGE are doing and the courts have upheld. Because if we allow Congress to do this, they don't want to cut anything.
We see it with their giant spending bills. Everybody gets a kickback. Everybody gets something for their state. Everybody gets a pet project. And by the time you get to the end of it, they actually cut nothing. There's no cut of waste, fraud and abuse. Everybody gets their pork.
So I understand there are going to be Republicans. There are going to be Democrats and people in the middle that are not going to like the cuts that are coming, but if we're honest and serious about wanting to reform government and decrease the size of government, sometimes some tough cuts are going to need to happen. It's going to make folks be a little uncomfortable, but get comfortable being uncomfortable. This is the era of Trump. Things are going to change.
KURTZ: Get comfortable being uncomfortable. Interesting. So the press, of course, is calling this hypocrisy because they're Trump budget cuts. And isn't this, Tim, sort of a version of not in my backyard?
HOGAN: Yes, absolutely. I mean, but this is what members of Congress do. And just to put a face on this once again, we're hearing from multiple people who are like disabled veterans at the V.A. where their job is to make sure that wait times are shorter for people who need services.
This is not just fat. They are cutting muscle. And that is why some GOP members of Congress are writing letters. But, oh, my God, they've completely neutered --
(CROSSTALK)
KURTZ: They do more than writing letters.
HOGAN: They've completely neutered themselves. They're writing op-eds. They're sending some letters. But like, they have given away their power, and you know what, their constituents are still going to hold them accountable. We've seen in like deep red congressional seats in Georgia, in Oregon and swing seats in Wisconsin.
KURTZ: Yes.
HOGAN: People are pissed because they're starting to see and feel the effects of this and that would be a bit very bad for them in 2018 'cause they're going to own that, or in 2026 because they're going to own this like they did in 2018.
KURTZ: That was always going to happen which is, you know, you do it on a whiteboard, it's one thing, and when the political pressure starts to rise, then of course members of Congress get yelled at a town meetings.
Meanwhile, a couple of top Trump officials have been also a beating up on the media, Tomi. Pete Hegseth, the decorated veteran and former Fox Host who is now the secretary of defense, made a video saying the legacy media have an agenda, they're lazy, the media distorts good news stories and often just gets them wrong.
Kash Patel just confirmed his new FBI director says everything or much of what's written about him is fake, malicious, slanderous, and defamatory. Keep it coming, bring it on. So it's not just the president who is very unhappy and being more aggressive toward the news business.
LAHREN: Yes, listen, legacy media, I don't think it's President Trump or anybody in his orbit that has cut the credibility of the legacy or the mainstream media. They've done it to themselves. And I think that over the course of this campaign season, that was quite evident, whether you have selective editing or changing of things in Kamala Harris interviews, or whether you have the mainstream media, who for four, I would argue four plus years, covered up for President Joe Biden's obvious mental decline.
So again, it's not President Trump that's going after the media and now they're losing credibility. They lost that credibility and now that you have a Trump presidency, you're going to have people in his orbit that are quite naturally pointing that out.
But this is not because of President Trump. This is in spite of President Trump. They did it to themselves. And in my opinion, they deserve the criticism that they're getting.
KURTZ: Interesting how legacy media has become such a loaded phrase. Well, when we come back, the media on fire over President Trump's comments on Ukraine. And later, Trump advisor Jason Miller.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
KURTZ: President Trump has inflamed the world's media by escalating his rhetoric about Vladimir Zelensky, blaming the Ukrainian president for Russia invading his sovereign nation three years ago.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: Think of it, a modestly successful comedian, President Zelenskyy, talked the United States of America into spending $350 billion to go into a war that basically couldn't be won. That never had to start. A dictator without elections. Zelenskyy better move faster. He is not going to have a country left.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
KURTZ: As American and Kremlin officials were about to meet to negotiate a settlement, Zelenskyy responded with frustration.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE: I will never accept any decisions between United States and Russia about Ukraine, never, and our people never. But there is no leader in the world who can really make a deal with Putin without asking about us.
JACK KEANE, FOX NEWS SENIOR STRATEGIC ANALYST: Both presidents know for a fact that Putin is a thug, he's a killer, he's committed genocide inside of Ukraine, that all the casualties that are out there are a result of an unprovoked attack on Ukraine.
President Trump doesn't talk about it in those terms because I think he believes in personal diplomacy.
LAURA INGRAHAM, FOX NEWS HOST: But it's extremely sad that this all happened. But now Trump has to get the best deal that he can. And that won't happen if he does what Biden did and just insults Russia and keeps funding failure. The truth is, we're broke. Period.
ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR: What is incredible is that President Trump, the president of the United States, is now echoing talking points that Vladimir Putin has pushed repeatedly.
LAWRENCE O'DONNELL, HOST, MSNBC: Donald Trump blamed Ukraine for starting the war which began only when Russia invaded Ukraine. That is exactly like blaming Poland for starting World War II.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
KURTZ: Tomi, whether you agree with the war or not, the media are quick to point out that there's one person to blame for launching the invasion aimed at wiping Ukraine off the map and making it part of Russia, and that is Vladimir Putin.
LAHREN: Yes, I agree with that assessment. I would also say a secondary to that would be President Joe Biden, whose weakness and ineptitude also allowed this to happen. Again, I don't think this would have happened under a President Trump. But here we are.
And I understand that the media, anytime Donald Trump put something out on Truth Social, there has to be this eruption of outrage. Oh, no, you called him a comedian. You called somebody a name.
Haven't these folks caught onto the program by now? He's been doing this and he's been doing it, I would add, quite successfully from his first term all the way through. And by the way, he doesn't just do it with people like President Zelenskyy, he also does it with little rocket man, little Marco, lying Ted Cruz, Ron de Santimonious.
This is how President Trump operates. Again, I will say it makes some folks uncomfortable, but from what we've seen thus far, and I believe we're going to see, it's going to be effective. You know, just right before this program, we had Maria Bartiromo talking about how they're going to make a deal for rare earth minerals. That's probably going to be happening soon.
So again, underestimate the man, don't like the way he tweets or Truth Socials, but if the results are there and we get an end to an endless war, I think that's a win.
KURTZ: Tim, it goes beyond just insulting Zelenskyy when you call him a dictator without elections. Well, he did postpone elections last year under his constitution because the country is at war. It's hard to hold elections in that situation. Brian Kilmeade did press President Trump on this repeatedly.
What's your take on the coverage of this situation?
HOGAN: I mean, I think what we are seeing is the American president using betrayal as a foreign policy tool. The argument is that he is using exactly the Russian talking points that were the pretext for the war to begin with. And like you said, he's calling him a dictator.
He's saying his approval ratings at four percent. Yes, he can. He -- they are not holding elections right now. That is part of the Ukrainian Constitution, it's not some suspension of the Constitution.
KURTZ: By the way, his approval ratings are not at four percent, but go ahead.
HOGAN: Right. But the point being is that it's not just the media, it's not just Democrats who are alarmed by this. You're hearing consistently from Republicans. People like, you know, Chuck Grassley, Tom Tillis, Senator Thune, others.
I mean, you are hearing confusion from his own team, Marco Rubio, Pete Hegseth, Keith Kellogg. They're not on the same page because this is what Trump does. He just goes to the podium and says whatever he wants. And I think what he is doing is actually softening the ground for an end to the conflict that actually gives more to Russia and he's trying to get public opinion to be OK with that.
KURTZ: Well, we'll have to wait and see on that. And Tomi, you make the point that if he is able to broker a reasonable deal, then the fact that he's not constantly attacking Russia might be a factor.
But Tim raises the question, and there are a number of conservative media outlets as well as Republicans who flatly disagree with the president. And then you can pivot to Joe Biden if you want, but the president blaming Zelenskyy for the foolishness of allowing his country to be invaded by Russia.
LAHREN: Yes. Again, I don't blame President Zelenskyy for the Russian invasion. I think it was supposed to be just a small incursion, according to President Joe Biden. But I will say this. Again, I understand why some folks are really inflamed by this. There's a lot of folks that benefit from an endless war, a military industrial complex paycheck. I understand that.
You don't like the way the guy talks. But what I believe President Trump was trying to convey is President Zelenskyy, you will no longer be getting a blank check from the taxpayers of the United States of America. So, this might, again, make you uncomfortable, but you're going to have to come to the table.
President Trump and his team are doing whatever they can to try to bring lasting peace and prosperity to Ukraine, also build up their economy. And again, if President Zelenskyy wants to showboat and he wants to go do interviews, that's fine. That's not going to help his country. Come to the table.
KURTZ: OK, let me get it.
LAHREN: Let the United States help you, but no more blank checks.
KURTZ: Let me get -- Tim, Wall Street journal editorial page reminds us that Putin goes after civilian casualties. He bombs apartment buildings. He bombs train stations. I'm not saying Trump shouldn't talk to him but this is who we're dealing with.
HOGAN: Right. He is a murderer and actually a dictator, right? That is the appropriate term for him to be referred to. And the issue here is not how Trump is necessarily talking about it and making people uncomfortable. The issue is that it is a pretext, as it looks now, and many people are alarmed about, for appeasement that could encourage Putin in the future to do something similar like this. We would not like that. We would like it to stop.
KURTZ: That is certainly the concern around the world and in Europe.
Up next, New York City in chaos, really as mass resignations follow the Eric Adams case.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
KURTZ: New York's Mayor Eric Adams still very much in the headlines as the latest four deputy mayors resigning rather than keep working for the man whose bribery indictment was ordered to be dropped by the Trump Justice Department.
Meanwhile, a federal judge in Manhattan pressed a top DOJ official on the reason for abetting the case, such as saying, well, Adams is running for reelection, but the charges were brought last September.
Tim, how can the city function when these deputy mayors really run it day to day, are the latest front-page news?
HOGAN: Yes, it's incredibly difficult. It's a terrible situation for New York City to be in. It's also a terrible situation for the governor to be in. Like she said, this is a serious decision. If she were to remove him, or does she put in place some legal guardrails, which she has.
(CROSSTALK)
KURTZ: Governor Kathy Hochul has the power --
HOGAN: Yes.
KURTZ: -- to remove the mayor, but has declined to do so.
HOGAN: Right, and it has put in things like monitoring the municipal purse and having people be able to sue if the Trump administration's Adams decides not to. But it's a dual crisis. It's confidence in the mayor's ability to do his job, but it is also at the DOJ with numerous people resigning, including conservatives, including someone who had worked with John Roberts. And there's a big crisis of government as a result of this.
KURTZ: Tomi, the Justice Department admits that it did not look at the evidence that it's making sort of procedural arguments and at the same time the judge whose delayed the decision, probably has limited ability to reinstate the case against Eric Adams.
LAHREN: Yes, it's all really a mess. It's a lot of chaos. I think New York City is pretty used to that. You know, at this point, I would say they have, you know, a lot of problems to tackle there.
I will say this, there are a lot of conservatives that give Mayor Eric Adams a lot of credit because he's willing to work with Tom Homan to get rid of criminal illegal aliens. I don't give him credit for that. I think that should just be a baseline expected thing that a mayor should want to do. But I do agree that this is causing a lot of chaos.
I also wonder why Governor Kathy Hochul isn't able to make decisions on her own, why she needs to bring in the likes of Al Sharpton to help her decide what she's going to do with New York City. That was quite comical this week. I'm glad she's getting her consultation from somebody as noble as that.
HOWARD KURTZ, FOX NEWS HOST: Tim, how does Eric Adams run for re-election when he's got the media against him now, city council president is against him, and ousted Governor Andrew Cuomo is far ahead in the polls and about to jump in?
TIM HOGAN, DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST: Yes. I mean, my very short answer to that is I have no idea. I don't know how you run for reelection in a situation like that. Everything is back against you by the own decisions that you have made.
But I will just say also, it is so concerning that we had, that Tom Homan sitting with the mayor on this network saying I'm going to be up your butt, with a phrase he used, if you don't follow our agreement. And I think that dangling over Adams head is just dangerous.
KURTZ: Right. Just to explain the, whether there was an agreement even though Tom he rightly points out that, you know, Mayor Adams was against the, you know, his state with -- city rather, was receiving a lot of illegal migrants and he has been criticizing the Biden administration for a long time. But that's one of the things that will play out here in this case.
New York city is a mess, Tomi, but he's the first sitting mayor to be indicted.
Thanks so much. Next on Media Buzz, Trump advisor Jason Miller on the president's tumultuous first month in office.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
KURTZ: And joining me now here in Washington, Jason Miller, senior advisor to the Trump transition team. The president, as you know, has gotten absolutely hammered, not just by liberal journalists, but by National Review and the Wall Street Journal editorial page for blaming Russia for the invasion, blaming Ukraine, excuse me, for the invasion of Russia.
How can you defend that when the Kremlin sent troops and missiles into a sovereign country with the aim of wiping it off the map?
JASON MILLER, SENIOR ADVISOR, TRUMP 2024 CAMPAIGN: So Howie, let's go and take a step back for a moment. I don't think necessarily that the National Review is emblematic of what regular Americans are thinking.
Here's the bottom line. We have had so many people who have been killed or wounded in this conflict with Ukraine and Russia that we have to stop the killing. In fact, Howie, did you know that over a million people have either been killed or wounded in this conflict?
KURTZ: I did. And we all want to end the war.
MILLER: Howie, Ukraine is in such bad shape right now that the average age of their soldier is over 43 years old. You go and take the tens if not hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian troops have been killed, you take the between 800,000 and a million Ukrainian women who've left the country along with children, you're going to have literally a lost generation.
What President Trump has done is he has forced the sides of the table to actually stop the killing and come up with a peace deal. For the last several years, Joe Biden has sat there completely incompetent, doing nothing but fueling and funding more killing and more death. We should be trying to stop the killing, not trying to keep it going.
KURTZ: You're making an argument to end the war, which I think a lot of people, most people, would agree with. I'm talking about the beginning of the war.
The New York Post cover, if we can put it up, says, President Trump, this is a dictator with a big picture of Putin. So the fact checkers say, look, Zelenskyy is not a dictator, as President Trump said. Wartime leaders like Winston Churchill have postponed elections during wars. He's at 57 percent in the latest poll, not 4 percent. So how do you respond to that?
MILLER: Well, simple. On a personal end, even say that Joe Biden has a lot of blame to go with this. Number one, when we saw the disastrous withdrawal from Afghanistan, we completely lost all sense of deterrence as a nation. But then also with Joe Biden continually pushing for E.U. expansion, pushing for a NATO expansion, of course they're heading toward conflict.
But let's go and put that aside. The fact of the matter is we have war, we have conflict that's happening right now. And how we talk so often about the casualties, exactly how many people have been hurt. Let's also not forget how much American money has been spent. Over hundreds of billions of dollars.
KURTZ: And I understand that debate.
MILLER: And we have to stop that. We can't go on. And in fact, President Trump had a really interesting point yesterday. I'm not sure if many folks caught on to it in his speech at C-PAC. where he talked about his legacy and what he thinks that ultimately will be. And he said that he hopes that his legacy really will be as a peacemaker.
Keep in mind that Putin invaded Ukraine under Obama, Putin invaded Ukraine under Biden. He didn't dare do it against President Trump. Not only did President Trump have no new wars, he's going to stop the killing in Ukraine. He's already gotten to a peace deal, to a ceasefire in the Middle East.
KURTZ: OK.
MILLER: I think we can get that. But we have to stop the killing, Howie.
KURTZ: Conservative Mark Levin who's a Fox News host, says this is sick. Ukraine didn't start this war. What were they supposed to do? Roll over and play dead. They're just trying to survive.
So you very skillfully have not answered the direct question, which is why is President Trump blaming Zelenskyy for the beginning of the war?
MILLER: Well, Zelenskyy has a lot of blame, I think that would go to this as well. But again, Howie, you want to look in the past. I want to look into the future, what we do to save lives. And that's exactly what President Trump is doing.
And the fact of the matter is, Zelenskyy right now is trying to hang on to power. Everybody in Washington, everybody in Brussels is trapped in this, essentially this circular firing squad of trying to figure out how do we go and keep the conflict, how do we keep it going.
President Trump is the only one saying, let's stop the killing. Let's stop the wasteful spending. Let's go and try to help Ukraine. And by the way, we had Scott Bessent with Maria Bartiromo this past hour talking about the minerals deal that I think --
KURTZ: Right.
MILLER: -- the U.S. is going to be able to come to, which by the way is genius. Finally, we're actually going to have someone pay back some of the money, some of the blood and treasure that we've sent.
(CROSSTALK)
KURTZ: I got you. Most people don't want to keep the war going. I want to move now to the budget cut and Elon Musk DOGE. When he's cutting bird flu experts and trying to hire them back, when he's cutting those dealing with nuclear weapons and trying to hire them back. Isn't it fair for the press to say they're moving too fast, they're breaking the China and asking questions later?
MILLER: No, you've got to go and separate the media noise, essentially the freak out, because the media is not in control from the actual good work that's being done. By the way, people love the fact that President Trump and people who work for him like Elon Musk are getting it done.
You've got to keep in mind one thing, Howie. When President Trump first came down the escalator in 2015 and all through his win in 2016 and all the way to where we are now in 2025. A big part of his success is because he ran on an indictment of the failed policies of both Democrats and Republicans.
Republicans have had a lot of blame to go with this as well. Only in Washington, and this is a really warped place, only in Washington do you have Democrats say, let's go and spend $100 million. Republicans say, no, no, no, let's spend $50 million. They come together in a bipartisan fashion, they compromise to spend $150 million.
KURTZ: Right.
MILLER: Howie, this place is nuts. They spend out of control.
KURTZ: But what you're describing as media noise is also known as pointing out facts, mistakes that the DOGE effort has. It doesn't mean that what they're doing is invaluable work. It doesn't mean there's not a lot of waste, fraud, and abuse that we would all like to get rid of. But they've made mistakes.
MILLER: No one is going to bat a thousand, but I think they're doing a pretty damn good job. I mean, look at what they've already gone through and cut out with the wasteful USAID and funding trans plays in Columbia and all this nonsense. You look at the double billing and the double payments going on, they're going to be able to save so much.
Here's other thing that is really important for people to keep in mind. In addition to Joe Biden cutting off the drilling and stopping the energy exploration beginning his term back in 2021, the other thing that launched this massive inflation was the out-of-control spending, these massive spending bills.
So, the fact that President Trump with his team are going to go and claw back some of that green new scam money that's being, the fact that they're cutting out all of this wasteful spending. This stuff is absolute nonsense. People are glad.
The only people who are freaking out right now, Howie, are people inside the Beltway, the media people. Around the country, people love the chainsaw. They're like, you know what, Elon? Take the chainsaw literally to the buildings.
KURTZ: Well, you know who doesn't love it? Republican lawmakers who are protesting to the administration, please don't cut the NIH program. Please don't cut the Food for Farmers program. Doesn't that make your job more difficult?
MILLER: No, not at all because we can be way more efficient. I mean just the fact that we saw the freak out over the weekend of Elon saying, tell us what five things that you did this past week to justify your existence. If you can't name five things that you did last week, then you should not be on the government payroll.
KURTZ: All right, more with Jason Miller right after this.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
KURTZ: And we're back with Jason Miller. President Trump told reporters in a gaggle, I think we should govern the District of Columbia, make it absolutely flawlessly beautiful.
Now the district has largely had home rule for half a century. It certainly has crime and a lot of other problems that cities have. Is the president planning to end home rule?
MILLER: Well, I'll leave that up to the president and the administration. And I would say that I very much like Mayor Bowser. I think she's done a very good job.
KURTZ: I think we should govern the District of Columbia.
MILLER: Hold on. Hold on. Let me get into this, Howie.
KURTZ: Yes. But here's the thing. If President Trump is going to put pressure on people to get results, we saw him do it this week with Elon Musk. He's definitely going to do it when it comes to Democrat leadership, whether it's Mayor Bowser or anybody else. We have to get our cities back on track within this country. Far too many communities.
And again, D.C., other big cities. This was a massive, I think, part of the reason why President Trump won is because he said he was going to clean up our cities to make them safe. Of course he's going to put pressure on the District of Columbia.
Now whether or not the administration takes that next step to do something, I'm going to leave that up to them. But of course, he's going to say we have to get D.C. cleaned up and on track. But again, I think Mayor Bowser has done some really good things, particularly with the stadium deal and some other things.
KURTZ: Well, what I'm hearing is that this is a warning signal. President says he will protect Medicaid, the federal state program for the poor, as well as Medicare and Social Security, but he supports the House budget, which would slash Medicaid in part to pay for the tax cuts. So, which is it?
MILLER: Well, I think people are getting a couple of things conflated here. You can definitely go and remove the waste, fraud, and abuse. You can also talk about how you're going to deliver services more effectively without going and necessarily reducing benefits to people.
So, what the president has made clear is that we have to go and re-up his tax cuts when you get no tax on TIBS, no tax on Social Security, no tax on overtime. Reduce the corporate down 15 percent if you're making your product here in America but we have to streamline and make more efficient the federal government.
This is really the theme, Howie. For years, people been ticked off, the leaders have not done anything about it, he's going to get it right.
KURTZ: Well, House budgets could cut as much as $880 billion for Medicare. We'll see how it plays out.
Why does the president keep talking about Canada as the 51st state? It's a huge story there. It sparked a wave of patriotism and anger in America, and in reality, is never going to happen.
MILLER: Well, Howie, first of all, the president is having a little bit of fun with it, but also, he's also making some very serious points. I mean, the U.S. does subsidize Canada effectively, running about a $63 billion trade deficit. I think it was 64 billion the year before that.
KURTZ: It's just a fact of life.
MILLER: But hold on, but also when you look at why is Canada so safe, it's because of the United States. It's because of the U.S. protection. Remember the Monroe Doctrine, or as the New York Post --
KURTZ: Yes.
MILLER: -- now calls it, the Donroe Doctrine. The reason why Canada is safe is because of the United States. And there are a lot of aspects of the USMCA, while much improved over NAFTA, still need to be fixed. We definitely need more cooperation from the Canadians when it comes to the fentanyl coming into the country.
(CROSSTALK)
KURTZ: And he keeps talking to Justin Trudeau. Is he not getting cooperation from Justin Trudeau?
MILLER: Well, because Trudeau is still in charge.
KURTZ: Yes. For now.
MILLER: For now. For now, right. And I think he's on his way out there.
KURTZ: Yes.
MILLER: But no, but President Trump is going to use political pressure and media pressure only the way that he knows how. But I think he's having a little bit of fun.
KURTZ: So, with the president teasing crowds about whether he'd run for third term saying, oh, this will make news, barred by the Constitution, by the way, is he just trolling the press?
MILLER: Of course he's going to push the presses buttons, but what is actually the case is that he's changed American politics as we've known it, I think forever going forward. And people are looking for a different level of accountability, a different level of moving fast, getting things done.
I think President Trump is setting up for, he calls it the golden age of America, four great years. We've already seen a pretty busy pace so far.
KURTZ: But will it only be four?
MILLER: Well, that's what the Constitution says.
KURTZ: All right. He's going to abide by the Constitution?
MILLER: But we're going to have a fabulous four years, and I think his impact is going to keep going in perpetuity. And you know what, Howie? Because of President Trump, you're paying less taxes. Everybody is paying less taxes. The economy is going to be back on track. This neighborhood where we are here in D.C. is going to be safer. We're going to stop the killing in Ukraine. And guess what? The border is now secure.
KURTZ: Nice pivot there, Jason. Jason Miller, always a pleasure to have you. Thank you so much.
Still to come, Donald Trump, James Bond, Elon Musk and Greg Gutfeld. Seriously.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
KURTZ: The Associated Press remains banned indefinitely from many White House events, and no question that comes from the top.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: The Associated Press just refuses to go with what the law is and what is taking place. It's called the Gulf of America now. Now, the Associated Press, as you know, has been very, very wrong on the election, on Trump and the treatment of Trump and other things having to do with Trump and Republicans and conservatives.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
KURTZ: Now the A.P. has sued three White House officials, saying the ban violates the First Amendment and was given no prior notice. This after the White House Correspondents Association protested in a letter signed by 40 news outlets, including Fox News, saying news organizations must be free to make their own editorial decisions without fear of government intrusion.
The White House called the suit frivolous and demented. The whole move seems to me to be pretty pointy over her name.
Grimes, the singer who had a five-year relationship with Elon Musk and three children, has gone public about a medical crisis. I am sorry to do this publicly, but it is no longer acceptable to ignore the situation, she wrote in a now-deleted post on X. He won't respond to texts, calls, or emails, and has skipped every meeting, and our child will suffer long-term impairment if he doesn't respond ASAP.
Days earlier, a woman who knows Elon Musk claimed her baby was his 13th child. No public response from Elon.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNKNOWN: I admire your luck, Mr. --
UNKNOWN: Bond. James Bond.
UNKNOWN: Mr. Bond, I supposed you wouldn't care to raise the limit.
UNKNOWN: I have no objections.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
KURTZ: The James Bond franchise six decades old is getting a new owner. Amazon is taking creative control of the master spy and womanizer. This after Jeff Bezos's company acquired the MGM Studio. Bezos is now crowdsourcing the question who should be the next James Bond. My question, will Amazon change him for the digital age?
Greg Gutfeld, whose nighttime comedy show beat Stephen Colbert, Jimmy Kimmel, Seth Meyers, Jimmy Fallon, and the rest of the gang has landed on the cover of Variety. You know how often the mainstream media have been willing to do a major favorable cover story about someone at this network? Never? Well, hardly ever.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS CO-HOST: Is Tinseltown finally coming around? Well, this week's Variety cover story features a guy you might recognize. Ah, look at that.
(CROWD CHEERING)
GUTFELD: No, that's not Mel Gibson, but I get it a lot.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
KURTZ: Variety says hosting a celebrity-free show devoted to hot button issues and cracking jokes with a withering sarcasm where there's competitors are sunny or loopy, Gutfeld is an unlikely king of late night.
Greg attributes his success to paying his dues, such as when he hosted the show, Red Eye, at 3 a.m. There, Red Eye was on so late at night, and the adults weren't watching. I got to do a thousand episodes. So, that meant I went from sucking to just being awful, to being not too bad, to being 50- 50. It was the best training ground.
I wasn't up that late. That's it for this edition of Media Buzz. I'm Howard Kurtz. Thanks for watching. You can subscribe to my daily podcast, Media Buzz Meter where we have a lot of fun talking about the day's top stories. And I'm out of time. See you next week.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

Load-Date: February 23, 2025


End of Document
