




Targeted News Service
January 22, 2025 Wednesday 9:17 PM  EST


Copyright 2025 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved


Length: 607 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


Rep. Ayanna Pressley, D-Massachusetts, issued the following news:
* * *
Pressley's Statement on Trump's Executive Actions on Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Pressley, Raskin Have Led Legislation to Codify Racial Equity, Improve Government Services for Underserved Communities
WASHINGTON - Today, Congresswoman Ayanna Pressley (MA-07) issued the following statement on the Trump Administration's harmful executive actions on diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI), including the placement of DEI employees on leave ahead of their eventual layoffs.
Last year, Rep. Pressley and then-House Oversight Ranking Member Jamie Raskin introduced the Federal Government Equity Improvement Act and the Equity in Agency Planning Act to codify racial equity across federal agencies and improve government services for underserved communities.
"The Trump Administration's harmful executive orders rolling back diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives are an affront to all of us. Diversity is our strength and everyone who calls this country home deserves to thrive," said Congresswoman Pressley. "These programs and the dedicated employees who administer them are deeply necessary to ensure government works for everyone in America, which is why I worked closely with the Biden-Harris Administration and then-Ranking Member Raskin to center equity and justice in every administrative policy decision across federal agencies. It is a fact that systemic oppression codified in our laws and budgets has harmed women, people of color, LGBTQIA+ people, those with disabilities and other underserved communities in this country. Rather than advance cruel and callous policies that undermine progress, I invite Republicans to change course and work with us in advancing legislation that actually helps people from all walks of life."
In April 2022, Rep. Pressley joined Biden Administration officials at a White House event to announce the executive orders, which followed calls from Congresswoman Pressley and then-House Oversight Committee Chairwoman Carolyn B. Maloney for robust data collection, assessment tools, and stakeholder engagement to ensure the success of the initiative. Video of the event is available here.
On January 20, 2021, President Biden signed the historic Executive Order 13985, "Advancing Racial Equity and Support for Underserved Communities Through the Federal Government," on his first day in office, directing the Domestic Policy Council and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to work with federal agencies to identify and remove barriers to equal opportunity and programmatic benefits for people of color and other underserved groups. In February 2023, President Biden signed Executive Order 14091 to take further steps on improving equity in federal agencies.
On October 15, 2021, then-Chairwoman Maloney and Rep. Pressley sent a letter to Ambassador Susan Rice, Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, and OMB Director Shalanda Young underscoring the need for robust data, assessment tools, and stakeholder engagement to ensure the successful implementation of Executive Order 13985.
On April 14, 2022, then-Chairwoman Maloney and Rep. Pressley issued statements applauding the Biden-Harris Administration for convening all federal agencies to present their first-ever Equity Action Plans.
The Equity in Agency Planning Act and Federal Government Equity Improvement Act were first introduced in December 2022.
Back to News Next Article
***
Original text here: 
Copyright Targeted News Services
MSTRUCK-9010344 MSTRUCK

Load-Date: January 22, 2025


End of Document
