




Fox News FOX HANNITY 9:00 PM EST
February 27, 2025 Thursday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7705 words
Byline: Sean Hannity, Gregg Jarrett, Nicole Saphier
Guests: Stephen Miller, Donald Trump, Jr., Stephen A. Smith, David Schoen, Vani Hari
Body


SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS HOST: And welcome to "Hannity".
And yet another action-packed day of news, part one of the Epstein files were released. The attorney general, Pam Bondi, is not happy. Pam Bondi now blasting bureaucrats in the FBI, not Kash Patel, for a lack of transparency after reports that a field office actually hid the documents from Bondi and newly sworn in FBI Director Kash Patel. We've got all those details coming up tonight.
Also, yes, weird Tim Walz is now calling Republicans Nazis and fascists. That works so well in the campaign. Why would you ever want to stop? I wonder why Stephen A. Smith is polling higher than what Kamala Harris and AOC? Anyway, he'll join us with more on the dumpster fire that is his Democratic Party. And is it even true that he wants to run for president? Really? Okay, we'll get the answer tonight.
And later, the mysterious tragic death legendary actor -- this is sad -- Gene Hackman, his wife, their dog. Listen to this.
(BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)
DISPATCHER: Are they moving at all?
CALLER: No, they're not moving, just send somebody up here really quick.
DISPATCHER: Okay. My units are on their way okay?
(END AUDIO CLIP)
HANNITY: All right. We've got -- we've got the latest details on that tragedy coming.
But first, more big news from the Trump White House. For decades, Americans on both sides of the aisle, they have been deeply dissatisfied with the feder -- federal government, rightly so.
In fact, nearly 40 years ago, President Reagan famously said the nine were most terrifying words in the English language are -- I'm from the government and I'm here to help -- and I'm here to help.
Anyway, for now, for the first time maybe ever, something very special is actually happening. We have a freethinking president who is working outside of the box, not within the confines of the deep state and the bureaucracy to improve government, to be more efficient for you and your family and watch out for your money and protect your rights and give you more freedom.
None of his cabinet nominees are swamp creatures. No government department is viewed as sacred, all federal spending is under a microscope. DOGE is an innovative new way to identify waste, fraud, abuse, corruption. Major agencies are getting all overhauled.
In fact, a federal judge just ruled in favor of President Trump, allowing the State Department under Secretary of State Marco Rubio to fire CIA employees working on DEI projects.
Meanwhile, the FBI Kash Patel is in the process of decentralizing the bureau, shipping far-left agents out of D.C., maybe out of the bureau would be a good idea and Patel is even floating up a plan to team up with the UFC, our friend Dana White, to improve fitness and training of special agents which I know for a fact law enforcement needs a lot more training.
Now, back at the White House, a new age of diplomacy is dawning. When it comes to our allies and our adversaries, Trump is not afraid to deploy America's tremendous leverage, was on display yet again today. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: This is indeed a unique friendship. It's been many years and I think it's only gotten stronger and we will make sure that it stays that way. We're going to have a great trade agreement. One way or the other, we're going to end up with a very good trade agreement for both countries, and we're working on that as we speak. Tomorrow, the progress toward peace will continue when President Zelenskyy visits the White House. He'll be here tomorrow in the early part of the day and we'll be signing a historic agreement that will make the United States a major partner in developing Ukraine's minerals and rare earths and oil and gases and we have a great understanding. I think it's going to be great for Ukraine.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: But the media was telling us, oh, but he's being mean to Zelenskyy. No, it's called negotiating and hopefully ending war in Europe.
Despite what you might hear on fake news CNN, MSDNC, President Trump earned the respect of world leaders and here's more from Trump's joint presser with Britain's prime minister. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KEIR STARMER, BRITISH PRIME MINISTER: Mr. President, I welcome your deep and personal commitment to bring peace and to stop the killing. You've created a moment of tremendous opportunity to reach a historic peace deal - - a deal that I think would be celebrated in Ukraine and around the world. That is the prize.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: And we hope it -- it comes to fruition things are looking good. We'll see over time, give President Trump time to negotiate. To put it bluntly, Trump is seeking out good deals for the American people, free and fair trade, reciprocity if they put tariffs on us, and peace around the world -- what a horrible thing, what a horrible human being he must be.
But many on the left, they're deeply upset. They are triggered. They are angry. They're currently trashing everything Donald Trump says or does.
One "New York Times" columnist just compared Trump to Putin. Another leftwing publication accusing Trump of building a new access of evil with America front and center. Illinois' gluttonous governor said that prices are going up because Donald Trump is destroying democracy.
Didn't they try that in the campaign? How'd that play out for them?
Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GOV. J.B. PRITZKER (D), ILLINOIS: If you talk to 100 people, knock on 100 doors and I've knocked on an awful lot of doors running for office, and you say to people, you know, democracy is at risk, nobody knows what that looks like. They've never experienced it before.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yeah.
PRITZKER: And the reality is what people need to hear about is what the effects of that are, the prices at the grocery store are going up because democracy is being taken away.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Governor, you said that before the election. All you Democrats are saying that before the election. Democracy is on the ballot. Democracy won. Donald Trump won. The American people chose.
Now, when you think it can't possibly get any more absurd than that, I present to you the ladies of the possibly on soon to be cancelled ABC Disney show "The View". This is supposed to be that hard-hitting news show, ABC Disney, but today, well, I don't know what to tell you. Take a look. Joyless Behar turned into a full-blown anti-immigrant xenophobic conspiracy theorist by attacking Elon Musk. Who would have thunk it? Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOY BEHAR, CO-HOST, "THE VIEW": The guy who was not born in this country, who was born under apartheid in South Africa, so has that mentality going on. He was pro-apartheid as I understand it. This is just perfectly but wonderful for Trump. He can take a nap and let this foreigner -- foreign agent, you know, an enemy of the United States, do his job.
Now, I'm getting some flack because I said that Musk was pro-apartheid. I don't really know for sure if he was, he grew up at that time when apartheid was in full-blown before the great Nelson Mandela fixed that, and he was around at that time. But maybe he was, maybe he wasn't, he might have been a young guy, too.
WHOOPI GOLDBERG, CO-HOST, "THE VIEW": Might have been.
BEHAR: So don't be suing me, okay?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Anyway, not to be outdone, her co-host Whoopi Goldberg made a false accusation of her own. Let's take a look at that.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GOLDBERG: I would be listening to this man if I thought he had one iota of medical experience. What is -- he doesn't know, he's fired everybody who -- where are the scientist? He fired all the damn scientists. You got rid of this one, you got rid of that. Who is checking?
BEHAR: Well, they vilified the scientist. Look what they did to Dr. Fauci. I mean, they go after scientists.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Dr. Fauci? You mean the guy that said if you got the shot that you're not going to get COVID, and you're not going to infect others, that guy? After so many years, you would think that the left would develop just a little bit of self-awareness, little introspection, maybe a course adjustment.
The sky is not falling, democracy is not in peril, America is not on a war path. I understand -- I will -- I will try to be sympathetic. I will try to cater to the pain that you must be going through. Change can be hard.
And that out of the box thinking is not always welcome, and it's scary -- very scary to myopic institutionalists like the host of "The View" but so many Americans across our great country, and we've been showing polls, a lot of nights have been failed by decades of government incompetence, overspending, overregulation, corruption, intrusion into their lives.
In November, voters -- they pick someone who would take a wrecking ball to the Washington swamp. That's what Trump is doing, in a good way. If you're a devout Democrat, with Trump derangement syndrome, and you want to keep building the bureaucracy, you don't have to like Trump or agree with everything he does but at this point, the hate, the hysteria is beyond insufferable and the American people, frankly, they're going to get sick of it real quick.
Here now with reaction, Trump's deputy chief for policy, homeland security advisor, Stephen Miller is with us.
You know, I -- I'm watching all of it. It looks like that we're on a path where we can get peace in Europe. We're begin getting the foundation of peace in the Middle East. It looks like, you know, we're going to exceed a hundred trill -- billion dollars in waste fraud and abuse that's discovered and that's only the tip of the iceberg. Why are they screaming a lot?
STEPHEN MILLER, DEPUTY CHIEF FOR POLICY AND HOMELAND SECURITY ADVISOR: Well, I was fortunate enough today, Sean, to be at President Trump's meeting with the prime minister of the United Kingdom and I witnessed a master class in diplomacy and statesmanship as President Trump builds massive international support for his effort to pursue peace both in Europe and in the Middle East. And now, we have a new trade deal that is being pursued as well between the U.S., the United Kingdom, that could unleash greater prosperity, security, technology and medical treatments in both of our countries.
Look what President Trump inherited. Just a few weeks ago, a world that was marching endlessly towards ever more war and destruction, inflation that had reached record historic highs, crashing living standards in the United States, a completely wide open southern border that allowed unlimited numbers of criminals and thugs and foreign terrorist to enter our country, a city besieged by crime and poverty all across America.
And President Trump has come into office. We are reopening American energy to bring down the cost of living. We are pursuing peace around the world. We are tackling debt and deficits under his leadership, with record setting cuts to the federal bureaucracy, bringing accountability for the first time in our lives and reasserting American strength and leadership all around the world as he uses America's power and America's vision to restore peace all across the globe.
It has been truly the most extraordinary first month of any presidency that we've ever seen.
HANNITY: And I haven't even gotten to the immigration question. But let me stay on the Ukraine issue. Now, we have a rare earth mineral deal that we expect will be signed tomorrow at the White House with President Zelenskyy.
We have -- we have -- we are demanding free and fair trade and if countries are going to slap tariffs on America, we're just not going to lay back and take it anymore, and we're going to demand, for example, Canada.
I want to be friends with Canada. I'm sure you want to be friends with Canada, and -- but they -- we provide a good part of their defense. We -- we do expect them to secure their borders, we do expect them to pay their fair share for NATO, we don't expect them to put tariffs on American products which they're currently doing and not even allowing imports of other products, and the same with the European Union, the same with India.
So the president came up with reciprocal tariffs. What's unfair about that?
MILLER: Let's take each of the things you just said, Sean. So, on the first point, the rare earth minerals deal with Ukraine, what a genius, historic move that accomplishes two fundamental things at once. It creates a pathway for Ukraine to have American involvement and the security that comes with America's economic development in Ukraine, and at the same time, it repays America for all of the money that we've spent on Ukraine.
And I would also add actually a third point which is that it solves the U.S. strategic problem of inadequate access to rare earth minerals.
Again, this is a president who unashamedly, boldly puts America's interest first. What a sigh of relief that is to American citizens who've watched Washington give everything away forever, which brings me to your second point, Sean, about international trade and about burden sharing. Every other country in the West but for a few notable exceptions have been freer writing on America's security shield for our entire lives.
Canada is protected from invasion and incursion because of our security shield, as is Europe. We are paying for and what do we get in return? Unfair trade, tariffs, non-tariff barriers, VAT taxes, duties, the total blockage of our ability to sell cars all around the world.
President Trump is saying you cannot take advantage of us anymore. You cannot accept all of our free defense help and then at the same time shaft us on trade and economics. So he's going to say we're going to rebalance our security arrangements. We're going to rebalance our financial arrangements so we're not going to be $40 trillion and $45 trillion and $50 trillion in debt. We're going to bring our wealth and our jobs and our prosperity back and we're going to have our critical industries and supply chains in America.
All of this is about President Trump implementing his vision and his plan that Americans voted for.
HANNITY: All right. Steve Miller, appreciate it. Thank you for being with us.
Here now with the reaction, executive vice president at the Trump Organization, Donald Trump Jr. is with us.
You know, I've known your dad a long time and I -- I've always known he's a force of nature. And, by the way, you know, I would say you're probably not far off yourself, and I've known him for a long time. I've never -- he's never been this dialed in, in my view, he's never been this focused, this committed and seemingly at peace and happy.
Am I wrong in that observation?
DONALD TRUMP, JR., EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AT THE TRUMP ORGANIZATION: I think you're actually 100 percent right, Sean. It actually took the last four years of abject disaster for him to figure out who his friends are, who the people who are loyal are, and for the American public to understand just how fragile this incredible experiment of America really is. We saw it disappear like that.
We went from a time of peace to a time of war. We went from a time of prosperity to a time of poverty. It -- it went away in an instant, Sean. And so, now, he knows who those people are. Frankly, in 2016, he didn't have that knowledge. He had to trust people from the outside to say this guy's on your side, turns out they weren't.
They were kicking the can down the road. It was permanent Washington. We're going to wait them out, and we're going to get back to business as usual. But the last four years, he learned so much. He figured out who he can trust.
And now, he has a cabinet that is 100 percent in lock step with America first policies, the things that he wants to do. They are going to actually make those things happen, not tell him what he wants to hear and then go do the opposite inside the halls of whatever agency they work. So it was really amazing.
All the Democrats had to do was not play their games in 2020. You would have had the same can kicking from 2020 until now. You'd probably end up with a Democrat president right now, but now, you have the most supercharged, knowledgeable, aggressive Trump that you can possibly have. That was the mandate from the American people, because again, they saw their American dream slip away so rapidly over the four years of the Biden administration that they're seeing these wins.
Think about it, the same Democrats that told you can't really do anything about the border, border crossings are down 95 percent and it's only been a month. DOGE has uncovered $100 billion in waste, a $100 billion, Sean. Imagine what we could do for American people who have been suffering or schools that are indoctrinating and not educating our children, or a broken health care system or crumbling infrastructure.
Think of what we can do with four years of these kinds of finds once Elon and his team get into the rest of the administration and the rest of the agencies that have just been playing games. You know, no one actually thought that giving $5 million to trans Elmo programs in Guatemala was great use of their funds. There's so much we can do.
The possibilities are frankly endless and he sees that. The American people see it. They finally have opened their eyes to what is possible and we are going to unleash all of that. I just couldn't be more proud of everything that he's doing right now.
The hatred of your father I would argue has been predictable because after the denial, after the grief, after the depression, they always seem to settle back on the rage portion of -- of what the radical Democratic Party is.
What I didn't anticipate is that they would double, quadruple down on, oh, we'll be the party that puts illegal immigrant rights over American -- the American people and their safety. We're going to be the party that champions the right of men to play in women's sports. We're going to be the party that that is -- is going to claim we have a constitutional crisis because Elon Musk, your father, department heads are discovering hundreds of billions of dollars in waste, fraud, abuse, corruption not being spent on the American people but abroad.
You're right on DEI programs, wokeism, transgenderism and the green new deal. They have settled on that agenda. How did that happen?
TRUMP JR.: It's actually amazing. I love to see them go all in on these issues and I think my father's superpower is finding like a 90/10 issue, taking the 90 side. And because of their Trump derangement syndrome, many know it as TDS, but because of the Democrats' Trump derangement syndrome, they can't help themselves. They go all in on these issues that are just widely unpopular with real Americans because they haven't ever gotten outside of their bubble, Sean.
No one really believes that three-year-olds should be able to get gender affirming care without parental consent and yet, they're all in on these issues. No one really thinks that only taking over a couple of buildings by Tren de Aragua, the, you know, Venezuelan murderous drug gang, is -- it's only a couple of buildings, Sean, what difference does it make?
He's -- he -- they're taking these positions and they keep doing it. It's actually glorious to watch because it means we don't just have this next four years to do it, we'll likely have a year runway with incredible candidates. The other great thing about the last four years is Republicans and conservatives and America first conservatives particular, we finally learned to fight, Sean.
It's the first time where we're actually on the offense. We're not just playing defense anymore. They're the ones playing defense and they're in total panic.
Even some of the great sort of Democrat thought leaders are like you guys got to stop doing this, but they can't help themselves. Each and every day they're going all in on insanity. I remember in the -- you know, the days after the election, people are like who cares if you can't afford your groceries, we need to go in on X, Y, Z issue that's totally not popular, you know, men playing women's sports, whatever it may be. They just can't help themselves.
So it's -- it's really interesting to watch, the -- the attacks that they're putting on towards Elon. Well, is he really pro South Africa because he's only been a citizen for 22years? I mean, imagine -- imagine we said that, Sean. It would be a very different response.
So they're getting their own arguments confused. They don't know where they're at. They -- they can't keep up with the narrative and the administration now is functioning so effectively and so efficiently that by the time the liberal media gets their narrative talking points in line, the administration is three or four issues down the road. They can never catch up. It's glorious to watch and they continue to self-destruct.
HANNITY: Okay. Have you ever given thought to a political future? I don't think I've asked you.
TRUMP JR.: I don't know. Listen, my -- my goal -- I've spent, you know, the last nine years in this game. I -- I've learned a lot. You know, they continue to run the same playbook at me. Yesterday, I was pro-Russia, you know, the usual. You know, Russia, Russia, Russia. Here we go again. It's like take 12.
HANNITY: They're back in that, yeah.
TRUMP JR.: You know? But I -- I really spent a lot of time, you know, and again, you know, whether it's -- you know, finding other guys and helping guys like a J.D. Vance, you know, just -- I want to make sure we have a bench. Sean. It's not about me.
HANNITY: Yeah.
TRUMP JR.: It's about our country. It's about what we leave to our children. I have five young kids. I want to make sure of that.
So what's amazing frankly is -- you know, and maybe I'm a small part of it, I -- it's an honor to even be considered is now we have a real bench of real fighters, of real thinkers, who -- who can take America first policies in decades from now. And that's just amazing to watch.
So you never know. One day maybe you have to step up, maybe -- you know, somewhere down the line, it -- you know, gets off base again and you need someone that can come in and be the sledgehammer to normalize things, perhaps like my father is.
So it would be a great honor, maybe one day. But we'll have to see at the time. Right now, I'm just really excited about the team and the great personality that are just doing such an amazing work.
When you think about it, I read the stat the other day, they've cut more in three weeks, it was three weeks at the time than Ronald Reagan did in eight years, and they're just getting warmed up. They're just getting --
HANNITY: It's true.
TRUMP JR.: -- you know, their boots a little bit wet in the White House again now. So the possibilities are endless, Sean.
HANNITY: They really are.
All right. Don Jr., great to have you as always. Appreciate it.
When we come back, Stephen A. Smith is he really, really considering running for president in 2028? Well, his odds in the betting markets are pretty impressive. Well, we'll ask him, he's up next.
Plus, we'll explain why Attorney General Pam Bondi is accusing -- this is not Kash Patel -- an FBI field office in New York of withholding thousands of pages of Epstein documents. What's really going on? We'll break it down for you, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. As we discussed with Don Jr., Democrats have no plan for the future. That is according to one of their own, California Congressman Ro Khanna, well, said his party leaders have no concrete vision going forward to address any of the issues voters care about.
Maybe that's because they're still focused on the past and, you know, former Harris running mate, Governor Tim Walz who just announced he is not running for the open Senate seat in Minnesota, is now openly claiming that the country has been taken over by fascists and Nazis. After all, that worked so well for them during the election. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GOV. TIM WALZ (D), MINNESOTA: And we're seeing it in these town halls that charismatic leader is not going to come there. You know, I see the pundits on TV. What's wrong with the Democratic Party? What's wrong is our country is being stole by fascists and Nazis and we try to do all we can.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Stolen and everything.
Now, Walz did try to walk back those comments saying he was talking about random people around the country who seem like Nazis, not anyone in government.
Really? Let me take out my challenge flag and throw that right to the referee.
No wonder many Democrats are thinking it's time for some new blood the party.
One name who is rising to prominence is none other than our friend Stephen A. Smith. On a betting odd site, Stephen A's chance of being the Democratic nominee in currently stands at 7 percent. He's tied with -- with Mayor Pothole Pete, AOC.
He actually leads Kamala Harris in terms of popularity. I'll go into that in a minute.
Is he running?
Well, he's the star of ESPN's "First Take", the one and only Stephen A. Smith, my friend.
Now look at, looky, looky, looky here.
You're now tied with Pothole Pete, AOC, Gretchen Whitmer, and only Gavin Newsom and the Maryland governor and Josh Shapiro have better odds than you do.
You have more a higher favorability than Pritzker, Andy Beshear, Kamala Harris, Michelle Obama, Raphael Warnock, John Fetterman, Mark Cuban.
Okay, no ducking, no dodging, no bobbing and weaving, are you thinking about running for president?
STEPHEN A. SMITH, ESPN HOST: No, I am not, number one, all right? I like my life. I like my life. My life is very, very good, very fruitful.
Politics is a cesspool. We've all seen that. We've seen what these politicians have gone through. We've seen what President Trump went through over these last several years.
Who would -- who the hell would want to sign up for that?
Now, obviously, being in the presidency is a very, very powerful and influential position, leader of the free world, we get all of that. We see -- look at the state of this country, it's an absolute mess.
You understand I have no business being ahead of Josh Shapiro, but this is the part and this is the part that I really, really want to get to, to show how pathetic of a state of affairs things are right now. I have no business being ahead of Josh Shapiro. I have no business being ahead of Wes Moore.
I love both of those guys. I think those guys would be outstanding in their own right. I don't think that there's anybody else up out -- out on that list and beyond that has any legitimate case to make for themselves at this particular moment in time for the Democratic Party.
I think any voice that has been national -- has been diluted because of the Trump romp, and I don't want to hear about a one and a half percent victory in the election. The man won every swing state. He won about 50 counties, okay?
He went up in the Black vote, went up in the Latino vote, went up with young voters, okay? There's nothing to say.
He won the popular vote. He won the Electoral College vote. I don't want to hear anything from the national voices, okay?
All the national voices that was out there and I'm including Gavin Newsom, the governor of California in that mix, because he showed up on your show, on this channel, and debated Ron DeSantis, so he tried to be a national voice. No, I don't put any of them up there right now.
And my last comment would be this -- I think the fact that I am a candidate for the presidency of the United States of America, according to the polling, for the Democratic Party is the most clear-cut evidence of how pathetic of a state of affairs that exists within the Democratic Party today.
I have no business being on that list, whatsoever. I am not qualified. But it just shows how pathetic things are at this particular moment in time.
HANNITY: All right, because they know you, I have to go -- I got to go deeper in the paint. I'll use the sports analogy with you.
SMITH: Sure.
HANNITY: Okay, if asked, if drafted, if begged, the answer under all circumstances is a firm no, you're not doing it? Yes or no?
SMITH: At this moment in time because I -- at this moment in time because I want my pockets to get significantly deeper --
(CROSSTALK)
HANNITY: No qualifiers. No, no, no.
SMITH: No, no, I'm just -- I'm answering the question. I'm answering the question.
Right now, right now, the answer would be no. Three years from now --
HANNITY: Right now, tomorrow might yes.
SMITH: -- if my pockets are significantly deeper and the country is in a dire state of --
(CROSSTALK)
HANNITY: You sound like a politician.
SMITH: Three years from now, the country is in a dire state of affairs --
HANNITY: That's a political answer.
SMITH: I'm not --
(CROSSTALK)
HANNITY: That's a politician's answer.
SMITH: Excuse me, listen, listen, I've -- I spent the first -- I spent the first half hour of this show watching you and all your guests just fawning over the president. Could you let me get in a word here?
I'm telling you, three years from now, as my pockets are deeper and I'm even more successful and my lifestyle is comfortable enough for me, if --
HANNITY: Oh, so the door is open.
SMITH: -- the American people call --
HANNITY: The door is open.
SMITH: I would have to cons -- I would have to consider it. I would have to consider it.
HANNITY: I have to consider it.
SMITH: Yes, I would have to consider it.
HANNITY: So the answer is you -- you are leaving that -- you're swung it wide open, it's wide as you can. You just kicked it open --
SMITH: No, it's not true.
HANNITY: -- knocked it down the same at this -- yes, it is true. Well, three years from now, my pocket -- you know, I have more money in my pocket --
SMITH: Listen, campaigning is a nightmare.
HANNITY: -- I might be open to it.
SMITH: Campaigning -- campaigning is a nightmare, hugging -- you know, kissing babies, shaking hands with everybody --
HANNITY: Ooh.
SMITH: -- currying favor with politicians, donors.
HANNITY: Hang on.
SMITH: I don't want that stuff. Now, if you told me I can get on a presidential debate, I could get on the stage for a presidential debate, I would love it. I would absolutely positively love it.
HANNITY: I would love it, too.
SMITH: And I do believe --
HANNITY: I would love to debate you.
SMITH: I do believe that I would have to -- well, listen the fact of the matter is most people in the Republican Party even can't debate you, so don't get me started with everybody else. There's no shame in that.
I'm just telling you going up against them, I'd give them a run for their money.
HANNITY: All right. I -- and I admire friendship, et cetera, et cetera.
Look, I asked this of Don Jr., this is a serious question, too. I mean you just heard the Nazi, fascist, Tim Walz, oh, but I didn't mean Donald Trump -- he's full of crap. I throw the challenge flag. I don't believe him.
And that's part of his problem, too. They lie, lie, lie. I'm sick of liars.
But here's the thing, Nazi, fascist, racist, and then they become the party of men, the right -- champion the right of men to play women's sports. They became the party that cares more about the rights of illegals over the safety of Americans.
They become the party that is not outraged when the average American does not get paid what we get paid. They get paid what we used to get paid in our lives, when we live paycheck to paycheck.
Sixty-six grand a year -- I started in broadcasting, I got paid nothing. Then I got paid 19 grand a year.
But those people -- and they see hundreds of billions of their hard-earned dollars going abroad for green new deal, DEI, transgender wokeism, that's the party. That is your party.
You should leave them. You should tonight divorce them on my show.
SMITH: Well, first of all, I wouldn't have to because if I was the leader of the party, that nonsense wouldn't exist. That wokeism and identity politics and all of that, it wouldn't exist. I'd eradicate that in a heartbeat.
HANNITY: Still your party.
SMITH: Let me be very, very clear about that -- excuse me, because again, there are some liberal things that I agree with and there's some conservative things that I agree with.
Let me tell you I think the argument that -- way I think the Democrats are really, really messing up when it comes to Donald Trump at this particular moment in time. Sean, I will openly confess, you know, Elon Musk is -- is - - is you know, he's not born here and they they're making this argument he's not an elected official, he hasn't been confirmed by the Senate --
HANNITY: Twenty-two years.
SMITH: -- and all this, I get -- hold up. Let me -- let me explain something. I get the discomfort.
What they're missing is that you messed up things so badly over the last several years, give the man a chance to see what he does.
I'm looking at Donald Trump, I'm not comfortable with everything that I'm seeing. I'm not comfortable with everything that he's doing, like you are.
But the flip side to it is that I'm willing to see the results before I engage in condemnation. See? That's the problem.
The partisanship, they're already showing it. And they echoing exactly what they were doing during the campaign, which means they're not going to resonate and they're going to ensure that the Republicans probably win the midterms, and then -- and then get four more years come 2028 because the same song and with the same argument is not going to cut the mustard.
They got to learn to do that. Dial it back. Judge the man on what he's doing right now, see what the results are, before you engage in condemnation.
They're not doing that. They're sounding like they're still on the campaign, which means they're coming across as tone-deaf to voters like myself and various others. That's where they're messing up.
HANNITY: This is why I can't -- do anything but like you. I mean, you're just too good at what you do. I'm actually --
SMITH: I'm a likeable guy. I'm actually a lovable guy, really lovable.
HANNITY: At times, yeah. I'm glad you're not running for now because that means I would have to be going after you night after night after night --
SMITH: And I'm come on every week.
HANNITY: And I would --
SMITH: I'd come on every week to go at you.
HANNITY: You'd come on --
(CROSSTALK)
SMITH: And I would love it. I tell you to keep bringing it. I'd make your hair grayer.
HANNITY: Can't get any grayer really. I don't --
SMITH: Every week I would -- at least every month. Let me not say every week, I can't take you every week. I would say every month but I'd make your hair grayer than it already is.
HANNITY: No, no, no. You said every week, I'm holding you to that.
SMITH: I'd love it. I'd love it.
HANNITY: Don't be a politician. Go back on your word --
SMITH: OK, it's no problem.
HANNITY: -- two seconds after you make it.
SMITH: No problem, I'll go every week, every week, every week, no problem, no problem.
HANNITY: Stephen A --
SMITH: You understand?
HANNITY: We appreciate you.
SMITH: I approve that message.
HANNITY: Good to see you, my friend.
SMITH: I truly do.
HANNITY: All right. Coming up, Attorney General Pam Bondi, oh, this is serious, accusing the FBI field office in New York withholding thousands of pages of Epstein documents. We got reaction. Gregg Jarrett, David Schoen, who represented for a period of time Epstein, next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. Earlier today, the Attorney General Pam Bondi released phase one of the Epstein files. That's transparency. There are a lot of names in there and Epstein was obviously a star chaser who wanted to hang out with people that are famous, people with money.
So let me be very clear at to start here, and I said this on my radio show today, people -- because they're in the rolodex, they're on the list does not mean they did anything wrong. On this show, and we have done it over and over again, we don't rush to judgment, we believe in the presumption of innocence, and I am appealing to people not to rush to judgment, even though these names are now public information, there are names that I'm certain were not involved or knowledgeable of this. I could be certain of it.
But the biggest story tonight is which documents are missing. This is the untold story. The Attorney General Pam Bondi sent the new FBI Director Kash Patel a fiery letter, accusing the FBI to be clear -- not Kash at all -- of withholding more documents, saying in part, quote, late yesterday, I learned from a source that the FBI field office in New York was in possession of thousands of pages of documents related to the investigation and indictment of Epstein, and while also writing to cash, quote, when you and I spoke yesterday, you were just as surprised as I was to learn this new information.
Now, before adding that by 8:00 a.m. tomorrow, the FBI will deliver the complete Epstein files to her office.
Now, I noticed a lot of people online rushing a judgment, asking -- why didn't they release it all? There's a reason. Well, they didn't know about these other documents that were withheld until about 24 hours ago, and anyone telling you anything different, I know, my sources, I've triple checked, those people would be wrong.
Here with the reaction, FOX News legal analyst Gregg Jarrett, civil rights criminal defense attorney David Schoen, who once represented Epstein.
David, for that reason, I will start with you.
I want -- I want to be clear. If people whose name might be in the guy's rolodex, 254 alleged victims here that they've identified, but if your name is in this, I want -- I don't want people to say, ah, there you go. He knew a lot of people, he was a star chaser, a money chaser, meaning people with money like to hang out with them, correct?
DAVID SCHOEN, CRIMINAL DEFENSE AND CIVIL RIGHTS ATTORNEY: Correct, he -- also people who had money and celebrities loved to hang out with him, frankly. They found him charming. They sought his company, they did business with him and so on.
But let's separate the issues, Pam Bondi, the attorney general is looking for transparency for the American people. I'm a fan of hers. She's a star. She's right about seeking transparency, there's no question about that.
The question as you raised it is correct also. What's done with those records is important. On your show, since the day I've known you, and I'm sure well before that, you have emphasized the importance of the presumption of innocence in every single case. That holds true here, these are salacious facts that will come out, people's names are involved, many of those people or maybe all of those people had nothing -- did nothing wrong with Jeffrey Epstein.
And there's a lot more to say about this.
HANNITY: Yeah, and there's also a rolodex, if your names in there, Gregg, I'm sure you agree with all of us. But that's not the story to me. The story is the New York field office, they knew that the -- that the attorney general of our country was asking for these documents, they didn't hand them over. I've got a big problem with that.
GREGG JARRETT, FOX NEWS LEGAL ANALYST: Well, it could be criminal. You know, the attorney general was sandbagged deliberately by our own employees at the FBI's New York field office withholding thousands, as you point out, of documents defying her order to hand everything order -- over and then lying about it. You know, nobody should be surprised at the deceit and the sheer arrogance of the FBI because the higher ranks are polluted with officials who think they're answerable to nobody, they can do as they please and they do, it's become a cesspool of corruption, started with Bob Mueller, accelerated under James Comey and Chris Wray did nothing to do to resolve it, he covered it up.
So, you know, Kash Patel is his work to cut out, to purge the FBI and I expect he will quickly identify and likely fire whomever committed this gross insubordination and by the way, those people -- people better be on the phone tonight to good criminal defense attorneys because willfully concealing documents from the attorney general, misrepresenting the truth looks very much like obstruction of a federal agency. That's a crime and if two or more people are involved, that's conspiracy to obstruct justice.
So, lawyer up, boys and girls.
HANNITY: Wow.
What light can you shed on Jeffrey Epstein without violating attorney- client privilege, David Schoen?
SCHOEN: It's a very interesting question. One of the most interesting people I ever met, he called me about 10 years before he died just to ask a question about he was getting ready to go to jail, wanted some information. Remember, he was represented by a team of terrific lawyers, many of them some of the biggest names in the country for years.
About a year before he died, he asked me to review their work. He was facing an action in Florida. He was concerned. He asked me to review their papers. After he was arrested, he asked me to come to New York and he hired me to -- nine days before he died, he hired me to take over his criminal case.
He told me that I was the only person in the world he trusted with his life. So I took that very seriously as a badge of honor. That was very interesting person. He never got his day in court.
HANNITY: All right. Well, we also need to -- hanging on a bed that is very low to the ground, it seems -- there are a lot of questions there. Why was the camera not working? Where were the prison guards? We need a lot of answers here.
Thank you both.
Hopefully, we'll have more tomorrow.
Anyway, coming up, RFK Jr. praising a fast food chain for trying to make America healthy again. The MAHA movement alive and well. According to one report, Kash Patel wants the UFC to help improve the FBI's physical fitness I think a great idea. We'll explain, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: So, the Trump administration, they promised to make America healthy again, the MAHA movement, and we are already seeing results. Earlier this week, the fast food chain Steak `n Shake announced that their Ohio, Colorado, Florida, Texas, Oklahoma locations would start making French fries with 100 percent beef tallow and that would -- that the change would be implemented at all locations by March 1. Now adding that their fries would be RFK-ed.
Now, RFK praised the food chain for being the first to begin the transition away from seed oils.
And over at the FBI, newly installed director Kash Patel reportedly suggesting the agency establish a formal relationship with our friend Dana White and the UFC, which could develop programs for agents to improve their physical fitness.
Here now with reaction, called the Food Babe founder Vani Hari is with us, all -- along with FOX News contributor Dr. Nicole Saphier.
Good to see you both.
Dr. Saphier, everybody knows seed oil is garbage. You make -- if you buy Froot Loops in America, they're much more colorful because they use all that that food dye, but if you buy it in Canada or Europe, it doesn't have the same thing, so they can make a healthy version. Why don't they make that version here?
DR. NICOLE SAPHIER, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: That's a good question, Sean, and as you see, if you look elsewhere throughout the world, they're the harmful chemicals that you see the food dyes, the additives, the seed oils aren't in a lot of these places.
But here in the United States, we love cheap and fast, and that's what these seed oils is. This a very -- it's a great win for RFK Jr., and has make America healthy again campaign by getting beef tallow into the Steak `n Shake French fries. The French fries are certainly going to taste better, that's for sure.
You know, the whole thing when it came to saying saturated fats like in beef tallow are bad, that happened about in the 1950s with the diet heart hypothesis, where a bunch of epidemiologists just came out and said, saturated fats are bad, they're linked to cardiovascular disease, so therefore, we have to get rid of it. And that's why out with beef tallow, because beef tallow had six times the saturated fats as opposed to those seed oils.
Now, seed oils, essentially oil extracted from seeds using a lot of harsh chemicals. It's a lot cheaper. It stays on the shelf longer, but it is also really not good for you. So all of that evidence though that showed the saturated fats are bad, that was all kind of weak evidence, causal evidence and when people have tried to reemphasize that or reprove it over the years, they have not been able to establish that link.
But people have a hard time with change, just like we used to recommend aspirin be taken for preventative health measures. We saw that that was causing a lot more harm than good. So people have a hard time making those changes. But fried fruits in general are not healthy.
HANNITY: Yeah, Vani, your take?
VANI HARI, FOUNDER OF FOOD BABE: Yeah. You know, I'm -- I'm actually tired that the -- of the fact that 60 percent of Americans' diet comes from these seed oils. These seed oils start with genetically engineered seeds designed to withstand heavy doses of roundup glyphosate that's sprayed on them that's linked to cancer, then they are heated to a point where they cause a lot of byproducts that are harmful to human health and then they're extracted with a chemical solvent like hexane that -- can remain in the product. The FDA doesn't actually test to see what residues remain.
And then they're deodorized because they smell terrible after all that processing, and then they bleach it with chemicals that you don't have to put on the label of these different seed oils. So you can see how detrimental the processing of these seed oils are and then what happens when we consume these oils that we aren't supposed to eat. These are in -- you know, industrialized engine lubricants, right?
HANNITY: You know, and this is why Europe won't import our -- our produce or meat because of hormone -- hormones and pesticides. I'm like, you know what, we got a learn something. This is just simple stuff. It won't affect how you -- your diet and you'll be healthier.
Thank you both.
More "Hannity" straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. That's all the time we have left this evening. Thank you for being with us. Thank you for making the show possible. Please set your DVR so you never, ever, ever miss an episode of "Hannity".
For news anytime, every time, all the time, foxnews.com, hannity.com.
And in the meantime, let not your heart be troubled. Greg Gutfeld is standing by. He will put a smile on your face.
Have a great night.

Load-Date: February 28, 2025


End of Document
