




MailOnline
January 30, 2025 Thursday 4:00 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 902 words
Byline: Rachel Bowman For Dailymail.Com
Body


A University of Maryland professor made an eerily-timed post blaming Donald Trump for future plane crashes just hours before the deadly collision in Washington, DC.
Dr. Thomas F. Schaller, a political science professor at the University of Maryland, Baltimore County, posted to X slamming Trump for his handling of airline safety the morning of the devastating crash.
'An FAA employee I know confirms agency already lacks sufficient air traffic controllers. The so-called 'buyouts' and other attacks on federal employees won't help,' Schaller said.
'Remember that fact when the flight delays (crashes?) commence and Trumpers start falsely blaming DEI or Biden.'
The Trump administration emailed thousands of federal workers Tuesday evening, offering them a chance to voluntarily vacate their government posts while remaining on the payroll for months.
While Schaller noted the crash may have nothing to do with Trump's offer, the eerie timing has added fuel to wild conspiracy theories about the crash. 
All 60 passengers and four crew members aboard the American Airlines jet coming from Wichita, Kansas, and the three soldiers on the Army training flight are presumed dead Thursday morning.
The Black Hawk helicopter cut through the airspace from the opposite direction under cover of darkness, with both aircraft seemingly unaware of the other's presence.
They slammed into one another just 400ft above ground, erupting in a violent explosion before plunging into the freezing Potomac River below.
Air Traffic Control radar footage showed the fateful moment the two aircraft crossed paths. 
The American Airlines flight, labeled JIA5342, and the Army Black Hawk helicopter, labeled PAT25, appeared to be facing each other head-on leading up to the crash.
The helicopter's path remained relatively straight while the American Airlines flight veered to make its landing, and the two collided. 
A top CNN commentator was forced to delete a social media post blaming Trump for the crash over DC that is believed to have claimed 67 lives.
Bakari Sellers' first response to the tragedy was to post a screenshot of a new release from the House Committee on Transport and Infrastructure, which announced a Trump-issued hiring freeze of air traffic controllers.
The article featured a statement from the committee's ranking member, Rick Larsen, warning about the potential threat to safety from an aviation freeze.
'Eight days ago,' Sellers captioned the post on X, as the cause of the crash remained unexplained.
Almost immediately, he was met with outrage from other users, who criticized him for politicizing a deadly tragedy.
The Federal Aviation Authority, which controls America's skies, has no full-time boss because its leader stepped down on inauguration day after Elon Musk demanded that he quit.
The billionaire Space X owner, who is heading Trump's cost-cutting Department for Government Efficiency (DOGE) in Trump's administration, had criticized Mike Whitaker for the agency's oversight of rocket launches. 
Separately, the FAA was also one of the first targets for Trump's slew of orders after his inauguration on January 20 targeting 'woke politics.' 
The order targeted 'DEI madness' in hiring employees for the FAA, referring to 'diversity, equity and inclusion' programs.
The crash, meanwhile, marks the grimmest possible start to work for Transportation Secretary Sean Duffy, who promised a 'golden age of transportation' when he was sworn in at the White House on Wednesday.
Other conspiracy theorists are pushing unsubstantiated claims that an Army Black Hawk helicopter's deadly collision with a passenger jet was deliberate. 
They have rushed to social media to place uncorroborated blame on the US government, suggesting the collision must have been intentional because 'military helicopters don't fly into planes'.
Some allege the helicopter appeared to 'chase' the Bombardier plane as it approached for landing, comparing the scene to a '1970s-style assassination'.
Others have demanded to 'know who was on that passenger plane', suggesting that the incident was a 'targeted hit'.
Conspiracy theorists have branded the horrific crash as 'suspicious', alleging that trained pilots would know how to navigate this type of situation. 
American Airlines chief executive Robert Isom said the pilots of Flight 5342 were experienced.
'I know that the captain had... almost six years with PSA [Airlines], and the first officer almost two years,' he said.
PSA Airlines is a regional subsidiary of AA that flies small planes on lesser-used routes.
The three soldiers aboard the Black Hawk helicopter were fairly experienced, had night vision goggles and were carrying out an annual training mission at the time of the incident, the Pentagon said on Thursday.
U.S. Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth, in a video message, said a special team of investigators were already on the ground and that he expected answers shortly about whether the helicopter was flying in its assigned air corridor and at the right altitude at the time of the collision near Reagan Washington National Airport.
Transport Secretary Sean Duffy said just because the military helicopter was on a training mission didn't mean the pilots were learning to fly.
'We call these missions that are flown in the DC area as our pilots are getting hours and experience training missions,' he said.
'So don't read into that how many hours the pilots on the military aircraft had.' 

Load-Date: January 30, 2025


End of Document
