




The Guardian (London)
February 6, 2025 Thursday 11:00 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved


Section: US NEWS; Version:5
Length: 684 words
Byline: Rachel Leingang
Highlight: Heritage Foundation gave the American Accountability Foundation $100,000 for list focusing on homeland security
Body


A rightwing group that has created a series of blacklists to target federal workers it believes the Trump administration should fire has received funding for the project by the thinktank behind Project 2025.
A recent list created by the American Accountability Foundation called the “DEI Watch List” includes mostly Black people with roles in government health roles alleged to have some tie to diversity initiatives. Another targets education department employees in career roles who “cannot be trusted to faithfully execute the agenda of the elected President of the United States”. One calls out the “most subversive immigration bureaucrats”.
Tom Jones, the president of the American Accountability Foundation, said the organization had plans to add to its existing lists and create more. The group was designed to go after the “DC bureaucrats and leftist organizations” that had been allowed “to subvert, obstruct, and sabotage the America First agenda”, according to its website.
Founded in 2020, the group received $100,000 in funding for   – focused on the Department of Homeland Security – from the Heritage Foundation, the rightwing thinktank behind the conservative blueprint Project 2025. The foundation called its list initiative “Project Sovereignty 2025” and said it was aimed at exposing the people behind the scenes who were advancing Biden’s border policies.
“We are extremely grateful to the Heritage Foundation for this great honor and opportunity,” Jones   at the time the prize was announced. “The scourge of woke open-borders-loving bureaucrats obstructing border security and facilitating the invasion of our country is something that needs to be brought to the attention of the American people.”
The subsequent lists on education and DEI were not funded by Heritage, the foundation said.
On its X page, the American Accountability Foundation frequently posts about specific federal staffers, sharing their photos and social media pages. In a post on Wednesday, the group pointed to an   in Politico in which a former federal prosecutor detailed how he and others had worked to push back against Trump’s so-called Muslim ban in 2017 because they believed it was illegal. “This is exactly why we are putting together lists of bureaucrats who will do the same,” the foundation wrote on X. “This is a threat to democracy.”
The direct naming and shaming of employees has federal workers on edge. After the project was announced, but before the lists were made public, the American Federation of Government Employees, the largest federal employee union,   the move was an “intimidation tactic to try to menace federal workers and sow fear”.
Project 2025, the Heritage   for a second Trump presidency, also included a pillar dedicated to staffing an incoming Trump administration, though it was focused on building a database of potential hires who would advance the conservative agenda should Trump win and training people on how to serve in government jobs. That database was not made public, and Trump’s team tried to distance itself from Project 2025 during the campaign by saying it would not hire from it. In practice, Trump has   up the government with a host of people  , including big names like Russ Vought, the nominee to lead the budget office who was a   behind Project 2025.
The exact criteria for inclusion on the public blacklists isn’t clear. Jones said the group culls public information to decide whether a person should be included. For the DEI watchlist, Jones said, he wanted to include people beyond those who had specific diversity work in their job titles and instead those who somehow advanced DEI agendas. The DHS list includes immigration judges, lawyers, policy advisers and analysts. On the education list, people who worked in student financial aid enforcement were targeted because the group believes the Biden administration went after colleges for ideological reasons, specifically Christian and career colleges.
                     Melissa Hellmann contributed reporting.                   

Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
