




Fox News FOX HANNITY 9:00 PM EST
February 10, 2025 Monday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7278 words
Byline: Sean Hannity, Ari Fleischer, Charlie Hurt
Guests: Eric Trump, Karoline Leavitt, Tom Homan, Drew Pinsky
Body


SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS HOST: And welcome to "Hannity".
And, by the way, tonight, we are not talking about the Super Bowl. By the way, congratulations to the Eagles. Because the game was terrible, the halftime show was awful and the only good thing was seeing Donald Trump get a huge cheer. That's about all there's left to say.
And tonight, Donald Trump is a man. He's on a mission. For the past three weeks, President Trump, he has worked around the clock to clean up the mess left by Joe Biden, Kamala Harris, all while facing off against the far radical leftwing bureaucracy that is known better as the Washington swamp. From the border, to the budget, to the weaponized federal government, this is what you the American people voted for and now a vast majority of Americans are rooting for the president to succeed.
Look at this, on Sunday, in New Orleans, President Trump, the first sitting president, which is hard to believe to actually attend a Super Bowl game was there before the game, meeting with victims from the city's recent terror attack, along with law enforcement officials and a few players. And just before kickoff he was greeted with a massive cheer throughout the stadium, well-deserved. Take a look.
(VIDEO CLIP PLAYS)
HANNITY: In fairness, the renditions of the national anthem and "America the beautiful" were pretty awesome, too. That reaction is not just anecdotal. Look at these polls, poll after poll, the president -- his approval numbers are better than ever. Even leftwing CBS News finding that Donald Trump's approval rating is six points above water, with nearly 2/3 of Americans describing him -- these are not bad descriptions -- tough, energetic, focused, effective.
Sixty-four percent support sending U.S. troops to our border, with the majority supporting mass deportations and support on his tariffs on China, support, you know, 54 percent approval for his handling in the war in Gaza.
And today, President Trump once again demonstrating his signature tenacity. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: As far as I'm concerned, if all of the hostages aren't returned by Saturday at 12:00, I think it's an appropriate time, I would say, cancel it and all bets are off and let hell break out. I'd say they ought to be returned by 12:00 on Saturday and if they're not returned, all of them, not in drips and drabs, not two and one and three and four and two, Saturday at 12:00, and after that, I would say, all hell is going to break out.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Hamas, Iran, ignore that warning to your own peril. After years of nothing but weakness and competence under Biden and Harris, this is what our country and the world desperately needs. And this is what Donald Trump promised. In fact, the same CBS News poll shows that 70 percent of you the American people think that Donald Trump is keeping the promises he made to you on the campaign trail.
Now, the president's momentum is -- momentum is very real. Don't take my word for it, even fake news CNN every once in a while, you know, kind of blind squirrel thing. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And holy smokes! I mean, look at what the difference is between now versus eight years ago during the first Trump term, right? This is Trump's net approval rating on February 10th. You go back to 2017, Trump was already underwater at minus five points on the net approval rating, that's approval minus disapproval. What a difference eight years makes. He's on the positive side of the ledger at plus four points.
And again, it's not just the CBS News poll. We're talking about the Gallup poll. We're talking about the Ipsos poll. We are talking about the Pew poll. All of these respective pollsters have Trump in a better position now than they did eight years ago. The bottom line is Americans are far more likely to say they like what they're seeing now versus what they felt during Trump's first term.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Probably, fake Jake and humpty-dumpty are having heart attacks about now on their channel.
Anyway, let's be clear. Most Americans know our government is broken. They didn't vote for small reform and polite negotiation and they certainly didn't vote for business as usual in D.C. They voted for dynamic, consequential, transformational change and now President Trump is exceeding any and all expectations. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: It seems the first days of this administration are like a no huddle offense, you know, plays going down the field one after another. There's a long list of things you've already got done --
TRUMP: Right.
BAIER: -- in three weeks. Big border policy changes, ICE crackdowns on criminals, taking biological men out of women and girls sports, big energy policy changes.
So, what's different with you and your administration? The difference between the 45th president and the 47th president?
TRUMP: Wel , with the 45th, I had tremendous opposition but I didn't know people and I didn't have the kind of support that I needed.
(ENBD VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: One major component of the Trump agenda revolves around the border and illegal immigration and large scale deportations. The border czar Tom Homan will join us in a few minutes with a major update on that effort and is the FBI or anybody else tipping off illegal immigrants when ICE is about to do a raid? We need to get to the bottom of that.
But, first, we focus on another critical component of the Trump agenda, that is government corrupt. Under the current system, unelected bureaucrats and elected bureaucrats, they have politicized and weaponized every level of government while grossly and repulsively mismanaging your money, their budget and some even abuse their power to persecute their political opponents. And almost everyone in Washington, in the swamp, there propped up a mentally impaired Joe Biden who was never fit to serve. Those days are thankfully over.
And recently, President Trump revoked Antony winkin' Tony Blinken security clearance. You might recall in 2020, it was Blinken that organized the infamous letter from 51 former so-called intel experts that knew nothing about Hunter Biden's laptop, suggesting that it was likely Russian disinformation. None of them examined the laptop. And he was then rewarded with the coveted secretary of state position in the Biden White House.
Meanwhile, Trump also strip security clearances from New York AG Letitia James, Manhattan D.A. Alvin Bragg because of their rampant lawfare.
The president also took away Joe Biden's security clearance and daily intel briefings after a precedent set by Joe Biden himself. I guess the media really can't complain, can they? They will but they really shouldn't. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
NORAH O'DONNELL, CBS NEWS HOST: Should former President Trump still receive intelligence briefings?
JOE BIDEN, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT: I think not.
O'DONNELL: Why not?
BIDEN: Because of his erratic behavior.
O'DONNELL: What's your worst fear if he continues to get these intelligence briefings?
BIDEN: I'd rather not speculate out loud. I just think that there is no need for him to have that that intelligence briefing. What value is giving him an intelligence briefing? What impact does he have at all other than the fact he might slip and say something?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: By the way, Norah O'Donnell, Chuck Todd, let's see, Andrea Mitchell, Jim Acosta, fake news Acosta, they're all -- they're not part of the legacy media mob anymore. But the media mob did cheer for Biden and now when the shoe is on the other foot, we get nothing but mass hysteria from Democrats.
In reality, Biden was not fit to serve for four years, is not fit to receive intel briefings and remember he's the guy that leveraged billion of your hard-earned tax dollars to get a Ukrainian prosecutor fired so his inexperienced, drug addicted son could continue to make millions of dollars that he frankly didn't deserve. But that won't stop the hysteria from the left.
Now, munch -- much of that hate is focused on DOGE and Elon Musk. Why? For helping Donald Trump root out all of the waste, fraud, abuse and corruption from our federal government. We should be thanking Elon Musk.
Here's more with the president and his interview with our own Bret Baier. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: I don't know if it's kickbacks or what's going on, but the people - - look, I ran on this, and the people want me to find it and I've had a great help with Elon Musk who's been terrific.
BAIER: Bottom line, you say trust him?
TRUMP: Trust Elon? Oh, he's not gaining anything. In fact, I wonder how he can devote the time to it, he's so into it. But I told him do that.
Then I'm going to tell him very soon, like maybe in 24 hours, to go check the Department of Education. He's going to find the same thing.
Then I'm going to go -- go to the military. Let's check the military. We're going to find billions -- hundreds of billions of dollars of fraud and abuse. But I campaign on this, Bret.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: This is why Donald Trump won. This is what the American people wanted and they're now getting.
In fact, a recent TikTok is now going viral. It's pretty funny, after a Texas woman who says she is an independent called out the performative rage on the left over the issue of DOGE and the billions and wasteful spending for DEI for woke transgender, and the green new deal. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Democrats are acting like cheating boyfriends right now. I'm sorry, but somebody's got to say it. I'm independent. I think there's good ideas on both sides, there's bad ideas on both sides.
But what this DOGE audit is reminding me of is like a girl taking her boyfriend's phone and like hiding in the bathroom and the Democrats are just begged on the door and they're like you are invading my privacy. You can't go through my phone.
And Elon Musk is like yes, I can. I can see what you've been up to. And then every time Musk comes out of the bathroom and he's like, look, see what you did. They just turn it around and they're like you invaded my privacy. This was your fault. You broke my trust.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Oh, Elon -- Elon Musk exposed their fraud.
And, by the way, for the record, Elon's working for free. Everybody at DOGE is working for free, to root out this fraud, waste, corruption in American's government. He recently uncovered billions of your wasted dollars, all this money going to foreign countries. Again, the radical new green deal, leftist, socialist Marxist agenda, DEI, woke policies, transgender policies, billions wasted abroad, none of that money was spent here while Americans are suffering here.
And this weekend, we discovered more of your money is still being dispersed from FEMA to hotels for illegal immigrants all while the people of North Carolina were frankly abandoned after Hurricane Helene.
Musk also just led the effort to terminate 29 separate DEI training grants to the Department of Education. He's created some of the most successful companies on earth and is now using his tremendous skill set to improve our federal government. He doesn't have to do any of it.
PayPal, let's see Starlink, SpaceX, Tesla, oh, and he's about to rescue astronauts abandoned by Joe and Kamala in space, lost in space.
And yet, Democrats are enraged, doubling down, in support of, you know illegal immigration including criminals, you know, doubling down on this reckless international spending on leftwing pet projects around the globe.
Now, Democratic strategist, our old friend James Carville, he's sounding the alarm. I don't think they're going to listen to him which I'm fine with. Take a look.
(BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)
JAMES CARVILLE, DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST: And it's like there's a plant somewhere in, quote, progressive, unquote, America that just sees how many jack (EXPLETIVE DELETED) stupid things that they can embrace. It's stunningly stupid, both of them.
(END AUDIO CLIP)
HANNITY: He said jack ass. I think you can say that on cable.
Anyway, Democrats should listen to Carville, but maybe they just are too far gone, which seems to be the case.
Here with reaction from the Trump Organization, Eric Trump is with us.
If they want to double down on men and women's sports, they want to double down on the known terrorists, cartel members, gang members, murderers, rapists in the country, okay. They want to double down on tens -- we'll find hundreds of billions of dollars going abroad for their radical leftist agenda, I think that's a good thing for conservatives and Republicans because I think that's the -- that's way out of touch with where the American people are.
ERIC TRUMP, TRUMP ORGANIZATION EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT: Yeah, there's no question about that, Sean. I mean, look how effective DOGE has been. I mean you literally have a political party out there, the Democrats right now, who wanted to hire 87,000 new IRS agents to audit people's Venmo. So if you send $400 in a Venmo, they wanted to audit you. Yet, when Elon, my father go in there and they want to audit the IRS, when they want to audit USAID who is spending a $100 million to send condoms to Gaza, let alone running shrimp on treadmill and all the other ridiculous things, the Democrats go crazy.
Let them do this, Sean. They'll never win another election. I mean, the American people are sick and tired of it. You said what you said about, you know, obviously, you know, men and women's sports right there are a thousand examples of this.
But you know what the good thing, Sean, is patriotism is back in this country. People are seeing how effective Donald Trump is. You saw the reaction he got at the Super Bowl yesterday.
You saw the reaction. In fact, I was right next to him on Air Force One as we're flying over the Gulf of America and he restores an unbelievable name to a body of water that always should have represented America and not Mexico. My father is out there fighting for this country.
He's doing it every single day. He's doing it with the hostages. He's doing it for our economy. He's doing it so we're not wasting taxpayers every single second.
He wants us to have the greatest, most prosperous, you know, best country in the world and people love the fact that he's going out there and punching. And that's why when we walked into the Super Bowl yesterday, the place went freaking crazy. They went crazy.
They love the man. They love the fact that he won't back down. They love the fact that he has backbone and I've never been more proud of the guy. I mean, he's -- he's doing a remarkable job. He's doing such a great job, Sean.
HANNITY: Listen and I'm scrolling the USAID, you know, spending. You know, we got to look at this through the prism of the average American and -- by the way, this is your first interview since the election if I'm not mistaken. Is that true or since the inauguration? And it's great to have you back.
But what's amazing is the average American, Eric, makes 66 grand a year. You know, I live paycheck to paycheck at a point in my life. It wasn't really fun and Americans now after Biden inflation, they're putting bare necessities on credit cards and just paying the bare minimum off every month. And this -- and you see these tens and hundreds of billions of dollars in waste for countries abroad and Democrats are okay with that?
E. TRUMP: Of course. They are because they're all making money off of it. And you know, what, Sean, honestly, I'm a business guy. I understand this world very, very well.
I want them to follow that money right because it's more than again the shrimp dancing on the treadmill. It's -- it's -- it's more than the $50 million for the condoms to Gaza. I want them to follow those purchase orders and actually see if any of those products actually got delivered, right?
People need to go to jail for some of this reckless spending. It's -- it's insane. When you see the IRS who has literally never denied a payment in the last 15 years, they didn't deny anything, any invoice that went to the IRS, they paid immediately. They were paying terrorist organizations. Al Qaeda was literally, you know, on the payroll of America. Have we not lost our damn minds?
And then you have people out there that are struggling every single day. You had people in, you know, North Carolina who got ravaged by the floods. People in California who got ravaged by fires and incompetence, right?
We had to borrow firefighting planes from Canada, yet we're giving $200 billion to Ukraine, you have Zelenskyy coming in, saying, hey, we got $70 billion, but where's the extra $130 billion that you promised me? You can't make it up, Sean.
Americans want somebody who is going to fight for this country, fight for them, fight for the money that they pay in taxes. They want somebody who's going to fix the school, have the greatest military, not indoctrinate their children, allow people to live the American dream. That's why my father won.
And it's not that he just won by a little bit, this is a guy that won the popular vote, vote decisively. This is a guy that won you know all seven swing states. This is a guy that walks into the Super Bowl and gets a standing ovation literally while Taylor Swift is practically booed out of the place.
People love the man. People love his fight. People love his energy and people love that he's willing to do everything, put his life on the line to save a nation that he loves and it's energized this country in the greatest way.
I mean, it's just -- it's been so uplifting for our whole society and not just this country, Sean, the entire world. I mean, we are leading the way again.
HANNITY: Yeah, it really is consequential, transformative and -- and this is just the beginning. By the way, we're just starting week four.
Eric, great to have you back. We appreciate you being with us.
Joining us now with reaction, we have FOX News contributor Ari Fleischer, "FOX & Friends" weekend co-host, our friend Charlie Hurt.
Ari, start with you.
Okay, the Democrats want to double down on supporting men and women sports, you know, criminal illegal immigrants and they want to double down on the amount of the crazy radical left-wing agenda spending abroad and not prioritizing the American people.
I'm -- I'm okay with that politically because long term, I know it means they'll never win.
ARI FLEISCHER, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Yeah, it's almost as if the Democrats just are expecting the clock to get reset back to the Biden years, back to the golden days of Obama and their coalition of minorities, and they just think if they hope and they wait it's all going to return because the American people will get their common sense back and let women participate in men's sports, and let men participate in women's sports, have the southern border be open again.
It's almost as if that's their only policy, to wish the old days would come back and Trump would go away. Look, you know, you know, what Trump's done really has been remarkable. Normally, you have a president who wins a reelection, 2020, if Trump had won, and it would have been a continuation.
What you had after this election in '24 was not just a transition, Sean. It was an acceleration. That's what we have in America today an acceleration of all the things Donald Trump was thinking about for four years, recognized how bad Biden had taken the nation and then he got into office and stepped on the gas and hasn't stopped stepping on it in a way we never see before when you have a normal two-term presidency.
It really is a remarkable change in how presidents govern and because it's a man in a hurry who's got a big agenda and he's not afraid to carry it out.
HANNITY: You know, the only question mark, and as of today, Charlie, I'm not that worried about it. The only question I have, will House Republicans, Senate Republicans -- will they be there -- will their spine stiffen enough to support the agenda that America voted for? Will there be enough of them and look what they're trying to do to -- in New York, to Stefanik's seat to keep a Republican out of Congress.
CHARLIE HURT, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Yeah, talk about election interference with that seat in New York. It's extraordinary. You know, what -- whatever happened to their concerns about having -- allowing voters to have a say in elections.
Obviously, Democrats -- I'm starting to think, maybe Democrats didn't really mean that when they made all those arguments. Look, I agree with you and I think that that's why these opening weeks are so vitally important because I think it's demonstrating to a lot of Republicans who have been around for a long time and, you know, many of whom have been fighting the good fight for a long time and they just keep hitting their head against the a brick wall that is the federal bureaucracy. It's so impossible to get things done.
Many others are just perfectly happy with status quo and think it's just fine, but you have a guy like Donald Trump who has come in and suddenly, the world looks around and just looking at the first three weeks of his administration, you begin to think that, wow, anything is possible. You can actually maybe fix of these problems that we have been told for -- for decades are impossible to fix, that that the bureaucracy is just a leviathan that lives on its own and takes taxpayers dollars and feeds the system inside of Washington.
And suddenly, it's not like that anymore. There's a true existential threat to the bureaucracy, to the leviathan, and it's all because of this one guy has the courage and I think a lot -- a lot of it has to do with the fact that he has he doesn't care anymore.
They tried to kill him. They tried to murder him. They tried to put him in jail. They tried to bankrupt him. They did everything they could to him.
He doesn't care anymore and so now, he's in Washington. He realizes who's evil. He realizes that that if that that all it takes is courage and he's going after him, and I think that -- that that demonstration puts a steel spine in every one of those Republicans that he is as you point out, Sean, he's going to need to get longer term solutions done in Washington.
HANNITY: Yeah, why are they -- why do they hate Elon Musk so much, I think the country owes Elon a debt of gratitude. What your take, Ari?
FLEISCHER: Because he went from running a car -- a car company that all greens loved, the Democrats loved. It was electric cars, again then not fossil fuels. So he was a man they envied.
And all of a sudden, he came out for Donald Trump. You know, he was previous pretty independent, not really into politics. He came out for Donald Trump and did so in such a serious, big, determined way. he made huge impact.
And so he's mini Trump to all these Democrats. And they don't like Trump. They don't like mini Trump. You put the two together, they don't like Trump-Musk.
And I think Charlie just hit the nail right on the head. Musk is transitioning the government. We are getting rid of things that never should have been created in the first place, things that once they got created just spread on their own like wildfire.
And we were all told there's nothing you can do about it. Along comes Trump, along comes Musk and says, you better believe there's something we're going to do about it and we're watching it before our very eyes.
HANNITY: And you know what? Republicans have talked about limited government, cutting waste fraud and abuse for decades, this is their one shot to do it. They better take advantage of it.
Thank you both, right.
When we come back, the left continues to melt down. They're hyperventilating over Trump and Elon Musk is exposing all this waste fraud and abuse of your money and all the corruption. We've got the latest.
We'll check in with Karoline Leavitt, straight ahead, as we continue.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. Time now for our "Hannity" Washington briefing with the one and only Karoline Leavitt will join us in a second.
Apparently, there is nothing that drives Democrats more crazy than rooting out waste, fraud and abuse in the federal government. As the left struggles to find a good way to go after President Trump, they are unleashing a barrage of frankly comically, over the top attacks on DOGE, the Department of Government Efficiency.
Here's the best of their meltdowns from today. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. MAXINE WATERS (D-CA): Elon Musk, where are? You bring your ass over here, so you can see who's here.
SEN. ELIZABETH WARREN (D-MA): This is like a bank robber trying to fire the cops and turn off the alarms just before he strolls into the lobby. We are here to fight back.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: That is what they are doing. They are dismantling the federal government which will deny the American people the services and the resources that allow them to help -- to raise their families, have a secure economy and a secure future for themselves.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Every time you hear DOGE, the Department of Government Efficiency, you just remember, it is the department of government evil, over.
WATERS: This is thievery. This is gangsterism.
SEN. CHRIS MURPHY (D-CT): We're going to shut down Elon Musk's illegal operation.
REP. AYANNA PRESSLEY (D-MA): So we will see you in Congress, in the courts and in the streets.
REP. JOYCE BEATTY (D-OH): So Donald Trump what does that say about you? You don't have power, but we have people power and we're coming out after you. We're coming after you with our people power.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Oh, it's thievery all right of your money. Of course, DOGE is not trying to dismantle any actual important functions of the federal government. However, they are trying to save billions in international reckless spending on this radical, left-wing, socialist, Marxist, green new deal, woke policies, DEI, transgenderism worldwide. They're -- they're putting the American people first. They're focused on ending stuff like funding for an Anthony Fauci museum exhibit and DEI training grants at the Department of Education.
Anyway, here now with the very latest, we call the Hannity Washington briefing with Karoline Leavitt is White House Press Secretary Karoline herself.
You want to respond to that -- that crazy montage?
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: I would love to, Sean. Clearly, the Democrats learned nothing from their devastating defeat on November 5th because this is exactly what the American people voted for. President Trump campaigned alongside Elon Musk and President Trump promised voters on the campaign that he was going to make our government more efficiency. He came up with the idea of DOGE and he told everybody in the world he would be appointing Elon Musk to cut through the waste, fraud and abuse that has plagued our federal government for far too long and has ripped off hardworking taxpayers.
And I think it shouldn't come as a surprise to anybody that that's what Elon is doing at the direction of President Trump. The only surprise here is the vast amount of waste fraud and abuse that we have uncovered and we are just getting started.
And the Democrats are so incredibly out of touch. If you look at the public polling, 56 percent of the public supports President Trump's freeze on foreign aid. The most recent CBS poll shows that the vast majority of Americans support what President Trump is doing. In fact, his favorability rating has never been higher.
So while the Democrats continue to hoot and holler in the streets, acting completely deranged, President Trump and Elon Musk and our entire administration are going to continue to go line by line and treat this federal government like a business, money in, money out. And what do we actually need to spend money on to advance America's interest, that is our goal here. That's all that that's happening.
Anything else is fear-mongering by the left because they don't have a real message and they're deranged. There's no other way to put it.
HANNITY: And you're right about the president's approval rating. Seventy percent of people in that very poll you referenced say all the president's doing is what he promised. This is how the American people describe President Trump, tough, energetic, focused, effective, all of which is true.
And now, we find out that in spite the president's executive action, that FEMA sent $59 million last week to pay for luxury New York City hotels, in spite of the order. What -- what actions are available for the president at this point. We have Tom Homan on in a minute.
LEAVITT: Well, I know that Secretary Noem and her team have confirmed that all those who were involved in hitting send on that $59 million payment against the president's executive borders in his agenda will be terminated and I know Tom Homan, I'll let him speak on it, my dear colleague and friend, has very strong feelings about those who continue to leak information about ISIS deportation efforts. We are not going to allow rogue bureaucrats in this city to obstruct the will of the American people.
Again, President Trump was elected on a mandate to implement the policies that he promised, mass deportations, cutting fraud and abuse out of our federal government, lowering inflation and restoring peace around this world. And our entire team is focused on delivering on those priorities. President Trump is working at a breakneck speed and there are obstructionists who are trying to block his agenda. But we are going to continue moving ahead and anybody who -- who tries to block the will of the American people will face consequences for that.
HANNITY: Well, let me go back to where I was with Eric Trump and that is the Democrats, they want to double down on men and women's sports and protecting those unvetted Biden-Harris illegals in the country, including known terrorists, rapists, murderers, gang members, cartel members which is insane. I scroll all of the billions of dollars and waste fraud abuse and corruption then, you know, you want to talk about thievery, the people they're stealing from by abusing taxpayer money are the taxpayers.
And if this is -- if this is where the Democratic Party is, you couple that with who they elected the leadership of the DNC, how does that help them in the future? Is this the agenda they think the American people want?
LEAVITT: I don't think it helps them at all. So I hope that they keep saying the things they are saying and protesting outside of these federal government buildings that have been again ripping off the American taxpayers. I mean, you had Senator Chris Coons, Democratic senator, actually defending sending millions of dollars to Iraq to fund a Sesame Street program.
I bet you the vast majority of Americans don't want their tax dollars going to funding Sesame Street in Iraq. What does that do for hardworking American families who have been struggling for the cost of living because of the Biden-Harris administration? It does nothing.
And President Trump is restoring common sense not just to Washington, D.C., not just to the United States of America, but to the entire world. And you're already seeing the effects of that ring and the American people are very happy with what President Trump is doing at that White House every single day.
HANNITY: How do you like your new friends in the media?
LEAVITT: Well, I love my job very much and I love speaking the truth. And I'll tell you, Sean, they are loving the access in the transparency that they are receiving from President Trump in our White House. He did another press conference in the Oval Office today and even those that don't like him will tell you that they like the truth and the transparency and it's a breath of fresh air after the past four years of lies from the previous administration.
HANNITY: All right. That's tonight's "Hannity" Washington briefing with the great Karoline Leavitt. Have fun with our friend -- tell them I said hi during the next briefing, send my best regards to the people in the state- run legacy media mob.
Anyway, thank you, Karoline.
When we come back, ICE raids they continue to be leaked. The Trump administration is vowing to get to the bottom of it. Who's responsible? And we'll also explain, you know, who Kristi Noem thinks is to blame. We'll check in with Tom Homan when we come back, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: And tonight, a very disturbing trend is taking hold as President Trump is implementing his mass deportation policy, looks like every time ICE is preparing to launch a large scale enforcement operation in a liberal city, information about that raid is leaked.
And now, the administration is taking major steps to make sure that stops happening.
Attorney General Pam Bondi warning yesterday right here on FOX News, quote: If you leaked it, we will find out who you are. We will come after you.
This after Homeland Security Secretary Kristie Noem said that she thought that FBI employees were the ones responsible for these leaks.
Also tonight, our own Bill Melugin reporting that Secretary Noem is asking the Treasury Department to allow IRS agents to be sent to the southern border to help enforce immigration law.
Here with more is Trump administration border czar, Tom Homan.
Tom, where are these leaks coming from?
TOM HOMAN, BORDER CZAR: Well, look, we think it's coming from inside and we know the first leak of Aurora is under current investigation. We think we identify that person, under investigation right now.
The California leak, Secretary Noem, you know, she's correct. Some of the information we're receiving tends to lead toward the FBI.
But I talked to deputy attorney of general all this weekend, they've opened up a criminal investigation and they have promised that not this person lose her job and lose her pension, they're going to go to jail. They're going to criminally prosecute.
So we're all over it. We got the DHS I.G. investigating the first one. Have a pretty good idea what happened. Can't share a lot because it's under investigation but the I.G.'s open up a criminal investigation on the second one. We're sending a strong message.
It's just not -- you know, giving the bad guys a heads up so they can escape apprehension, right, arresting -- you know, giving, you know, a Venezuela gang heads up so we can't arrest them. You're putting officers' lives at risk.
It's only matters time we walk into a place where there's going to be a bad guy doesn't care, he's going to be sitting and wait for the officer to show up and ambush him. This is not a game.
So DHS and DOJ are connected at hip to hold these people responsible in a criminal fashion.
HANNITY: So early indications are this is coming from our own FBI. How certain are you of that?
HOMAN: Information is leading to that. Again, I'll let -- I'll let the Department of Justice do their own investigation but again, I talked to the deputy attorney general this week and they've opened up a criminal investigation. He thinks the information is coming from there also. So we'll let that investigation play out, but some of the leads point that way.
HANNITY: Wow. That -- that's really scary.
The idea of, you know, not hiring these 88,000 IRS agents to go after, you know, law-abiding taxpayers and bringing them to the border, how -- how helpful would that be in your mission?
HOMAN: No. We'll put them to work. For the law enforcement officers, we can certainly put them work in helping secure some of these at-large operations. They don't have immigration authority, but they can certainly cover back door. They can certainly transport. They can certainly help process.
The non-criminal IRS agent, they can help us process and do -- do some intelligence and wrap around infrastructure planning. We'll take 'em. We can use all the help we can get because this is a big operation. So I hope we get some of 'em.
I think it's -- President Trump's made it very clear, this is all of the government approach because this is the na -- this is national security vulnerability, our open border, and having all these two -- over two million known gotaways you and I talked about this a lot, Sean, helping us find these people who paid more to get away, over two million.
We know who they are, where they came from, why they're here, but we need to find those folks. So we'll take every man and woman available to come.
HANNITY: You know, I keep going back to a question and you have every right to be irritated with me for -- for keep asking it is -- and this is the scary part of tipping off the enemy because you're right, they'll lie in wait, and the element of surprise will be removed from -- from those brave agents that are -- that are willing to find, but we -- the people in this country that don't belong here. But among them are known murderers and rapists and terrorists and cartel members and gang members. This is -- this is not an easy lift to begin with.
And you've expressed confidence that you'll find them all. And the question is, how quickly you think we can find them all?
HOMAN: Well, sanctuary cities know they're putting up every roadblock possible. You know, rather than arresting the bad guy in the county jail, it takes one agent arrest a bad guy when they gets arrested and put in the count of jail, we got to send the whole team to the neighborhood. So it's - - it's going to be -- it's very difficult in sanctuary cities but we're going to keep coming.
What are we doing about sanctuary cities? I'm going to double the manpower in those sanctuary cities.
Sanctuary cities, if we can't get them in their homes, we'll get them a place of employment. We're going to have large scale work site enforcement operation.
So we're going to send more resource. We're not going to stop. We're going to keep coming.
We're going to keep coming with more. We're going to increase the targeting in those cities. We're going to give full steam ahead on sanctuary cities.
Sanctuary cities are becoming the priority. Why? Because the protection -- they're protecting public safety threats and national security threats.
So we're going to double manpower. We're going to double operations. We're going to double targeting. We're coming full bore, and they're not going to stop us.
I'm taking this seriously. I -- I don't sleep well at night because I'm -- I'm afraid of the people are walking the streets every day because sanctuary cities protect them.
Sanctuary cities are sanctuary for criminals, bottom line. So we're going - - we're going to do everything we can to find them regardless of what it takes.
We got a strong president in the White House that's giving us all the authority we need. We're coming.
HANNITY: I've been saying it for years. They are aiding and betting in the law breaking and, frankly, all of them that protect these criminals and those criminals that go on to commit violent crime, murder, rape against Americans, they have blood on their hands. There's no other way put it.
Tom Homan, we will continue to update our audience on this. It's too important what you're doing. We appreciate you being with us. Thank you.
All right. According to reports, mental health experts they are seeing an uptick in patience because Trump is keeping his campaign promises. I'm not making it up, maybe there's a pill for that.
Anyway, you won't believe how much money people have also donated, remember Luigi Mangione, the guy that shot the UnitedHealthcare CEO? Oh, wow. We'll check in with Dr. Drew, next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. Mental health experts now seeing an uptick in patience due to the Trump administration moving at lightning speed, not making it up.
"Axios" interviewing a handful of psychologists who all had had similar conclusions that Donald Trump's 24-hour news cycle and uncertainty about the future, although it's pretty certain, has become too much stress for many leftists in America.
According to one D.C.-based psychologist, this uptick -- uptick in patients has been largely Democrats who are, quote, expressing a sense of burnout guilt and despair and losing of an old way of life.
Anyway, he's the chief patient officer at the Wellness Company, our friend, Dr. Drew Pinsky is with us.
Okay. This is way out of my league. You -- you got to help me here.
DR. DREW PINSKY, CHIEF PATIENT OFFICER AT THE WELLNESS COMPANY: Well, Sean, you were chuckling at it and I think it's worth sort of be taking a humorous approach to something like this. But the reality is that people probably are suffering. Humans don't like change. That's -- that's just something about human beings and the change right now is coming at us fast and furiously.
And even people who like the quality of the change are going to be a little bit uncomfortable with this. But I -- I've been thinking lately that, you know, when you -- when you put that quote up there, it's feelings of helplessness that people are describing and grief. They're grieving a lost sense of themselves and their world, and that previous sense of themselves I really believe was a sense of themselves as victim.
I think people have been sort of falling into this victim. We -- you -- we talked about it over the years, this victim posture. And they've entered into something that's called the Drama Triangle or the Karpman triangle which people are in the victim role and everyone else has to either be a rescuer or a victimizer.
And they have casted the rest of the world as victimizers, yeah.
HANNITY: Rush had a great --
(CROSSTALK)
PINSKY: Now, it's ending.
HANNITY: He used to call it psycho battle, you know? At -- I didn't like it when Obama won and I didn't like it when Biden won, but you know what? I survived and get over it.
All right. I got to switch gears on you. The support for this guy, Luigi Mangione, that's the guy accused of murdering the UnitedHealthcare CEO, husband, father Brian Thompson in December. Look at this, first, it was this outpouring a support on social media.
Now, this accused murderer in cold blood receiving nearly 300 grand in donations for his criminal defense. His lead attorney issued a statement saying that he is aware of the fund. He, quote, is planning on utilizing it to fight for all three of the unprecedented cases against him. Evidence that I've seen looks pretty incontrovertible.
What is that all about?
PINSKY: Well, I mean, first of all, anyone that is glorifying this young man's behavior really needs to examine themselves. This is an egregious transgression to think it's okay to support somewhat enraging in coldblooded murder.
But back to the psycho battle, Sean, it has a name. It's called hybristophilia, and I think a lot of people are aware that women will fall in love with people in jail, and it has a name and -- but let's be clear about it, it's pathology. It's not okay that people do this. It's not a joke, and it's not -- oh, he's a nice looking young man and, you know, those insurance companies, what are you going to do? That is B.S. of the highest order and people need to examine themselves and their ethics when they fall down that path.
HANNITY: I guess everything has a name. I hope, I don't -- do they have pills for this stuff? Something? You know, just numb them so maybe they can chill relax and --
PINSKY: Maybe, maybe it's you and I, you and I need to take the pills. We need to take the pills so we stop -- stop having a reaction to all this.
HANNITY: Send me a prescription.
Dr. Drew, thank you.
More "Hannity" straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. That's all the time we have left this evening. Thank you for being with us. Thank you for making this show possible.
Please set your DVR so you never ever, ever, ever miss an episode of "Hannity".
I have good news. Let not your heart be troubled. Why? Greg Gutfeld is up next to put a smile on your face. Hope you have a great night.

Load-Date: February 11, 2025


End of Document
