




Fox News FOX NEWS @ NIGHT 11:00 PM EST
January 22, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6945 words
Byline: Greg Gutfeld, Trace Gallagher, Kevin Corke, Joe Concha, Ashley Strohmier, Nicole Parker, Christina Coleman
Guests: Rob Smith, Dee Sarton, Batya Ungar-Sargon, Kenny Xu, Cata Truss, Helen Kulungian, Carla Kulungian
Body


GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Trace Gallagher, Jamie Lissow, Kat Timpf, Tyrus, our studio audience. "FOX NEWS @ NIGHT" is next. I'm Greg Gutfeld. I love you, America.
TRACE GALLAGHER, ANCHOR, FOX NEWS @ NIGHT: And good evening again. I'm Trace Gallagher. It's 8:00 on the Wast Coast, 11:00 here in New York City and this is America's late news, FOX NEWS @ NIGHT.
And breaking tonight. Promises made, promises kept. After two full days in office, President Trump's cleanup is in full swing. As of today, all federal DEI offices closed.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP (R) PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Merit. Our country is going to be based on merit again.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: And U.S. embassies abroad can no longer fly pride flags or Black Lives Matter flags. The State Department saying it's time to take pride in the American flag again. Plus, the Pentagon sending 1500 more active-duty troops to secure the southern border and ICE set to resume the term illegal alien, instead of noncitizen, already arresting almost 400 known illegal migrants, including known terrorists, rapists and murderers in just 48 hours.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: He is sending a very clear message to the rest of the world. If you are even thinking for a single second about illegally entering our country and breaking the laws of the United States of America, you will face consequences for doing so. You will be returned to your home country and you will be arrested and you will be prosecuted.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: We'll have an exclusive first look into the ICE raids in moments. Plus, a new fire burning out of control tonight in Los Angeles County. That is a live look right there from KTTV, our Fox affiliate, as 50,000 California residents are told to evacuate. We'll have a live report on the fire in moments, but we begin with our top story.
Senior National Correspondent Kevin Corke live in D.C. with more on Trump's National cleanup. Kevin, good evening.
KEVIN CORKE, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Evening, Trace. To put it in meteorological terms, the second full day of the second Trump presidency was a combination of gale force winds and ice crystals, which is a way of saying a sand blast treatment to the Biden legacy with yet another flurry of executive actions and orders and policy decisions including ending DEI discrimination in the federal workforce, contracting and spending and placing on leave all federal DEI employees.
Also, as you pointed out, banning the flying of any flag other than the American flag at all government buildings and installations, meaning no more pride flags or Black Lives Matter flags and sending 1500 troops to the U.S. southern border with Mexico. All in an effort to aid in the fight to reduce illegal migration.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: We have a lot of great people right now, a lot of great, great people on this situation. This was a gross miscarriage of common sense to allow people to come in.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CORKE: That from the President's conversation with our Sean Hannity. Meantime, ICE leadership is directing employees to refer to foreign nationals as aliens in all internal and external communications, rescinding the Biden era change from alien to noncitizen. And the DOJ is ordering prosecutors to probe local efforts to obstruct immigration enforcement.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS HOST: Mayor Bass, Mayor Johnson, if they blockade ICE from going in, if they sabotage the mass deportation efforts, they could be arrested?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CORKE: They could be arrested, according to Sean Miller. And tonight, President Trump has also made a decision tapping Sean Curran, his current special agent in charge, to be the next director of the U.S. Secret Service. No surprise there, Trace.
GALLAGHER: Not at all. Kevin Corke live for us in D.C. Kevin, thank you. Let's bring in Rob Smith from Right Turn Strategies and the author of Progressively Worse, Fox News Contributor Joe Concha. Gentlemen, thank you both for coming on. Rob, to you first. 1500 active-duty troops going to the U.S. border. What do you think? Well,
ROB SMITH, COMMUNICATIONS STRATEGIST, RIGHT TURN STRATEGIES: Well, I think that when you are a U.S. soldier, you take an oath and I've taken this oath because I am an Iraq war veteran, you take an oath to protect America from enemies, both foreign and domestic. OK? So there are upwards of millions of illegal immigrants that have entered this country over the past four years under the horrific Biden administration.
They are coming from virtually every country all around the world. Some of these people are coming from terrorist hubs, and we need those National Guard troops there to help secure that border and to keep Americans safe. In the last note that I want to make is that for whatever tears are going around on the internet right now, for whatever liberals are crying about this, this is what the American people have voted for. And Trump is giving the people what they voted for and why they elected him, backing off.
GALLAGHER: That's exactly right. Meantime, Eric Adams, the mayor of New York City says that New York will work with ICE on criminal illegal immigrants. He said this, Joe, watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MAYOR ERIC ADAMS (D-NY): We're going to continue to collaborate with all of our federal partners when it comes down to illegal behaviors. I was very clear for almost a year now, year and a half now, those who commit violent crimes in our city have violated their right to be in our city and in our country, and we're going to continue to collaborate with ICE around criminality.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Sounds to me, Joe, like the resistance is cracking a little bit.
JOE CONCHA, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: That sounded me like Rudy Giuliani.
(CROSSTALK)
CONCHA: That was the Democrat Eric Adams who said at one point in December after Trump was elected that he will work with Tom Homan and with President Trump. And then he also said, cancel me. I don't care. So, cracking? Yes. The dam has definitely cracked here. Here's the bottom line. Bill Clinton once said this, all Americans are rightly disturbed by the large number of illegal aliens in this country.
Barack Obama said the word illegals as a term regarded to illegal immigration 28 times, right, during his presidency. Democrats used to talk like this. Now common sense is becoming common again, thanks to the victory by Donald Trump.
GALLAGHER: Yes. And the coffee mugs that say Common Sense Department on Joe. Thank you. Now to the one-flag policy, Rob, the Washington Free Beacon writes the following here, starting immediately, only the United States of America flag is authorized to be flown or displayed at U.S. facilities, both domestic and abroad and featured in U.S. government content. Thoughts on that.
SMITH: Look, I think that number one, there is one flag that represents everybody in America. It doesn't matter what color you are, doesn't matter what your sexual orientation is, it doesn't matter what gender you are, doesn't matter what religion you are. It is the American flag. OK? The American flag is back. America is back. And I think that this policy is 100 percent on point for where we are in this country and where we continue -- need to continue to be going.
GALLAGHER: Meantime, the Wall Street Journal writes this on DEI, Joe Concha. The following Trump's shrewd order killing DEI. Goes on to say, one way to think of President Trump's EO, executive order is as the first victory for the new department of government efficiency, a substantial and intrusive policy affecting all parts of the government has been repealed. That means the army of federal workers, whose job was to implement DEI programs and principles no longer needed. Thank you very much.
CONCHA: DEI should stand for didn't earn it. And right now, you talked about the wall cracking before, in terms of the narrative, in terms of who is on what side. This is an 80/20 issue in the eyes the American people at this point where 80 oppose and only 20 support, if Democrats still want to try to support this where we're not hiring people that are the best for the job, instead of based on their skin color or their sexual orientation, is the exact opposite of what Martin Luther King said as far as color not mattering character.
GALLAGHER: Right. Race to mediocrity. I mean, Rob --
(CROSSTALK)
SMITH: And I want to say, look, is a black person, it is offensive. The idea that I've gotten anywhere that I am based on anything other than hard work, merit and actual qualifications and receipts is offensive. And I think the Democrats, when they're pushing this DEI, they don't know how offensive it is to qualified black Americans and Americans of all colors.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Rob, Joe, thank you both.
SMITH: Trace, good to see you in person.
CONCHA: Thank you, Trace.
GALLAGHER: Thank you.
CONCHA: It's very cool.
GALLAGHER: In the meantime, turns out the new president is a lot more talkative and transparent than the old president. Trump appears to have taken more questions in a few days than his predecessor took in four years. Ashley Strohmier is live with that story. Ashley, good evening.
ASHLEY STROHMIER, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Hi, Trace. In just the 2-1/2 days since President Trump took office, he has already spent 80 minutes fielding questions from the press, by our count, not including that interview that just aired on Hannity. That's compared to just a few offhand comments President Biden made to the press during his first few days in office, happening only between remarks or at an executive order event.
President Trump is also taking the unprecedented step of quickly releasing the contents of the letter President Biden left in his desk just a couple of days ago. Remember this?
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PETER DOOCY, FOX NEWS SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Did President Biden leave you a letter?
TRUMP: He may have. Don't they leave it in the desk? I don't know. Oh.
DOOCY: What's in there?
TRUMP: Thank you, Peter. It could have been years before we found this thing. Well, I don't know. Thank you.
DOOCY: Can you read anything on the outside?
TRUMP: Maybe we should all read it together.
DOOCY: Read it.
TRUMP: Well, maybe I'll read it first and then make that determination.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
STROHMIER: A lot of people love that. And Trump has now read the letter and has decided to show us what it says. It reads in part, as I take leave of the sacred office, I wish you and your family all the best in the next four years, the American people and people around the world look to this house for steadiness in the inevitable storms of history. Biden continued to say his prayer is that the coming years will be a time of prosperity, peace and grace for our nation. Trace?
GALLAGHER: Ashley Strohmier live with us here in New York. Ashley, thank you.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOE SCARBOROUGH, MSNBC HOST: Saying that like what 99 percent of life is just showing up? Donald Trump always shows up. Did you look at -- somebody did an analysis of how many interviews, how many words were spoken, how many -- how many questions were answered during the 2024 campaign? It wasn't even close.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Yes. Talking about the many questions that President Trump has answered. Let's bring in opinion editor Batya Ungar-Sargon along with the host of a Home That Heals podcast, one of America's great former T.V. news anchors, Dee Sarton. Thank you both for coming on. You know, it seems to me, Dee Sarton, like Biden, avoided the media like the plague, and here you have Trump.
He seems to enjoy the back and forth. I mean, he really does. He feels like it's challenging. I'm not sure what it is, but he's in his element.
DEE SARTON, FORMER NEWS ANCHOR: And, you know, when he's in his element, that's when he really connects with just regular people, if you ask me. And it sounded like and -- I love Peter Doocy's question about let's read the letter. It sounded like, let's open the birthday card. It sounds like real life, not something scripted and planned and not so professionally thought out that you don't get real clarity about who this person really is and what he's thinking.
GALLAGHER: Yes. And then, you know, you don't get that, oh little circle back on that later. None of that stuff, buddy. It's incredible. But I got to say, CNN showboat news anchor Jim Acosta keeps attacking Trump, right? Congressman Burchett kind of settled him down a little bit with this. Watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JIM ACOSTA, CNN ANCHOR: This is not Fox, Congressman. You can't just spin a tail and pull the wall out of people's eyes. This is CNN, this is the news.
REP. TIM BURCHETT (R-TN): That's why more people are watching the Cartoon Network SpongeBob reruns right now, Jim. And you all continue this narrative of attacking Trump. You just can't stand the fact that he won and that America spoke --
(CROSSTALK)
ACOSTA: Congressman, no. That's not the case.
(CROSSTALK)
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: I mean, that's it. The nutshell, Batya. I mean, that's exactly what's happening, is they keep going against him and nobody's watching.
BATYA UNGAR-SARGON, OPINION EDITOR: Nobody is watching. I mean, the media has basically face planted because it was obvious which side they were on. They were constantly running cover for Joe Biden when it turned out that what the American people wanted was Donald Trump. And so, you have all of these people who spent all of their credibility trying to call Trump a Hitler and a threat to democracy. And it turns out he's actually the embodiment of democracy. Won the popular vote.
GALLAGHER: Yes, it really is amazing. Here's the far-left pastor. This was at the National Cathedral, Dee and I wanted to play this sound for you. She's explaining to CNN why she went after Trump and she said she did specifically go after him at the National Cathedral. Watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BISHOP MARIANN EDGAR BUDDE, EPISCOPAL DIOCESE OF WASHINGTON: I was trying to counter the narrative that is so divisive and polarizing and in which people -- real people -- are being are being harmed. How could it not be politicized, right? We're in a hyper political climate. I was trying to speak a truth that I felt needed to be said, but to do it in as respectful and kind a way as I could.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Although it wasn't respectful and it wasn't kind. I talked to Pastor Lorenzo Sewell, who, by the way, gave the benediction of the inauguration which got a round of applause that was huge. Indeed. His thing was, it's just the wrong place at the wrong time. I mean, this was not the moment for that.
SARTON: I think a lot of us cringed when we saw what was happening. You could see that happening in the audience there too because of the time and place, but also the tone in terms of, I watched the whole thing, and she started off by saying she was there to pray for unity. And then went into these subjects that not only are divisive in the country, they're divisive in the Christian community as well.
And it just seemed like it went downhill from there, in a way that then turned into controversy. And, you know, talking about mercy without also considering that the President has the responsibility of thinking of the unintended consequences and how righteousness, as a Christian, we understand that concept too, and how that plays into his responsibilities as the president.
I thought it was really a missed opportunity and unfortunate for those of us that hope that all of these types of -- opportunities, I guess is the only word for it can help us unite.
GALLAGHER: Yes. It really is. The podcaster Jon Favreau is saying that democrat need to stop talking like their pollsters tell them to talk. He said this on his podcast.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JON FAVREAU, CO-HOST, POD SAVE AMERICA: They think what's going to happen is they're going to go on Joe Rogan and then Joe Rogan's going to say something about trans issues, and they're going to say trans issues, that's just a distraction from high prices. And have you heard about what we did with Medicare and Jordan's going to be like, what? Because, like, they talk like a message document.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Yes. It's just nothing but talking points. And the country's like, I don't want to hear that.
UNGAR-SARGON: Do you know what I can't stop thinking about is, ever since the democrats lost on November 5th, they're sitting there scrambling like, how can we win again? They have no identity. They just want power. They will literally adopt any policy in order to win. And you can trust that with Donald Trump, who had a very clear agenda, foreign policy agenda, social agenda, cultural agenda, economic agenda, most of all. And he was willing to do anything to get in power to enact that agenda. It is such a split screen.
GALLAGHER: And instead of just giving talking points, communicate with the American people. Let them hear your answers. Don't just send somebody out there to say, oh, I can't talk about that. Well, let's get that. I'm not going to address that. Talk to the American people. Batya, Dee, thank you both.
UNGAR-SARGON: Thanks, Trace.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. TIM KAINE (D-VA): It's -- I mean, it's just so much, you know, I mean, I just was with somebody who has said that he wants to traumatize Federal workforce. And, you know, you can talk about saving money, efficiencies. We need to reduce government spending. Got to deal with the debt and the deficit, there seems to be an element of glee and sort of traumatizing people.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Now let's bring in the author of school of woke, Davidsonians for Freedom of Thought and Discourse, Director Kenny Xu. Kenny, great to have you on the show. Clearly, Tim Kaine talking there about, you know, this whole DEI push. I want you to listen to the FCC chairman on DEI in federal agencies. He said this today.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BRENDAN CARR, FCC CHAIRMAN: People would be shocked if they learned how much DEI had been embedded in agencies. At the FCC alone, we were spending millions and millions of dollars promoting it. Tanks to President Trump's leadership. That's ending, and we're getting things turned around, focusing on our core mission of actually just connecting Americans.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Is he right, Kenny, is it over?
KENNY XU, AUTHOR, SCHOOL OF WOKE: I think DEI is effectively over on a legal basis. Now what Congress has to do next is they have to defund institutions that are still peddling DEI. Institutions like colleges. They have to go after the endowments. They have to go after the hospitals. They have to take away NIH funding from colleges and universities that still continue to house DEI offices.
So, while federal contractors, yes, are now banned from DEI it needs to be extended and Congress now has to pass a measure denying funding to those entities that continue to push for those things.
GALLAGHER: Meantime, Congresswoman Ilhan Omar says the DEI is the very definition of government efficiency. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. ILHAN OMAR (D-MN): When they talk about creating a more efficient workplace, that is what DEI hires essentially do. These people that are in these positions are trying to create an environment where the most efficient people for the job are hired.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: I'm guessing you would argue with that, Kenny.
XU: Yes. That's pretty laughable to me. Every time we see a DEI office come past, you see greater cost. When California passed a DEI measure saying we need more black contractors in construction, taxpayers had to pay more for roads. When colleges and universities have DEI offices, they're often paid upwards of $200,000 and we're still not sure what they can do. You know, DEI is something that the public has rejected over and over again, and this is something that I think is going to be a popular part of President Trump's mandate.
GALLAGHER: Meantime, Christopher Rufo posted this on X. "We've been fighting against critical race theory, gender cultism and DEI for four years, constantly on the defensive, facing a slanderous media on the verge of ruin and now massive generational progress we have been planning for this day. But it feels unreal." Does it feel like a win to you, Kenny?
XU: You know what, it does, Trace. And it does because it's been a win a long time coming. I talk about this in my book School of Woke, which you can buy. But this movement really started with that Harvard affirmative action case in 2014 students for fair admissions filed a lawsuit, and at the time, they made a very inconvenient proposition to DEI advocates. They said that Harvard's DEI affirmative action admissions policies actually discriminated against whites and Asians.
And guess what? The evidence proved them true. Harvard did discriminate against whites and Asians. So, all DEI is discrimination but the opposite direction that doesn't lead to efficiency. That's why Trump's idea of a merit-based society remains the gold standard for us all.
GALLAGHER: Kenny Xu, good luck with the book. Thank you for coming on. We appreciate it, sir. Breaking tonight, another fast-moving wildfire burning in Los Angeles County. This one is the Hughes fire, prompting tens of thousands of evacuation orders. We'll take you live to the scene next.
And later in The Nightcap.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ELON MUSK, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, TESLA MOTORS: This one -- this one really mattered. And I just want to say thank you for making it happen. Thank you. My heart goes out to you.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Well, Democrats in the liberal media accusing Elon Musk of giving a Nazi salute at Trump's inauguration celebration Monday, despite his outspoken support for the Jewish people. What do you think? Was Elon Musk's excited hand gesture, a Heil Hitler salute? Or is the media making stuff up again? Let us know. X and Instagram @tracegallagher. We'll read your responses coming up in The Nightcap.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GALLAGHER: Breaking news coming into FOX NEWS @ NIGHT. A fast move in fire. These are live pictures from our fox affiliate KTTV right now. The wildfire has burned more than 50 -- no, I take that back. 5000 acres, more than 50,000 residents under evacuation orders or warnings in the mountains north of Los Angeles tonight. It's called the Hughes fire. It started late this morning, quickly burning more than 15 square miles, sending large plumes of dark smoke into the air again, this time up around Lake Castaic.
If, you know, the area, as you go up toward Santa Clara in that Magic Mountain area of Southern California, that's kind of where these flames are. We will have a live report from the fire in moments. The winds up there are picking up. Those Santa Ana winds are back. It's something that Southern California does not need. And there it is again.
Meantime, people across the south are beginning to clean up after an historic winter storm dropped record amounts of snow, sleet and freezing rain from Texas to the outer banks of North Carolina. Eight cold weather deaths have now been reported so far.
Well, the FOX NEWS @ NIGHT Common Sense Department thinks the left wasn't paying attention during the presidential campaign because Democratic politicians and the legacy media keep talking about President Trump's ICE raids and deportation plans as if they're surprised. As if this is all brand new to them. Yet during every single campaign interview, every single rally, every single speech, Donald Trump promised to "secure the border on day one."
And lo and behold, he secured the border on day one. Yet Alexandria Ocasio- Cortez is now issuing a fabricated warning saying Trump is deporting people who are here legally. Not true. The attorney general in Arizona says the ICE detention centers are "essentially concentration camps." But unless the government built new detention centers in the past 48 hours. These are the same detention centers that were chock full during Biden's border crisis.
How did they suddenly become concentration camps? Do these fear mongering fools not realize that Americans are in favor of deporting people who are here illegally? In the New York Times poll, 55 percent are in favor. In the CBS poll, it's 57 percent. In the ABC poll, it's 56 percent. People are not just in favor of the deportations they voted for it. Common Sense wonders if the left was paying attention when they lost.
Meantime, the Trump administration is addressing the illegal immigration crisis in force tonight. News has learned that the Pentagon will send 1500 active-duty troops to the southern border by the end of the month. Let's bring in the Community Roundtable director, Chicago resident Cata Truss along with former FBI special agent and Fox News Contributor Nicole Parker. Thank you so much for coming on.
Here's what the borders czar, Kata, Tom Homan told our Lawrence Jones this morning. Watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
LAWRENCE JONES, FOX NEWS HOST: What would a person have to get a visit from ICE?
TOM HOMAN, TRUMP BORDER CZAR: Being a country illegally right now, as we said repeatedly, the President Trump has been clear. We're concentrating on the worst first. The public safety threats and national security threats. And just yesterday, in the last 24 hours, ICE arrested over 308 serious criminals.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Concentrating on the worst first, Cata. Is it about time?
CATA TRUSS, DIRECTOR, THE COMMUNITY ROUNDTABLE: It's about time. And let me tell you something. You know, I've been listening to our mayor here talk about protecting illegal immigrants. And, you know, my heart goes out to those hard-working people who have come here from other places to have a better life. However, when you come here illegally, it is a violation of federal law.
And at the end of the day, you have committed an act that was not necessarily legal. And you know, you know, when it comes to the prisoners or the criminals, you know, we have to remember and just go back to 1980 when Fidel Castro was getting help from President Carter, and he sent people here to America and he bragged about emptying out his prisons and his mental institutions and sending those people here.
And I remember how hard it was for us to get them out of here and, and so you know the Venezuelan president has bragged about doing the same thing. And so, when you hear our mayor you know stand tall and saying that he's going to protect these people, I, I don't know if that's the right thing to do. I think that we have to, you know, pay attention to history, we nothing else.
GALLAGHER: Yes, and I'm going to play some sound from the mayor in a second, but Nicole, to you first, what do you think about the pictures on the right-hand side are clearly picking up some of these illegal immigrants, but the 1,500 troops at the border, what is your thought on that?
NICOLE PARKER, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Well, first of all, it's a huge sense of relief that we finally have a president back in the White House who cares about our safety and our national security. As a former FBI agent, you know, to me, that just seems like common sense. How did we ever get to this point in the first place? But again, Tom Homan is stepping in and when they say they're going to do something, they actually deliver, and that's a breath of fresh air to many of us.
And I think what's very important to point out, you know, who's most excited about this are all of the agents, the ICE agents, the Border Patrol agents, people that have had their hands tied, have not been able to do their jobs and uphold their duties, are once again liberated and are allowed to do what they signed on to do and that is what matters, and that is very, very important. I'm very pro law enforcement and they are once again able to enforce the laws and make America safe again.
GALLAGHER: Yes, meantime, Brandon Johnson, you talked about it and Cata Truss says Chicago will resist the federal government. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BRANDON JOHNSON (D), CHICAGO MAYOR: We have established a welcoming city here in the city of Chicago. We have reaffirmed our commitment to ensure that undocumented individuals will have the full protection of that ordinance. There's a complementary law through the Illinois Trust Act that ensures that the state of Illinois is a sanctuary state.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Ensures that Illinois will pay a lot of money to protect people who are here illegally.
TRUSS: Which is a problem for me, considering the budget constraints that we are under here in the city of Chicago. You know, our mayor is willing to continue to hemorrhage money from this city to support people who really should not be here.
And you know, I, again, my heart goes out to working, hardworking class people who have come to this country for a better life. But you know, as a black woman here in America, who has worked hard all my life, and was born here in America, and has always been looking for the American dream, and know that people in my community around me are not living the American dream because, you know, because of so many different things.
GALLAGHER: Right.
TRUSS: And let me, and we would be remiss if we did not talk about the effects that the war on drugs, welfare reform, and all of those things had on our community specifically. And people are asking black people to have sympathy for those, for people who are going to face these.
GALLAGHER: We got to go.
TRUSS: Yes, I'm sorry.
GALLAGHER: Nicole, FoxNews.com writes the following: Justice Department wants federal prosecutors across the country to investigate state or local officials who obstruct immigration enforcement under President Donald Trump's new administration. Is it a good idea for the DOJ to get involved in all this?
PARKER: I do. I think that the DOJ should be involved. That's their job. You uphold the laws. That is the law. And you need to enforce the law. And those that don't want to participate in upholding the law do need to be held accountable.
TRUSS: Yes.
PARKER: Nicole Parker, Cata Truss, thank you both. Coming up, we are on the ground live in Los Angeles County, where the fast-moving Hughes Fire has just erupted. Tens of thousands have been ordered to evacuate. The breaking details on that next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GALLAGHER: Some breaking news coming in from San Antonio. Police now working to engage a suspect after four police officers were shot at an apartment complex. Now, police are calling the scene "a suicide in progress." So, there's a report tonight that the officers' injuries are non-life-threatening. We are working to confirm that and there is also no word on whether any suspects are in custody. We will continue monitoring developments and if they get somebody in custody, we will bring that to you as soon as we can.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Sheriff's Department, a mandatory evacuation order is in effect. This is the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department, a mandatory evacuation order --
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Yes, a new fast-moving wildfire in the mountains north of Los Angeles has now burned thousands of acres and put tens of thousands of people under evacuation orders tonight. Christina Coleman is live on the scene of the Hughes Fire. Christina, what's it look like?
CHRISTINA COLEMAN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Hi, Trace. Well, it's not looking good right now. I can tell you, crews have six helicopters out here right now. They're doing water drops trying to get this fire under control. I mean, just take a look behind me there. You could see those flames ripping through the dry brush. It has been like this all evening long. The winds will kick up and those flames will just erupt, and that's what we've been seeing for hours now.
Take a look at this video. The Hughes Fire broke out today around 11:00 a.m. Pacific time, North of Los Angeles in Santa Clarita near Castaic Lake. The fire exploded from 50 acres earlier today to now more than 9,400 acres and has extended into Ventura County, prompting the evacuation of tens of thousands of people. I had a chance to talk to some. Take a listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I had to hightail it home to get my animals and make sure we had all the important things. So, it was nerve-wracking.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is the first time in all my years living here since 89, 88, I've ever had to pack up and grab everything from my room and throw it into the car.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
COLEMAN: People around here definitely nervous, definitely scared. We saw huge flames out here. This fire is zero percent contained. This fire prompted the evacuation of local schools and a nearby detention center that relocated hundreds of inmates to a different part of the facility. And from the ground and air, more than 4,000 firefighting personnel are battling this wind-driven fire, burning in this bone-dry brush as gusty Santa Ana winds fuel the flames.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) ANTHONY MARRONE, L.A. COUNTY FIRE DEPARTMENT CHIEF: The situation remains dynamic and the fire remains a difficult fire to contain, although we are getting the upper hand. The National Weather Service has extended. The red flag warning through 10:00 a.m. on Friday for most of Los Angeles and Ventura counties.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
COLEMAN: Earlier in the day, the California Highway Patrol shut down a portion of the five freeway but that has since been reopened, although the Los Angeles County Sheriff says they are working to identify anyone who tries to enter this area in an effort to stop potential looting the areas that have been evacuated. At this point, there's no reports of any damaged or destroyed structures. So, some good news there, Trace.
GALLAGHER: Yes, a little bit of good news. Christina Coleman live on the scene for us. Christina, thank you. Let's bring in the co-owners of Helen's agency, Helen and Carla Kulungian. Thank you both for coming on.
Helen, to you first. We are, you know, we're talking about tens of thousands of people. There's another fire burning now. So far, no structures burned. But we're talking about tens of thousands of people, not only that lost their homes, but lost their jobs. People who worked in these neighborhoods that were just decimated. What jobs are we talking about mainly here?
HELEN KULUNGIAN, CO-OWNER OF HELEN'S AGENCY: We're talking mainly about housekeepers, nannies, estate managers, chefs, gardeners. I mean, the amount of domestic workers that supply service to these homes is incredible. There's about 35,000 probably Latin workers in the community of the Pacific Palisades who have lost their jobs due to the fires.
GALLAGHER: And I'm wondering, Carla, as you look at this, how do you get these people working again? I mean, are there jobs? Are there ample jobs? Are they going to have to relocate? What's the situation there?
CARLA KULUNGIAN, CO-OWNER OF HELEN'S AGENCY: I mean, right now, it's, it's unknown and still unfolding, but we definitely, we have clients that are going to be relocating for at least a year. So, some candidates are being offered employment with them, others are on, you know, on hold. They're, they're not being paid and others are just being paid and being asked to wait and until their employers find housing. So, it's a very uncertain time right now.
GALLAGHER: Yes, it seems like it. You know, and you look at this, Helen, you wonder, does it hurt your business? Or have you guys pivoted to doing other things? Are you advising people on how to get work? I mean, what's your day-to-day look like now?
H. KULUNGIAN: You know, I think it's really an interesting time, Trace. I think that crisis means opportunity in every single language. And I find this time right now a tremendous opportunity for, you know, community to come together, for people to support one another.
And a lot of what we're doing through our day is really acknowledging and listening to people and allowing them to express their feelings and their loss, and their grief, and their fears. I think it's a beautiful way to kind of help people step by step get through this time because it is really uncertain, and it's traumatic.
And with domestic workers, a lot of times it's not just a job, Trace. These people become a very personal part of the family. They're very emotionally involved with who they work for, and the employers really love the staff that's serving them.
So, it's not so transactional, it's very personal and it's very relational. And these people are feeling on every level. The clients and the workers are experiencing this together in a very, very powerful way.
GALLAGHER: And Carla, I've got to run, but I want to know, are there families that were living in these areas that are still paying the people that worked for them, still trying to keep them kind of moving and mobilized?
C. KULUNGIAN: There are for now, but I think again it's uncertain. I think that nothing is guaranteed, so unfortunately if they can't continue to allow, if there isn't a way for them to provide them service in the long run, then I think they are going to be let go.
GALLAGHER: Yes, boy a lot of people in Southern California could use a hand right now. Helen, Karla Kulungian, thank you both, we appreciate your time.
Meantime, Democrats and the liberal media are accusing Elon Musk of giving a Nazi salute at Trump's inauguration celebration Monday, despite his outspoken support for the Jewish people.
What do you think was Elon Musk's awkward hand gesture? Was it a hail Hitler salute or just another manufactured media story? Let us know, X and Instagram, @TraceGallagher.
We're back with the "NIGHTCAP" crew, that includes you next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GALLAGHER: A little more breaking news coming in. Secretary of State Marco Rubio will now be heading to Panama on his first trip abroad as America's top diplomat. The trip comes amid repeated vows from President Donald Trump to take back the Panama Canal.
State Department spokesperson tells Fox News, Secretary Rubio is prioritizing the region because it's where we live. Adding, quoting here, "We won't continue to ignore the region as other administrations have." We shall see.
Meantime, we are back with the "NIGHTCAP" crew: Kevin Corke, Ashley Strohmier, Joe Concher, Rob Smith, Dee Sarton, and Cata Truss. Tonight's topic, Nazi or not?
Democrats and the liberal media are accusing Elon Musk of giving a Nazi salute at Trump's inauguration, despite his outspoken support for the Jewish people.
What do you think? Was it an awkward hand gesture or a hail Hitler salute, Dee Sarten, your thoughts?
SARTON: Well, after watching Elon Musk now for several months with a lot of curiosity. I think it was just an awkward gesture, and I think a lot is being made of it. But you know I was really dismayed that they didn't play the sound in so many of the excerpts that I saw because he was definitely gesturing from his heart to the crowd and he spoke those words that made it all make sense to me.
GALLAGHER: Yes, it's exactly right. Cata Truss.
TRUSS: I think that the left is always looking for a reason to come against this administration and that's what you're going to see. So, I don't care what happens. It's always going to be a problem. I think it was just an awkward gesture that people don't understand.
GALLAGHER: I don't even think it was an awkward, Joe Concha. I see it done all the time by every athlete that walks the planet.
CONCHA: It's called a screenshot, right? And if anybody's waving to a crowd, if you get it at just the right angle, that's what it's going to look like. Here's the bottom line. Elon Musk, just last year, visited Auschwitz with Ben Shapiro and condemned anti-Semitism in the most unambiguous way you possibly could. This is not your problem. Democrats, this is all they have at this point. The woke stuff where they called Donald Trump a fascist, it didn't work, it's not going to work here.
GALLAGHER: Rob Smith.
SMITH: There is nobody with more than two brain cells rubbed together that think that Elon Musk was literally giving a Nazi signal, symbol. And the interesting thing about what's going on right now is that these media hoaxes seem to last less and less long. You know, they just seem to go away very quickly, I think that they should, because I think that they're not fooling anybody anymore.
GALLAGHER: I saw pages of it on Google, pages and pages of people said, yep, Nazi salute. Kevin Corke.
CORKE: You know what, take two minutes, one minute, go on X and they'll show you all sorts of people doing similar symbols and similar gestures. It's much ado about nothing.
GALLAGHER: Ashley Strohmier.
STROHMIER: I mean, there's montages online of Bush doing similar things, Obama doing similar things. I mean, they're reaching, they continue to reach with anybody attached to Trump.
GALLAGHER: And you see athletes every night, they'll make a big play and it's here, here, and they're doing it every single night. We asked what you think here we go.
Paul, "Elon is awkward and lacks good social skills, he was just making a heartfelt salute but it came off poorly."
Leo, "No, silly, it was a hey I'm awesome salute."
Patricia, "This Nazi salute is a liberal crazy attack with no substance, I don't get it."
Brett says, "Not if you watched it and saw him say my heart goes out to you," which by the way they leave the sound down.
Katie, "No, Elon was just excited and expressed his love for the audience."
Linda says, "Guys tap their chest and then point all the time."
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There you go.
Alicia, "He was just showing his excitement and passion in the moment."
And Cindy says, "He does weird things all the time. It's what Elon does." Who knew?
Well, thank you for watching America's late news, FOX NEWS @ NIGHT. I'm Trace Gallagher in New York City. We'll see you right back here again tomorrow.

Load-Date: January 23, 2025


End of Document
