




Financial Times (London, England)
February 8, 2025 Saturday
Edition 1, USA Edition


Copyright 2025 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: LIFE AND ARTS;FEATURES; Pg. 9
Length: 820 words
Byline: Subhadra Das
Body


The Science of Racism: Everything You Need to Know But Probably Don't - Yet by Keon West Picador £20/Abrams $28, 352 pages
F or many years now, since the early 2000s, recruiters have suffered from an unusual occupational hazard. Having received numerous applications for jobs they have advertised, they have consistently been hiring people who do not exist.
What's more, these ghost applications invariably arrive in pairs. With identical CVs, the only apparent difference between the two is that one applicant is Black while the other is white.
As this whole process is closely monitored by the real people who sent out the fake CVs, we know that recruiters consistently favour the white applicants over their Black twins. They fall victim to their own prejudices, as well as to what is by now a wellestablished scientific tradition. To paraphrase a well-known saying, there are three kinds of lies: lies, damned lies and social psychology experiments.
The CV study, in a variety of forms, is the backbone of Keon West's new book, The Science of Racism. West, a social psychologist who was until recently a professor at the University of London, uses the study to show how hiring practices in white majority nations are demonstrably racist and also as a way to help his readers improve their scientific literacy.
He takes us by the hand and walks us through how to establish the validity of scientific evidence, from designing randomised controlled trials to conducting meta-analyses of existing studies.
West takes pains to point out that social psychologists like him and his colleagues have to lie to their subjects because, as said experiments - from hiring practices to how we school our children - have shown, we consistently lie to ourselves about how racist we are. "A perpetually vexing aspect of the study of racism," says West, "is the apparent lack of any actual racists."
When making the case that racism is a fatal social flaw, the response from the sceptical is often to ask, "Can it be proved?" The answer, as West demonstrates with a quiet assuredness and a level of patience none of us deserve, is that yes, most assuredly, it can.
Unsurprisingly, most of this makes for grim reading. West is keen to disabuse British readers that racism is a problem peculiar to the US, and points to UK case studies that reveal similar results to their US counterparts.
One chapter is a catalogue of miseries, from who is more likely to get hired or excluded from school to who is more likely to get shot. Reading the section on racism enacted by non-white groups on other non-white groups felt like watching the animatronic figures from Disneyland's "it's a small world" ride slip their moorings and bludgeon each other to death.
Of course, you are unlikely to come to this book looking for good news and it is certainly the case that neither West nor any other scholar in this field owes us a good time. The message that we are all complicit in a racist system is an important one that needs to be heard, understood and acted upon.
In conveying this message, West is painstaking and comprehensive. He clearly takes pleasure in roasting a few old chestnuts too, including "unconscious" bias, "reverse racism" and, most deliciously, how being "colour blind" helps to combat racism. West cites studies that demonstrate the exact opposite.
One drawback here is West's insistence that the science he presents to us is inarguable. If we look at history (which, not being science, is notably absent from this book), we can see the key role science played in getting us to where we are today.
While the Enlightenment ideal of universalism posited that all human life was equally valuable, early advances in the study of human difference mistook the political realities of chattel slavery and colonialism for biological reality. They mistook white supremacy for something natural and inevitable.
Despite the advances in genetic science that unambiguously disproved a biological basis for race, those old mistaken notions are what continue to inform our discourse today.
Science in our society is more up for grabs than West wants it to be. People who hold on to bad ideas do so out of their own rationale, and science is unlikely to convince them otherwise. It's not science that's going to save us. We can only do that for ourselves.
Things are not looking good. Among the slew of executive orders issued by
US president Donald Trump at the beginning of his second term are a set designed to dismantle DEI - diversity, equity and inclusion - initiatives in both the government and private sectors. Proof, if proof were needed, that some people view systemic change as a threat to existing racist power structures.
If you have never encountered any of the arguments around racism enacted by both individuals and systems, this book is, sadly, an urgent place to start. Subhadra Das is author of 'Uncivilised: Ten Lies That Made the West' (Coronet)

Load-Date: February 7, 2025


End of Document
