




Newsweek.com
February 23, 2025 Sunday 2:08 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 1048 words
Byline: Natalie Venegas
Highlight: A protester at an Idaho town hall hosted by a Republican committee made remarks from the audience to several legislative members on stage.
Body


Protesters at an Idaho town hall hosted by the Kootenai County Republican Central Committee (KCRCC) were told on Saturday that their "voice is meaningless" as concerns remain by some over President 's administration and political agenda.
Newsweek has reached out to KCRCC and the Coeur d'Alene Police Department via email for comment on Sunday.
Why It Matters
Saturday's protest comes as Trump has made several policy decisions including the creation of the -led Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE), an unofficial agency established through executive order operating as a White House task force, which has  the size and scope of the federal government.
The president has also signed several executive orders enacting his conservative agenda, quickly fulfilling campaign promises with several , ending diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) programs, and orders related to the economy and energy production.
What To Know
According to local  News affiliate, KREM 2, a woman who the Coeur d'Alene Police Department (CDAPD) identified as Teresa Snyder Borrenpohl, protested at the KCRCC hosted town hall in Coeur d'Alene, Idaho.
After making remarks from the audience to several legislative members on stage, she was asked to leave.
In a video circulating on , Kootenai County Sheriff Bob Norris is seen confronting Borrenpohl, warning, "Get up or be arrested," moments before two men intervened and escorted her out, according to Coeur d'Alene Press.
"This is not a negotiation," Norris stated as Borrenpohl responded, "Women deserve a voice."
While the scene quickly escalated, Ed Bejarana, the event's emcee who is a voiceover talent and has launched the Business Buffet podcast, continued speaking over the commotion, commenting on the protester.
"Look at this little girl over here, everyone. Look at her," he said, referring to Borrenpohl. His remarks were met with shouts from the audience, some of whom held signs reading, "Save Voter Approved Medicaid."
Bejarana then defended the removal, accusing protesters of attempting to "filibuster" the event as he continued talking about DOGE. "We've got to be a little aggressive with some of these folks here," he said. "Your voice is meaningless right now...I can talk over all of you."
Newsweek has reached out to Bejarana via for comment on Sunday.
The confrontational approach drew criticism from many in attendance. "Is this a town hall or a lecture?" one woman yelled amid the uproar, according to Coeur d'Alene Press.
While it's unclear what exactly the protesters were opposing, KCRCC has since posted a statement to Facebook explaining that Borrenpohl, who allegedly belongs to Save NIC, a social welfare nonprofit organization, "alongside at least five other recognized activists from local progressive circles—including two fellow 'Save NIC' members—shouted down legislators with insults like 'bigots' and 'liars' throughout the meeting, drowning out attempts at dialogue."
The committee added: "The group vocally cheered any mention of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) initiatives, erupting in applause and chants, while loudly booing every reference to the Bible or President Donald Trump, drawing sharp rebukes from attendees."
Newsweek has reached out to Save NIC for comment via email on Sunday.
However, according to Coeur d'Alene resident Tonya Jean, who posted the video to Facebook, she condemned the town hall for not allowing the public to comment, alleging that those with "differing perspectives were told to 'shut up.'"
"At today's KCRCC 'town hall' event at CHS auditorium in Coeur d'Alene, ID, the public was not allowed to comment. Those with differing perspectives were repeatedly told to 'shut up or get the hell out.' And when one woman simply asked if this was a lecture or an actual town hall, she was forcibly removed."
According to KREM 2 News, Norris said CDAPD cited Borrenpohl for trespassing and battery.
Other Protests at the Local Level
Saturday's town hall protest comes after constituents in Oklahoma's 1st Congressional District on Thursday pressed  Representative Kevin Hern about federal job cuts and their concerns about Musk.
Dozens of people gathered Thursday at a Chamber of Commerce meeting in Glenpool, on the outskirts of Tulsa, to speak with Hern, who opened up the meeting touching on the southern border, the federal deficit, and China. But his constituents .
Trump faced intense criticism from local residents during a regular constituency town hall meeting for  Representative Rich McCormick in his Georgia district on Thursday, o
During the meeting, many constituents harshly criticized the Republican lawmaker for backing DOGE, particularly its plan for massive federal layoffs and budget cuts.
It comes after nearly 1,300 probationary employees at the nearby U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention () in Atlanta were told they were being forced out last week.
What People Are Saying
Everett Kelley, national president of the American Federation of Government Employees (AFGE), stated in a press release: "These firings are not about poor performance -- there is no evidence these employees were anything but dedicated public servants. They are about power. They are about gutting the federal government, silencing workers and forcing agencies into submission to a radical agenda that prioritizes cronyism over competence."
Tim Hogan, a former communications director for Democratic Senator Amy Klobuchar, wrote on X, formerly Twitter, on Thursday: "Town hall crowd in an R+30 district furious with their congressman over DOGE insanity. Reaping and sowing, here we go."
Aaron Fritschner, deputy chief of staff to Democratic Representative Don Beyer, wrote on X: "After getting booed for defending DOGE cuts, McCormick (a Republican from Georgia) is trying to sell the constituents at his town hall on cuts to Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid. It's going about how you'd expect."
What Happens Next?
Several lawsuits have been filed against the Trump administration over the legality of the mass layoffs of probationary workers, 


Graphic

 
Donald Trump
Win McNamee/Getty Images
U.S. President Donald Trump delivers remarks after Howard Lutnick was sworn in as U.S. Commerce Secretary in the Oval Office at the White House on February 21, 2025 in Washington, DC.

Load-Date: February 23, 2025


End of Document
