




The Daily Caller
February 5, 2025 Wednesday 04:20 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: US
Length: 524 words
Byline: Timothy Sekerak, Contributor, 
Body



Reddit temporarily banned a page over threats directed at staff of the Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) after Elon Musk accused users of breaking the law, according to multiple posts online.
Users on multiple pages were engaging in “threats and doxing,” prompting the site to issue 72-hour bans against some of them, including “r/WhitePeopleTwitter,” a Reddit Safety post . They noted that the pages violated  and described the shutdowns as a “cooling-off period.”
Users on the popular social media app were sharing posts with threatening language directed at members of the  Team, according to screenshots from Reddit Lies.
“Time to hunt,” one user posted, the images showed, while another apparently wrote “lets drag their necks up by a large coil up rope.”
“They have broken the law” Musk wrote, quote-tweeting the post showing the screenshots.
 They have broken the law. 
 - Elon Musk (@elonmusk) 
The Daily Caller reached out to Reddit for comment. The company directed the Caller to its public statement cited above.
These posts came after Musk and  acquired access to the U.S. Department of the Treasury's systems and data. The Treasury controls more than $6 trillion in payment distributions for social security benefits, Medicare and federal salaries. DOGE has also recently gone after the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID). This agency has been under fire over how it has spent federal funds. 
 Press Secretary details some of the insane spending from USAID over the past few years:
 - $1.5 million for DEI in Serbia
 - $70,000 for a DEI musical in Ireland
 - $47,000 for a transgender opera in Colombia
 - $32,000 for a transgender comic book in Peru 
 - Libs of TikTok (@libsoftiktok) 
 $2 million for sex changes in Guatemala
 $6 million to fund “tourism” in Egypt
 Millions to the EcoHealth Alliance (Wuhan Lab Leak)
 $20 million on an Iraq Sesame Street show
 And this is just the tip of the iceberg on the USAID scam 
 - Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) 
A report from  points out the group's youth, referring to them as “inexperienced” and citing criticism of the move. All six have backgrounds ranging from computer software to artificial intelligence (AI).
The team is made up of young bright engineers ranging from 19 to 24 years old, the outlet reported, citing online databases and public information. At least one reportedly remains enrolled in college while another dropped out.
The latter was a member of a team that partially deciphered a 2,000-year-old papyrus scroll from Herculaneum, as previously  by Nebraska Today. He used AI in this process. Herculaneum was destroyed in the 79 AD eruption of Mount Vesuvius along with nearby Pompeii.
Another claimed to have dropped a seven-figure salary to come and work for  in a .
A fourth member  Business Insider he founded Energizer AI and obtained a $100,000 grant from OpenAI in 2023.

Graphic

 
CHONGQING, CHINA - OCTOBER 27: The Reddit app page is displayed on a smartphone in the Apple App Store in front of the Reddit logo on October 27, 2024 in Chongqing, China. (Photo by Cheng Xin/Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
