




Targeted News Service
February 8, 2025 Saturday 7:50 AM  EST


Copyright 2025 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved


Length: 754 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


Rep. Yassamin Ansari, D-Arizona, issued the following news release on Feb. 7, 2025:
* * *
Ansari Efforts Keep Prisma Community Care Open
Ansari pressed HHS to release promised funds
* * *
Today, Representative Yassamin Ansari (AZ-03) announced that Prisma Community Care, a non-profit in Arizona's Third District that had not been able to draw down federal funding during the chaos of President Trump's proposed freeze on federal grants and loans, again had access to their promised funds.
On Monday, Representative Ansari sent a [ansari.house.gov/sites/evo-subsites/ansari.house.gov/files/evo-media-document/020325-ansari-letter-to-acting-secretary-fink-re-prisma-community-care.pdf]letter to acting Health and Human Services Director Dorothy Fink requesting immediate answers and release of already-promised funds. Yesterday, Prisma shared with Rep. Ansari's team that the funds hit their bank account.
"Prisma provides essential health care services to my district," said Rep. Ansari. "When President Trump's executive order on federal funding froze the funding drawdown for Prisma, my team and I elevated the issue directly to HHS. Now, thousands of Arizonans can again access critical care like HIV treatment."
"Congresswoman Yassamin Ansari has been a vital resource in our efforts to combat the federal grant freeze impacting critical funding for life-saving services and treatments," said Jessyca Leach, Chief Executive Officer of Prisma Community Care. "Her steadfast support is invaluable, and we extend our heartfelt gratitude for her dedication to Prisma Community Care and the well-being of all Arizonans."
Formerly the Southwest Center for HIV/AIDS, Prisma offers primary care, mental health services, HIV/STI testing and treatment, reproductive healthcare, and HIV prevention and management.
Full text of the letter is available[ansari.house.gov/sites/evo-subsites/ansari.house.gov/files/evo-media-document/020325-ansari-letter-to-acting-secretary-fink-re-prisma-community-care.pdf] here and below:
February 3, 2025
Dr. Dorothy Fink Acting Secretary
The U.S. Department of Health & Human Services
Hubert. H Humphrey Building
200 Independence Avenue, S.W. Washington, D.C. 20201
Dear Secretary Fink,
I write to you with grave concern regarding awards granted to Prisma Community Care, a comprehensive health and wellness clinic located in my district that provides critical services such as HIV/STI testing and treatment, HIV prevention and management, reproductive healthcare, and general primary care and mental health services.
On Friday, January 31st, I was informed by Prisma Community Care that they were unable to access federal grant funds awarded by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) since Wednesday, January 29th. Without these funds, they may be forced to cut back on the services they provide to our community.
After contacting the CDC regarding these funds, Prisma was informed that the funds had been terminated in accordance with President Trump's Executive Orders 14151: "Ending Radical and Wasteful Government DEI Programs and Preferencing"; and 14148: "Initial Rescissions of Harmful Executive Orders and Actions." However, the awards received by Prisma Community Care are in no way aimed at advancing "diversity, equity, and inclusion" (DEI) initiatives, but rather provide for STD and HIV prevention. Furthermore, these services are available to all residents regardless of age, race, ethnicity, gender, or sexual orientation.
The CDC and SAMHSA awards received by Prisma Community Care are used to fund critical lifesaving services and treatment, particularly to those who may be unable to access care otherwise. Thousands of residents in Arizona's Third Congressional District rely on these programs, and their termination could be catastrophic for them.
I urge CDC and SAMHSA to immediately reinstate the funding awarded to Prisma Community Care to ensure that the residents of my district are able to continue receiving the critical services Prisma provides.
This is an issue of high priority for my constituents and the people of Arizona's Third Congressional District. I look forward to your response.
Follow @RepYassAnsari on all social media platforms and visit Ansari.House.gov to learn more.
* * *
Original text here: 
Contact: Kaitlin Hooker, 
Copyright Targeted News Services
MSTRUCK-9043161 MSTRUCK

Load-Date: February 8, 2025


End of Document
