




Targeted News Service
January 24, 2025 Friday 7:10 AM  EST


Copyright 2025 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved


Length: 635 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


Rep. Tom Tiffany, R-Wisconsin, issued the following news release on Jan. 23, 2025:
* * *
FAIR Act would prevent federal agencies, contractors, states, universities, and private entities that receive federal funding from giving preferences based on race
* * *
Today, Congressman Tom Tiffany (WI-07), alongside Representatives Burgess Owens (UT-04), Claudia Tenney (NY-24), Harriet Hageman (WY-At-Large), Andy Ogles (TN-05), Mary Miller (IL-15), Glenn Grothman (WI-06), Randy Weber (TX-14), and Barry Moore (AL-01), introduced the Fairness, Anti-Discrimination and Individual Rights Act - or FAIR Act - for short. The legislation follows through on President Trump's Executive Order () to end diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) programs within the federal government.
Specifically, it would prohibit federal agencies, federal contractors, states, universities, or any other recipient of federal funds from intentionally discriminating against or granting a preference to any person or group based on race, color, or national origin.
"If we want to put an end to discrimination in the United States, the first step is for the government to end its own discriminatory practices," said Congressman Tiffany. "The FAIR Act prioritizes merit, delivers on President Trump's promise to end DEI policies, and ensures fairness by eliminating race-based preferences in the federal government."
"I know what racism looks like because I witnessed it during my childhood in the Jim Crow South. That's why I've been so appalled over the past four years, as the Biden administration pushed for race-based divisions. No matter how it's presented, preference under the banner of equity is just plain racism. The FAIR Act reflects a belief I've held my entire life: success comes from merit and hard work, not the color of your skin. The federal government must lead by example, promoting unity and opportunity through a commitment to equal treatment for every single American," said Congressman Owens.
Congressman Tiffany's FAIR Act would:
* Bar any agency, officer, or employee of the federal government from intentionally discriminating against or granting preferential treatment to any person or group of persons based in whole or in part on race, color, or national origin in connection with federal contracting or subcontracting.
* Bar requiring or encouraging any federal contractor or subcontractor, or the recipient of any federal license or financial assistance to discriminate against or grant preferential treatment to any person or group of persons based in whole or in part on race, color, or national origin in connection with any federal contract, subcontract, license, or financial assistance.
* Bar any state or private entity that receives federal financial assistance from intentionally discriminating against or granting preferential treatment to any person or group of persons based in whole or in part on race, color, or national origin in connection with any contract, subcontract, employment, or admission to any educational institution.
The full text of the FAIR Act can be found here ().
###
* * *
Original text here: 
Copyright Targeted News Services
MSTRUCK-9014035 MSTRUCK

Load-Date: January 24, 2025


End of Document
