




Targeted News Service
January 21, 2025 Tuesday 4:47 PM  EST


Copyright 2025 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved


Length: 348 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


Rep. Chris Smith, R-New Jersey, issued the following news release:
Congressman Chris Smith (R-NJ) offered the following comments after President Donald Trump's Inaugural address:
"President Trump declared that today begins a new golden age for America and the people of the United States.
"We welcome him back and thank President Trump for working to defeat the radical and destructive policies of the Biden-Harris Administration.
"Beginning today with dozens of executive orders, President Trump will restore American leadership on the world stage and return prosperity and security for the American people.
"Already, President Trump has declared an emergency at the Southern border enabling the completion of the border wall and ensuring the reimplementation of the Remain-in-Mexico policy. President Trump has designated international drug cartels and transnational criminal organizations as Foreign Terrorist Organizations. No more catch and release of illegal aliens, no more hundreds of thousands of missing and trafficked children disappeared into our homeland, and no more fentanyl flowing over the border unchecked.
"President Trump will also bring back American energy independence and reject and replace discriminatory policies like critical race theory in our schools and DEI in our government agencies--with US corporations following his lead.
"I look forward to working with President Trump on prioritizing legislation to reign in a bloated regulatory state and unleash the American economy - and stop wasting U.S. dollars on counterproductive green new deal policies such as the reckless industrial offshore wind turbines hatched by Biden and NJ Governor Murphy against the will of our people.
"Starting today, Americans will once again be heard by the White House. We are all eager to get started and on day one President Trump has shown he has the vision, courage, and energy to put America first and "Make America Great Again!"
* * *
Original text here: 
Copyright Targeted News Services
MSTRUCK-9007022 MSTRUCK

Load-Date: January 21, 2025


End of Document
