




Targeted News Service
January 24, 2025 Friday 7:20 AM  EST


Copyright 2025 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved


Length: 446 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


Rep. Burgess Owens, R-Utah, issued the following news release on Jan. 23, 2025:
Today, Congressman Burgess Owens (UT-04) joined Congressman Tom Tiffany (WI-07) to reintroduce the Fairness, Anti-Discrimination, and Individual Rights (FAIR) Act, legislation to follow through on President Trump's Executive Order to end diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) programs within the federal government.
"Growing up in the Jim Crow South, I witnessed firsthand the destructive nature of racial discrimination," said Rep. Owens. "That's why I've been appalled that the Biden administration has spent four years stoking and pushing race-based division. No matter the presentation, preference under the banner of equity is just plain racism. The FAIR Act reflects a belief I've held my entire life: success comes from merit and hard work, not the color of your skin. The federal government must lead by example, promoting unity and equality of opportunity through a commitment to fairly treating every single American."
"If we want to put an end to discrimination in the United States, the first step is for the government to end its own discriminatory practices," said Rep. Tiffany. "The FAIR Act prioritizes merit, delivers on President Trump's promise to end DEI policies, and ensures fairness by eliminating race-based preferences in the federal government."
The FAIR Act would:
* Bar any agency, officer, or employee of the federal government from intentionally discriminating against or granting preferential treatment to any person or group of persons based in whole or in part on race, color, or national origin in connection with federal contracting or subcontracting.
* Bar requiring or encouraging any federal contractor or subcontractor, or the recipient of any federal license or financial assistance to discriminate against or grant preferential treatment to any person or group of persons based in whole or in part on race, color, or national origin in connection with any federal contract, subcontract, license, or financial assistance.
* Bar any state or private entity that receives federal financial assistance from intentionally discriminating against or granting preferential treatment to any person or group of persons based in whole or in part on race, color, or national origin in connection with any contract, subcontract, employment, or admission to any educational institution.
Full legislative text is available here ().
* * *
Original text here: 
Copyright Targeted News Services
MSTRUCK-9014226 MSTRUCK

Load-Date: January 24, 2025


End of Document
