




Targeted News Service
February 6, 2025 Thursday 8:00 AM  EST


Copyright 2025 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved


Length: 655 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


Rep. Timothy M. Kennedy, D-New York, issued the following statement on Feb. 5, 2025:
* * *
Kennedy Warns Federal Employees Of Perils From Buyouts Offer
* * *
Congressman Tim Kennedy (NY-26) shared the following statement warning federal employees against accepting a buyout from the Trump Administration:
"My message to hardworking Western New Yorkers facing Trump's effort to downsize the federal workforce: buyout beware," said Congressman Tim Kennedy. "Looking at the facts, these buyouts are legally dubious, unfunded, and lack necessary Congressional approval. Those who take buyouts are taking a gamble on their ability to realize the promised benefits of the offer. No one should be intimidated into playing roulette with their livelihood and the future of their family. Hardworking federal workers in our community deserve the resources and support required to do their jobs--not empty promises meant to manufacture yet another crisis."
Over 8,500 people living in New York's 26th Congressional District are federal public servants, with thousands more across Western New York. The Trump Administration has offered buyouts to full-time federal employees, with exemptions including military personnel and postal workers. In an email with the subject line "Fork in the Road," the administration has given federal employees until February 6 to submit a "deferred resignation letter," with the questionable promise that they will continue to receive their full salary and benefits until September 30, 2025. However, without federal funding or Congressional approval, it is uncertain that the administration could meet its obligations under these terms. In addition, per the Anti-Deficiency Act, Congress does not permit obligating funds beyond what Congress has appropriated, which is currently set to lapse on March 14.
As a member of the House Committee on Veterans' Affairs, Congressman Kennedy also expressed grave concerns about the current hiring freeze coupled with the challenges the buyouts pose to the workforce at the Buffalo VA Medical Center:
"I am deeply concerned that downsizing our workforce at the Buffalo VA will make it more difficult for our hardworking healthcare practitioners to deliver the care that our heroes have earned and deserve," added Congressman Kennedy. "At a time when the needs of our military veterans are increasing, we cannot reduce our healthcare workforce. I will do everything in my power to defend VA employees from aggressive attacks on their ability to do their jobs. Workers and veterans alike deserve so much more."
Other actions from the Trump Administration, such as executive orders and initiatives from the Department of Veterans Affairs, that are undermining the VA workforce and veterans include:
* Enacting a hiring freeze: The VA announced approximately 1,904 job offers would be rescinded, including food service workers, housekeeping aides, environmental health technicians, pest control staff, and laundry workers--roles that protect veterans' wellbeing during hospital stays. In addition, the primary job training program for disabled veterans is the Veteran Readiness and Employment program, which came under threat as part of the hiring freeze.
* Rolling back diversity initiatives: The VA was compelled to place employees who they targeted as working on so-called DEI policies on administrative leave, impacting women, people of color, members of the LGBTQ community, and people with disabilities.
* Attacking Preference for Hiring Veterans: 88 percent of veterans hired in the federal government were hired under a veterans preference hiring authority. With VA ending all hiring based on diversity and accessibility, and directing contractors to do the same, veteran preference hiring is at risk of being limited or ended altogether.
* * *
Original text here: 
Copyright Targeted News Services
MSTRUCK-9037725 MSTRUCK

Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
