




Targeted News Service
February 14, 2025 Friday 8:40 AM  EST


Copyright 2025 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved


Length: 809 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


Rep. Mark Harris, R-North Carolina, issued the following news release on Feb. 13, 2025:
* * *
Rep. Mark Harris leads NC lawmakers in demanding a "complete and total overhaul" of FEMA
WASHINGTON, DC -- On Thursday, Representative Mark Harris (NC-08) led a group of North Carolina lawmakers in demanding accountability from FEMA after four rogue operators sent $59 million to New York City to house illegal aliens in luxury hotels.
This recent scandal exposed by Elon Musk on X comes shortly after reports of Hurricane Helene victims being kicked out of their hotels by FEMA in North Carolina.
The North Carolina lawmakers wrote in a letter to Homeland Security Secretary Noem and FEMA Acting Director Hamilton, "It is of the utmost importance that federal agencies are not impeding President Trump from his lawful authority to govern and that unelected bureaucrats are not able to redirect taxpayer dollars to the detriment of the American people."
"In the wake of Hurricane Helene, North Carolina has witnessed first-hand the need for serious FEMA reforms to better address the federal response to future natural disasters. There is no doubt that a complete and total overhaul of FEMA is necessary."
"While we are grateful for this administration's leadership, we recognize that Congress also has a duty to conduct oversight and then pass permanent fixes to end FEMA's mismanagement," the congressmen said. "That is why we write to you today. We hope to gain greater insight into FEMA's activities during the Biden Administration that paved the way for the scandalous distribution of funds that prioritized illegal aliens over the American people."
Co-signers of the letter include Representatives Virginia Foxx (NC-05), Addison McDowell (NC-06), Pat Harrigan (NC-10), Chuck Edwards (NC-11), and Tim Moore (NC-14).
Read the full letter here.
February 13, 2025
The Honorable Kristi Noem
Secretary
Department of Homeland Security
2707 Martin Luther King, Jr, Avenue S.E.
Washington, D.C. 20528-0192
The Honorable Cameron Hamilton
Acting Administrator
Federal Emergency Management Agency
500 C Street, S.W.
Washington, D.C. 20024
Dear Secretary Noem and Acting Administrator Hamilton,
It is clear that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has been neglecting its core mission to serve the American people. From discriminating against individuals based on political views to promoting woke agendas like DEI, the agency has repeatedly failed to fulfill its most basic duties. Just this week, rogue FEMA employees sent $59 million to house illegal aliens in luxury hotels in New York City in blatant defiance of President Trump's orders.
In the wake of Hurricane Helene, North Carolina has witnessed first-hand the need for serious FEMA reforms to better address the federal response to future natural disasters. There is no doubt that a complete and total overhaul of FEMA is necessary. Therefore, we applaud the President for the much needed call to re-examine FEMA.
While we are grateful for this administration's leadership, we recognize that Congress also has a duty to conduct oversight and then pass permanent fixes to end FEMA's mismanagement. That is why we write to you today. We hope to gain greater insight into FEMA's activities during the Biden Administration that paved the way for the scandalous distribution of funds that prioritized illegal aliens over the American people.
As such, we request answers to the following questions as soon as possible:
* What is the current status of the $59 million sent to New York?
* Please explain how this $59 million expenditure was allocated for illegal alien housing including the organization responsible for requesting and purchasing the housing.
* Were any funds from the Disaster Relief Fund (DRF) obligated to illegal alien housing in
the past 6 months
* Please provide a full accounting of funds obligated by FEMA staff for the aiding and abetting of the illegal alien invasion during the Biden Administration or in the current Trump Administration, whether through the Shelter and Services Program, or other accounts.
* Please provide an action plan detailing how DHS and FEMA will prevent this situation from occurring in the future.
We appreciate your attention to this crucial matter. It is of the utmost importance that federal agencies are not impeding President Trump from his lawful authority to govern and that unelected bureaucrats are not able to redirect taxpayer dollars to the detriment of the American people.
Sincerely,
Mark Harris
Member of Congress
Virginia Foxx
Member of Congress
Chuck Edwards
Member of Congress
Pat Harrigan
Member of Congress
Addison McDowell
Member of Congress
Tim Moore
Member of Congress
* * *
Original text here: 
Copyright Targeted News Services
MSTRUCK-9054625 MSTRUCK

Load-Date: February 14, 2025


End of Document
