




Newsweek.com
January 30, 2025 Thursday 3:58 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 515 words
Byline: Anna Commander
Highlight: Rep. Tim Burchett said that there are plenty of avenues to investigate the fatal crash near DC's Reagan National airport.
Body


Republican Congressman Tim Burchett of Tennessee issued a warning to people against speculating that Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) along with "other stuff" was a contributing factor in the fatal midair collision near Ronald Reagan National Airport outside of D.C. on Wednesday night.
Newsweek reached out to the White House via email on Thursday for comment.
Why It Matters
DEI has been a central theme in the early days of President 's second term as he issued an executive order to have federal DEI offices dissolved and staffers be put on immediate paid leave. Defense Secretary Pete  that he will be getting away with DEI initiatives throughout the DOD, following Trump's guidance.
In a , Trump along with Vice President , Transportation Secretary Sean Duffy, and Hegseth  while noting that the crash "should not have happened."
Trump said in part, "We have to have our smartest people, it doesn't matter what they look like, how they speak, who they are, it matters intellect, talent. The word talent. You have to be talented, naturally talented geniuses. You can't have regular people doing that job," Trump said about air traffic controllers. "They won't be able to do it."
Hegseth followed up by saying, "We will have the best and brightest in every position possible, as you said in your inaugural, it is color blind and merit-based, the best leaders possible, whether its flying black hawks, flying airplanes, leading platoons, or in government. The era of DEI is gone at the Defense Department, and we need the best and brightest whether it's in our air traffic control, or whether it's in our generals, or whether it's throughout government."
What To Know
 before 9 p.m. ET on Wednesday night and involved a CRJ700 regional jet and a Sikorsky H-60 helicopter. In an emailed response to Newsweek on Wednesday night,  (AA) confirmed that there were "60 passengers and four crew members on board the aircraft."
The search and rescue mission has moved to a recovery effort as the precise number of casualties is immediately unknown, but it is believed there are no survivors. The military helicopter was carrying three soldiers on board.
In a video posted to X (formerly ) on Thursday, Burchett said in part, "I'd like to warn everybody, a lot of folks are saying DEI and all this other stuff, and things are going on. Let's find out. Almost 70 people lost their lives, it's just a complete tragedy, and we should remember their families and their friends in prayers."
"I think we ought to just go a little slower, maybe we'll get there a little faster. There's plenty of avenues to research this and to study, and we need to get to the bottom of it. What was going on with that helicopter? Is this a pattern of what's going on? If in fact the tapes are accurate, or the transcripts if they are truly what went on, we'll get to the bottom of it," Burchett said.
This is a developing story that will be updated with additional information. 


Graphic

 
Tim Burchett
Rep. Tim Burchett is seen attending the inauguration of then U.S. President-elect Donald Trump in the Rotunda of the U.S. Capitol on January 20, 2025, in Washington, DC. (Photo by Kevin Dietsch/Getty Images)

Load-Date: January 30, 2025


End of Document
