




Newsweek.com
February 11, 2025 Tuesday 7:13 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 897 words
Byline: Suzanne Blake
Highlight: The lawsuit alleges that Starbucks enforces race and sex-based hiring practices and illegally segregates employees.
Body


Republican Missouri Attorney General Andrew Bailey has filed a lawsuit against  over its, arguing they violate state and federal laws prohibiting , but a Starbucks spokesperson told Newsweek "these allegations are inaccurate." Experts weighed in.
Why It Matters
Now that President  has taken office, he unleashed a set of executive orders—one pertaining to DEI initiatives in the federal government.
The order ruled that funds could be frozen for companies that do not comply. Trump also outlawed any messaging that promotes
Since the executive order was released,  announced it would close its DEI office, and major companies like ,  and  are also taking steps to trim or get rid of DEI initiatives.
What To Know
In the lawsuit filed Tuesday, Bailey alleges that Starbucks enforces race and sex-based hiring practices and illegally segregates employees. The attorney general also said Starbucks gave exclusive training and benefits to certain groups, violating anti-discrimination laws.
The lawsuit comes after Trump evoked an executive order barring several kinds of DEI initiatives and inclusion-based language.
The  also ruled two years ago that federal law does prohibit race-based discrimination, including within college admissions and in employment decisions. That ruling put affirmative action policies in jeopardy at colleges across the country, and companies had to adapt their policies to ensure they were following federal law.
According to the lawsuit, Starbucks broke the law by linking compensation to racial and gender quotas and making board membership decisions based on race and gender.
"With Starbucks' discriminatory patterns, practices, and policies, Missouri's consumers are required to pay higher prices and wait longer for goods and services that could be provided for less had Starbucks employed the most qualified workers, regardless of their race, color, sex, or national origin," the lawsuit said.
Last year, Bailey also filed a suit against IBM for violating the Missouri Human Rights Act due to its race-based hiring quotas.
What People Are Saying
Missouri Attorney General Andrew Bailey said in a statement: "As Attorney General, I have a responsibility to protect Missourians from a company that actively engages in systemic race and sex discrimination. Racism has no place in Missouri. We're filing suit to halt this blatant violation of the Missouri Human Rights Act in its tracks."
A Starbucks spokesperson told Newsweek: "We disagree with the Attorney General, and these allegations are inaccurate. We are deeply committed to creating opportunity for every single one of our partners (employees). Our programs and benefits are open to everyone and lawful."
Alex Beene, a financial literacy instructor for the University of Tennessee at Martin, told Newsweek: "These types of lawsuits could become more common with the new administration signaling a rollback at the federal government level from DEI policies and many major companies implementing similar decisions. The argument being made is that policies pertaining to DEI ultimately cause employers to make hiring and compensation decisions more based on race, gender, and other indicators than merit. Companies like Starbucks are going to have to show these initiatives were used to promote more diversity and inclusion in the workplace while also treating all new applicants for employment fairly. The court's decision may not be a foregone conclusion, either. While party lines have divided along different sides of the DEI debate, the legal system doesn't always fall in-line with the party, but rather which side of the case makes the better argument."
Kevin Thompson, a finance expert and the founder and CEO of 9i Capital Group, told Newsweek: "Companies are now facing decisions on whether to retreat from DEI entirely or continue operating according to their corporate values. Some organizations and individuals view Starbucks' initiatives as discriminatory, particularly if compensation is linked to race or gender. In terms of resolution, many companies may choose to scale back their initiatives to avoid legal challenges, while others may continue to implement them as they see fit."
HR consultant Bryan Driscoll told Newsweek: "This lawsuit is just another example of how Trump 2.0 is weaponizing the legal system to attack initiatives it doesn't like. While having quotas in hiring is generally illegal, DEI programs themselves are not. Companies are allowed to set diversity goals, invest in underrepresented talent, and build inclusive workplaces. What's happening now is a coordinated effort to put these programs and the companies that run them in the crosshairs."
What Happens Next
Driscoll said it's too early to say how the lawsuit will play out, with much of it depending on whether the court interprets Starbucks' practices as quotas or legal diversity efforts.
Moving forward, other companies should expect similar lawsuits from  attorney generals "looking to score political points," Driscoll said.
"At the end of the day, this isn't about the law—it's about ideology. The same people screaming about freedom and government overreach have no problem using the state to punish companies that prioritize diversity," Driscoll said.


Graphic

 
Starbucks
Kevin Carter/Getty Images
The Starbucks Coffee corporate logo is displayed on a sign at their shop on January 31, 2025 in San Diego, California.

Load-Date: February 11, 2025


End of Document
