




MailOnline
February 27, 2025 Thursday 2:16 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 399 words
Byline: Sarah Ewall-Wice, Senior U.S. Political Reporter
Body


Sign up for the latest with DailyMail.com's U.S. politics newsletter
Republican Alabama Senator Tommy Tuberville invented a new word to describe a triangle while advocating for spending cuts at the Defense Department. 
The conservative lawmaker appeared on Fox News Wednesday night where he discussed the massive Pentagon budget as the Trump administration through DOGE looks to cut spending across the federal government. 
While on the program, anchor Laura Ingraham asked the former college football coach if the Department of Defense will face cuts. That's when Tuberville gave his eyebrow-raising answer. 
'We have to start in the Pentagon. We need to make a trigon - three sides instead of five sides of the Pentagon,' Tuberville said. 
He described the Pentagon as 'way too big, way over-bloated.'
It comes after the House passed its budget blueprint earlier this week which includes an additional $100 billion in defense spending over the next ten years. 
The Pentagon's latest budget was approximately $850 billion as it has failed seven audits in a row.
After calling for a 'trigon,' Tuberville went on to blast those working out of the Defense Department headquarters just outside Washington.
'They have what? 30, 40,000 in the Pentagon and 100,000 people across the street in Arlington that are making tons of money,' Tuberville said. 
'We have to cut back and do it for the warfighter. Help the war fighter build equipment, do the things we need do,' he continued.
Tuberville praised President Trump's new Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth and argued the Pentagon could make the necessary cuts. 
'We can get the cuts, but we need to continue to do what Pete has done: cut out all the bloat and all the DEI,' he claimed.
'Get our military back to a killing machine. Somebody that can protect this country and our allies,' the former football coach added.
Hegseth recently said that the Defense Department would use Elon Musk's DOGE to root out waste, fraud and abuse in the military and that the team would be given access to their systems. 
'With DOGE, we are focusing as much as we can on headquarters and fat and top-line stuff that allows us to reinvest elsewhere,' he said in a recorded video released last week.
The defense secretary has also said the Pentagon would immediately begin to shift roughly $50 billion from nonlethal programs to prioritize Trump's 'America First' defense priorities. .

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
