




Targeted News Service
February 26, 2025 Wednesday 8:00 AM  EST


Copyright 2025 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved


Length: 416 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: HARLEM, New York 
Body


The National Action Network issued the following news release:
* * *
REV. SHARPTON CLARIFIES NAN-AUTHORIZED BOYCOTT TO BE ANNOUNCED IN APRIL AT NAN CONVENTION
Civil Rights Leader, NAN to Name Companies That Have Backed Out of DEI After 90-Day Review, Amid Various Efforts Across the Country
NEW YORK, NY (February 25, 2025) - Rev. Al Sharpton, Founder and President of National Action Network (NAN), issued the following statement to clarify the organization's process to identify companies it will boycott this spring over their decision to turn back on their diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) commitments. While there are many appreciated efforts by various organizations, Rev. Sharpton and NAN will announce the boycott they authorized at the NAN Convention held in New York City from April 2nd to April 5th.
"As I stood in Washington on King Day, just as Donald Trump put his hand on the bible and launched a crusade against DEI, I made it clear NAN will be thoughtful in how it identifies those who have gone back on our word to us. We have convened a council with our partners to examine what companies have reneged on DEI, what their profit margins are, and how we can use Black buying power to make a statement. We appreciate the spirit of the various efforts but the only one that I and NAN have authorized will be announced at our national convention this April.
In the meantime, NAN members will continue to stand with those who stand with us. That's why we have continued to lead 'buy-cotts' at Costco in East Harlem, New Jersey and throughout the South. It is just as important that we support companies that see the business value of DEI and what investing in Black and Brown communities can do for them long term."
About National Action Network (NAN)
National Action Network is one of the leading civil rights organizations in the Nation with chapters throughout the entire United States. Founded in 1991 by Reverend Al Sharpton, NAN works within the spirit and tradition of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. to promote a modern civil rights agenda that includes the fight for one standard of justice, decency and equal opportunities for all people regardless of race, religion, nationality or gender.
For more information go to .
* * *
Original text here: 
[Category: Political]
Copyright Targeted News Services
MSTRUCK-9075610 MSTRUCK

Load-Date: February 26, 2025


End of Document
