




MailOnline
February 9, 2025 Sunday 2:22 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 502 words
Byline: Charlie Spiering Laura Parnaby For Dailymail.Com
Body


                     Elon Musk's end goal has been revealed as he continues to slim down federal government through ruthless redundancies and the slashing of entire departments. 
The Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE), run by the billionaire SpaceX founder, has laid off thousands of federal workers during its first weeks in existence. 
The bloodbath has so far targeted DEI hires, in line with Trump's anti-woke agenda, and allegedly 'lazy' federal workers who are soon to be replaced by artificial intelligence. 
Musk's aim appears to be diminishing the government machine to make it easier for President Donald Trump to control, according to the Washington Post.
It comes after Trump, 78, refused to rule out acting as a 'dictator' the month before he was sworn in as the 47th President of the United States. 
Longtime Musk ally and investor Shervin Pishevar told the Post that Trump and the X tsar have been acting as two complimentary 'storms' tearing through government.
'Chaos is often the birthplace of new orders, new systems and new paradigms,' Pishevar said of the major overhaul currently being carried out by DOGE. 
'Washington doesn't know how to deal with people who refuse to play the game by their rules. 
'Donald Trump and Elon Musk are two different storms backed by a majority of Americans - one political, one technological. 
'But both are tearing through the same rotting structure.'
The diminished government will also give less oversight over private business and comprise a smaller share of the US economy. 
It comes as the DOGE team announced plans to deploy a new and untested tool to assist his goal of slashing costs and 'lazy' federal workers.
Musk's officials are now proposing the deployment of artificial intelligence to upgrade government systems.
Josh Gruenbaum - head of the Federal Acquisition Service at the General Services Administration (GSA) - revealed how they're considering utilizing AI 'in our portfolios.'
That includes ways to cut down on staff around the country, he said. 
We'll be 'cutting redundant business functions and associated staffing,' Gruenbaum said, alluding to the potential of AI taking over already-established jobs.
Trump's DOGE is also offering cushy 'buyout' deals to federal employees in the hopes of cutting back between five and 10 percent of the workforce.
A White House official confirmed to DailyMail.com on Thursday that more than 40,000 federal workers had accepted the offer before the fast-approaching midnight deadline. 
Thomas Shedd, a former Tesla engineer who's now also at the GSA, reportedly held a meeting Monday to outline plans to implement AI into the government.
'I'm not saying that this is an easy task, but it is a task that's worth trying to pursue and one that only we can do as an internal team, right?,' he said.
'We can't bring a third party in, hire them and have them work on a project like this. It has to be an internal technology team that works on this,' Shedd said, according to 404 media, who obtained audio of the meeting.

Load-Date: February 9, 2025


End of Document
