




The Daily Caller
January 22, 2025 Wednesday 07:07 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS; daily-caller-news-foundation
Length: 740 words
Byline: Ireland Owens, Contributor, 
Body



Several conservative-leaning activist groups have been calling for some major banks to revoke their diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI)-related policies, according to The Wall Street Journal.
Some groups have been calling for JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs to revoke or scale back on their DEI initiatives, people familiar with the matter  The Wall Street Journal. Both of the banks received anti-DEI proposals from the National Center for Public Policy Research (NCPPR) and the National Legal and Policy Center (NLPC).
Meanwhile, two other major banks, Bank of America and Citigroup have come under fire from activists accusing them of discriminating against customers over their religious or political beliefs, according to the WSJ.
Some of the groups targeting these banks include the Heritage Foundation, the NCPPR and the NLPC, the WSJ reported. Each of these groups own small shares in the banks that they have been taking aim at, people familiar told the WSJ.

(Photo by Kena Betancur -VIEWpress/Getty Images)
President Donald Trump has been an outspoken  of DEI efforts. Shortly after  to the Oval Office on Monday, Trump signed an  to scrap “radical and wasteful” DEI programs across the federal government. Following Trump's order, all federal employees in DEI roles are expected to be placed on leave starting on Wednesday, Forbes . 
“We submit shareholder proposals to companies - about 40 this year - basically to get companies back to neutral,” Ethan Peck, the deputy director for the NCPPR's Free Enterprise Project, told the Daily Caller News Foundation. “We submitted about ten of them relating to DEI, and two of them that we had targeted were JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs. We've been doing this for years, so it's not because there's any sort of change like with the Trump administration or with Trump's executive order or with other companies dropping it, that's not why we're doing it, we've just always done it. We've been doing this since DEI became a thing, we immediately started pushing back in 2020. As we've done it, our efforts have started strengthening a little bit, and more people started joining.”
Various companies have  their DEI policies and  in recent months amid  from consumers and sometimes , including ,  and . Notably, in December, an appeals court in Louisiana  Nasdaq's proposed rules aimed at increasing diversity on company boards.
“We feel like we lay a lot of the groundwork for pushing back against DEI, at least at the corporate level in the boardrooms,” Peck told the DCNF. “And so it's nice to see some of the effects in some companies dropping it. Of course, some companies haven't yet, and that's why we are just not taking our foot off the gas yet until it's completely done, and that's why we're continuing to submit these [shareholder proposals].”
“We strongly believe that organizations benefit from diverse perspectives, and Goldman Sachs is committed to operating our programs and policies in compliance with the law,” a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs said in a statement shared with the DCNF.
“Companies best serve their shareholders, employees, and customers by creating value and generating profits,” John Backiel, vice president of finance and accounting and treasurer at the Heritage Foundation, said in a statement shared with the DCNF. “We believe the best corporate culture is one that respects all viewpoints and protects free speech. We advocate aggressively for that through our policy work and our investment strategy. The Golden Age in America starts now, which also applies to corporate America.”
Bank of America and Citigroup both declined to comment to the DCNF.
The National Legal and Policy Center and JPMorgan Chase did not immediately respond to a request for comment from the DCNF.
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Graphic

 
(Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 26, 2025


End of Document
