




MailOnline
February 22, 2025 Saturday 7:59 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: OTHER SPORTS; Version:1
Length: 449 words
Byline: Jake Fenner
Body


READ MORE: Lia Thomas' ex-teammates sue NCAA to erase her records
While the debate of the inclusion of trans people in sports has taken a sharp turn toward the 'no' side in recent weeks, there are still many who are advocating for complete unilateral acceptance in athletics.
Part of this debate was taken to something of an extreme on a recent episode of 'Piers Morgan Uncensored' - where Morgan hosted a conversation between people of two very opposite viewpoints.
On one side was Blossom Brown, a trans activist who went viral earlier in the week when she claimed that the 2028 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles should 'absolutely' be gender-neutral.
Opposite Brown was Riley Gaines, a former collegiate swimmer who has made a name for herself by being the most prominent advocate for banning trans women from competing in women's sports.
When Morgan asked Brown again on the show if the LA Olympics should be gender-neutral and men and women should be competing against each other, Brown replied, 'Absolutely, I don't see anything wrong with it. As long as it's inclusive of trans women, and trans men, and non-binary people, then yes, why not?'
Both Morgan and Gaines were confounded and spoke over Brown as she made that point. Brown then added, 'This country was built on diversity, equity, and inclusion and although Trump is trying to get rid of DEI, that does include cis women like Riley.'
Morgan started laughing in the middle of that statement, while Gaines tried asking Brown a question which essentially asked: if they were to combine men and women at the Olympics, what about combining the Olympics with the Paralympics?
After the conversation took a bit of a detour as Brown criticized the Trump administration's first few days with the economy among other topics, Gaines and Morgan asked the question again.
'Blossom, should we combine the Paralympics with the regular Olympics, have them all compete with each other?,' Morgan asked.
'I mean, why not,' Brown replied.
While Gaines' put her hands to her head in complete shock and Morgan called her 'delusional', Brown continued rattling on about the election in November claiming that the vote was rigged. Eventually, her mic was cut off and the segment ended shortly afterwards.
Paralympians have competed in the Olympics in the past - with track star and convicted murderer Oscar Pistorius the most prominent example.
Brown has not addressed the appearance on her X account, but Gaines has.
The former University of Kentucky swimmer posted, 'When they say "diversity, equity, and inclusion," they actually mean ridding disabled people of all opportunities and chances for success.... that is how committed they are to their demented logic.' 

Load-Date: February 22, 2025


End of Document
