




telegraph.co.uk
February 2, 2025 Sunday 7:00 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: BUSINESS; Version:1
Length: 688 words
Byline: By Lucy Burton, Employment Editor
Highlight: The City watchdog faces calls to scrap proposals for tough DEI targets over red tape concerns
Body


Financial chiefs are calling on the City regulator to tear up plans to impose diversity targets in the latest sign of a mounting business backlash.
Banks and investment firms have in recent months ramped up pressure on the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) with claims diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) rules would slow growth.
Several bosses have personally approached Nikhil Rathi, chief executive of the FCA, to raise the issue in the hope of preventing the regulator from introducing rules for how companies should treat diversity. Firms have also raised the matter at industry meetings with the regulator.
It comes after the watchdog published a consultation in 2023 that recommended requiring companies to draw up and publish an official diversity and inclusion plan overseen by the board – with a policy statement expected later this year.
One City chief, who has challenged Mr Rathi over the DEI proposals, said: “The majority of the [finance] industry has long been unconvinced by the rationale for this. We’ve made our concerns clear for a long time and will continue to do so.”
He said that tougher DEI targets were problematic for companies as they just “add more bureaucracy and red tape”.
Another industry source who has held private meetings with the FCA to discuss the plans said there was “an undercurrent of ‘we must do something, this is something, therefore we must do this’”.
They added: “There is a risk the FCA is on course to introduce a cumbersome reporting regime. The only certainty of its impact will be to create jobs in HR.”
When asked about the issue on a podcast last week, Mr Rathi said that before releasing its plans the FCA must wait for direction from the Labour Government, which has vowed to slash red tape and boost growth.
He said: “Before we move forward we’ll want to understand exactly what the Government wants to do more broadly for all companies, not just financial services, and make sure anything we do dovetails with that.”
The City has been battling the issue of diversity and sexism for years, although there are increasing concerns that the methods used have been ineffective.
The influential Treasury committee last year said women in finance are still afraid to speak out about abuses in the workplace because of perceptions that the City is still a “man’s world”.
The findings followed  , whose hedge fund was shut down in the wake of the scandal.
Staff at the FCA are understood to have pointed to the scandal when shaping their proposed DEI policies. Mr Odey denies the claims.
Officials are also concerned over a 72pc surge in non-financial misconduct complaints at City firms over the last three years.
However, a senior industry source said: “As a regulator, the FCA should surely be questioning if and why harassment went unchecked for so long, rather than introducing new ill-defined compliance frameworks.”
Although many in the City are keen to boost diversity, critics argue that there has been a regulatory “over-focus” on DEI issues which has harmed investment.
Rachel Reeves, who has vowed to turbocharge growth, received a letter from three members of the Conservative front bench in December arguing that 
Conservative leader Kemi Badenoch has also accused the watchdog of “overreach” and said its diversity plans could hinder growth.
A poll of 500 City executives carried out by research firm JLP shows that one in three bosses now believe DEI has gone too far. Last week the Institute & Faculty of Actuaries (IFoA) also abandoned plans to introduce its own strict diversity rules after a revolt by some members.
The pushback comes as Donald Trump launches  , with one of his first executive orders ending what he called “radical and wasteful government DEI programmes”.
An FCA spokesman said: “With the Government planning work on employment rights, equality actions plans and pay gaps, we’re considering next steps following our consultation with the Prudential Regulation Authority.”

Load-Date: February 2, 2025


End of Document
