




USA Today Online
February 3, 2025 10:47 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Section: US NEWS, US NEWS & SPORTS: NFL NEWS
Length: 1285 words
Byline: Chris Bumbaca, USA TODAY
Body


NEW ORLEANS – NFL commissioner Roger Goodell said at his annual Super Bowl-week news conference Monday that those who believe the Kansas City Chiefs receive preferential treatment from the officials are simply wrong. 
“A lot of those theories happen in social media and they have a new life … I understand it, I think it reflects a lot of the fans’ passion,” Goodell said. “I think it’s also a reminder of how important officiating is.” 
Goodell said he believes the individuals who call NFL games have the highest possible standards when it comes to integrity. 
“That’s a ridiculous theory, for anyone who might take it seriously,” Goodell said. “But at the end of the day, it’s something we have to continue to work on: How do we make our officiating better at all times?” 
The online hoopla reminded Goodell of last year’s narrative that the commissioner and others scripted the season from the league’s Park Avenue offices in Manhattan, New York. 
“These officials are outstanding people – both men and women – and they go through a lot to become officials,” Goodell said. “It’s a tough job, a really hard job. … I’ve never seen a more dedicated group of people than NFL officials to getting it right, to doing the best job they possibly can, and I’m incredibly proud of them.” 
Moderated by Curt Menefee, the FOX Sports host who offered a few table-setting talking points for Goodell, the session lasted about 45 minutes. Menefee asked about the existence of a universal sky judge and how the league can be more transparent.
“I think that’s something we continue to work on: communicate better, educate better,” Goodell said. “But also to use technology. … We want to use technology to supplement and support and assist the officials in getting it right.” 
More plays may be available to “replay assist” – a quick decision from an official not on the field with access to more camera angles – after the league’s competition committee meets this offseason. 
Whether or not that includes using tech to spot the football rather than the eyesight of human beings is a work in progress, Goodell said.
The league tested that technology in the preseason and Goodell said it is complicated by the shape of the football makes it more difficult. The NFL’s partners are working to advance that as quickly as possible, Goodell added, and the league is experimenting to determine whether it can be used in the flow of a game.
Here are six other takeaways from the commissioner’s annual Super-Bowl-week news conference:
Expanding regular season to 18 games
The league and NFL Players Association have yet to hold formal talks about expanding the regular season, although union director Lloyd Howell and Goodell have discussed the possibility. There is no deadline for when a decision would have to be made, as the current collective bargaining agreement (CBA) between the league and union is in effect through the 2030 season. 
“We know our fans love football, they want more football,” Goodell said. “But we have to be incredibly smart and sensitive in the balance and how we deal with that.” 
Rooney Rule/DEI  
The implementation of diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) policies have become a hot-button issue in the first two weeks of Donald Trump’s presidency and essentially since his election in November.
Goodell stood by the gains the league has made in its hiring practices during his time as commissioner.  
“We felt it was the right thing for the (NFL),” Goodell said of its commitment to DEI. “I think we’ve proven ourselves that it does make the NFL better.”
But in the face of a White House that has declared war on those initiatives, Goodell is still confident “because our owners participate in everything we do.”  
“Our policies have been designed to be well within the design, well within the practice. There are no quotas in our system” Goodell said. “This is about opening that funnel and bringing in the best talent to the NFL.” 
The league office has spoken with the NFL’s Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Committee multiple times over the last six months, he said, and assured that the NFL’s policies are current with both the previous and current presidential administrations. 
To Goodell and the league office, it is not a trend. 
“Our efforts are fundamental in trying to attract the best-possible talent both on and off the field,” he said. 
However, teams such as the New England Patriots and the Dallas Cowboys were ridiculed for their head-coaching searches not appearing to seriously adhere to the Rooney Rule, which requires teams to interview at least two external minority candidates. 
“I think all of the steps that have been made are followed up, evaluated and feel comfortable that they’re being done the right way,” Goodell said of the Rooney Rule.
On the subject of coaches declining head-coaching interviews out of fear they are not serious candidates, Goodell said that is not unusual. He nonetheless encourages coaches to go through the process and gain experience in that area.
There have been candidates who have expressed to the league office that they felt their candidacy wasn’t legitimate, Goodell said. Slowing down the process was a win for the NFL, he added, in leveling the playing field among teams who are simultaneously seeking new head coaches. 
Flagging for flopping? 
Chiefs quarterback Patrick Mahomes drew the ire of opposing fans for questionable penalties he drew against the Houston Texans in the divisional round last month. 
Goodell was asked whether the league would install a penalty specifically for flopping, and the commissioner noted it depends on one’s definition of the act. He did, however, point out that the league drew a line on players faking injuries to stop hurry-up offenses. The competition committee has discussed flopping in the past and “they could probably talk about (flopping) in the future, it wouldn’t surprise me.” 
Justin Tucker
Goodell said he was surprised by the Baltimore Banner’s reporting over the past week that detailed , who vehemently denied any wrongdoing. 
Goodell said the league will adhere to its protocols in letting any potential criminal or civil processes play out. 
“We will look into those issues. They’re obviously serious issues,” Goodell said. “He’s taking that seriously and so are we.” 
International Super Bowl 
On potentially increasing the number of international games from eight to 16, Goodell tempered expectations by saying the league may fall short of reaching eight in 2025. Media rights are critical to that expansion, and the league is open for business in that respect to both existing and prospective broadcast and streaming partners. 
An international Super Bowl would occur only if the league expanded internationally. 
“I do think someday we’re going to have an international franchise,” Goodell said. 
Saints diocese report
With Saints owner Gayle Benson sitting in the front row, Goodell fielded a question about a report from Monday morning that  by clergymen. 
“Mrs. Benson and the Saints are very involved in this city and they are great corporate citizens,” Goodell said. “So Mrs. Benson takes all these matters seriously, particularly for someone with the Catholic Church connections that she does.” 
Goodell considered it a matter of the FBI and local law enforcement and referred any details to Benson’s prior statements and the emails that were made public. 
This story has been updated to include new information.
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: February 3, 2025


End of Document
