




Newsweek.com
February 25, 2025 Tuesday 9:37 AM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 704 words
Byline: Ewan Palmer
Highlight: The Florida governor aims to reduce "bloat" in state spending in a similar vein to Donald Trump and Elon Musk's federal initiative.
Body


Florida Governor  has announced the creation of a Florida-based Department of Governmental Efficiency (DOGE) task force, which aims to further eliminate "waste" within state government.
Newsweek has contacted DeSantis' office for comment via email.
Why It Matters
The Florida DOGE task force will work similarly to the department created by President  and headed by tech billionaire , which has  and the gutting of federal agencies since January 20.
DeSantis, who will leave office in January 2027, has taken a number of steps in an apparent attempt to rebuild ties with Trump and his loyal supporters after the pair's once strong relationship fell apart during the 2024 GOP primary campaign. These moves come as DeSantis considers his political future, including 
What to Know
DeSantis' office announced the creation of the DOGE task force on Monday, aiming to save taxpayers money and "ensure accountability" in Florida.
The Florida State DOGE task force will utilize technology such as AI to reduce "bureaucratic bloat" and find ways to identify additional unnecessary spending.
The team hopes to abolish 70 boards and commissions this year as part of cost-cutting measures. During a press conference on Monday, DeSantis said the task force will review about 900 state positions to determine if they can be eliminated.
DeSantis said Florida's DOGE task force will also identify potential wasteful spending in college and university operations. DeSantis had signed a law in 2024 that banned public colleges from using state funds and taxpayer money to 
The governor said the DOGE team will be a continuation of the cost-cutting measures he has overseen during his six years in office. DeSantis said Florida saved $3.8 billion in last year's budget and has paid down 41 percent of state debt since 2019.
"Florida was DOGE before DOGE was cool," DeSantis posted on X, formerly , on Monday.
The creation of the Florida DOGE task force was condemned by Florida  Chair Nikki Fried.
In a statement, Fried suggested DeSantis was just trying to appease Trump, who  in the 2026 Florida gubernatorial race.
Donalds has not confirmed his intention to replace DeSantis when his second and final term ends but has teased an upcoming announcement. First lady  is also  to replace her husband as Florida governor.
DeSantis has  since the president returned to office on January 20. This includes advocating for hard-line immigration policies and making Florida the first state to recognize Trump's executive order renaming the 
What People Are Saying
Florida Governor Ron DeSantis in a Monday post on X:"In just one month since President Trump's inauguration, DOGE has exposed wasteful spending, tackled the entrenched bureaucracy, and challenged the way the federal government operates. We've been doing these things in Florida since I took office, but today, we are formalizing a Florida DOGE task force to go even further."
Manny Diaz Jr, Florida Department of Education commissioner, during Monday's press conference: "While Florida has made great strides in refocusing our higher education system on educating students for their future, we must continue to dive into administrative spending and reduce bloat so our record of success may continue. It is a great time to review higher education spending with a fine-tooth comb, particularly when it comes to programs that do not contribute to students' future success in the job market."
Florida Democratic Party Chair Nikki Fried in a statement: "We all know this isn't about reining in spending — it's about Trump endorsing Byron Donalds instead of Casey DeSantis. Maybe Ron should have considered the political consequences before he decided to run against the leader of his party for president."
What Happens Next
DeSantis said the Florida DOGE task force will serve a one-year term and will "sunset" following the completion of its mission.


Graphic

 
Ron DeSantis in Florida
CHANDAN KHANNA/AFP/Getty Images
Florida Governor Ron DeSantis speaks during a news conference at Chase Stadium in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, on August 8, 2024.

Load-Date: February 25, 2025


End of Document
