




The Daily Caller
February 4, 2025 Tuesday 06:17 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION; us
Length: 894 words
Byline: Mary Rooke, Commentary and Analysis Writer, 
Mary Rooke is a Catholic mom of four and the author of the Daily Caller column, which covers a broad range of politics and culture.

Body



President Donald Trump's mission to empower the Great American Comeback has delivered a fatal shock to the bureaucratic state that had a stranglehold on America's governing abilities for decades.
The Trump administration's  should be called the “Shock And Awe Tour.” The first time around, it was undisputable how unprepared they were for the deep state machine, but this time is different. In less than 20 days, the team Trump has assembled has overwhelmed the entrenched bureaucrats by shutting down the cash cow that helped them  wildly anti-American policies at home and abroad.
 President Trump on USAID: “It has been run by a bunch of RADICAL LUNATICS and we're getting them out ... and then we'll make a decision” 
 - Rapid Response 47 (@RapidResponse47) 
Trump shut down the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) Monday through the Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE), which X owner Elon Musk runs. The security director and deputy were placed on administrative leave, and USAID employees were locked out of their computers while DOGE began working to shut down the corrupt federal agency that has long been an arm of the deep state. 
Most Americans likely hadn't heard of USAID before the squeals of the establishment class began crying out in pain over the move, despite their tax dollars being the funding mechanism for the agency. USAID is the “golden goose,”  for insane left-wing policies that undermine U.S. security, sovereignty, and social cohesion.
White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt outlined to the press just some examples of USAID's funding initiatives, including $1.5M to advance DEI in Serbia's workplaces, $70k for a production of a DEI musical in Ireland, $47k for a transgender opera in Colombia, and $32k to publish a transgender comic book in Peru.
 The 3rd largest funder of the BBC's charitable arm is USAID.
 It gives nearly £2 million per year to train reporters - in 35 countries - how to serve Washington.
 Trump is dismantling the infrastructure of US empire, particularly its propaganda apparatus. Incredible. 
 - Matt Kennard (@kennardmatt) 
Republican Iowa Sen. Joni Ernst said she has been trying to investigate USAID's humanitarian expenditures in Ukraine but was blocked by the agency's unelected bureaucrats at every turn. 
“What my team and I encountered was absolute obstruction and lies coming out of USAID. They did everything possible to stop me from accessing their records to understand where our taxpayer money was going,” Ernst said. “They really pushed back, only allowed us access to a small amount of data. But, what we found was extreme expenditures on the part of USAID with very little data-driven results. We have seen money funded in the Wuhan Institute of Virology, through dollars steered through USAID, on dangerous coronaviruses. We saw how that turned out. We've seen funding going to Morocco for pottery classes, [and] tourism in Lebanon of all places, even when the State Department was advising against all travel.”
 USAID did everything possible to stop me from finding out where tax dollars were going. 
 - Joni Ernst (@SenJoniErnst) 
Focus on Western Islamism  a report Monday that shows that over $122 million of taxpayer dollars through USAID were funneled into groups aligned with Islamic terror organizations in , Syria, and Afghanistan. The Biden administration was responsible for sending  to groups that sponsored or committed terrorism.
 Asks Samantha Power: 'Did USAID Fund Coronavirus Research In Wuhan China?'
 “Should we be funding the Academy of Military Medical Research in China? ...Some of the research proposals in 2018 were the Wuhan Insitute of Virology asking for money to create a virus with... 
 - ABC Noticias (@abcesnoticias) 
You might ask yourself: Why were Americans paying for these programs in the first place? The simple answer is that despite being under the governance of the Executive Branch, USAID has acted as a rogue agency, refusing oversight from any branch of government, much less the President and National Security Council. 
Trump's move to shut down foreign aid spending caused Democrats to crawl out of their holes to protest in front of the USAID building. He clearly struck a nerve by hitting their base of operations used to funnel billions of taxpayer dollars to the people and countries who hate us. USAID is a slush fund for establishment elites to subvert the will of the American people, but their accounts are frozen. Their cries are nothing more than the sound of rats scurrying around a sinking ship.
 Ask yourself why elected officials are mounting a full blown tantrum over a little-known agency receiving even an ounce of scrutiny. 
 - Vince Coglianese (@VinceCoglianese) 
The deep state was wholly unprepared for Trump 2.0.
 Follow Mary Rooke on X: 

Graphic

 
TOPSHOT - US President Donald Trump gives a thumbs up before boarding Air Force One at Joint Base Andrews in Maryland on January 31, 2025, as he travels to the Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida. (Photo by Jim WATSON / AFP) (Photo by JIM WATSON/AFP via Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
