




MailOnline
February 5, 2025 Wednesday 7:59 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: SHOWBIZ; Version:1
Length: 1285 words
Byline: Eve Buckland Deirdre Durkan-simonds For Dailymail.com
Body


Have YOU got a story? Email 
                     Roseanne Barr made a dig at President Trump's new celebrity 'special envoys' in a rare interview this week, after claiming she was frozen out by his inner circle.
                     The fallen former TV icon, 72, whose career imploded after she made a series of racist tweets, first pledged her allegiance to Trump's MAGA movement in 2018 and revealed she hopes he makes a cameo in her new show.
The star, who flashed her rose chest tattoo during the chat, was asked about the appointment of Jon Voight, Mel Gibson, and Sylvester Stallone as Special Ambassadors to represent Hollywood to the world.
Quizzed on 'three white men' getting high profile government roles and whether she would join them or form a DEI in LA, the star said: 'No, I'm on my own baby, I'm above all that.'
Barr, who unsuccessful ran for presidency in the 2012 presidential election, said she thought it was 'possible' Trump would appear on her show.
Last month Barr claimed she had been frozen out by Trump's inner circle, who view her as a 'loose cannon.'
She told Variety: 'I'm not a party line person for anyone or anything except myself. The Trump staff or whoever runs it, they're a little afraid of me. I am a loudmouth comedian, so I understand it.
'It really hurt my feelings. But what are you gonna do?'
Trump wrote on Truth Social last month: 'It is my honor to announce Jon Voight, Mel Gibson, and Sylvester Stallone, to be Special Ambassadors to a great but very troubled place, Hollywood, California.
'They will serve as Special Envoys to me for the purpose of bringing Hollywood, which has lost much business over the last four years to Foreign Countries, BACK-BIGGER, BETTER, AND STRONGER THAN EVER BEFORE! 
'These three very talented people will be my eyes and ears, and I will get done what they suggest. It will again be, like The United States of America itself, The Golden Age of Hollywood!'
All have been seen in Trump's orbit recently. Stallone introduced Trump at Mar-a-Lago for his first speech after winning the election in November.
Gibson revealed his support for Trump in a video days before the election - while also going negative and unloading on VP Kamala Harris. 
'I know what it'll be like if we let her in. And that ain't good. Miserable track record. No policies to speak of. She's got the IQ of a fence post,' Gibson said.
The 'Road Warrior' and 'The Passion of the Christ' star said he was 'ashamed' of his comments after he was caught on tape giving an antisemitic rant in 2006 during a DUI arrest following a traffic stop. 
Voight has been an outspoken Trump backer. Trump awarded him the National Medal of Arts during his first term.
All three provided vital Hollywood support to Trump during an election campaign where Harris was mopping up celebrity endorsements and campaign contributions. 
Roseanne is among a small number of stars of stage and screen to have come out publicly in favor of Trump. She said she voted for him in the 2016 election and has acted as a surrogate this time around 
Barr recently revealed she is ready for her TV comeback seven years after ABC canceled her revived TV comedy series, Roseanne, over a series of racist tweets.
On Tuesday, the actress teased her return to the small screen with a new comedy series, which she wrote with TV producer Allan Stephan, best known for his work on HBO's Arli$$ and Roseanne. 
According to Variety, the show, which will be be four to six episodes starring Barr, is said to be a 'cross between The Roseanne Show and The Sopranos.' 
The Emmy winner also revealed to the outlet that the series will center on a 'small-town farmer in Alabama who is saving the United States from drug gangs and China.'
The protagonist will also apparently dabble in 'growing and selling drugs like cannabis and magic mushrooms.' 
'It's silly and out there,' she raved. '[It will contain] very offensive ideas and a lot of swearing. I live with my daughter and her husband and their six children on a farm. And they have goats running through their house and stuff.' 
Barr noted it was loosely based on her 'life as a farmer in Hawaii.' 
The mother-of-five, who moved to her 46-acre farm on the Big Island in 2010, also described the project as 'kind of like the Coen brothers thing.'
This will mark her first acting gig since getting axed over her remarks about former White House adviser Valerie Jarrett, which the network called 'repugnant and inconsistent' with their values. 
In one of her highly offensive tweets, she referred to Jarrett as the offspring of the 'Muslim Brotherhood & Planet of the Apes.' 
After receiving substantial backlash, she deleted the racist post and apologized to Jarrett.
'I apologize to Valerie Jarrett and to all Americans,' she tweeted. 'I am truly sorry for making a bad joke about her politics and her looks. I should have known better. Forgive me-my joke was in bad taste.' 
Months later as she sat down for her first TV interview since getting fired for the tweet, Barr reflected on how the tweet cost her 'everything.' 
'I wish I worded it better,' she said on Sean Hannity's Fox News Channel show.
'I wish I worded it better,' she said on Sean Hannity's Fox News Channel show. 
She continued: 'I am a creative genius, and this is not a good feeling for an artist to be treated this way, and it's not a good feeling for a citizen, either.' 
Still, Barr insisted that she felt her tweet was mischaracterized and that she had apologized enough for her actions. 
'I feel like I have apologized and explained and asked for forgiveness and made recompense,' she said. 
Later she stated: 'I'm not a racist and the people who voted for Trump, they're not racist either, and Trump isn't a racist, sorry. We just have a different opinion.' 
ABC cancelled Roseanne right after its first season earned the top spot for scripted primetime TV shows in the 18-49 age demographic. 
Barr, who was dropped by her longtime agents at ICM over the tweet, declined to say who is selling the series. 
'If Hollywood doesn't buy it, then I'm just gonna make it myself,' she told Variety. 'Does anybody in [Hollywood] like America or the people who watch TV? Because the people who watch TV would really like to see a show where working-class people win against the enemies of America.'
She added that the family in the series will be a lot like the Conners, featured in her series, Roseanne.
'There's a scene where I have to strap myself into a corset. My granddaughter helps me, and then I go into town to flirt with all the shopkeepers that are just grotesque people,' she mused. 'It's just kind of a cartoony kind of thing.' 
The actress also said Trump's victory in the 2024 presidential election shows that people in the U.S. want content from Hollywood that is 'irrelevant to the American people.'
'If they want to survive, they should work with the new president. American people elected him in an overwhelming victory,' she said. 'They should get back in touch with [them] and make some money, which I don't know if they do or not 'cause they've proven to be ideologues rather than [business people].'
She continued: 'What shocks me is the fact that they prefer to lose money and then explain that to the shareholders who apparently have no problem with that.'
Although Barr has taken a step back from acting, she currently hosts The Roseanne Barr Podcast. 
As for whether she would return to ABC, the star said: 'F**k no.' 
'I'd like to get paid handsomely to bring another shit f**king network back from doom as I've done twice for ABC,' Barr said. 'But I just don't see how they would keep their nose out of my business. We'll see. If not, I'll just go somewhere else and put it on my own website.'

Load-Date: February 5, 2025


End of Document
