




Financial Times (London, England)
February 7, 2025 Friday
Edition 1, USA Edition


Copyright 2025 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 2
Length: 495 words
Byline: MONICA MARK
Body


US secretary of state Marco Rubio has said he will snub the meeting of G20 foreign ministers from the world's biggest economies in Johannesburg this month over South Africa's attempts to promote "equality, solidarity and sustainability".
Rubio, the US's highest-ranking diplomat, echoed the anger of US President Donald Trump and his South Africanborn adviser Elon Musk over land ownership laws that replace those dating from the apartheid era.
"I will NOT attend the G20 summit in Johannesburg," Rubio said on X. "South Africa is doing very bad things. Expropriating private property. Using G20 to promote 'solidarity, equality, & sustainability.' In other words: DEI and climate change. My job is to advance America's national interests, not waste taxpayer money or coddle anti-Americanism."
South Africa is the first country from the continent to hold the G20's rotating leadership, and has made climate justice for countries of the global south one of its priorities. The US will take over the leadership next year - a handover that is now likely to be strained.
It is unusual for a country to miss attending G20 meetings, and the US's absence comes at a time when China is seeking to further strengthen its ties to
Africa. Rubio, a hawk on China, has also criticised South Africa for its recent pressure on Taiwan in accordance with Beijing's wishes.
South African officials appeared to be baffled by Rubio's boycott of the meeting. "This is not a South African event. It's a global event," said Songezo Zibi, an opposition MP. "The Trump administration is fundamentally hell-bent on isolating the United States, weakening its role in international institutions and destroying its soft power."
Foreign minister Ronald Lamola said South Africa's G20 presidency was "not confined to just climate change but also equitable treatment for nations of the global south, ensuring an equal global system for all".
Wu Peng, China's ambassador to South Africa, met Lamola yesterday and said pointedly on X that he had "expressed China's readiness to support South Africa's G20 Presidency".
Ziyanda Stuurman, an independent Cape Town-based analyst, said the troika of previous, present and future hosts often had to work through their different priorities but Rubio's withdrawal was "a pretty intense escalation even with there being a general understanding that the US-South Africa relationship is tense".
On Monday, Trump accused South African authorities of treating "certain classes of people VERY BADLY" after
President Cyril Ramaphosa signed an expropriation bill that allows land to be seized without compensation in circumstances where the government believes it is "just and equitable and in the public interest". The legislation replaces laws from the apartheid era, during which thousands of non-white families were forcibly removed from their land for the benefit of a white minority.
A South African official said no US officials had been in contact regarding the US's attendance.

Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
