




Financial Times (London, England)
February 13, 2025 Thursday
Edition 1, USA Edition


Copyright 2025 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 4
Length: 503 words
Byline: ROB ROSE ; MONICA MARK ; DAVID PILLING
Body


South Africa's foreign minister has vowed to push ahead with its genocide case against Israel at the International Court of Justice despite an executive order signed by Donald Trump punishing the country for its "aggressive" position towards the US ally.
There was "no chance" of South Africa withdrawing the ICJ case despite Trump's threats, Ronald Lamola told the Financial Times. "Standing by our principles sometimes has consequences but we remain firm that this is important for the world and the rule of law."
South Africa instigated proceedings against Israel at the ICJ at the end of 2023, accusing Israel of violating international laws on genocide during its war against Hamas in Gaza, something Israel vigorously denies. While a final ruling is pending, the court last year imposed emergency measures ordering Israel to limit harm.
The US president last week signed an order to "halt foreign aid or assistance" to South Africa in retaliation for the ICJ case and a new land expropriation law it claims is designed to seize property from the country's Afrikaner minority, even offering to resettle "Afrikaner refugees escaping government-sponsored race-based discrimination".
The US also alleged South Africa was working with Iran "to develop commercial, military and nuclear arrangements", while secretary of state Marco Rubio said he would skip a G20 meeting in South Africa, this year's host, over what he said was its DEI (diversity, equity and inclusion) policies.
Trump's campaign against South Africa represents a challenge for the coalition government, which fears that not only $440mn in aid but tariff-free access to US markets under the African Growth and Opportunity Act is at risk.
Lamola has described the US claims as "misinformation", with officials saying the land law is not "arbitrary" but necessary to redress inequities in land ownership after apartheid. "While we do have a good relationship with Iran, we don't have any nuclear programmes with them, nor any trade to speak of."
He added: "We are willing to engage with them [the US] to persuade them, if they are willing to be persuaded."
But the coalition government, which took power last year after the African National Congress lost its majority in general elections, is divided on how to manage the fallout. John Steenhuisen, leader of the ANC's pro-business partner the Democratic Alliance, agreed that South Africa must patch up relations with Trump. "It is a clear and present danger to our growth and jobs agenda if we're not able to repair the relationship with one of our largest trading partners and the largest economy of the world." He added that everything from farming jobs to investment could be affected. But he said it was not possible to withdraw from the ICJ case.
Songezo Zibi, leader of the centrist Rise Mzansi party, another coalition member, argued that "there's literally nothing South Africa could do to please the Trump administration", characterising the spat as a broader campaign against multilateralism. See Opinion

Load-Date: February 12, 2025


End of Document
