




Michigan Daily: University of Michigan-Ann Arbor
February 12, 2025 Wednesday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS-; Pg. 1
Length: 864 words
Body


The University Insider is The Daily's first faculty and staff-oriented newsletter. This weekly newsletter will give U-M faculty and staff the ability to see the most important issues on campus and in Ann Arbor - particularly those related to administrative decisions - from the perspective of an independent news organization. It will also provide a better understanding of student perspectives.
Subscribe
Processing...
Success! You're on the list.
Whoops! There was an error and we couldn't process your subscription. Please reload the page and try again.
The University of Michigan's Senate Advisory Committee on University Affairs met Monday afternoon to discuss current challenges facing higher education and a potential letter to show their support for students affected by President Donald Trump's recent executive orders. 
SACUA Chair Rebekah Modrak opened the meeting by discussing SACUA's latest collaborations with Central Student Government. Projects between the two organizations include a potential resolution to establish transportation routes that would allow students to easily reach grocery stores and a resource sheet for students affected by the increased presence of Immigration and Customs Enforcement in Ann Arbor.
"CSG is working on a lot of initiatives around access to grocery stores and food, transportation for food, thinking about international students and the kinds of stores and food they might want to have access to," Modrak said. "They did a poll on students who are understandably concerned and agitated about immigration enforcement, and so they put out a statement for students with some information."
Modrak then addressed concerns about the University's institutional neutrality policy after an incident where three resident advisers were not allowed to give a presentation about the history of Palestine, despite the fact that the policy is written only to affect University leadership and those authorized to speak for an academic unit.
Modrak said she was told in a meeting with one of the R.A.s that the institutional neutrality policy was cited as the reason students could not give a presentation concerning the history of Palestine.
"It was in a verbal communication he got from his boss, who said to him explicitly ... (the) institutional neutrality policy does not allow you to give this presentation," Modrak said. "I shared that information from him with the provost, so that she does understand that it was the policy explicitly that was stated."
Modrak said she wrote to McCauley asking for a more clearly defined policy to avoid issues regarding institutional neutrality in the future.
Next, SACUA moved on to discussing recent motions, the first of which is an opportunity for SACUA to co-sponsor a series of talks with the University's chapter of the American Association of University Professors on the topic of resistance. Topics would include the history of resistance, academic freedom and recent executive orders. SACUA heard a motion to cosponsor this event, which will be voted on at a later date.
The second motion discussed was to approve a letter drafted to express SACUA's support for marginalized groups following recent executive orders from the Trump administration regarding immigration and diversity, equity and inclusion. Since his inauguration, Trump has targeted immigration by halting refugee admissions, increasing expedited deportations and tightening border control while also encouraging rollbacks to DEI programs in federal agencies, higher education and the private sector. Despite SACUA's recognition of the impact the administration's executive orders have had on the local community, there was some debate about the letter's significance.
SACUA member Derek Peterson said the letter, only offering words not actions, may seem insufficient for the matters at hand.
"In the absence of something to protest against at the University, it seems as though this letter has relatively less immediacy or purpose other than simply to say we're behind you," Peterson said. "I wonder if we need to say something more definite."
Other SACUA members noted a desire to communicate on a more personal and empathetic level with the U-M community through the letter, even though it would not bring about change to the government orders.
SACUA member Vilma Mesa said the assembly recognized the importance of demonstrating support for marginalized communities in response to recent immigration and DEI orders, but found it difficult to present an effective message.
"We have been working hard about how to respond, but it's just impossible to respond," Mesa said. "The question then is for us, in fact, how do we make that message clear to the faculty that in some ways, we're listening?"
Modrak said she believed that a statement to the U-M community, while not having any tangible effects, is a powerful way of showing support.
"I know it's not policy, and it's not concrete. But I think for many people, a statement saying you matter and you exist and you're valued, is what many people need to hear."
The motion to send the letter will be considered at a later date. 
Daily Staff Reporter Alaine Hanson can be reached at 

Load-Date: February 12, 2025


End of Document
