




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 22, 2025 Wednesday 8:21 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 520 words
Byline: Avery Lotz
Body


January 22nd, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
Today's CEOs are likely the last who will "manage a workforce of only human beings," Salesforce CEO  
Why it matters: The rise of generative AI "agents," which Benioff described Wednesday as "digital labor," is among the  
"We are really moving into a world now of managing humans and agents together," he said, highlighting his own company's  
Catch up quick: Salesforce launched Agentforce in September, with Benioff applauding the technology at the time as "AI as it was meant to be."
"Because I'm using Agentforce, I just have that much more productivity," he told Axios Wednesday, highlighting the increased ability of his Agentforce to resolve support inquiries.
He added he's thinking of ways to "redeploy" support agents in sales positions because those employees "don't have as much to do because Agentforce is so productive for them."
Zoom out: President Trump on Tuesday  
OpenAI, SoftBank, Oracle and the UAE's MGX will come together for a joint venture called "Stargate." The respective companies said they would commit $100 billion at the start start with a potential of up to $500 billion over four years.
That's money MAGA ally  
What he's saying: "This is actually the beginning of the end of the    
He also claimed Wednesday that Microsoft "has really disappointed everybody with this CoPilot."
When asked for comment,  
He also pledged to stand by his employees as Trump unleashes a barrage of  
"My job as the CEO is to kind of get their [employees'] back," Benioff said. He added that if "somebody's going to come after our employees or discriminate against them in any way, we'll do everything we can to help them, support them."
The bottom line: As AI grows more autonomous, it opens the door to never-before-seen possibilities - but it also increases the possibility for  
"This AI does not work if it's not grounded in data," Benioff said.
Go deeper:  
Editor's note: This story has been updated with a statement from Microsoft.


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 22, 2025


End of Document
