




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 26, 2025 Wednesday 2:20 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 383 words
Byline: Kate Murphy
Body


February 26th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
San Diego County school districts lost nearly $1 million in federal grant funding for  
Why it matters: The    
Driving the news: The Tulare County Office of Education received   
The notification letter said the grant is terminated, in part, because it "provides funding for programs that promote or take part in DEI initiatives."
The money was to "develop and support a continuum of highly-qualified, diverse teachers and leaders that will serve in high need rural and urban" public schools, per the  
Zoom in: The SD County Office of Education was set to receive $900,000 to distribute, but was notified by Tulare of the funding cut on Feb. 18.
San Diego Unified, Cajon Valley Union and Escondido Union Elementary school districts were each expecting $50,000 per year for four years for their  
Between the lines: SD Unified's program started this school year and is designed to bring in  
The program will continue through at least next year, but won't receive that money earmarked for professional learning experiences, mentorship and support for schools hosting residents.
The big picture: The Education Department announced last week it  
Many affected grants included "teacher and staff recruiting strategies implicitly and explicitly based on race," per the department.
What we're watching: SD Unified is monitoring the Trump Administration's actions and set up   


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 26, 2025


End of Document
