




The Post: Ohio University
February 4, 2025 Tuesday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 571 words
Byline: Cassie Dye
Body


Ohio Senate Bill 1 is a bill that "bans Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion courses, training, litmus tests, required statements, and spending for any DEI initiatives or programs with the same intent," specifically in higher education. By banning DEI initiatives, university students in Ohio will lose access to a multitude of open and welcoming environments, course offerings and potentially scholarship money.
At a university level, DEI is defined as the "practices designed to ensure that every member of the institution (including students, faculty, and staff) have equal opportunities for success and inclusion, no matter their background." At Ohio University this includes the Multicultural Center, the Pride Center and the Women's Center. At OU, diversity and inclusion are practiced to "celebrate all members of our University community and to broaden our collective understanding by uplifting diverse identities, cultures, experiences and perspectives." But with Ohio SB1, these centers could cease to exist. 
In higher education, DEI is essential for students and faculty of minority groups to thrive. These initiatives are used to create spaces for minorities where they can thrive. They provide spaces in which minority groups can freely express their thoughts and shared experiences. These programs also help students stay in college. According to Harvard University, "Rolling back funding for diversity officers, training and curricular support is likely to adversely impact retention rates at universities." The bill doesn't just affect offices that promote DEI, it also prohibits universities from handing out new scholarships on the basis of DEI. 
Although the main focus of SB1 is the banning of DEI, it also bans faculty and staff's ability to strike. Sen. Jerry Cirinco, who proposed the bill, says the banning of strikes is because "the students are being used as pawns in order to get better working hours ... nothing except force majeure should ever get in the way of students getting what they have paid in advance for." By banning faculty and staff's ability to strike, the bill takes away a key bargaining tool used by unions. This is an attack on workers' rights and creates a power imbalance in the negotiation process.
SB1 is only one piece of legislation proposed in recent years as an attack on DEI. There have been 106 bills across the states since 2023 targeting DEI in higher education. On Jan. 22, President Donald Trump signed executive orders that end DEI programs at the federal level. In his inauguration speech, Trump said, "We will forge a society that is colorblind and merit-based."
DEI is often misconceived as something that only focuses on race, but DEI practices are focused on uplifting minorities. In the workplace, it can also look like accommodating working parents with flexible hours. These attacks on DEI in higher education will set higher education back. By banning these practices many minorities will no longer have these judgment-free zones and students may lose out on funding vital for them to continue their education. DEI is not about favoring minorities, but rather uplifting people in these groups. These initiatives need to continue for the benefit of all college students. 
Cassie is a junior studying communications at Ohio University. Please note the views expressed in this column do not reflect those of The Post. Want to talk to Cassie? Email her at 

Load-Date: February 4, 2025


End of Document
