




MailOnline
January 27, 2025 Monday 11:43 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: SNAPCHAT; Version:1
Length: 1036 words
Body


                     Saturday Night Live has faced fierce backlash over a controversial comedy segment during its 'Weekend Update,' with fans slamming a joke about the Trump assassination attempt.
Comedians Colin Jost and Michael Che took aim at President-elect Donald Trump during the show's 50th season's 'Weekend Update' Saturday night.
The two comedians delivered a series of provocative jokes that quickly sparked social media fury, leaving some users asking: 'When am I supposed to laugh?'
The most shocking moment came during a segment about Trump's inauguration, where Jost made a dark joke about Lincoln and Trump.
'I wish those two could talk to each other: Lincoln could teach Trump a lot about the importance of preserving our union, and Trump could teach Lincoln how to turn your head at the exact right moment,' he said, referencing Lincoln's assassination.
They added that during his oath, Trump was seen not placing his hand on the Lincoln Bible.
'Well, he tried to,' Jost said, 'but the Bible screamed.'
Fans took to social media to express their disgust, with many claiming the show lost its comedic value
'Does this show even hire talented writers anymore?' one viewer commented.
Another wrote: 'Once they were funny.'
'I see that SNL still isn't funny. Next to Tina and Amy, these are the worst two Weekend Update anchors,' a third user chimed in.
'Appears SNL is still hiring DEI writers NBC, this is not comedy'
Others defended the sketch, arguing that they could still find some humor in the joke, despite disagreeing politically with the show's writers.
'Trump is still better than the road the Dems were leading America down. But this is hilarious!! Why because rationality is being able to laugh at both sides and not be but hurt Karen about it.'
'These two are the only reason SNL is still on the air, great work boys,' another wrote.
The Weekend Update segment covered a range of controversial topics, including Trump's executive orders, January 6th pardons, and Elon Musk's controversial 'Nazi' salute.
'President Trump defended his pardon of the January 6 attackers, saying that these are just people who love their country; you know, like how O.J. [Simpson] loved Nicole.'
Barron Trump was also the target of a cruel joke, with one comedian mocking the 18-year-old's impressive height.
The comedy sketch made a pointed hit at the 6ft 9in NYU student in the first SNL show since Trump's historic inauguration on Monday - with cast member James Austin Johnson playing the president.
But the skit took a wicked turn - with Johnson comparing the President's youngest son to the Lord Of The Rings character Gandalf, because of his physical appearance.
The cutting jab comes just months after Barron re-emerged into the public eye on his 18th birthday - following years of being treated harshly on social media, with some members of the mainstream media targeting him as 'fair game.'
Even after a previous Saturday Night Live writer was reprimanded for calling Barron a 'school shooter' at his father's first inauguration in 2017, the comedy show decided to take another bite at the teen on Saturday night.
Johnson walked into the scene as guest star Lin-Manuel Miranda and other cast members sang and danced to a Hamilton-inspired song about America.
Just after the Tony Award-winning actor said 'in America we will never have a king,' Johnson interrupted him and said 'never say never.'
Johnson then said he's 'in his king-era,' before going on to speak about the 47th president's youngest son - calling Barron his 'new favorite son.'
'But I'm back in the White House just in time, everything is back to how it was, except my new favorite son is Barron and he's smacking his head on every door frame - oh it's bad.
'It's like when Gandalf goes to Bilbo's house,' he added, referring to the scene when Gandalf - a massively tall character - entered Bilbo's home in the Hobbit, a prequel to the Lord Of The Rings.
Despite the sour joke, Trump fans laughed off the sly insult, with one writing defiantly: 'Barron will be the first King of the Americas.'
Another social media user wrote: 'Horrid impersonation and the jokes, eh not funny.'
Said another: 'You guys really need not progressive comedy writers and a better Trump impersonator. Tired jokes, and a bad impersonation.
'The punchlines and the voice tone is good, but the delivery, and cadence are just terrible. Or as Trump would say: SAD!'
And a fourth wrote: 'Why is the Trump impression so incredibly painfully unfunny while trying desperately to be funny, while Trump himself is incredibly effortlessly funny almost all the time?
'You'd get way more laughs just by cutting together and airing compilations of Trump being funny.'
In recent times, Barron has been notable for his height, as he towers over everyone in his family.
At the inauguration he was seen standing tall and waving at the crowd as he took a mature role at the events this time around - since his last inaugural appearance 10 years ago when his father first entered the White House in 2017.
Trump took time to applaud his son during his remarks on Monday, saying his youngest child helped him reach a younger crowd.
'I have a very tall son,' Trump said in the Capital One Arena as the crowd erupted in cheers and Barron triumphantly raised his hands in the air, in a shift from the more reserved Barron the country is used to.
Previously, a Saturday Night Live writer who made a bad-taste joke about Barron Trump on Twitter apologized for her 'inexcusable' actions after she was suspended from the show.
On Inauguration Day 2017, Katie Rich tweeted that the ten-year-old boy would become 'this country's first home-school shooter,' but deleted it three hours later.
She came in for an avalanche of criticism from Twitter users, who branded her 'scum', called for her account to be blocked, and urged NBC to fire her.
Rich wasn't fired, but she was suspended indefinitely from working on the show after the furor failed to cool down over the weekend, an insider told Deadline.
The same day, she tweeted: 'I sincerely apologize for the insensitive tweet. I deeply regret my actions & offensive words. It was inexcusable & I'm so sorry.'
Rich left the show in 2019 and now works as a writer on various projects.

Load-Date: January 27, 2025


End of Document
