




The Guardian (London)
February 15, 2025 Saturday 2:00 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved


Section: OPINION; Version:3
Length: 1258 words
Byline: Arwa Mahdawi
Highlight: Thanks to Donald Trump’s sweeping executive orders attacking a number of terms, ‘women’ is literally being erased
Body


                   From banning books to policing words                   
                     Thanks to the intolerant left, nobody can say the word                     “women                     ” any more! Do you remember when that was a major talking point in certain quarters? Prominent columnists   endless pieces   had “become verboten”. The thought police, these people claimed, were forcing everyone to say “bodies with vaginas” and “menstruators” instead. Even the likes of   tweeted articles with headlines like: “Why can’t we say ‘woman’ anymore?”
That, of course, was .  While there was certainly a push for more inclusive language, nobody with any influence was trying to ban the word “women”.
Now, however? Now, it’s a very different story. Thanks to Donald Trump’s sweeping executive orders attacking “gender ideology” and DEI programs, the word “women” – along with a number of other terms – is quite literally being erased. The   been busy scrubbing mentions of terms related to women in leadership from public websites in an attempt to comply with Trump’s executive orders, for example. Agencies like the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) have taken down numerous webpages related to gender in the wake of Trump’s orders – although a federal judge   that they should be reinstated.
Meanwhile, the National Science Foundation (NSF) has an internal list of hot-button words (which include “women”, “gender”, “minority”, “biases”) that they are cross-referencing against active research projects and grant applications. The   that once one of these very dangerous words is identified, staff then have to go through a flowchart to see whether a research project should be flagged for further review.
The National Institutes of Health and multiple university research departments are going through a similar dystopian exercise. Researchers at the University of California at San Diego, for example, have said their work is now at risk if it contains language deemed potentially problematic, including the word “women”.
Rebecca Fielding-Miller, a UCSD public health scientist, told KPBS that the list of banned words circling in scientific communities was Orwellian and would hamper important research. “If I can’t say the word ‘women’, I can’t tell you that an abortion ban is going to hurt women,” Fielding-Miller said.
Fielding-Miller also noted that it was illuminating to see which words hadn’t  been flagged as problematic. “I guess a word that’s not on here is ‘men’, and I guess a word that I don’t see on here is ‘white’, so I guess we’ll see what’s going on with white men and what they need,” . 
Amid all the anxiety about what you are allowed to say in this brave new world, a lot of researchers are erring on the side of caution. Some scientists   that they are considering self-censoring to improve their chances of getting grants. Others are gravitating towards “safe” topics – like, you know, issues that concern white men. This is a dance we’ve seen many times before: Republicans will advance ambiguous, and possibly unconstitutional, legislation. Because no one knows what the hell is going on or how they might get punished for violating these vague new laws, people self-censor and aggressively police themselves.
So, I guess this is where we are now: Republicans aren’t just  , they’re policing words. An administration in effect fronted by Elon Musk – a self-proclaimed “free speech absolutist” – is so touchy about the language that we use that scientists are now self-censoring. It’s so prescriptive about what things are called that it’s blocking journalists from events for continuing to refer to the   instead of the Gulf of America. It’s so obsessed with controlling how we think that it’s erasing references to trans people from the website for the .  Under the disingenuous guise of “   ”, the Trump administration has made clear it is intent on controlling the very words we use.
                   Errol Musk, who impregnated his former stepdaughter, says Elon is a bad dad                   
Elon Musk seems to get some of his extreme views about pro-natalism from his father, Errol, who also has multiple children. Errol has even fathered two kids with his former stepdaughter, who was only four years old .  I bring this up because Errol is currently in the news .  He’s certainly not wrong about that – the Tesla billionaire seems to treat his kids like props rather than people – but his statements bring to mind certain adages about pots and kettles as well as glass houses.
                   Investigation launched into human egg trafficking ring                   
Thailand and Georgia have said they are investigating a human-trafficking ring   from Thai women who came to Georgia thinking they’d be surrogates. Instead, they were   and had their eggs harvested. This story is just the latest example of the way in which the global egg trade has given rise to black markets and abuse. Last year, for example, a   reported that Greek police had identified up to 75 cases of alleged theft of eggs taken from the ovaries of IVF patients at a clinic on Crete.
                   Infant mortality rates rise in US states with abortion bans, study finds                   
Just   that anti-abortion activists are in no way “pro-life”.
                   Domestic violence study that strangled rats should not have been approved, animal advocates argue                   
The rats were non-fatally strangled   that aimed to improve the detection of brain injury resulting from intimate partner violence.
                   The Syrian feminists who forged a new world in a land of war                   
The Guardian has a   on the autonomous region of Rojava, in north-eastern Syria, which has a government with arguably the most complete gender equality in the world.
                   A pregnant woman in the West Bank was shot by Israeli soldiers                   
Sondos Shalabi, 23, .  Her killing comes as Israeli settlers are unofficially annexing large areas of the   and escalating violence has displaced .  The West Bank is becoming another Gaza.
                   How Sasha DiGiulian broke climbing’s glass ceiling                   
The big-wall climber   about sexism in climbing – including a tendency for routes that women have climbed getting “immediately downgraded by male climbers”.
                   The ‘puppygirl hacker polycule’ leaks numerous police files                   
The group   there are not “enough hacks against the police”, adding: “So we took matters into our own paws.”
                   The week in pawtriarchy                   
Palmerston is a black-and-white cat who was – until recently – retired after a long and   as chief mouser for the UK’s Foreign and Commonwealth Office in London. The “   ” has emerged from retirement to start work work as feline relations consultant to the new governor of Bermuda. If only the US would learn from this: government needs more cats and fewer Doges.

Load-Date: February 16, 2025


End of Document
