




telegraph.co.uk
February 12, 2025 Wednesday 4:15 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: US; Version:1
Length: 347 words
Byline: By Connor Stringer, Deputy US Editor
Highlight: Adults boo and heckle US defence secretary on visit to military base in Germany
Body


Dozens of students walked out of their German school during a visit by the US defence secretary in protest over Donald Trump’s   (DEI).
American students at a US military installation walked out of Patch Middle School in Stuttgart for nearly an hour.
Pete Hegseth, the defence secretary, was booed by a group of adults who live at the military base who heckled him with chants of “DEI!”.
About 55 students “walked out in protest of recent events”, according to a letter from the school obtained by the Washington Post.
Since his confirmation last month, Mr Hegseth has banned Black History Month celebrations and restricted access to several books in defence department schools.
He has also announced that the US will no longer accept   and ordered a pause on trans healthcare treatments.
“Effective immediately, all new accessions for individuals with a history of gender dysphoria are paused,” a memo sent by the defence secretary read.
“All unscheduled, scheduled, or planned medical procedures associated with affirming or facilitating a gender transition for service members are paused.”
The walkout was reportedly organised by an eighth-grade student at Patch who said Mr Trump’s recent executive orders have targeted diverse events at the school, including a performance to celebrate Black History Month.
“There was this great sense of community and belonging,” the student told the Washington Post.
“Like we’re not alone, because so many kids came out.”
Just days after taking office, the US president ordered that all federal DEI staff be put on paid leave “immediately” and eventually laid off.
The move followed an executive order Mr Trump signed on his first day back in the White House which revoked Lyndon Johnson’s protection of workers against discrimination based on race, colour, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or national origin.
Most recently, the administration reversed a   in pilot safety bulletins, which was outlawed under the Biden administration.

Load-Date: February 12, 2025


End of Document
