




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 22, 2025 Wednesday 2:10 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 273 words
Byline: Stef W. Kight
Body


January 22nd, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) leadership has directed employees to refer to foreign nationals as "aliens" in all "internal and external communications," according to an internal memo obtained by Axios.
Why it matters: The early Trump move is both in line with   
The new memo is another sign of how the administration came in ready to make clear their aggressive stance on combatting illegal immigration, right away.
Immigration advocates criticize the term for being offensive, while immigration restrictionists defend using "alien" because it's what's used in the Immigration and Nationality Act.
Shortly after taking office, former President Biden's team moved away from the statutory language, pushing for more " 
Driving the news: Acting ICE director Caleb Vitello is reverting the language guidance back, according to a memo dated Tuesday and addressed to agency leadership.
The directive rescinds the memo from 2021, which had changed the official terminology from "alien" to "noncitizen."
The new directive from Vitello specifies that instead of "noncitizen," employees are to use the term "alien." It also replaces "noncitizenship" with "alienage."
Zoom out: Trump has  
He has already signed orders to resume his Remain in Mexico policy, end birthright citizenship, declare a national emergency at the border, halt refugee admissions, among other actions.


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 22, 2025


End of Document
