




MailOnline
February 24, 2025 Monday 3:44 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:3
Length: 914 words
Byline: Scott Jennings For Dailymail.Com
Body


The Rajun' Cajun is at it again.
It was only last October when a New York Times column headlined 'Three Reasons I'm Certain Kamala Harris Will Win,' turned James Carville into a laughingstock among the political cognoscenti.
Carville, who has been riding high on his role as a lead strategist in Bill Clinton's 1992 presidential campaign for 30 years, cited three reasons for his certainty: Trump had lost before, Harris's fundraising advantage and his own 'emotional' feelings.
In a race with such close polls and a weak Democrat running with the anchor of Joe Biden around her neck, no one in their right mind was predicting a 'certain' victory for the doomed incumbent party.
And yet there Carville was, letting his feelings get the better of him. And on the pages of the Gray Lady no less!
Pro tip, James - the next time you are feeling emotive scream into a pillow, instead of running to the laptop.
Now after earning the epithet Most Wrong Pundit in America during the 2024 election, Jimmy is back with another banger.
'We're in the midst of a collapse,' Carville said last week of the new Trump administration. 'It's over,' he added, advising Democrats to just 'lay back.'
Mind you, Trump has been in office for a little over a month and is trying to clean up a mess four years in the making thanks to a disastrous Biden regime.
'I believe that this administration, in less than 30 days is in the midst of a massive collapse and particularly a collapse in public opinion,' Carville concluded.
Could he be right? Well, let's look at the facts.
Start with job approval. Forty-nine percent of Americans say the president is doing a good job versus 47.8 percent who say he isn't, according to the RealClearPolitics polling average. In the November election, Trump won 49.8 percent of the national popular vote, versus 48.3 percent for Harris, his vanquished opponent.
Hardly sounds like a collapse to me. More like steady as she goes.
And his individual policy ideas are proving popular, too.
Nearly six in 10 Americans approve of Trump's plan to deport illegal immigrants, 54 percent support his handling of the Israel-Hamas conflict and a majority are on board with Elon Musk taking a chainsaw to the federal bureaucracy and it's out-of-control spending, according to a CBS News poll this month.
Indeed, most Americans want to eliminate waste, such as $20 million for Sesame Street in Iraq, $9 million for violent terrorists instead of civilians in Syria and $69,000 for dance classes in Wuhan, China (yes, that Wuhan). And illegal immigration was one of the top motivations for voters to return Trump to office in the first place.
On top of that, Trump may be in the running for a Nobel Peace Prize if he can negotiate the end of the war between Ukraine and Russia in a way that stops the killing, guarantees a 'sovereign and prosperous Ukraine' (in the words Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth) and brings stability to the European continent.
Leaving aside all the political metrics for a second, what would a 'collapse' for Donald Trump even look like?
He has the most loyal political base in American history and appears to have expanded on that support in the November election by appealing to historic numbers of voters across the demographic and ideological spectrum.
People who rarely if ever voted Republican (or even rarely voted at all!) flocked to Trump to rescue the country from the kind of politicians that Carville was promoting just last fall.
Is it possible that Trump's numbers could fluctuate? Sure. That's true for all political figures. But to use the word 'collapse' suggests naïve wish-casting on the part of a political operative who is certainly old enough to know better.
Outside of the period following January 6, Trump has been impervious to polling spikes one way or the other. And most Republicans are more than happy with Trump so far. They are getting exactly what they asked for - a 'revolution of common sense.'
But for argument's sake, let's say that Carville is right and Trump is about to suffer a massive polling downturn. One of President Trump's saving graces is that he is forever blessed with the dumbest and most off-putting political enemies imaginable.
'The fact that I am rooting for Canada and that I am rooting for Mexico a lot is really wild. But, they are really the ones speaking truth to power right now,' said Democratic US Congresswoman Crockett last week, as she openly cheered for American failure in the face of negotiations with other countries.
Crockett has become the de facto leader of the post-2024 Democratic Party as its most visible spokesperson.
'We are gonna be in your face. We are gonna be on your a**es, and we are gonna make sure you understand what democracy looks like,' Crockett screamed into a microphone at an anti-Trump rally a few weeks ago.
Since Crockett's rapid rise to prominence in her party, polling for Congressional Democrats has collapsed. Just 21% of the American people approve of the job they are doing, an all-time low in the latest Quinnipiac survey. But American leftists just can't help themselves.
Crockett's Democratic Party supports DEI and opposes deporting illegal aliens. As long as Dems stick to that foolishness, a Trump collapse is highly unlikely. 
Trump's ultimate report card won't be written by 'emotional' partisans like Carville or from aggressively ignorant progressives like Crockett.
Democrats may as well 'lay back.' At this point, there's not much else they can do - except, perhaps, get on board.

Load-Date: February 24, 2025


End of Document
