




USA Today Online
January 30, 2025 3:34 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Section: TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY NEWS, TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY NEWS & US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT NEWS
Length: 977 words
Byline: Saman Shafiq, USA TODAY
Body


Hours after  was  on Wednesday, he was on the ground in Washington D.C. to survey the  with 64 on board with  carrying three soldiers near Reagan Washington National Airport on Wednesday night. Speaking to reporters at the scene of the crash on Thursday, Duffy said both the helicopter and the airplane had been flying standard flight patterns, and there had been no breakdown in communication.
"Everything was standard in the lead-up to the crash," he said. "Do I think this was preventable? Absolutely."
There was “not a breakdown” between the American Airlines plane, the Blackhawk helicopter, and the control tower, Duffy continued. "Something went wrong here," he said. "I look forward to the time and point when we can give you that information."

Live updates: 
Duffy promised to improve aviation during confirmation hearing
During his U.S. Senate , Duffy, 53, had said he would prioritize road safety to reduce fatalities on American roadways. He had said he thinks "a lot about transportation, especially safety,” as a father of nine.
“My son, John-Paul, drives his younger siblings to school every day — a car full of precious cargo," Duffy said. "Whether driving, flying, or traveling by train, no federal agency impacts Americans’ daily lives and their loved ones more than the Department of Transportation. I am honored to have the trust of , and hopefully this body, to lead such an important segment of our economy.”
During the hearing, Duffy had also said the country needs more air traffic controllers to improve aviation and promised to work with the Federal Aviation Administration, which regulates Boeing, and Congress to  in the  after fatal crashes overseas.
Prior to his appointment,  had a prolific political career as a Wisconsin congressman and district attorney and long before his Cabinet appointment, he was a reality star, much .

Here’s what you need to know about the reality TV- personality-turned-politician.
Sean Duffy's political career
Duffy previously served as a congressman for Wisconsin's 7th congressional district in the northwest part of the state from 2011 to 2019, overlapping with the bulk of Trump's presidency. During his congressional tenure, Duffy was a member of the House Financial Services Committee.
Duffy, who has  in St. Paul, Minnesota also served as district attorney in Ashland County, Wisconsin in 2002.

What did Trump say about Duffy?
Trump referred to Duffy as "a tremendous and well-liked public servant" who will make "our skies safe again by eliminating DEI (Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion) for pilots and air traffic controllers."
"Sean will use his experience and the relationships he has built over many years in Congress to maintain and rebuild our Nation’s Infrastructure and fulfill our Mission of ushering in The Golden Age of Travel, focusing on Safety, Efficiency, and Innovation,"  about choosing Duffy. "Importantly, he will greatly elevate the Travel Experience for all Americans!"
Sean Duffy family, kids

Duffy is married to Fox News television host , with whom he shares nine children. The two met while filming for an MTV show and tied the knot in 1998. Rachel had made her initial MTV appearance on "The Real World: San Francisco."
During his , Duffy introduced his family to the committee, saying: “I would take a moment I'd like to introduce my family − my wife, Rachel and nine children. Rachel and I met on a reality TV show. Kind of unique, not most people have that."
"We've been married for 25 years. Rachel is the love of my life. She's my best friend," he added.
He also introduced his 5-year-old daughter, Valentina. In 2019, he  a few months before she was born, announcing he had learned she was facing health complications, including a heart condition, and wanted to support his family during this time.
“She, no doubt, is our family's favorite,” he said. “She was hugging Senator Baldwin on the way in, showing great bipartisan love."
Which reality TV shows was Sean Duffy on?
Duffy began his television career on MTV's "The Real World: Boston" during its sixth season while  The popular series followed a group of diverse young people as they attempted to live together over a period of six months.
Duffy was a cast member of a couple of MTV shows, including "The Real World: Boston," "Road Rules: All Stars" and "Real World/Road Rules Challenge: Battle of the Seasons" between 1997 and 2002. An archived MTV  of the show’s cast describes Duffy as a “typical Midwestern boy” and a lumberjack sports champion from Hayward, Wisconsin.
He has a penchant for outdoor activities, including log rolling and speed climbing, which he began at a young age. Duffy holds two speed-climbing titles. In 2003, Duffy competed in ESPN's "Great Outdoor Games" and later joined Fox News, first as a contributor in 2020 and then as co-host of the Fox Business program in 2022.
Prior to his nomination, Duffy was  on Fox Business.
This story was updated to add a new gallery.
Contributing: Joey Garrison, Bart Jansen, USA TODAY and Drake Bentley, Milwaukee Journal-Sentinel
Saman Shafiq is a trending news reporter for USA TODAY. Reach her at   m and follow her on X and Instagram @saman_shafiq7.
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: January 30, 2025


End of Document
