




The Miscellany News: Vassar College
January 29, 2025 Wednesday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINIONS; Pg. 1
Length: 934 words
Byline: Jacques Abou-Rizk
Body


On Monday, Jan. 20, Donald Trump assumed the Office of the United States President for a second time. His enthusiasts-and his established circle of tech CEOs-praise the First Amendment. In 2022, Tesla and SpaceX CEO Elon Musk, now a prominent supporter of Trump, acquired X, formerly Twitter, for $44 billion in the name of ending censorship, according to The New York Times. But beyond their public discourse is an underlying threat-a warning to journalism and writers across the country.
TikTok CEO Shou Chew is the latest CEO to conform to the new administration. Throughout the confusing week where it was unclear if TikTok would be banned, the app went dark for U.S. users for less than 14 hours, before returning to full use with a "thank you" message for then-President-elect Trump, as reported by The Wall Street Journal. On Jan. 20, Chew appeared in the Rotunda at Trump's inauguration. 
Just weeks ago, Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg released a video announcing that Instagram and Facebook would be ending their professional fact-checking policies, revealing the so-called "Real Mark." He also has started to roll back DEI and LGBTQ+ protections at Meta, according to NBC. Additionally, Meta plans to introduce community notes to its social media platforms, similar to X, where readers can add context to posts online. Business Insider argues Zuckerberg has done all this to appease Trump.
And, of course, Elon Musk. The wealthiest person on Earth. Spending more than a quarter-billion dollars to help elect Trump, according to CNN, Musk is now set to run a newly established United States Department of Government Efficiency -all while his companies, including SpaceX, receive billions of dollars in federal contracts. According to the BBC, DOGE will not be a formal government department. Rather, it is set to serve as an advisory board to the president to review government spending and regulation. As The New York Times writes, "That would essentially give the world's richest man and a major government contractor the power to regulate the regulators who hold sway over his companies."
But Musk has been pleasing Trump for quite some time. When Musk purchased Twitter back in 2022, he reinstated Trump's banned account, according to The New York Times. Soon after, Musk was donating to Trump's campaign and appearing on stage in a MAGA cap.
Despite the supposed haven for free speech on X, Musk has faced backlash and accusations of censoring the accounts of conservatives who disagree with him, according to NBC News, and for an algorithm that aimed to contain negativity on the site, according to NY Post.
These recent developments on social media are not in the name of free speech: it is in the name of appeasing a leader who threatens those who resist him. NPR reports how Trump has said he would jail reporters and strip major television networks of their broadcast licenses if he does not like their coverage.
According to the International Women's Media Foundation, nearly one-third of journalists have reported being threatened with or experiencing physical violence while working. A Colorado reporter, according to The Guardian, made headlines in late December 2024 after he was attacked while being asked, "Are you even a U.S. citizen? This is Trump's America now!"
Google is even moving forward to change the name of the Gulf of Mexico to the Gulf of America on Google Maps in line with Trump's recent executive order, according to Reuters.
Perhaps most concerningly, it is not just tech CEOs falling in line with Trump. Major networks, most notably ABC News, are doing everything possible to find their way back on Trump's good side. Trump sued ABC for defamation after anchor George Stephanopoulos's incorrect assertion that Trump had been found liable for rape in a 2023 civil case in Manhattan, according to The New York Times. Rather, Trump was liable for sexually abusing writer E. Jean Carroll, not for New York's narrow legal definition of rape.
In December 2024, ABC News settled the case for $15 million, a historic and troubling sign. Despite several media law experts arguing that ABC could have continued to fight given the high threshold for defamation of public figures, some critics argue that "ABC and parent company Disney are bowing to Trump for craven political purposes," according to CNN. Already, "Trump, who has called the press the 'enemy of the people,' is threatening to use legal and criminal levers to 'straighten out' journalists," Politico reports.
And while we know Trump's bark is far worse than his bite, the threat is real. According to AP News, "It's not just criminal prosecutions that worry those who have crossed President Donald Trump. There are more prosaic kinds of retaliation: having difficulty renewing passports, getting audited by the IRS and losing federal pensions." Those with power and money will do anything to protect themselves. As Tech CEOs, business leaders and major news leaders-all the world's richest people-"bow" to Trump, we worry about what comes next. Beyond bowing to Trump, they also ironically and disturbingly represent a new form of populist expertise through their supposed validation and endorsement of "free" speech. In Sen. Bernie Sanders' words, "We are moving rapidly into an oligarchic form of society. Never before in American history have so few billionaires, so few people, have so much wealth and so much power." Despite their shouting, Trump and his allies are no defendants of free speech. The technology and the news we surround ourselves with are quickly shifting away from the freedom and diversity we demand.

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
