




Fox News THE WILL CAIN SHOW 4:00 PM EST
February 25, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; International
Length: 6952 words
Byline: Will Cain
Guests: David Sacks, Auden Cabello, Brandon Gill
Body


WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Live from the heartland, this is "The Will Cain Show." Welcome to the busiest hour in cable news, the busiest hour in America.
President Trump is set to sign more executive orders in the White House very soon. We could be getting those remarks from the president after the signing. And if that happens we will bring them to you here.
But. first, putting an end to the weaponization of our government.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: For the past four years, it was not the people's Justice Department. It was a political weapon.
REP. JASMINE CROCKETT (D-TX): Every day that passes, the Department of Justice is losing institutional knowledge and exceptional attorneys because of a blind arrogance and vengeance.
REP. JAMIE RASKIN (D-MD): The Department of Justice and FBI are now filled with actual staggering corruption.
REP. JIM JORDAN (R-OH): Every single time, the only thing we get wrong is, it's always worse than we thought. It is always worse than we thought.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: As we speak, House Oversight Committee is promising to enter the golden age by ending the weaponization of our Justice Department, those abuses on display at that hearing at Capitol Hill. It's a story that we have all become too familiar with, because it's a story that has defined both the last five years and potentially the next five.
If there were a metal stand of images that defined the American past and future, it would undoubtedly have Donald Trump post-assassination attempt yelling, screaming, "Fight, fight, fight" to Americans.
But getting silver might go to the mug shot of Donald Trump, so much so that if you and I were to walk into the Oval Office right now, if we were to visit the White House and make our way into President Trump's office, we would see a framed vision of that photo, of that mug shot as we entered the Oval Office.
That brings me to today's "Big Three."
The weaponization of our government, the weaponization of our Justice Department has -- perhaps has seen no better illustration than Crossfire Hurricane, the investigation that ultimately turned into the Russia hoax.
Chris Swecker, former FBI agent, was at the hearing today, promising to reenter the golden age of America, giving some examples of this weaponization.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
CHRIS SWECKER, FORMER FBI ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: A well-known example is Crossfire Hurricane, a notoriously unpredicated investigation of the 2016 Trump presidential campaign, tainted by four FISA surveillance orders, based on deliberately false information contained in opposition research.
This was accompanied by an unprecedented infiltration of the campaign by multiple informants. Crossfire Hurricane further involved the potential entrapment of a Cabinet-level appointee based on the pretext of an introductory intelligence briefing, and rather than target the Russian influencers and protect the unwitting campaign operatives, the FBI targeted the Trump presidential campaign through those operatives.
Note that, when similar information was developed about the Hillary Clinton campaign, she was immediately afforded a defensive briefing.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: For five years, we were subjected to the idea that Donald Trump was a Russian asset.
And when that accusation tired, when it wore out, the same way phrases and verbal tics like shadow government or Elon Musk is actually the president, inevitably fizzle, well, the left moved on to the idea that Donald Trump is a criminal.
This is because our Justice Department managed to, both at the state and federal level, file numerous lawsuits and criminal charges against Donald Trump for a roughly five-, six-, seven-year period.
Those lawsuits include election interference, classified documents, election interference in Georgia, New York hush money trials. It was all a stark contrast to what the Justice Department didn't do. They chose not to look into things like prosecuting BLM rioters. They didn't prosecute pro- choice protesters in front of the Supreme Court justices' homes, and they didn't prosecute anti-Israel campus protesters all across America.
All of this led to that seminal moment when we saw on television together FBI agents raid Mar-a-Lago. Donald Trump's home in Florida was raided in search of -- quote, unquote -- "classified documents." And many suggested this was the strongest case against Donald Trump.
Built upon this soft foundation, this foundation of sand, Democrats did take, and, today, we could even hear them still echoing the idea that Donald Trump is a criminal.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: The only person on this stage who is a convicted felon is the man I'm looking at right now.
SEN. ELIZABETH WARREN (D-MA): Donald Trump, the felon, has no plans to lower costs for families.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (I-VT): We cannot have a convicted felon as president of the United States.
REP. PRAMILA JAYAPAL (D-WA): Donald Trump is a rambling, incoherent, convicted felon who incited an insurrection and wants to be dictator on day one.
REP. ROBERT GARCIA (D-CA): There's clearly a choice between a president with a record and someone who's a convicted criminal, and, in my opinion, a traitor to our country.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Now, that became laughable to most of us. We even sold merch with Donald Trump's mug shot. People could buy mugs of coffee or T-shirts or sweatshirts emblazoned with the slogan "Never Surrender."
But it's also very serious, because it was a clear politicization of our Justice Department in the attempt to manipulate an American election. And, today, it is time for accountability, not just as the House promises to look into this to reenter the golden age, but Attorney General Pam Bondi has now put together a working group to look into the weaponization of the Department of Justice.
Let's bring in Texas Republican Congressman Brandon Gill. He is a member of the House Judiciary Committee who is in that weaponization hearing. He's just stepped out to speak with us now.
Congressman, thanks for being with us.
If we, you in Congress, or Attorney General Pam Bondi are able to establish that there are prosecutors inside the DOJ that executed the marching orders of politicians to affect an American outcome, an election outcome, what can be done? What can be done with those prosecutors?
REP. BRANDON GILL (R-TX): Well, first of all, Will, thank you for having me on the show.
We suffered through four years of the Biden administration weaponizing the federal government against the American people and, in particular, his political enemies. You named just a few examples, but you could also add concerned parents who were worried about the curriculum that were being taught in their schools.
You could add pro-life protesters that the Biden FBI went after. You could name so many different examples. This is a two-tiered justice system. That's what our committee is looking after now. For four years under the Biden administration, Joe Biden and his cronies would steamroll investigations. They would refuse to provide evidence. They would withhold evidence.
They would do everything they could to hide what they were actually doing. So we have got to continue these investigations because I think we have barely scratched the surface.
But, to your point, once we're done investigating, and this will take some time, we have got to follow up with action. What's different now is that we have a DOJ who is not politically partial. They are looking to institute justice, bring justice back to this country. And we have got a ton of work to do, but we're just getting started here.
CAIN: It's a great point. I'm glad you brought up that this didn't just affect Donald Trump. This affected everyday Americans, including Catholics or pro-life protesters.
I do hope, and with a new attorney general in Pam Bondi, we can see more. The investigations in Congress are important, but they are there to highlight information. They do have to form some level of accountability. It will be fascinating to see what prosecutorial abuse means for accountability for various prosecutors.
I want to move to this, because this is happening tonight. It's supposed to happen tonight at 6:30 p.m. And that is the House of Representatives set to vote on a budget. What's the latest? Do you expect there to be a vote? And do you have the votes to pass a budget?
GILL: Well, I do expect there to be a vote.
There's been some pushback within the conference. Remember, we have got a diverse conference on the Republican side. Unlike the Democrats, we do not all walk in lockstep. We think independently.
The speaker's job is to bring a very diverse coalition together to pass the Trump agenda. Tonight is just the first step in doing that, in actually enacting the Trump agenda, securing the border, providing funding for the largest mass deportation operation in American history, re-upping our military, and extending the Trump tax cuts to ensure that 60 percent of Americans don't see their taxes hiked under Republican governance.
So I feel good about where we stand with things right now. We have got some details we need to iron out. But we have got to get this one big, beautiful bill passed for the American people.
CAIN: All right, Congressman, I only have about a minute left with you. And I hate to leave such an important story to such little time.
But for all the concern about Elon Musk and DOGE and the privacy of the everyday American citizen, there is a story out now that the IRS leaked 450,000 Americans' private data out there to the public. What can you tell us about this story coming out of the IRS?
GILL: Well, if you remember, last May, a spokesperson for the IRS said that that was -- they only leaked data of 70 million Americans -- 70,000 -- excuse me Americans.
And, remember, this is being leaked to ProPublica, a left-wing news organization that is funded in part by George Soros. We're now learning today that it wasn't 70,000. It was 405,000. Now, remember, these are the kinds of things that we have got to get details on.
This is why these congressional investigations are so important, because the American people deserve answers for what the Biden administration was doing to them for four years.
CAIN: Yes, for all the concern about Elon Musk and -- quote, unquote -- "external organizations," which they are not in DOGE, it's the career bureaucrat that we are supposed to entrust with our private information.
I don't know where that trust was ever earned.
Congressman Gill, great to talk to you. We will let you get back to your hearing. Thanks for stepping out for us here today.
GILL: Thanks for having me.
CAIN: You bet.
All right, cartel turf wars, are they a window of opportunity? We have been talking to you here about the Sinaloa cartel. Now, today, we're joined by an independent journalist to put to that journalist in Mexico, do the Mexican people actually want the American military to provide security and stability by taking out the cartel?
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: The Sinaloa cartel is historically the world's most powerful drug operation. It's also the oldest cartel, existing cartel, in Mexico. I am endlessly fascinated by the "Game of Thrones" of power displays in Mexico by Mexican drug cartels.
The Sinaloa cartel started back in the 1980s, but in the last five months, it's fractioned. A federation that was once led by Joaquin "El Chapo" Guzman has now descended into his sons and their followers, the Chapitos.
But his power-sharing arrangement with El Mayo, Ismael Zambada, has also descended into chaos with his followers called El Mayitos. They're now fighting neighborhood by neighborhood for the control of this oldest cartel. It's caused chaos, absolute chaos, kidnappings, murder in Mexico.
One Sinaloa politician said: "The Sinaloa cartel is weaker, more divided, and more torn by inviting than ever before. So this moment represents a unique opportunity for the Mexican government to recover control of these areas from organized crime."
Now, you saw it here on "The Will Cain Show." I spoke to a disguised anonymous former member of the Sinaloa cartel. I went on to have a longer conversation with him on the Will Cain digital show, an hour. He said something in that interview that fascinated me.
I asked why the Mexican president, Sheinbaum, would resist American help in Mexico. And he said, well, I don't know how she feels or why she feels the way she does about America, but the Mexican people would welcome America. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: An operation like that targeted the head of one or two or three organizations, you think would send a message that would then make the next generation of leaders calm the waters. Is there any argument, though, that that kind of operation deep within Mexico with American military could begin to create a Vietnam-type situation for America? Like, oh, no, the cartels would fight back, and this is going to be terrible, perhaps even on the American side of the border?
MARGARITO "JAY" FLORES JR., FORMER SINALOA CARTEL KINGPIN: Well, this is just my point of view. I don't think that they fight back, not in a way where you think it's going to be Vietnam.
I think the Mexican people want this. They're the ones that actually suffered through the violence, suffered through these cartels, basically owning them, right, basically running havoc in these communities.
And I think that they suffer the most, and I think they're the ones that could benefit the most from this. So I don't think that they fight -- get together and fight back.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Auden Cabello is an independent journalist from Mexico, and he's lived on the Mexican border side for the last eight years. He just relocated to the United States.
Auden, thanks for joining me.
You heard that right there from an American side dealer, but connected to the Sinaloa cartel, that he thought that, should President Trump -- he already has -- designate the cartels as foreign terrorist organizations and that leads to a military strike by Americans in Mexico, he contends it would be welcomed by Mexicans.
AUDEN CABELLO, INDEPENDENT JOURNALIST: Absolutely, and I agree.
One of the things is, in Mexico, you either -- there's a great divide. You're either rich or poor. There's rarely a middle class. And those in the upper echelons, they're either corrupt, cartels, and they don't want to give up their power.
And then those at the bottom, they have been crying for help. They don't trust law enforcement. There's a lot of corruption. Any time they go and seek justice, the same law enforcement or prosecutors will turn against them and snitch them out to the cartels, so is reporting on you. And they have been crying for this help.
And they welcome President Trump's initiative to name these cartels as foreign terrorist organizations. And they welcome intervention into Mexico and do away with this violence, something that they have been hoping for and praying for years on end.
And, as you mentioned, these cartels that started back in the '80s have increased their power and violence in Mexico has increased.
CAIN: So, I'm -- I want to see if I can get two follow-up questions in with you in the time we have here together. We're awaiting remarks from President Trump, who is signing executive orders in the Oval Office.
This caught my attention, Auden. It's from The Wall Street Journal, and it's talking about the fracture of the Sinaloa cartel. This quote came from a woman who is named Maria Isabel Cruz, OK? And she works with Warrior Bloodhounds. It's a local group searching for missing relatives.
And she said: "If the state can't establish order, let another state, the Americans, do it." By the way, it says then, later that day, her group dug up four sets of human remains.
The question is, President Sheinbaum of Mexico seemed to suggest if we, America, were to do something in Mexico, that would be a violation of our sovereignty. But you don't think the Mexican people would feel the same? You're not violating the sovereignty of Mexico?
CABELLO: Yes, that's correct.
And I think Claudia Sheinbaum's remarks, it's a clear indication of how intertwined politicians and cartels are working together hand in hand. They prefer to send lawyers to defend El Mayo Zambada in the United States, as opposed to listening to all the victims in Mexico.
And so I agree, Mexican citizens, by and large, will welcome help from the United States to combat these cartels and end this violence once and for all. That's something that Mexico desperately needs. And this...
(CROSSTALK)
CABELLO: ... that you're talking about, it's a great opportunity.
CAIN: It's never a surprise if the answer you gave me is yes, but the implication I hear from you is that high levels of the Mexican government, in this case perhaps even the president, corrupt, tied to the Mexican drug cartels?
CABELLO: Exactly. The levels of corruption in Mexico from local, state police to state all the way up to president or in the Cabinet's -- the president's Cabinet, I mean, individuals that are currently serving prison time here in the United States that are held for drug charges and corruption in Mexico.
That's how corrupt it is. And the Mexican citizens, they don't trust the government. I think it's a welcome opportunity for the United States to help Mexico and make Mexico safe and secure.
CAIN: OK, one last question for you.
This notion that this would be getting America involved in a quagmire, a Vietnam-style quagmire,my previous guest, the former cartel member, also rejected that notion. He said that the drug cartels don't stand up for one another. One cartel would not stand up for another cartel and even lieutenants within a cartel wouldn't stand up and fight should their top leader be taken out, because every man in the business is looking out for himself.
So there's not some cohesion to fight back against a military strike.
CABELLO: And I agree. That's exactly right.
Now with President Trump naming these cartels as foreign terrorist organizations, you would think that Mexican cartels would come together and fight against the United States, but it's the complete opposite. They're still fighting each other over a turf wars. And it's weakening themselves.
And once they see the Mexican -- I'm sorry -- the U.S. military, there's no way they can match up to U.S. forces. And what they're going to do is disband and go into -- blend in with civilians. They're not going to fight...
CAIN: Right.
CABELLO: ... and risk dying for something that they really don't believe in. For them, it's just a lifestyle. They're not going to fight for it.
To me, they will disband and hide against -- hide within civilians.
CAIN: All right, I'm endlessly fascinated by this discussion. I appreciate you giving me more information today.
Auden Cabello, who used to work on the Mexican side of border as a journalist, thank you so much.
CABELLO: My pleasure. Thank you.
CAIN: To be clear, everything we talk about here isn't an advocacy for American military action in Mexico, but just greater understanding of what would be the cost, what would be the likelihood of success and understanding the state of play south of the border.
All right, another DEI program gone wrong. Get this, some NSA employees talking dirty on the taxpayer dime, real dirty. We're going to talk to you and with former CIA analyst Buck Sexton about that, these sex chats at the CIA and the NSA, next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: Stunning is not the word to describe this new report released today, grotesque, outrageous, that some employees at the NSA, revealed internal documents, that intel officials maintained a secret chat room talking about trans surgeries, polyamory, polycules.
That's when you have a bunch of people together in one loving relationship. Fetishes, more, including how to go through hormone therapy, how to get breast augmentation, and how sexually aroused you might be after trans surgeries.
These sex chats were reportedly created as part of an intel link system inside the intelligence agency and were given approval or at least looked over as part of a DEI initiative. It started out as an employee resource group and turned into using the bathroom after trans surgery.
I don't know if he can, but here with me now to try to make sense of this is a former CIA analyst and co-host of "The Clay and Buck Show, Buck Sexton.
Buck, where to begin? Let's begin with the legitimate, smart question. I hope it's smart. How about this, a legitimate curious question. What is this system, just to clarify, Intelink, Intelink, that they're all communicating on? What is that? Is that like Slack, but for spies?
BUCK SEXTON, CO-HOST, "THE CLAY TRAVIS AND BUCK SEXTON SHOW": Yes, pretty much.
There are a number of ways inside the community. Keep in mind, I have been out for years now, so they could have updated some of these systems, changed them entirely. But it's effectively a place where different employees can communicate about things. And it can be quite normal. Like, hey, I need someone to dog-sit my -- well, my dog this weekend.
I mean, it can be things that are pretty straightforward than any office. But, in this case, clearly, the DEI partisans got completely nuts on this thing. First of all, I got to tell you, Will, I think I'm pretty up to speed on the LGBTQIA++ plus terminology. Turns out I am not. There were things in this chat -- and hat tip to Chris Rufo for having these chat logs and letting us see them.
I had no idea what they were even talking about. And then I weird looking it up, so that's not a good sign.
(LAUGHTER)
SEXTON: But here's why it matters.
On the one hand, it -- on the one hand, it shows you how far the DEI madness goes inside these agencies. And my friends who are in some cases former colleagues who are still on the inside of the intel community tell me that trans awareness day feels like it's every other week now at some of these places.
I mean, this has become, especially in the last four years of Biden, a real mantra. And it goes beyond just the effects this has on morale for other people and the fact that what kind of hiring are you going to get when people feel like they have to refer to a colleague as an it -- this came up in the chat as well -- or that you have to respect that there are colleagues who wish, again, from Chris Rufo's chat logs, that there is a -- that they could have a hermaphrodite baby so they could really run some trans experiment to let them choose later their gender.
These people are not mentally well in some cases, very clearly. And I got to tell you, as somebody who got a T.S. clearance and had to go through it at the height of the war on terror when all this stuff was being taken very seriously, and it was incredibly invasive, minor things, Will.
How much credit card debt do you have? What kind of gambling habits do you have? These are the questions that you had to do under a lie-detector test, by the way. And now you look at this and you're told you have to call a colleague an it and refer to them as they or else you're a bad person, according to some of these activists.
It's crazy. I mean, this is insane.
CAIN: A couple of things to highlight there. In our short conversation together today, Buck, the reason I asked you what that communication channel was, it's just to clarify, this was done basically on a work system.
And you make a good point. I'm glad you pointed out this is great work done by Chris Rufo.
SEXTON: Yes.
CAIN: And then, finally, yes, these people have top secret clearances and clearly also mental instability, and all of it was excused under the either fear or brand of DEI. Pure insanity.
Buck Sexton, thank you so much. Check him out at "The Clay and Buck Show." Thank you, Buck.
SEXTON: Good to see you.
CAIN: All right. And then there's this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED ACTOR: The joint is bomb-proof, electrified.
(CROSSTALK)
UNIDENTIFIED ACTRESS: Bear with me, please. Fort Knox is a bank, like any other, larger, better protected perhaps, but, nonetheless, a bank. It can be, I think the expression, is blown.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Elon Musk heading to Fort Knox to check on its gold supply.
A.I. and crypto czar David Sacks is here on that and much, much more next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: Some breaking news as we wait for video of President Trump's executive order signing.
AP reporting Ukrainian officials have agreed to the framework for a minerals deal, as Trump hints that Zelenskyy might visit on Friday.
So, joining me now to discuss this and much more is A.I. and crypto czar for the administration David Sacks .
David, great to see you again. You have been a loud and prominent voice when it comes to the war between Russia and Ukraine. We could be, it looks like within the matter of a week or two, headed towards a peace agreement, which would include a minerals deal for the United States.
As you look at this right now, how do you feel? What do you think about this potential for peace?
DAVID SACKS, WHITE HOUSE A.I. AND CRYPTO CZAR: Well, I think that this is definitely a step in the right direction.
And the administration -- I think President Trump has really been amazing in the way that he's led the effort here to find a peace deal for Ukraine. First, he had that phone call with President Putin. This is the first time that the leaders of the United States and Russia had even talked to each other for something like three years.
Then we had those delegations from the United States and from Russia meet in Riyadh to have further conversations. And now it looks like we're making further progress. So I really applaud the effort the president is putting in here to try and get to a peace deal here so that the dying can stop.
And just to be clear, Will, this is a topic that you and I have been discussing on your show for years. So, as the administration's A.I. and crypto czar, this is not something that's formally within -- this is not my portfolio of issues. But as somebody who has spoken out about the war over the past few years and really wanted it to stop and has seen it as a huge mistake of American policy under the Biden administration, it's -- I think it's extremely gratifying that President Trump has made so much progress here.
CAIN: Yes, that's a great clarification, David, is now with your official place within the American government, it needs to be clarified what you do and do not speak on officially.
SACKS: That's right.
CAIN: But you have been -- you have been very, very prominent in your outspoken pushback against the ongoing funding and ongoing dragging out of the war in Ukraine and being a realist on the ground of where we stand in this war.
I think that's the point at which this administration began, realism. Others call it appeasement of Russia. I see it I think it's you start from a position of reality. OK, here's where we are. So we have to start talking about negotiations from reality.
SACKS: Right. That's exactly right. I mean, you have got to start with battlefield realities, as our Defense Secretary Hegseth said, is, first of all, look at what's happening on the ground.
The Ukrainians have been getting destroyed. The Russians have a military that's something like four or five times bigger than the Ukrainian military. They have something like 10 times the artillery that the Ukrainians do. Ukrainian military leaders themselves have said this. They got something like seven times the drones.
They have got air superiority. They're able to drop these enormous 3,000- pound bombs that they dropped from 50 yards behind the line of contact. The Ukrainians are just losing. They have been losing territory virtually every day now for approximately a year. And so -- and that's not to say anything of the casualties.
The Ukrainians have lost hundreds of thousands of people. So this is a war in which the Ukrainians are losing on the ground. They're losing territory. They're losing people and their country is getting destroyed. And you have to ask, what is this all for? What is it getting us?
I don't think this is in the strategic interest of the United States. No one's really explained to us -- certainly, the Biden administration never explained what it was that we were trying to accomplish. And if the goal here was to try and prevent Russia from taking over Ukraine, there's a very easy way for the Biden administration to do that.
In the first month of the war, back in April of 2022, there was a peace deal on the table called the Istanbul deal or Istanbul agreement. And that deal simply required Ukraine to agree to neutrality. They had to agree to cease trying to become a member of NATO.
And if they agreed to neutrality, if they agreed to limits on the size of their armed forces so that they wouldn't be perceived as a threat to Russia in Russia's eyes, then Russia agreed to basically leave the country and take over no territory. This is a deal that Ukraine could have had in the first month of the war.
And, unfortunately, what happened is, the Biden administration did not support this deal and Boris Johnson flew to Kyiv and told President Zelenskyy that we don't want to make a deal with Putin. We want to challenge Putin.
And so the Biden administration and Boris Johnson and other folks like that promised the Ukrainians all the weapons they would need to basically defeat Russia. And the Biden administration did give them hundreds of billions of aid, but it was not enough. And Ukraine has gotten destroyed, and for what?
We now know that Ukraine will not be joining NATO. Even the Biden administration at the end of the Biden -- Biden's term acknowledged that Ukraine would not in fact be joining NATO. So that assured -- that was the main assurance the Russians were always looking for three years ago. If we had just given it to them then, there would have been no war.
CAIN: Yes, and I think -- and it's not a question for you, David. So it's a question for anyone that disagrees with your premise or disagrees with this conversation. And they're always welcome here, is, what is the alternative?
Is the alternative the idea that you can somehow beat Vladimir Putin back to the pre-borders or punish him in some way that he will never do so again? Describe that reality would be the question for those that disagree.
I want to save a little time for your official job, David, but I also need to ask you about this. Elon's going to Fort Knox. It's a gold rush. He's heading there to look at the reserves. Here's a little facts on Fort Knox. It's stashed up to 59 percent of the U.S. Treasury's total supply of gold, about $436 billion worth.
It's only the fourth time, by the way, that Fort Knox has opened its doors, once to FDR and then lawmakers in 1974 and then in 2017 with a delegation. What do we need to know, David, about Fort Knox?
SACKS: Well, Fort Knox is one of the main repositories of the United States' gold deposits. It's not the only one. I think there's a few others, but it's the biggest and obviously it's the most famous. It's the most historical.
What I think is interesting about this is that nobody has said, this is a great -- a crazy idea to go make sure the gold is actually there. And just think about that. I think the gold is probably there. I think the gold is almost certainly there, but nobody thinks it's a crazy idea to go check because we don't know.
That's how bad the corruption has gotten in Washington, is that we can't fully trust that our gold is still in Fort Knox. I think the majority of the American people are distrustful and we have seen that the corruption of Washington is rampant. That is what DOGE has exposed.
USAID, this was turned -- was a slush fund for all these left-wing and Democratic interest groups. They were funding the media, The New York Times, Politico, the BBC. Nine out of 10 publications in Ukraine were getting funded, and so on down the line it went.
So, we have seen -- as DOGE has uncovered more and more about where our money is actually being spent, we have seen this enormous expose of corruption, and I think that people are actually so skeptical now of how our government is taking care of our money that I think they actually are a little bit worried about whether the gold is still in Fort Knox.
Now, like I said, I think it probably is there, but we have got to check.
CAIN: I think it's a well-earned skepticism, to your point. I don't think there's anything else that's saying as blind faith in -- quote, unquote -- "experts or bureaucrats" today in America, not at least among commonsense Americans.
OK, I have got to ask you a question. I haven't spoken to you since you have taken your official job. And I don't -- I wonder if you have been asked this question. What does an A.I. and crypto czar do, David Sacks?
SACKS: Well, I'm a policy adviser for innovation. I think that's the way to look at it. I advise the administration on those two very important issues. These are both cutting-edge technologies.
And I think that the administration thinks it's a good idea to have someone from Silicon Valley who's actually been deeply immersed in these technologies for decades as a potential adviser. And so I kind of see my role as being a bridge between the technologists in Silicon Valley who are driving the innovation forward, because ultimately it's the private sector that drives innovation, but it's the government that creates the conditions, the ecosystem for innovation.
And so what I'm trying to do is bring that perspective to Washington and find ways for the government to help our private sector win the A.I. race, and then also help our crypto companies operate within a legal framework that's actually conducive to innovation, as opposed to driving them offshore.
CAIN: And we have seen you in the Oval Office signing executive orders with the president, advising him on these issues.
I hate to save this question for the very, very end, because it requires probably a half-hour discussion, David. But there's conversations about the jobs coming home, winning the A.I. race, like you just mentioned. But I do want to ask you this.
You're a technologist. You're a Silicon Valley guy, so I do think you have an inherent optimism when you look forward. Is it all optimistic, David? Should we be at all concerned when Elon says we're approaching the event horizon of the singularity? Should we be concerned about A.I.?
SACKS: Well, I don't think we should be cavalier about the risks. I mean, I think there are risks associated with A.I.
However, I think there are opportunities as well. And I would say that the opportunities are greater. But the only thing you ever hear in the media is about the risks. And I think that the vice president, J.D. Vance, just gave a great speech in Paris at the A.I. summit where he pointed this out, where, I'm here to talk about A.I. opportunity, not A.I. safety, because, frankly, the only thing we have talked about for the past two years, at least in the public discourse related to A.I., are all these safety risks.
And I'm not saying they don't exist. There is, I'd say, a risk of bad actors misusing the technology. I'd say that very long term, down the road, you could potentially have a situation where you could lose control of the A.I.
I don't want to be cavalier about these risks, but I think that we have just haven't been optimistic enough about all the opportunities that are associated with this. And I think that A.I. is going to drive a boom in productivity over the next decade that's similar to the way that the Internet drove a boom in the late '90s.
And I think we need that boom. We need that productivity to drive our economy. The United States is something like $35 trillion in debt. How are we ever going to get out of that debt unless we have that economic boom? So we need these new technologies.
And I believe that we can marshal them responsibly. I think that we can use them responsibly. Like the vice president said, we can use them in a pro- worker way. And so I think that we can use them to benefit the United States.
And just one final point is that, if we don't do it, it's not like the innovation's going to stop. China's going to do it. China is very competitive in A.I. And so we have to win this A.I. race. President Trump has been very clear that the United States must win the A.I. race. We must maintain our global leadership.
And even dominance is a word that he uses, because if we fall behind to China, and then they're the leader in A.I., that's going to power their economy. And then this is also a dual-use technology, so it could provide a military advantage. It could make China a more powerful country than the United States, and we just can't let that happen.
CAIN: Great answer.
All right, David Sacks, A.I. and crypto czar to the White House, thanks so much for giving us so much time, David.
SACKS: Thanks, will.
CAIN: All right.
Again, we're monitoring President Trump signing executive orders. Word is, he just wrapped up. So if we will see if we get that video here soon. And, if we do, we're going to bring it right to you.
We will be right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: All right, in the limited time we have here together, let's drop in now to President Trump signing executive orders in the Oval Office and taking a few questions. This will take you right up to "The Five."
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: And E.U. in particular has been very violent in its lawsuits against our companies and, frankly, very violent and very bad to our airlines.
I have gotten calls from the heads of airlines saying they stop in Europe and they're getting charged all sorts of taxes that they never even heard of. They stop and they're getting fined and charged, and they do it only with American companies. They're not doing it to other countries. So we're stopping it.
And we have another thing and we have another step to go, and if they don't shape up. As an example, Apple has had to pay like $17 billion in a lawsuit that nobody thought was worth anything. And I won't get into the judge or the decision or how the decision was arrived, but I'm pretty good at this stuff and I think it's disgraceful.
And Google's being sued, Facebook's being sued and many others are being sued by their so-called government, if you call it a government, E.U. And they don't treat us right. They don't treat us right as a country. So -- and we're going to protect our companies. We have to protect our companies, or we're not going to have any companies left anymore.
I also want to thank Apple, though, for announcing they're going to invest $500 billion in our country. That's the biggest investment anybody's probably made to this date, and they're going to do it very quickly and that's because of tariffs. They don't want to pay the tariffs. And they feel very strongly about the country now.
They wouldn't have done it without us. Without the Trump administration, they wouldn't have done it. But they feel very strongly about the direction of the country. The polls have shown that too. The polls are coming out showing direction of the company is the best -- of the country is the best they have ever seen actually, best they have ever seen.
So I just want to thank Tim Cook and Apple for the confidence -- $500 billion, that's the biggest investment anyone has made in a short period of time.
QUESTION: Mr. President, have you spoken today with the House Republican holdouts...
TRUMP: Yes.
QUESTION: ... who said they would not be supporting the budget resolution?
TRUMP: Well, I'm not involved in that. They know what I want, and the Senate knows what I want too. And the Senate's got a bill that's very strong, having to do with the taxes, because the taxes is what's bringing all these companies in.
So, and, without it, by the way, you would have to double your own taxes. Everybody would be doubled up, and you would have the biggest tax increase ever. So the House has a bill and the Senate has a bill. And I'm looking at them both, and I will make decisions.
But I don't know where they are in the vote. I know the Senate's doing very well, and the House is doing very well. But each one of them has things that I like it. So we will see if we can come together.
QUESTION: Mr. President, can you clarify hopefully once and for all what your expectations are with this e-mail to federal employees? What are you going to use that information for?And do you see it as voluntary, like OPM has said, or mandatory?
TRUMP: Yes, well, it's somewhat voluntary. But it's also, if you don't answer, I guess you get fired.
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: What it really is, is -- what it is, is, do people exist? We have this massive government with millions of people, and nobody knows who's working for the government who's not.
So, what they're doing is, they're sending out a letter to everybody and they're saying what were the things you did last week? I guess they asked for five. And if people are working, it's easy. I could tell you five things I did last week. I could tell you five things I did six weeks ago, right?
If they're there and they're working, they're able to say they did five things during work. And that means they're working and they're with us and they have no further obligation. If they're not, it could be there's no such person. It could be that the person's no longer working, they're no longer living at that address. They maybe moved.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Just a little behind-the-scenes coverage.
President Trump's remarks from the Oval Office are never live. They're turned around to us, in which case we take them as soon as possible.
What we're going to do now is pass it off to "The Five," who will continue to monitor this event from the Oval Office.
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.

Load-Date: February 26, 2025


End of Document
