




Fox News FOX SPECIAL REPORT WITH BRET BAIER 6:00 PM EST
February 3, 2025 Monday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7241 words
Byline: Bret Baier, Rich Edson, William La Jeunesse, Brit Hume, David Spunt, Peter Doocy, Chad Pergram, Alexandria Hoff, C.B. Cotton
Guests: Marc Thiessen, Olivia Beavers, Bob Rae
Body


DANA PERINO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Well, that was a great show, everybody. Way to kick off the week. That's it for us, though. Have a great night, everyone. Hi, Bret.
BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Dana, you know, I couldn't believe how much you were talking about that NBA trade today.
PERINO: We missed it this morning.
BAIER: Yes, that's right. Good evening. I'm Bret Baier.
Tonight, we will take you to El Salvador for an exclusive interview with Secretary of State Marco Rubio.
Meantime, investigators soared through wreckage from two plane crashes as we learn more about the victims and what may have caused those tragedies.
And a green energy project in California could go dark after taxpayers spend billions footing the bill.
But first, breaking tonight, tariffs, terminations and a takeover, President Donald Trump will hold off on tariffs against Mexico and Canada for further negotiations as China braces for impact. President Trump is giving Canada and Mexico 30 days after specific promises by both countries to shore up border control efforts. We will speak with the Canadian ambassador to the United Nations about the tariff threat going forward in just a bit.
It comes amid an expected mass exodus of employees from federal agencies, including the Justice Department, as the Department of government efficiency, or DOGE works to close down one agency altogether, putting some foreign aid in jeopardy in the short term.
Senior White House Correspondent Peter Doocy is following all of this live from the North Lawn. Good evening, Peter.
PETER DOOCY, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Good evening, Bret. The president's threats of economic punishment for neighbors, he did not think respected American borders enough worked. There are not going to be any new tariffs on Canada or Mexico for at least another 30 days. China is a different story.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I don't know anything about a comeback, but they tell me it's very exciting.
DOOCY (voice over): By sending 10,000 Mexican troops to the U.S. border, Mexico's president delayed tariffs by a month. Canada's Prime Minister says they're implementing our $1.3 billion border plan, sending nearly 10,000 front line personnel to the northern border, appointing a fentanyl czar, and so proposed tariffs will be paused for at least 30 days. That announcement came after the second Trump-Trudeau call of the day.
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Canada is very tough.
DOOCY (voice over): 43 pounds of fentanyl was seized at the northern border last year, a fraction of the 20,000 pounds seized at the southern border.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is not a trade war. This is a drug war.
DOOCY (voice over): The tariffs on Mexico and Canada are just paused in a month. If they are imposed, Democrats warn prices could go up.
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): It's going to affect beer, OK? It's going to affect your guac.
DOOCY (voice over): The president's team argues that's not as important as stopping fentanyl components.
PETER NAVARRO, WHITE HOUSE SENIOR TRADE COUNSELOR: Anybody who's talking about inflation right now is dishonoring the men and women and children who have died at the hands of Chinese, Mexican, Canadian fentanyl coming across our borders.
DOOCY (voice over): And that will be subject of a White House Beijing call within 24 hours about planned tariffs on China that will start at 10 percent.
TRUMP: China, hopefully is going to stop sending us fentanyl, and if they're not, the tariffs are going to go substantially higher.
DOOCY (voice over): Attempting to reform USAID, the agency that distributes civilian aid around the world, saw the White House order staffers locked out of a closed USAID headquarters, and Secretary of State Rubio named acting director.
TRUMP: When it comes to fraud, if there's fraud, these people are lunatics. Went crazy during the Biden administration, they went totally crazy what they were doing and the money they were giving to people that shouldn't be getting it.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
DOOCY (on camera): Today, President Trump also created a sovereign wealth fund for the United States. It's similar to a university endowment, but for the United States government. They're telling us it's going to take 90 days to figure out who will run it, where the money is going to come from, and how exactly it will be set up, but the president is saying this could be the mechanism that the U.S. uses to buy TikTok, Bret.
BAIER: Well, that will be interesting. Peter, what's the White House telling you tonight about the Department of Education?
DOOCY: This just in from a White House official who's telling us he, the president plans to fulfill a campaign promise by reevaluating the future of the Department of Education.
Remember, as a candidate, President Trump planned -- pledged to shut down the Department of Education. An interesting side note to all of this. As the president-elect, he did nominate Linda McMahon to be the Department of Education Secretary. We don't know what happens to her if there is no Department of Education, Bret.
BAIER: She unwinds it. Peter Doocy live in the North Lawn. Peter, thanks.
Stocks fell today amid the looming tariff threat, but made some gains after Mexico and Canada announced they negotiated that one month delay. The Dow falling 123, the S&P 500 lost 46, the NASDAQ was down 235.
A federal judge in Washington has issued a temporary restraining order in the federal spending freeze case. This is the second such order by a federal judge. The notice instructs agencies that they may not take any steps to implement or reinstate the directives in the OMB memorandum on the disbursement of federal funds.
Meantime, on that same topic, a group of government unions have filed a lawsuit to block DOGE from getting access to the Treasury payment database. It comes after Elon Musk gained access to Social Security and Medicare customer payment systems.
The Senate is expected to hold votes to confirm one of President Trump's nominees this evening, as you look live at the Senate floor, but some of the more difficult votes still yet to come, with committees still considering those nominations.
On the House side, members are reacting to President Trump's tariff threats and the reshuffling of USAID.
Senior Congressional Correspondent Chad Pergram tells us where things stand tonight from Capitol Hill. Good evening, Chad.
CHAD PERGRAM, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Bret, good evening. Democrats savage the administration, both on tariffs and the takeover of USAID targeting the head of DOGE, Elon Musk.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
REP. JAMIE RASKIN (D-MD): We don't have a fourth branch of government called Elon Musk.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You cannot wave away an agency that you don't like.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is a constitutional crisis that we are in today.
PERGRAM: The constitution grants Congress the power of the purse, not the executive.
Minnesota Democrat Ilhan Omar says USAID fed her when she lived in a refugee camp as a child.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. ILHAN OMAR (D-MN): What Trump and Elon and all of their hooties are trying to do is take away the constitutional power of Congress.
PERGRAM (voice over): But Republicans defended efforts to weed out unnecessary spending, especially as Congress tries to cut taxes.
REP. MIKE JOHNSON (R-LA): We don't want to blow a hole in the deficit by extending the Trump era tax cuts, for example. So, we got to find those savings.
PERGRAM (voice over): Hawaii Democrat Brian Schatz placed blanket holds on all State Department nominees to protest USAID, two of President Trump's most controversial nominees face committee votes tomorrow, Director of National Intelligence nominee Tulsi Gabbard and RFK Jr. for Health and Human Services. Maine Susan Collins will support Gabbard.
SEN. SUSAN COLLINS (R-ME): I believe she's committed to strengthening our national security and I questioned to her extensively about her views on Edward Snowden, and I am now satisfied that she will not seek in any way to par -- having pardoned.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERGRAM (on camera): What's unclear is if intelligence committee member Todd Young of Indiana, will support Gabbard. Also Health Committee Chairman Bill Cassidy talked to RFK Jr. over the weekend. He is worried about Kennedy's stance on vaccines. Bret.
BAIER: Chad Pergram live on the Hill. Chad, thanks.
As we mentioned earlier, the Trump administration is working to overhaul federal agencies including the Justice Department and the FBI. President Trump appears to be focused on employees who worked on cases involving the January 6th rioters.
Correspondent David Spunt has details tonight from the Justice Department.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
DAVID SPUNT, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): A mass exodus is in the works inside the halls of the DOJ and FBI. Acting Deputy Attorney General Emil Bove, the former defense attorney to President Trump, sending a department wide memo entitled terminations. "I do not believe that the current leadership of the Justice Department can trust these FBI employees to assist in implementing the President's agenda faithfully."
Bove instructed FBI leaders to compile lists of agents involved in the more than 1500 investigations of January 6th rioters, at least 4000 agents across the country received a 12 question survey about their roles that was due by 3:00 p.m. today.
An unnamed current FBI agent says, "We took an oath to protect the American people and the Constitution, and now we are being targeted for it."
A former FBI agent tells Fox, "Cleaning up Washington doesn't mean tearing down the institutions that protect Americans. We need real reform, not a purge. Let's fix what's broken without destroying what works."
President Trump today doubling down on the changes.
TRUMP: We have to have pristine, beautiful, perfect law enforcement and what we want to do, and I -- Kash is the one to do it.
SPUNT (voice over): Just last week during his confirmation hearing, FBI Director Nominee Kash Patel, who has yet to be confirmed, assured lawmakers there would be no retribution.
KASH PATEL, FBI DIRECTOR NOMINEE: Every FBI employee will be held to the absolute same standard, and no one will be terminated for cases. All FBI employees will be protected against political retribution.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
SPUNT (on camera): Bret, we reached out to Mr. Patel about those comments, but we have not yet heard back.
Meanwhile, the DOJ also interested in identifying those special agents with the FBI who worked on the case charging senior Hamas leaders with the murder of Americans back in October of 2023 though that's unclear why.
Another former FBI official tells Fox News that if this purge goes through as expected, it could take at least two years to get the number of agents on the street back to the current levels, Bret.
BAIER: David Spunt at the Justice Department. David, thank you.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Ontario is your third largest trading partner and the number one export destination for 17 states. Our long standing economic partnership keeps millions of Americans working.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: Well, despite those boos of the national anthem at the Toronto Raptors game, there has been a deal reached with Canada to provide some relief for about 30 days. Justin Trudeau, the Prime Minister, announcing that they have decided on a border security plan, 10,000 front line personnel and equipment to ensure 24/7 eyes on the border. List cartels as terrorists, Joint Strike Force Command combat organized crime and money laundering. Appoint a fentanyl czar, and it's 30 days to talk about, negotiate what they want to do going forward with U.S. potentially issuing tariffs.
Back to our lead story. Let's get some perspective on today's back and forth over tariffs, from Canadian ambassador to the United Nations, Bob Rae.
Mr. Ambassador, thanks for the time. What do you make of this today and this 30 day pause and what your prime minister has agreed to do and what may happen next?
BOB RAE, CANADIAN AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED NATIONS: Well, we've been talking with the administration for quite a long time about the border measures that we need to take and we need to take together. We all take the drug issue seriously. It needs to be dealt with, but let's not use tariffs to deal with it, because the tariffs completely upset markets and upset employment and upset jobs on both sides of the border.
There's no such thing Bret as an American car, Canadian Car. For the most part, the big three, they make their cars on both sides of the border, and when they do that, and you just -- you create the tariffs, you automatically are taxing the consumers on both sides of the border, and we have just in time delivery for everything that we do. And there's just no room for fooling around with the integrity of this border by any means.
And tariffs are a major threat to the economic security of both our country and yours, and it's important that we get that put aside for a moment. Let's talk about the long term trading relationship, but don't keep using tariffs as a thing that you think you can play with without understanding the consequences of that for both of our economies. Very serious.
BAIER: Well, Mr. Ambassador, President Trump sees it obviously differently. He sees a trade deficit with Canada. The U.S. Census Bureau has it at $64.3 billion but he puts it at over $100 billion and sometimes, depending on how he talks about it, $150 billion.
Either way, there is a major -- there is a major trade deficit with Canada. So, to rectify that, they are saying, what are you going to come to the table with beyond these border provisions that the Prime Minister announced today?
RAE: Well, we have something called an agreement, a treaty, Bret between our two countries that's been signed, sealed and delivered.
BAIER: Sure, that came under the Trump administration.
RAE: That's right. Well, before that, we had one. Over many, many years.
BAIER: NAFTA and then it was redone.
RAE: And before that, we had an auto pact which went back to 1964. So, we've had a lot of agreements.
My point is, you don't just threaten to do things which end up causing huge challenges for both countries in the marketplace, and you don't do it by putting a tax on consumers and a tax on producers, that's going to end up making the economy less efficient.
BAIER: Sure. You understand the trade deficit argument?
RAE: I do. But I want to put it to you that when it comes to the overall economic relationship, when it comes to services, when it comes to tourism, when it comes to the number of Canadians who are investing in a whole variety of ways in the United States, it's a win-win situation between our two countries.
And to try to say that, you know, whether that you say that one group says it's 60 billion, the president says one day, says 100 billion. The next day says 150 billion. Come on, give us a break here.
BAIER: What do you see the number? What is it?
RAE: I don't see the number is being a deficit, because when you look at the overall services sector of the economy, when you look at the overall investment relationships between the two countries, this is not a lose relationship for the United States.
And I think it's really important for people to hear us out on this, and for there to be a discussion. We are willing and want to have a serious discussion about the renewal of the current trade agreement that was negotiated with President Trump before which is due to come in 2026.
(CROSSTALK)
BAIER: Right.
RAE: But I think to keep on threatening the tariffs at this point is a terrible idea, because, as I say, it makes your country poorer. Markets go down and investment goes down, and security goes down.
(CROSSTALK)
BAIER: Clearly, clearly, the administration sees it as a movement today, with Mexico and Canada promising a lot that they weren't promising before.
RAE: Not true in our case. I mean, can only speak very directly on this. We've had candid conversations with the administration for a long time on what we felt we could do and what we felt needed to be done, not just for you, but also for us.
And many of those expenditures were already announced by the prime minister many, many weeks ago. So, we kind of should doing discussion --
(CROSSTALK)
BAIER: Let me ask you final question here.
RAE: Yes.
BAIER: Mr. Ambassador, do you -- has your opinion of President Trump changed from when he first came to office in 2016-2017?
RAE: My personal opinion? No, it hasn't changed.
BAIER: Yes.
Because you wrote in 2017 that "The determination of many world leaders to try to normalize this leadership has to be brought to ground. He should not be welcome in our country." Speaking about not welcoming the president of the United States to Canada.
RAE: Well, first of all, I made that comment when I was in private life. We've all said different things in private life, but if you said as my opinion overall changed, I would say to you very directly that the concern that I think all Canadians have, it's not a personal thing about President Trump. The concern we have is that we don't want in the administration making and taking decisions that are going to create insecurity, uncertainty, and real collapses in the market, at the -- at a -- in a way that's quite arbitrary.
BAIER: Yes.
RAE: And that's why we're trying to have a reasonable and sensible discussion, and that's the kind of discussion we'd like to have.
(CROSSTALK)
BAIER: I appreciate.
RAE: And one that's respectful. And by the way, we're not the 51st state. We're a sovereign, independent country. Our leader deserves to be treated with respect, and we deserve to be treated with respect, and that's the way we want to proceed.
BAIER: Well, Mr. Ambassador, we appreciate you coming on, and telling us your point of view.
(CROSSTALK)
RAE: Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it.
BAIER: Up next, the black box from Friday's plane crash in Pennsylvania is recovered. Plus, crews work to remove the wreckage from last week's midair collision and identify the remaining passengers killed in the crash, while continuing to look for answers.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
COL. FRANCIS PERA, DISTRICT ENGINEER, UNITED STATES ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS: Our goal for tomorrow, based on the reduced timeline and the environmental conditions is the cockpit and we equally think we're going to be successful.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BAIER: Vice President J.D. Vance visit East Palestine, Ohio, today, on the second anniversary of that train derailment. He called for additional clean up at the site and long-term economic development for that community.
The visit comes as a new lawsuit against Norfolk Southern, alleges at least seven people died because of the train derailment. It also claims the railroad and contractors botched the cleanup, and health officials failed to warn the public about the risks.
Meantime, crews have begun removing large pieces of the American Airlines jet from the Potomac River, that plane involved in last week's deadly midair collision with a Black Hawk helicopter.
The wreckage will be taken to a hangar for further investigation.
Correspondent Alexandria Hoff is at Reagan National Airport as officials were to locate remaining passengers and clear the underwater crash scene.
Good evening, Alex.
ALEXANDRIA HOFF, FOX NEWS CHANNEL WASHINGTON CORRESPONDENT: Good evening, Bret.
Yes, additional remains were located today, although, the number of positive identification stands at 55 out of 67.
According to the Army Corps of Engineers, the priority, the focus is a dignified recovery effort, and then, salvaging wreckage comes second.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PERA: Should any remains be located, we have done, and we'll continue to do an automatic work stoppage until the proper coordination with the appropriate authorities can be conducted.
HOFF (voice over): There were several work stoppages today. The process of removing the wreckage of Flight 5342 from the Potomac began at sunrise. So far, the first of two engines, the fuselage, and wing, have been pulled from the water by crane, most of it is going to be secured overnight before being moved from the barge to a hangar for further investigation.
Yesterday, some families of the victims of Wednesday's deadly collision visited the site for a private Memorial. The families have been getting regular briefings as the investigation unfolds.
The NTSB has been pressed to clarify an altitude discrepancy. The data recorder at the time of impact put the passenger plane at about 325 feet, but air traffic control tower data logged the Black Hawk at 200 feet. What you're seeing here is the first look at the flight data recorders being examined.
Moments ago, the NTSB stating that the helicopters flight recorder did not have time stamps. So, exactly how high it was when is going to take some time to validate.
U.S. Army Colonel Mark Ott cautioned against speculation.
COL. MARK OTT, DEPUTY DIRECTOR, UNITED STATES ARMY: There are all kinds of reasons that you could deviate from an altitude. You know, something as simple as a flock of birds is in front of you, or you may deviate if you see something that's a -- an obstacle or other threat to your flight.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HOFF (on camera): Salvage efforts will continue tomorrow. The NTSB, also stating tonight that all five air traffic controllers who were in the tower on Wednesday night have been interviewed. Bret.
BAIER: Alexandria Hoff at Reagan National. Alexandria, thanks.
Now, a story we watched unfold live here on SPECIAL REPORT on Friday, we now know a medical jet crashed shortly after takeoff in Northeast Philadelphia, killing six people on board and another person on the ground.
Correspondent C.B. Cotton looks at where the investigation stands from Philadelphia.
We have committed to be in as transparent as possible.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
CB COTTON, FOX NEWS CHANNEL NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Newly minted transportation secretary Sean Duffy, on the ground in Philadelphia today, after two aviation disasters in the Northeast have left Americans shaken.
NEVEAH HARRIS, WITNESS: I was going to fly next month to go to Ohio to visit my cousin, and now, I don't think I'm going to do that because I'm terrified.
COTTON: The medevac jet carrying a pediatric patient and her mother back to Mexico after the little girl received lifesaving care, the aircraft plummeted to the ground shortly after takeoff on Friday, killing the six people on board and one person in their car, as the number of people injured continues to rise.
CHERELLE PARKER, MAYOR OF PHILADELPHIA: The number of people who have been treated so far has been increased from 22 to 24. Four remain hospitalized. Two are now stable, and two remain in critical condition.
COTTON (voice over): The aircraft's cockpit voice recorder recovered eight feet under the impact site over the weekend, will now be examined in Washington, D.C., and the transportation secretary says answers are coming.
SEAN DUFFY, UNITED STATES TRANSPORTATION SECRETARY: The FAA and the NTSB, they look at weather, was there medical concerns? Was there technical or mechanical issues?
COTTON: Meanwhile, city leaders continue to check on homes surrounding the crash site, some of which caught fire after being doused by jet fuel.
Other dangers from the aftermath caught on camera like this projectile whizzing through a diner's window, knocking a man's hat off as he and others ducked for cover a quarter mile away.
GOV. JOSH SHAPIRO (D-PA): Millisecond difference could have claimed many more lives in our community.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
COTTON (on camera): The NTSB is expected to deliver its preliminary report within 30 days. Bret.
BAIER: C.B., thank you.
Up next, we'll take you to El Salvador for an exclusive interview with Secretary of State Marco Rubio.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: The president of El Salvador met moments ago with Secretary of State Marco rubio. He says it is a good moment to strengthen relationships with U.S. and that his country is finalizing an agreement on migration. Tonight, we bring you an exclusive interview with Secretary of State Rubio amid his first foreign trip as he works on some of President Trump's top agenda items. Senior national correspondent Rich Edson is traveling with the secretary and discussed those priorities with him earlier today in El Salvador.
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
MARCO RUBIO, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: My hope ultimately is that we can get to a point where that canal is what it was meant to be, which is a place where the United States and Panama working in partnership. It is open for everyone, and that no foreign power through their companies or any other means has their ability to use it against us in a time of conflict and impede travel through it, because it would be devastating.
RICH EDSON, FOX NEWS STATE DEPARTMENT CORRESPONDENT: So this could easily get resolved without the United States taking direct operational control of the canal.
RUBIO: There's a lot of options, and I'm not going to preclude any options about what the final outcome looks like, but at a prerequisite baseline, we cannot continue to have the Chinese, and through their companies, exercising effective control of the canal area. And that needs to happen. I was pretty clear, and I hope we will see steps, additional steps in the days to come to reaffirm that.
EDSON: So you're now the head of USAID. The head of DOGE, Elon Musk, called USAID a criminal organization, and added that it is time for it to die. Do you agree with that?
RUBIO: They have, basically, evolved into an agency that believes that they are not even a U.S. government agency, that they are out there, a global charity, that they take the taxpayer money and they spend it as a global charity irrespective of whether it is in the national interest are not in the national interest.
One of the most complaints you will get if you go to embassies around the world from State Department officials and ambassadors and the like is USAID is not only cooperative, they undermined the work that we are doing in that country. They are supporting programs that upset the host government for whom we're trying to work with on a broader scale, and so forth. So they're completely unresponsive. They just don't consider that they work for the U.S. They just think they're a global entity and that their master is the globe and not the United States. And that's not what the statute says, and that's not sustainable.
EDSON: Can it be reformed, or does it need to die?
RUBIO: That was always the goal was to reform it. But now we have rank insubordination. Now we have basically an active effort, where their basic attitude is we don't work for anyone. We work for ourselves. No agency or government can tell us what to do.
So the president made me the acting administrator. I've delegated that power to someone who is there full-time, and we're going to go through the same process at USAID as we are going through now at the State Department. I think there are some -- this is not about getting rid of foreign aid. There are things that we do through USAID that we should continue, that make sense. And we'll have to decide, is that better through the State Department is that better through a reformed USAID? That's the process we're working through.
There are things that are happening at USAID that we should not be involved in funding, or that we have a lot of questions about. But they are completely uncooperative, so we had no choice but to take dramatic steps to bring this thing under control.
EDSON: Do you think that we'll still be the most generous nation on earth at the end of this process?
RUBIO: I think we'll be the most generous nation on earth, but I think we're going to the most generous nation on earth in a way that makes sense, that's in our national interest.
EDSON: Are you concerned during this aid pause that China could come in and fill the vacuum with their influence operations?
RUBIO: No. First of all, they don't do that now. If they did, they'd be out there competing with us in these places. But my point is this -- even if they did that, why would we fund things that are against our national interest or don't further our national interest, whether China is there or not?
EDSON: Do these tariffs, especially those against Canada, fundamentally change the relationship that the United States has with our most immediate neighbors?
RUBIO: It changes our economic relationship. The president's point is that trade with Canada is very unfair.
EDSON: As part of all of this, the president again said that Canada should be our cherished 51st state. Is he serious? And are you working on that at the State Department?
RUBIO: We're not involved in a negotiation to make them a state, and obviously I think what we're focused on right now is what is most immediate in front of us, and that is that there's tariffs. That's obviously going to have an impact on our relations with them. We're still neighbors. We'll always be neighbors.
EDSON: And can China expect more, do you think, on top of what he's already proposed?
RUBIO: If they continue to cheat and steal, yes, absolutely.
RUBIO: Is this administration going to recognize Maduro as the legitimate leader of Venezuela?
RUBIO: There's no talks about doing that. No one is discussed it. We don't recognize him now. What he has agreed to is very simple. He has released Americans that should have never been and his prisons. They were hostages. I think leaders like Maduro, no matter how tough they try to be, they respect Donald Trump. They know this is not a guy who is going to send you a strongly worded letter. He will take actions. I'm not going to talk about what those actions are, but he knows and they know we have many options to inflict serious damage and harm on the Maduro regime.
EDSON: Do you expect that the pressure campaign, the maximum pressure campaign is coming back against Iran?
RUBIO: I think we need to apply more pressure to Iran until they stop doing the activities that they are doing. What are those activities? They're trying to ultimately get to a nuclear weapon.
EDSON: Do you see yourself as the representative of the United States government ever going to Havana?
RUBIO: First of all, I have no intention of going to Havana with this regime in place, other than to discuss when they're going to leave. That regime is a disaster. It has destroyed the country. That is a regime that is hostile to the United States, and so until that changes, there is nothing for me to talk about with them.
(END VIDEO TAPE)
EDSON (on camera): With the secretary now meeting with El Salvador's president, Rubio told us he's expecting they'll announce an agreement where the United States will deport to El Salvador members of MS-13 and Tren de Aragua, even those who are not El Salvadorian citizens. Bret?
BAIER: Rich Edson live in San Salvador. Rich, great job. A lot of news in a short time. Thank you.
Up next, a solar project in the California desert could soon come to an end after costing taxpayers billions and falling way short of expectations.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BAIER: Over the weekend thousands of people protested President Trump's mass deportation efforts, demonstrators blocking a major freeway for several hours in Los Angeles, causing a lot of gridlock. Large protests also took place in Riverside, California, San Diego, and Dallas.
The sun appears to be setting for a solar project in the California desert. After burning through billions of taxpayer dollars the plant is now struggling to compete with cheaper, more advanced solar technologies. National correspondent William La Jeunesse reports from Los Angeles.
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER, FORMER CALIFORNIA GOVERNOR: This will become the biggest solar plant in the world.
BARACK OBAMA, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT: Not in China, not in India, but in California.
WILLIAM LA JEUNESSE, FOX NEWS NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: The Ivanpah solar plant went life 11 years ago. It was supposed to produce clean water for at least 30 years. Instead of solar panels, it uses giant mirrors to concentrate the sun's energy at these towers, which boil water, generating steam, creating electricity.
OBAMA: It's going to put about 1,000 people to work building a state-of- the-art facility.
LA JEUNESSE: As part of his climate agenda, President Obama gave Ivanpah $1.6 billion in federal loans, a $535 million grant, a 30 percent tax credit worth about $600 million, and a accelerated depreciation schedule that allowed investors to write off their capital investment in just five years.
REP. RANDY WEBER, (R-TX): The fact of the matter is American taxpayers wind up holding the bill, whether it's a Solyndra, whether it's this project here.
LA JEUNESSE: In addition to taxpayer losses, California's rate payers were forced to buy Ivanpah power at five times the market rate to help meet the state's renewable energy mandate.
DAVID KREUTZER, ENERGY ECONOMIST: These are expensive subsidies, and not only do they cost the taxpayers, but they distort the market.
LA JEUNESSE: Other side Ivanpah's impact on wildlife, killing thousands of birds who fly anywhere near the plant's intense heat as shown in this government video.
KEVIN EMMERICH, BASIN AND RANGE WATCH: When they see the birds actually going up in flames, they created a name for that. They call them streamers.
(END VIDEO TAPE)
LA JEUNESSE (on camera): Ivanpah is likely to shut down at the end of the year. Its owners say the plant simply could not compete on price with wind, natural gas, or traditional solar panels. Neither of the Energy Department nor the plant's operator would tell us exactly how much taxpayers lost, but experts say it is likely to exceed $1 billion. Bret?
BAIER: William, thank you.
Up next, the panel of the Department of Government Efficiency, DOGE, and its efforts to shut down the USAID, and other topics.
First, here's what some of our FOX affiliates around the country are covering tonight. FOX 8 in New Orleans where security preparations for Sunday's Super Bowl are in full force already. Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem toured the Superdome and control center where the NFL holds it security operations. Noem also visited the site of the New Orleans terror attack and honored the victims.
This is a live look at Los Angeles from FOX 11, our affiliate out there. one of the big stories there tonight, the Pacific Coast Highway partially reopens nearly a month after the Palisades fire forced it to close down. Traffic began moving along one lane in each direction. Officials are encouraging essential traffic only as crews worked to clean up the area and repair utilities.
That's tonight's live look outside the beltway from SPECIAL REPORT. We'll be right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, (R) U.S. PRESIDENT: The money they were giving to people that shouldn't be getting it, into agencies and others that shouldn't be getting it, it was a shame.
BRIAN SCHATZ, (D-HI) SENATE FOREIGN RELATIONS COMMITTEE: You cannot waive away an agency that you don't like or that you disagree with by executive order.
ELON MUSK, TESLA CEO: As we dug into USAID, it became apparent that what we have here is not an apple with a worm in it, but we have actually just a ball of worms.
REP. JAMIE RASKIN, (D-MD): Just like Elon Musk did not create USAID, he doesn't have the power to destroy it.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: USAID coming under fire from DOGE and the Trump administration, that organization. Most of the money is distributed through third parties, about $81.5 billion in total from 2013 to 2022. Nine nongovernmental organizations implemented 60 percent of that.
So what about that and whether it's constitutional, where this battle stands? Let's bring in "Washington Post" columnist, American Enterprise Institute senior fellow Marc Thiessen, Olivia Beavers, congressional reporter for "Politico," and FOX News chief political analyst Brit Hume. Brit, you've seen a lot of battles over spending and funding with Congress. This one seems pretty heated.
BRIT HUME, FOX NEWS SENIOR POLITICAL ANALYST: Yes, it's a little intense at the moment, but I must say, you keep hearing that the president or his friend Elon Musk, don't have the power to shut down this agency. Well, Musk doesn't have the power, but the president does. This agency was created by an executive order signed by President John F. Kennedy in November of 1961, and it was pursuant to a law, but it was separated from the law. And that's how it came into being. So if it can be created by an executive order, as it was, it can be undone by an executive order, and the president has all the legal authority he needs to do that.
That doesn't mean that foreign aid ends. It simply would presumably mean, as Marco Rubio was suggesting in his interview earlier on in this program, that it would be administered otherwise by some other agency, or taken to the State Department, with which it is supposed to work cooperatively anyway. So this may all be, to some extent, much ado about not quite as much as everybody is saying.
BAIER: Yes, Olivia. The baffles that the Democrats foresee, there's even a senator saying all State Department employees are going to be put on hold as far as he is concerned until it's up and running again. And USAID employees and former employees are saying this hurts foreign policy overall. Take a listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ATUL GAWANDE, FORMER USAID ASSISTANT ADMINISTRATOR: A shutdown of work that is predominantly disaster assistance, it is global health, people are being harmed as we speak.
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: These are some of the insane priorities that that organization has been spending money on -- $1.5 million to advance DEI in Serbia's workplaces, $70,000 for a production of a DEI musical in Ireland, $47,000 for a transgender opera in Columbia, $32,000 for a transgender comic book in Peru.
I don't want my dollars going towards this crap, and I know the American people don't either.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: Karoline Leavitt there at the White House, Olivia. What about the battle with Capitol Hill?
OLIVIA BEAVERS, "POLITICO": With Republicans, Bret, their reaction was a little bit divided. You saw Republican saying they have no problem with it being moved under the State Department umbrella, but Senator Wicker, the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, was interesting, where he was saying he looks forward to the audit, but he has some concerns that this might pave the way essentially for China or other countries that are trying to expand their global influence to fill the vacuum if the U.S. does not keep up USAID. That department, that agency provides food for people suffering from famine overseas, polio vaccines, and other sorts of things.
So I think that you are going to see more of a debate develop over this decision, and it also just comes after Elon Musk had a clash with security officials at the agency.
BAIER: Yes, Marc?
MARC THIESSEN, COLUMNIST, "WASHINGTON POST": This has been a conservative goal to fold AID into the State Department for three decades. I came and here in the 1990s working for Senator Jesse Helms, the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, who tried to do it. He got two of the three agencies he wanted folded into State, and Trump is about to finish it.
And the problem is -- the problem with USAID is that they don't like the U.S. in USAID. They want to be an independent charity that gives out money to causes that its leaders think are just that's independent of U.S. foreign policy. The U.S. foreign aid is supposed to serve the American interest. It's supposed to be in support of our foreign policy. Putting it into the State Department under the chief foreign policy officer, Marco Rubio, the secretary of state, is the way you guarantee that. And so I don't understand any argument, legitimate argument against doing this.
BAIER: All right, Brit, meantime, "The New York Times" writes it this way, "Canada follows Mexico in reaching deal to delay Trump tariffs." The prime minister, "Justin Trudeau spoke twice by telephone with President Trump, said the tariffs would be postponed by 30 days as they negotiate this border deal." I asked the Canadian ambassador to the U.N. about that on this show earlier.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BOB RAE, CANADIAN AMBASSADOR TO THE U.N.: Let's not use tariffs to deal with it because the tariffs completely upset markets and upset employment, upset jobs on both sides of the border.
BAIER: You understand the trade deficit argument?
RAE: I do, but I want to put it to you that when it comes to the overall economic relationship, when it comes to services, when it comes to tourism, when it comes to the number of Canadians who are investing in a whole variety of ways in the United States, it's a win-win situation.
BAIER: Mr. Ambassador, has your opinion of President Trump changed from when he first came to office in 2016 and 2017?
RAE: My personal opinion, no, it hasn't changed.
BAIER: Yes, because you wrote and 2017 that "The determination of many world leaders to try to normalize this leadership has to be brought to ground. He should not be welcome in our country," speaking about not welcoming the president of the United States to Canada.
RAE: Well, first of all, I made that comment when I was in private life. And by the way, we are not the 51st state. We're a sovereign, independent country. Our leader deserves to be treated with respect and we deserve to be treated with respect. And that's the way we want to proceed.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: It was quite something. Brit, your thoughts?
HUME: Well, look, the situation is simply this. The president told everybody, and his aides said, that this was not -- these tariffs are not about the trade war. They're about a drug war. Most people, I think, didn't believe him. But Canada, Mexico, and others have shown that they did believe him, and the results, a pause in the imposition of the tariffs in exchange for measures to affect security along the border, it seems to me, establishes that that, at least for now, is was that was all about. And it looks to me for Trump, this has been for him like picking up money off the street. You've got about five countries now in Central America and above us in Canada that are going along in response to tariff threats, or the apparent imposition or presume imposition of tariffs, with exactly with what he said he wanted.
BAIER: And we will see what happens with China as well. Panel, thanks so much.
And finally tonight, a special day.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's Punxsutawney Phil!
(CHEERING)
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: Punxsutawney Phil saw his shadow yesterday on Groundhog Day. Gobbler's Nob, Pennsylvania, predicting six more weeks of winter. A record sized crowd came out for the yearly ritual that goes back more than a century. Also hopeful for the change in the season, hundreds gathered in Japan to catch dried soybeans marking the last day of winter on the lunar calendar. Soybeans are a symbol of vitality to ward off evil spirits.
Tomorrow on SPECIAL REPORT, we'll be live at the White House as Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu meets President Trump, the first foreign dignitary to meet there. This Sunday you can watch my exclusive sit down with the president on FOX during the pregame coverage of the Super Bowl. We'll have the rest of that conversation right here on SPECIAL REPORT on Monday. And we'll do it, fair, balanced, and still unafraid. Here's Laura.

Load-Date: February 4, 2025


End of Document
