




States News Service
February 18, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 States News Service
Length: 631 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON, D.C. 
Body


The following information was released by Florida Senator Rick Scott:
Today, Senator Rick Scott led Senators Marsha Blackburn, Cindy Hyde-Smith and Tommy Tuberville in introducing the Restore Merit to Government Service Act of 2025, which brings merit-based hiring back to the federal government to ensure the best-qualified candidates are working in the federal government and for the American people. This legislation codifies President Trump's Executive Order last month to end discriminatory hiring practices in the federal government and restore merit-based hiring requirements at all federal agencies.
Senator Rick Scott said, "For years, Democrats have pushed radicalized policies into the innermost workings of our government, spending tax dollars against Americans' own best interests. President Trump is right in order to make the federal government work best for the American people, the federal workforce must hire based on merit above all else. Just like in any business and any job outside of the federal government, our federal agencies should be choosing the best-qualified candidate to show up and get to work for the American people. I encourage my colleagues to pass this good bill that codifies the President's action so we can make Washington work better for American families."
Senator Marsha Blackburn said, "Diversity, equity, and inclusion mandates have done serious harm to our institutions, and hiring employees based on external attributes or pre-defined characteristics not individual ability is dangerous and wrong. This bill would reform the federal hiring process by ensuring opportunities are based on individual merit and work ethic, not woke mandates."
Senator Cindy Hyde-Smith said, "I think it's apparent to many Americans that their government's hiring practices have been warped by prioritizing radical social agendas over the basic qualifications needed to be an effective federal employee. I support this bill because it affirms President Trump's commonsense effort to reset federal hiring practices."
Senator Tommy Tuberville said, "We must wash our hands of DEI. Joe Biden and Kamala Harris nearly destroyed the fabric of our country with this woke, racist ideology. We need to focus on hiring the best and brightest, not dividing people based on skin color. Thank God President Trump is restoring merit-based hiring practices to our government, and prioritizing the recruitment of individuals who uphold the ideals of our nation. Now Congress must do our job to ensure that this poisonous ideology has no place in our government."
BACKGROUND:
In his first days in office, President Trump signed executive actions to reform the federal hiring process and end illegal discrimination in hiring to restore merit-based opportunity at all federal agencies.
The Restore Merit to Government Service Act of 2025:
Restores Merit to the Hiring Process: Prioritizes the recruitment of individuals who are committed to improving the efficiency of the federal government, upholding the rule of law and the Constitution of the United States and are passionate about the ideals of our nation.
Eliminates DEI Hiring: Prevents the appointment of any individual based on race, sex or religion.
Updates Hiring Procedures: Improves the overall hiring process for individuals by establishing a hiring timeline of no more than 80 days, offers a more streamlined communications process with candidates and integrates modern technology to support agencies with the recruitment and selection process. This legislation ensures that the heads, or designees, of agencies are active participants in the new processes.
Holds Agencies Accountable: The Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall establish performance metrics to evaluate the success of the new hiring procedures.

Load-Date: February 19, 2025


End of Document
