




Newsweek.com
February 20, 2025 Thursday 4:04 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 913 words
Byline: Jim Banks
Highlight: Barely one full month into the Trump administration's four-year term, our country already has reversed the demoralizing decline we experienced under Biden.
Body


We're rapidly entering a new golden age for America. Barely one full month into the Trump administration's four-year term, our country already has completely reversed the demoralizing decline we experienced under the Biden regime.
After the American people issued a mandate to our now commander in chief, the Trump administration hit the ground running. From the moment  took the oath of office, his team was ready to make swift, badly needed change. What followed has been a testament to his fierce commitment to the American people.
President Trump wasted no time delivering on the promises he made throughout his campaign to the American people. These promises touch on every part of American life. Their intention was to comprehensively restore a society that the previous administration had set on a steep downward trajectory over the previous four years.
The president is implementing what the American voters elected him to do, accomplishing exactly what he campaigned on.
That's unheard of in this town.
Perhaps the most well-known of these campaign pledges was President Trump's plan to conduct the largest deportation operation in the history of the United States.
For four years, the American people endured a government-sanctioned invasion across our southern border. Every state, even Midwestern states like my home state of Indiana, were put on the front lines—forced to combat a surge of drugs and foreign criminals. We have our own native-born criminals. Why on Earth would our "leaders" voluntarily import more, sending them directly into the heartland?
To rectify his predecessor's betrayal, President Trump vowed to remove everyone who had broken our laws and disrespected our sovereignty. On day one, he issued an executive order initiating the targeted removal of all unvetted aliens, prioritizing the deportation of convicted criminals and individuals who threatened national security.
Continuing to bolster American security, President Trump signed six executive orders unleashing American energy on his first day in office. Our ability to remain secure hinges on our energy independence and the strategic use of our natural resources. By unleashing our domestic resources responsibly, we can decrease our energy reliance on adversaries, create American jobs, and reduce unnecessary costs—all moves that make America more secure.
Strengthening our security also depends on addressing the subversive DEI ideology that has undermined our national unity and pervaded our culture.
Speaking at CPAC in 2023, President Trump said, "On day one, I will revoke 's crazy executive order installing Marxist diversity, equity, and inclusion czars in every federal agency. And I will immediately terminate all staffers hired to implement this horrible agenda."
That's exactly what he's done.
Despite how extensively DEI had overtaken our institutions, President Trump, with the stroke of his pen, banished this anti-American ideology from the halls of our government—a courageous degree of resolve that Americans aren't used to seeing from their leaders.
They also aren't used to seeing an elected leader—from either party—follow through on promises to cut federal spending and halt the obscene misuse of their hard-earned tax dollars.
The waste, fraud, and abuse of taxpayer dollars at the hands of Washington's uniparty establishment is inexcusable. The federal government wasn't just pulling this money out of thin air. It was stealing that money from you.
Future generations are shackled to a national debt that exceeds $36 trillion. The federal government was sacrificing the prosperity of our children in the name of ridiculous foreign initiatives and worthless woke programs.
Before taking office, President Trump vowed to slash hundreds of billions in federal spending. He's now over-delivering on that promise to the American people.
I want my three daughters to live in a free and prosperous America, without the public burden of an astronomical national debt.
President Trump understands the urgency of our financial outlook and is fighting to root out waste to save America for our children.
Even though it's just the beginning, wiping out senseless, America-last foreign "aid" spending is the best starting point. For decades, USAID had been setting our tax dollars on fire to ignite woke idiocy around the globe.
The  are endless: $1.5 million to advance DEI in Serbia. $2.5 million to promote electric vehicles in Vietnam. $32,000 for a "transgender comic book" in Peru. Hundreds of millions of dollars to fund farming technology in Afghanistan supporting drug production for the . These absurdities add up and are all funded by hard-working Americans, who have a right to feel betrayed.
President Trump, once again, kept his promise to the American people and abolished this injustice by effectively shuttering the woke laundering operation that was USAID.
The president and his administration had the backbone to stand up against the institutionalized forces that perpetuate a systemic betrayal of America and her people.
America stands ready to enter a new golden age, founded on the radical notion that the promises made to the American people—promises to put America and American citizens first, to return dignity and respect to working families, and to restore the rule of law—must be kept.
Jim Banks, a Republican, is the junior United States senator from Indiana.
The views expressed in this article are the writer's own.


Graphic

 
Donald Trump executive order
Andrew Harnik/Getty Images
WASHINGTON, DC - FEBRUARY 14: U.S. President Donald Trump signs an executive order withholding federal funding from schools and universities that impose a COVID-19 vaccine mandate in the Oval Office at the White House on February 14, 2025 in Washington, DC.

Load-Date: February 20, 2025


End of Document
