




Fox News THE STORY WITH MARTHA MACCALLUM 7:00 PM EST
February 21, 2025 Friday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS
Length: 6809 words
Byline: Martha MacCallum, Jeff Paul, Clay Travis, Robert Wolf, Peter Doocy; Kerri Urbahn; Alexis McAdams; Bill Melugin
Guests: Eric Schmitt, Brian Claypool
Body


(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
[15:00:00]
MARTHA MACCALLUM, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Breaking right now, President Trump about to sign more executive orders at the White House on this Friday afternoon. 73 have been signed by the president thus far. Several of them aimed at bolstering DOGE's effort to slash government waste. Big symbol of that very concerted effort. Watch as Elon Musk was presented with a chainsaw at CPAC by Argentina's President Javier Milei, who often carried one when he was campaigning on slashing spending. Watch this exchange.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ELON MUSK, TRUMP SENIOR ADVISER: President Milei has a gift for me.
This is the chainsaw for bureaucracy, chainsaw.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: Yes, we don't see that every day, right? Okay. So, afterwards, Trump telling the very pumped up crowd after that that finding waste in the federal government is actually pretty easy. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MUSK: Waste is pretty much everywhere. People ask, like how can you find waste in like in D.C.? I'm like, look, it's like being in a room and there's targets, the wall, the roofs, and the floor are all targets. So, it's like, you're going to close your eyes and go shoot in any direction because you can't miss, you know? So, it's pretty wild. Like you just push on things a little bit, and you save billions of dollars.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: Push on things a little bit and you save billions of dollars. So, Joe Scarborough over at MSNBC saying this isn't what a lot of Trump supporters thought they were going to get. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOE SCARBOROUGH, MSNBC HOST: This idea that Republicans, all Republicans want a guy wielding a chainsaw and just slashing NIH budgets, slashing USAID budgets, I'll just say it, that's not what a lot of Republicans voted for Donald Trump for.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: Well, Editor Kerri Urbahn with a breakdown of all of the big court cases, she said, that we are facing here with DOGE, privacy issues all across the country, but you see the chainsaw man is not giving in easily. White House Correspondent Peter Doocy joins us now reporting from the North Lawn, senior White House correspondent. Thank you, Peter. Good afternoon.
PETER DOOCY, FOX NEWS SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Good afternoon, Martha. And if President Trump has proof from his DOGE guys that there is widespread Social Security fraud, that means that there is a widespread federal financial crime happening. And so what do you do if you know that there is a crime happening? You report it. That is just what the president did a little while ago, directly to the attorney general.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, U.S. PRESIDENT: We have one person at 360, which is strange because the country is 250. So, they're 110 years older than the country. Here, Pam, you better take a look at this. That's much better for you than for me. Now, the question is, are they getting paid, because somebody maybe is getting paid? Yes, I have a feeling you are. I said, what a convenient thing, this is so nice.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
DOOCY: For his part, Elon Musk is literally laughing off complaints from liberals that he's got bad intentions with data at the treasury and Social Security departments.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MUSK: I mean, listen, like if I steal some Social Security, I can finally buy nice things.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
DOOCY: There was a very awkward moment here at the White House today. The president told the Democratic Governor Janet Mills of Maine no more federal funding for Maine if they don't comply with the new executive order on banning men from women's sports.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GOV.JANET MILLS (D-ME): I'm complying with state and federal laws.
TRUMP: Well, I'm -- we are the federal law.
MILLS: See you in court.
TRUMP: Every state -- Good. I'll see you in court. I look forward to that. That should be a real easy one. And enjoy your life after governor because I don't think you'll be in elected politics,
(END VIDEO CLIP)
DOOCY: That is very unusual here at the White House, not what we are used to seeing. When governors are invited, guests of the president. And there's a lot of lawsuits flying around here. In fact, at that very same luncheon, Attorney General Pam Bondi was seated at a table with the New York governor, Kathy Hochul, who she just sued. Martha?
MACCALLUM: That must have been cozy. Peter, thank you very much.
So, with that, we bring in Fox News Legal Editor Kerri Urbahn.
[15:05:00]
Kerri, great to have you with us.
I mean, you know, we could talk about this for an hour. There are so many legal issues here. But I want to get your thoughts on that exchange because it's very interesting to watch this play out. And President Trump directly said to Janet Mills, the governor of Vermont, you know, good luck fighting this order that you cannot allow transgender sports, you can't allow boys to play women's sports or you're going to lose your federal funding. Does that hold up, do you think?
KERRI URBAHN, FOX NEWS LEGAL EDITOR: I think, ultimately, it will. You know, the Supreme Court has declined thus far to take up the issue of biological men and women's sports, but we are waiting for a decision from the Supreme Court on whether states can prevent -- can prohibit, rather, funding and the procedures gender treatment for minors.
I do think when they issue that decision, it's going to set the tone and it's certainly going to signal where they'll land on these other ones. But, look, I think it just, you know, just as a matter of pragmatism. It's foolish for the governor of Maine and representing the state to defy the White House in this way. The White House has a lot of power and they have money and grants and funding to give. And so they're fully within their rights to say, look, you're not going to play ball, then, you know what, we're not going to give you the money.
MACCALLUM: One of the most interesting things here is this large question, Kerri, which I know you have dug into, about the power of the executive, right? And this goes back and forth throughout the history, really, of the presidency. And President Trump is trying to corral that power back to the White House. He's saying that he wants an energetic executive branch that has control over who works in that branch can be hired and fired.
This is from the Wall Street Journal opinion page today. Trump is trying to assert control over the entire executive branch of government, for better or worse. His latest effort is an executive order published Tuesday that imposes new White House supervision over so called independent agencies, like the Security and Exchange Commission. This would be a constitutional watershed.
Kerri, explain the dynamic at play here.
URBAHN: You know, there's a lot of talk about President Trump expanding the executive branch, but I would argue that he's actually restoring the separation of powers because a lot of the cases in the arguments that we're seeing made by the Trump administration is simply that. And, you know, Doge got a bunch of legal wins over the last seven or eight days.
And I would say why they're winning is in part because the plaintiffs who are suing the Trump administration, they're doing a couple of things, and this is why they're failing. They're skipping over the normal process. They're going right to the courts. And so, in a lot of these cases, there's an administrative appeals process. They're just ignoring that. They're going to the courts and the courts don't have proper jurisdiction because for them to interfere in some of these at this stage would be to interfere in the executive branches ability to do their job, which is undercutting the separation of powers.
The other category as to why these plaintiffs are failing right now is because they're not demonstrating any harm. You know, they're saying the sky is falling. The sky is falling. We're losing funding and all of this stuff. But in order to get a temporary block of an order that you don't like, you've got to demonstrate harm. And you've got to point to the fact that, you know, look, the funding is being cut, harm has occurred, and by the way, they're breaking the law with respect to this funding, and they're not doing that.
MACCALLUM: Yes.
URBAHN: And so --
MACCALLUM: That's extraordinary. You know, it's just -- I can't help thinking. When you're talking about that, I'm thinking about the real estate case here in New York, where no one was harmed and the judges and the prosecutors plowed forward anyway. And, you know, we're able to get a conviction in that case.
I want to ask you about this specific case, because it reminds me of what Elon Musk was saying in the beginning here, that no matter where he looked and pushed a little bit, he was finding just massive fraud. Because, as it turns out, the people in charge of these agencies, even people within the Social Security Administration, whose job it is, they're like, hi, I'm the chief of fraud -- you know, fraud discovery, and yet it's easy for this person to come in and find things that have happened.
So, here's what's happening at EPA. Right after -- right before President Biden left office, they pushed out $20 billion in Inflation Reduction Act, and everybody remembers, Kerri, that the money didn't get pushed out, right? They wanted this huge bill. It led to inflation by the estimation of most economists that people are still dealing with, and yet the money didn't all get pushed out. So, they pushed out $2 billion to a climate group that Stacey Abrams oversaw.
I mean, this is pretty incredible, Kerri. What is your reaction to this?
URBAHN: Well, there are a lot of question marks over this one, right? Why did they do it, for what reason, how did they get it so fast? And these are the kinds of themes that we keep seeing again and again. Like today, there was a hearing in Massachusetts, and this one I think it's particularly crazy. And the way some people in the media and Democratic lawmakers and these state A.G.s, these Democrats state A.G.s are painting this is, is that the Trump administration is cutting funding for public health research when, in fact, what they're doing is capping these overhead costs.
[15:10:08]
So, for instance, the federal government gives, say, a hundred thousand dollars to a university for, you know, research about Parkinson's. The university comes back and says, okay, thank you for the money. We also need $30,000 for these additional overhead costs, but they don't have to delineate what those costs are.
So, the Trump administration, the NIH said, okay, look, we're going to cap those costs at 15 percent because these universities are making a killing on these overhead costs, and we don't even know where that -- you know, where those are going. And yet you have all of these A.G.s who are seeking to block even that, when it looks like, at least from this perspective, that it seems like a pretty common sense measure to take.
MACCALLUM: Yes. It's so common sense to ask these agencies when you give them money, what is the money for?
URBAHN: Right.
MACCALLUM: And if they ask for more, to make sure that the agency that oversees it is getting a very specific list of exactly where that money is going to go and then comes back later and says, did you spend it for what you said you were going to spend it for?
And I just want to point out before we go that the Stacey Abrams climate group, they had showed revenue of $100 the year before. And then they got $2 billion --
URBAHN: $2 billion. How do you go from $100 to $2 billion?
MACCALLUM: -- as Biden was on his way out the door. I mean, you go figure it out.
URBAHN: It doesn't look good.
MACCALLUM: It does not look good. Kerri Urbahn, thank you so much, always so great at explaining all of this with us. Thank you very much, Kerri.
All right, so moments ago, a very big moment in downtown Manhattan in this case. The accused CEO assassin, Luigi Mangione, back in court in lower Manhattan as activist support raises fears of a rogue juror that could potentially, if they get on this jury, derail the case because he has so much outside support, next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
[15:15:00]
MACCALLUM: So, we have some brand new video of Luigi Mangione. There he is walking through the door. Obviously a lot of security surrounding this 26- year-old accused of murdering UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson in cold blood very early morning hours in New York City. He appeared in court here in New York on state murder charges and terror charges, terrorism charge, which is murder 1 in New York City, has that terrorism element to it as well.
Now, Mangione triggered a massive manhunt in December after allegedly gunning Thompson down outside of a New York City hotel just about a block from where we are here at Fox News Headquarters.
Now, he was arrested days later. We all remember this intense manhunt. He was recognized by a McDonald's employee in Altoona, Pennsylvania. Thank goodness for that person who was watching the news and thought this man kind of looks like the young man that they're looking for.
Now, he was an Ivy League graduate from a prominent family who went dark in the months before the shooting. His family lost contact with him.
Correspondent Alexis McAdams is live outside the courthouse here in New York, where there is a ton of action this afternoon. Hi, Alexis.
ALEXIS MCADAMS, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Hi, Martha. Yes, there was action inside of that courtroom is the Luigi Mangione was in there. He walked down the hallway wearing a bulletproof vest, which we'll get to in a second. But there was more action outside of the courthouse today in New York City.
I want to pull up what we're seeing right now out here on the streets of New York City. These are people that have been out here, some of them, Martha, since like 4:00 in the morning, waiting to show their support for the former Ivy League grad, who's now a suspected killer. They're calling on him to be set free. Some say he didn't do it. Some say he did it, but did the right thing.
And I asked these people, why are you out here supporting a killer? Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MCADAMS: If this was your dad and he was murdered because of his job, wouldn't you want the person who killed him to be put behind bars?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Well, I personally wouldn't. Well, if Brian Thompson, if I'm going to be honest, if Brian Thompson was my dad, I would've honestly wouldn't care about his funeral.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MCADAMS: So, Luigi Mangione was wearing a bulletproof vest over that green sweater and khaki pants. He was in that courtroom today. It was just a quick clip as he walked in there. It was also only about ten minutes that he was inside of this room. The defense and the prosecution giving an update as the evidence in the case continues.
Mangione is accused of killing UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson and the shooting was caught on camera. The CEO and dad of two, Brian Thompson, was gunned down while he was in New York City for an investor's meeting.
So what's the motive? Well, police believe Mangione was mad at the healthcare industry. Mangione is now speaking out for the first time since his arrest thanking his supporters and telling them, he reads every letter they send him over at jail. Mangione writing this in part, I am overwhelmed by and grateful for everyone who has written me to share their stories and express their support. That note was posted on his legal team's website, also linked to a fundraiser that now has more than a half a million dollars in it.
So, Mangione is looking at a long list of charges, including first-degree murder and terror charges, and also possibly the death penalty in that federal case. Mangione pled not guilty to the state charges. He was also having that case in Pennsylvania because, as you mentioned, this was wild. They were looking for him all over New York City, all over the country. They found him eating a burger, according to police out at that McDonald's in Pennsylvania.
Back out here live, Mangione is back in custody and he'll be back in a federal case for -- back in a courtroom rather for his federal case next month, but there's a lot going on.
[15:20:02]
But it's interesting, Martha, to talk to these people out here who do support him no matter what the evidence shows.
MACCALLUM: Yes, it's mindboggling. Thank you, Alexis, outside the courthouse with a very interesting group of people supporting Luigi Mangione.
With that, we bring in Criminal Defense Attorney Brian Claypool. Brian, great to have you here. You know, you hear these supporters outside this courthouse and, you know, it really comes down to two things. How strong is the evidence against this individual? Let's go back because this is a few months back now and remind people what the evidence in this case is that he shot and killed Brian Thompson in cold blood.
BRIAN CLAYPOOL, CRIMINAL DEFENSE ATTORNEY: Yes. Hey, Martha, always great to see you. Yes, this case is unprecedented. What do I mean by that? They have on videotape Mangione shooting and killing in cold blood Brian Thompson. He's on the video. They have a shell casing that was found right after the gun was shot that matches the shell casings that were found in Mangione's possession. They have a manifesto that pretty much is at admission. You also have bank records that connect Mangione getting an electric bike, for example, like an hour before the shooting, stalking Thompson across the street and then killing him.
So rarely in a murder case, Martha, do you have this mountain of evidence, but most important, that videotape of him killing Thompson. How does the defendant get around that?
MACCALLUM: Yes. His defense attorney said this. Let's watch this. She doesn't -- you know, she's building up the case that he can't get a fair trial. He had this enormous perp walk and Adams was there. Watch this. She's a very well known defense attorney.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KAREN FRIEDMAN AGNIFILO, LUIGI MANGIONE'S ATTORNEY: I'm very concerned about my clients right to a fair trial. In this case, he's being prejudiced by some statements that are being made by government officials.
He was on display for everyone to see in the biggest staged perp walk I've ever seen in my career. It was absolutely unnecessary.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: Your thoughts on that, Brian, and if someone can get themselves on this jury who is determined to hang this jury by, you know, being one of his supporters.
CLAYPOOL: Yes. Look, what's good for the goose is good for the gander, right? I mean, there's been a lot of publicity in favor of Mangione. We just saw it, the reporter, everybody outside, some calling him a humanitarian, a poster somewhere close to the courthouse of Mangione, that benefits him. So that nullifies her argument that, oh, wait a minute, Eric Adams showed up at a hearing, he's portrayed in a bad way, that's nullified.
But, look, the danger for prosecutors in this case is what's called juror nullification. What's that? That's when a jury decides a case based on their ideology, based on their personal experiences and beliefs, as opposed to the evidence. And that's going to be the challenge in this case.
Jury selection, Martha, will be monumental in this case, probably more important than the trial itself. If I'm the prosecutor, I'm asking for what's called individual voir dire, where you could talk to each juror individually.
MACCALLUM: Yes, that's going to be really important in this case. And we all remember elements of what you just discussed in the O.J. Case when that played out.
Brian Claypool, thank you very much. Good to see you, Brian.
CLAYPOOL: You bet. Thanks, Martha.
MACCALLUM: So, Los Angeles Mayor Karen Bass making a big move moments ago related to last month's wildfire disaster days after her puzzling answer as to why she went to Ghana after the extensive warnings that there were very high -- there's high probability of fire engulfing Los Angeles.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MAYOR KAREN BASS (D-LOS ANGELES, CA): It was going to be a very, very short trip over a weekend and two business days.
Although there were warnings that I frankly wasn't aware of, although there were warnings, I think our preparation, well, wasn't what it typically is.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What do you mean there were warnings you weren't aware of? Because I know we were talking about it on the news.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
[15:25:00]
MACCALLUM: So, breaking moments ago, embattled Los Angeles Mayor Karen Bass says that she has removed the fire chief, Kristin Crowley, the move coming after the mayor claimed this week that she, quote, wasn't aware of severe fire warnings before leaving the city of Los Angeles where she's the mayor to go to Ghana for four days.
National Correspondent Bill Melugin tracking all this for us from Los Angeles. Hi, Bill.
BILL MELUGIN, FOX NEWS NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Martha. This all just came down a short time ago. There had been a whole lot of public tension between Mayor Bass and Chief Crowley after the Palisades fire first broke out.
It is all now apparently come to this climax, as you mentioned, Mayor Bass just announcing a short time ago, she is firing Chief Crowley effective immediately. We're standing by for a press conference supposed to happen any minute now. But she did put out a statement which says in part, quote, we know that 1,000 firefighters that could have been on duty the morning the fires broke out were instead sent home on Chief Crowley's watch.
Now, Chief Crowley had previously said that Mayor Bass' slashing of millions of dollars from the fire department budget would reduce the department's effectiveness and ability to respond to wildfires. Mayor Bass, on her end, in recent days, had been blaming Chief Crowley for not wanting -- warning her, excuse me, about the fire risk before she left for her trip to Africa.
Now, Bass was in Ghana at a cocktail party when the Palisades fire first broke out. She decided to leave for that trip despite repeated dire warnings from the National Weather Service about a major windstorm event approaching, creating extreme risk for wildfires.
In the meantime, developer Rick Caruso, who ran against Mayor Bass in the mayoral race in 2022, is now reacting to Chief Crowley's firing. He writes on X in part, quote, it is very disappointing that Mayor Bass has decided to fire Chief Kristin Crowley. The mayor's decision to ignore the warnings and leave the city was hers alone.
We're still waiting for Mayor Bass to have that press conference. She's running about 30 minutes late right now. It's supposed to happen at about 12:45 Pacific Time. But in the meantime, the L.A. Fire Department says they are aware of this announcement and they have no comment in reaction to it.
So, we'll wait to see what. Mayor Bass has to say, but, Martha, you covered it right off the top, she was very well aware that there was an extreme fire risk and a windstorm coming, and for some reason she's claiming that she wasn't aware. She even tweeted about it the day before the fire broke out.
MARTHA MACCALLUM, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Yes.
MELUGIN: We'll send it back to you.
MACCALLUM: Question of whether or not she's passing the buck here. We all know that there was water supply that was not as full as it could be to aid these efforts, and where that fault lies and where the future needs to go in terms of making sure this doesn't happen again, all big issues for them. Bill, thank you very much.
So after an all night vote-a-rama, Senate Republicans passing what they're calling Plan B in the effort to carry out President Trump's agenda. Trump has signaled that he wants the plan that the House is working on, that's the one big beautiful bell. He wants a huge piece of legislation that encapsulates most of everything he wants to get done. The border, military funding and trillions in tax cuts.
But he told Brian Kilmeade today that he is satisfied with the progress so far. Watch this.
(BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF UNITED STATES: I think it's a very good signal that we got the one bill passed because there's great unity. We have great unity in the party.
BRIAN KILMEADE, FOX RADIO HOST: Right.
TRUMP: The House has -- is great and the Senate is great. We have fantastic unity.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: All right. Let's bring in Republican senator from Missouri, Eric Schmitt. He serves on the Congressional Joint Economic Committee. Senator, great to have you with us.
You know, give people a sense of what this Senate bill looks like and how difficult is it going to be to match it up with the one beautiful bill? And why can't there be one beautiful bill?
SEN. ERIC SCHMITT (R-MO): Well, there can be and we're all rooting for that the House would have one big beautiful bill and send it over the Senate. But, you know, we working together, we're trying to provide another option, which is to get some priorities moved up the line, border security, energy dominance, and making sure we have an Iron Dome for America, some of the priorities President Trump has for the military.
So I think as far as Senate Republicans are concerned, we wanted to get to work. We've been very busy confirming all of President Trump's nominees. We want to keep that work ethic in place to move this agenda forward.
And I would say this, Martha, whether I serve for six years or longer, I have no idea how long I'll be in the United States Senate, but it could be that these two years are the most consequential of any of those years. And I think we're all approaching that with a sense of urgency. President Trump got this mandate. He swept the battleground states. He won the popular vote.
And we need to deliver on behalf of the American people. It's an immense opportunity for us and we want to make sure we take full advantage of that.
MACCALLUM: Yes. Real quick, this is Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth on the Pentagon, because defense spending is part of what you just discussed and very important part of this bill. Watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PETE HEGSETH, US DEFENSE SECRETARY: We welcome DOGE to the Pentagon, and I hope to welcome Elon to the Pentagon very soon and his team, working in collaboration with us. There are waste redundancies and headcounts in headquarters that need to be addressed.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: You know, Senator Blumenthal said that 8 percent cuts would be dramatic and deleterious, and have a damaging effect. Do you believe there's enough waste in defense spending to make the cuts that need to be cut and make the Defense Department and the defense of this country better and more efficient even with cuts?
SCHMITT: Well, I think he's talking about sort of reallocation and making sure we're cutting out like all these ridiculous DEI programs that have cost hundreds of millions of dollars over the years. I think we should welcome DOGE into every single department to find where that waste and that fraud is. We found out where it was with USAID.
I think it's going to allow our military to be more lethal and be more prepared and protect America. So I think this is all good news.
MACCALLUM: OK. Thank you very much, Senator Schmitt. Great to have you here today.
SCHMITT: Thanks, Martha.
MACCALLUM: Thank you. So still ahead right here on this Friday, Clay Travis and Presidential Envoy Rick Grenell, who has been at the table for these negotiations in foreign policy as we keep an eye on the White House where we expect Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnick and FBI Director Kash Patel to be sworn in momentarily. A big afternoon, we'll be right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: And how about Hamas yesterday with the babies? How about that, you know? We're going to take that. We're going to continue to take that, I don't -- I don't think so.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: So new reaction from President Trump as Israel confirms the return of the bodies of the two youngest Hamas hostages, four-year-old Ariel Bibas and nine-month-old Kfir Bibas. But the IDF now says that the mother -- there was another body returned, but it was not when they did testing their mother, she was not returned with the bodies of her children.
They sent anonymous body that was handed over with these two tiny caskets that were sent out of Gaza with people cheering, children cheering, waves - - waving flags. It's just an absolutely disgusting display. National correspondent Jeff Paul joins us now reporting live on this latest wound for this family. Hi, Jeff, from London.
JEFF PAUL, FOX NEWS NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes. A tough 24 hours for the country of Israel. And not only Israel claiming that one of those bodies that was supposed to be returned yesterday that was supposed to be the Bibas' mother that it was not her. But they're also saying that her two young boys were deliberately killed by their kidnappers.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DANIEL HAGARI, IDF SPOKESPERSON: The terrorists did not shoot the two young boys, they killed them with their bare hands. Afterwards, they committed horrific acts to cover up these atrocities.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PAUL: Now, Hamas claims without evidence, the young boys died in an Israeli airstrike, but the IDF says forensic findings and intelligence show otherwise. While Israel positively identified both Kfir and Ariel Bibas, the body said to be that of their mother, Shiri Bibas, was an unidentified woman from Gaza.
Hamas pointing to a possible mix up of the body saying Shiri's remains were found in an area that Israel had bombed where others were present. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu vowing to not rest until they find whoever was responsible and they are brought to justice.
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER: Who kidnaps a little boy and a baby and murders them? Monsters, that's who. These Hamas monsters also cynically refuse to bring back the boys' mother, Shiri.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
PAUL: Now, all this happening as a very fragile ceasefire agreement continues and we are expecting as many as six living hostages to be released starting tomorrow. Martha?
MACCALLUM: Jeff Paul, thank you very much. Jeff reporting from London.
So Clay Travis and Robert Wolf on a fiery clash at the White House between President Trump and the governor of Maine over the battle to protect women's sports in the United States. That's next.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: The NCAA has complied immediately, by the way. That's good. But I understand Maine -- is the Maine here, the governor of Maine?
JANET MILLS, GOVERNOR OF MAINE: I'm here.
TRUMP: Are you not going to comply with it?
MILLS: I'm complying with the state and federal laws.
TRUMP: Well, we are the federal law. Well, you better do it. You better do it because you're not going to get any federal funding at all if you don't.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: So a tense moment at the White House just a short time ago during a meeting with governors across the United States. President Trump bringing up his recent executive order, this was a huge moment just a couple of weeks ago. Everything's happening so fast, but this was just a few weeks ago, where they barred transgender athletes from participating in women and girls sports in order to protect girls sports across the country.
And you saw all of the girls gathered around there. Riley Gaines, who really made this her -- she championed this all around the President. Then he called out the Democrat governor of Maine at a big governor's meeting at the White House live this afternoon. That's Janet Mills.
She's been pushing back against the order in recent days. Trump asked her, are you going to comply? And then this exchange.
MILLS: I'm going to comply with state and federal laws.
TRUMP: Well, we are the federal law. Every state
MILLS: We'll see you in court.
TRUMP: Every state -- Good. I'll see you in court. I look forward to that. That should be a real easy one. And enjoy your life after, governor, because I don't think you'll be in elected politics.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: And here's your dessert, OK. Let's bring in OutKick founder Clay Travis and Robert Wolf, former economic adviser to President Obama, 32 Advisors' founder and CEO and a Fox News contributor. Gentlemen, thank you very much. It's good to have you here.
Clay, I'm just reading on the Bangor Daily News that they expect that the Trump administration will investigate Maine's Department of Education and a school district over policies allowing transgender students to participate in athletics. It's a Title IX investigation which bars gender-based discrimination in schools. Your thoughts as an attorney and someone who follows sports and this story very closely.
CLAY TRAVIS, FOUNDER, OUTKICK: Well, first of all, this is brilliant of Trump because let's just go to the actual data here, Martha. New York Times last month 79 percent of Americans do not believe that men identifying as women should be able to compete in women's sports. That's a big number. It's hard to get 79 percent of Americans to agree on anything, but it's even better for Trump.
Sixty-seven percent of Democrats agree with him as you see him signing this bill, 94 percent of Republicans, two out of three Democrats. He only lost Maine by seven points, Martha. This governor is on the wrong side politically. She's wasting taxpayer dollars to fight against Trump on an issue that her state overwhelmingly agrees with Trump on.
And this is the lesson I think the Democrats should be taking. They have basically decided whatever Trump says they're opposed to, the problem is Trump's enacting a lot of common sense legislation that, as I just said, 79 percent of Americans agree on. I can't believe the Democrat Party perspective is, as only two congressmen were willing to sign on in the House, that Protection of Women and Girls in Sports Act, that they believe men should be able to identify as women is a losing political issue, losing morally.
Trump's 100 percent right and he's checkmating the Dems.
MACCALLUM: Well, of course, President Trump pointed out two of the things that you just said, Clay, that he did well in Maine and that he didn't think that she would be reelected based on the numbers that you just pointed out. Robert, let me just play this quickie from James Carville last night on "Hannity," basically telling Democrats, you know, don't sweat some of these issues. Let him go. Here he is.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JAMES CARVILLE, DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST: I'm telling the Democrats, just sit there, play possum. Let them go, let them go, let them go. Poll numbers are declining. The collapse is already underway.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: What do you think about Democrat strategy here and how they should handle it, Robert?
ROBERT WOLF, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Well, I don't agree with Carville that the Trump collapse has already begun. I think his popularity has been pretty strong. I think it's like 90 percent for Republicans. I think his favorability rate is in the high 40s.
Listen, I think we should pick and choose our spots when we really disagree. I think just being anti-Trump 24/7 is yesterday's news, and it's why he won every swing state. I think that the Democrats got to stand for something, and standing for something is really focused on inflation.
I think we should actually help pass a border deal and I think there's things that we could do together. I think there's a deal that could come tomorrow between dreamers and border security. The Democrats should have passed that in 2018.
So I think there's things we can do. I think with respect to what Clay is saying, I don't think that this is something that the federal government has already made its statement, the NCAA made its statement. I'm not sure that this is the Hill she should be climbing.
MACCALLUM: Yes, but she is right there at lunch with the governors at the White House. We see numbers from, I think Emerson about 48 percent approval for President Trump, CBS last week at 53 percent, so the numbers do remain to be holding up fairly well.
Robert Wolf, thank you very much. Good to have you with us. Clay Travis, great to see you on this Friday afternoon. Gentlemen, thank you very much.
So we've got some news coming up, Kash Patel is moments away from being sworn in as the FBI director of the United States. One of his top supporters, presidential envoy, Rick Grenell, joins us next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
MACCALLUM: So this weekend, services across the country will mark 80 years since the historic Battle of Iwo Jima. It was a grueling 36 day fight that claimed the lives of nearly 7,000 US marines. Five years ago, I had the privilege of speaking with some of those brave men who fought in that battle for the FOX Nation Special "Final Journey: A Story of Family, Courage and Sacrifice" which really takes you through the days of that battle.
That was our trip to Iwo Jima several years back when I was working on the book. And included in it is Medal of Honor recipient Woody Williams, who was a young man who was too short to make it into the recruiting the first time around. Then they needed to get more young men out to the battlefield, and so they brought Woody in.
And he ended up taking out seven Japanese defensive positions with his flamethrower. He was the last standing person in his group who still had the equipment to be able to take out these defensive positions, which he did on his own. He's a Medal of Honor recipient from World War II. He passed away in 2022.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
WOODY WILLIAMS, MEDAL OF HONOR RECIPIENT: We'd been there for two days, lost so many people. The commanding officer asked me, as the only flamethrower operator left, could I do something about some of these pillboxes that had installed. My remark was, I'll try.
So he told me to pick four Marines to help me. And I just said, you, you and you. There was just marines. Two of those Marines that day sacrificed their lives protecting mine. Never knew who they were, never did know a name. That impacted but loss is loss, and we sort of accept those things after a while.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: So Sunday marks 80 years since this iconic moment from the Battle of Iwo Jima when US marines raised the American flag on Mount Suribachi. The fighting was to go on for weeks after that.
But that was clearly an important moment in the fight. We honor all of those who fought, who lost their lives and all World War II heroes for their service and sacrifice. Many of them gathering in Arlington this weekend to remember these sacrifices, and to make sure that America does not forget the sacrifices of so many young men and women in World War II.
So here's a look at the White House. Any moment, Kash Patel, President Trump's pick to lead the FBI, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, which came after the president almost through his entire first term, will now have new leadership and he will be sworn into moments at the White House. Attorney General Pam Bondi will do the honors. Patel has promised an overhaul of the bureau and says he will put an end to political influence.
Senior White House correspondent Peter Doocy watching all this for us from the North Lawn. Hi, Peter.
PETER DOOCY, SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: And Howard Lutnick, critical because when President Trump talks about all these changes that they're making with DOGE, the cost cutting of the federal government is only a small piece of the president's plan. They also have to raise a lot of money with tariffs.
So Lutnick is the point man on that. He will be official any minute. We understand that the press pool just went into the Oval Office.
And something else that we can update you on from the top of the hour, I've been given an early copy of a release from the Education Department. Earlier today, we saw President Trump and the Maine governor squaring off, saying they would see each other in court because Maine is defying President Trump's new executive order on boys playing in girls sports at the high school level.
Well, I've just been given there is a new Title IX civil rights investigation that the Trump administration is launching against Maine. So President Trump was not lying when he said he will be seeing the Maine governor and her team in court over this. It says it is specifically because Greeley High School, a school under its jurisdiction, is continuing to allow at least one male student to compete in girls categories. Martha.
MACCALLUM: Well, she said we'll see you in court, and he made sure that she wouldn't have to wait too long. That is underway. Governor Mills in Vermont, we've seen some of the dangerous situations that have happened as a result of boys playing in girls sports, and the laws have changed on that in the United States of America.
The dangerous situations that have happened as a result of boys playing in girls sports and the laws have changed on that in the United States of America. Peter, thank you.
DOOCY: Yes. And if you're the main governor and you challenge the president, what do you think is going to happen?
MACCALLUM: Exactly. Peter thank you very much.

Load-Date: February 21, 2025


End of Document
