




The Guardian (London)
February 5, 2025 Wednesday 10:55 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved


Section: US NEWS; Version:28
Length: 7228 words
Byline: Robert Mackey (now); Chris Stein and Christy Cooney (earlier)
Highlight: Russell Vought, architect of hard-right Project 2025 manifesto, nominated by president to lead office of management and budgetMiddle East blog – latest updates
Body


block-time published-time 12.25am GMT 
 Republican senator subtweets Elon Musk. 
A rare note of criticism of Elon Musk’s role in tearing through federal agencies under the guise of “government efficiency” appeared on the billionaire’s own social media platform, X, on Wednesday.
“Efficiency in government should be a goal for every administration, agency, and federal employee”, Senator Lisa Murkowski, a Republican from Alaska   in a carefully worded post. “But how we achieve it also matters. By circumventing proper channels and procedures, and creating the potential to compromise the sensitive data of Americans, we create a tremendous amount of unnecessary anxiety. That is wrong. Good governance is based on trust, not fear”.
Although Murkowski did not refer to Musk or his “department of government efficiency” by name, her reference to the billionaire’s assault on the federal agencies was clear.
Before Musk bought Twitter and changed the platform’s name to X, users referred to posts there that criticized people without alerting them to the criticism through tagging as “   ”. Murkowski, who voted to impeach Donald Trump for his role in the January 6 attack on the Capitol, won reelection in 2022 over a Trump-backed challenger.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.26am GMT
block-time published-time 11.40pm GMT 
 Senate Democrats pledge to hold floor all night to oppose Russell Vought, Project 2025 author, as budget office director  
“Every single Senate Democrat will vote against Russell Vought, the Trump nominee for OMB and chief architect of the ultra-right Project 2025,” Senate minority leader Chuck Schumer .  “We are holding the floor of the United States Senate overnight to expose how Project 2025 is the Trump White House agenda.”
Pod Save America, the activist podcast run by former Obama aides, is running   of interviews with Senate Democrats through the night.
The move comes two days after Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez said in   that although “the Senate loves their gentlemen’s agreements” and unwritten rules of decorum, Democrats “have to stop playing nice in the Senate and block every damn thing”.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.55pm GMT
block-time published-time 11.01pm GMT 
 Before a dozen Republican senators were against USAid, they were for it. 
“I have been on USAid’s case for years now,” Senator Joni Ernst   on Tuesday. “Going back several years where I was trying to investigate the expenditures for humanitarian aid, primarily when it came to the war in Ukraine.”
But before Ernst, and several of her Republican colleagues in the Senate were against USAid, they were actually for it.
A review of two letters Ernst sent to Samantha Power, the administrator of the US Agency for International Development in 2022, co-signed by 11 current Republican senators, shows that their primary complaint was that the agency was not spending congressionally mandated funds quickly enough to support Ukraine and other countries that relied on Ukrainian grain shipments that had been disrupted.
In  , sent on 12 July 2022, Ernst urged USAid to “expedite the delivery of the nearly $10bn in emergency assistance” both to Ukraine and to nations in Africa, the Middle East and elsewhere where “hundreds of millions of people facing food insecurity due to Russia’s blockade of the Black Sea”.
In  , dated 9 September 2022, Ernst and her colleagues wrote that they were “worried” that “the American people’s generosity is not being properly and swiftly used to help Ukraine”.
Ernst is now head of the Senate “Doge Caucus”, formed to support what she calls the appropriately blunt “   ” Elon Musk’s “department of government efficiency” is using to dismantle USAid.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.22pm GMT
block-time published-time 10.30pm GMT 
 Despite a court order blocking Trump’s spending freeze, half of Virginia’s community health centers have been forced to stop providing certain services or close branches after being cut off from federal grant money. 
  :
The commonwealth has 31   with over   – a majority of which serve rural areas with limited access to medical care. Annually, about 400,000 Virginians rely on the care provided by these nonprofit, community-based centers, according to the Virginia Community Healthcare Association.
They provide primary health, dental, behavioral health, and pharmaceutical and substance abuse services to people with Medicaid or Medicare, the underinsured and the uninsured. They also treat those with private insurance on a sliding fee scale.
Since 28 January, 16 of the state’s FQHCs have been unable to access federal funding that allows them to pay employees, according to Joe Stevens, a VCHA spokesperson.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.30pm GMT
block-time published-time 9.29pm GMT 
 Trump signs executive order to bar transgender women from sports  
At a signing ceremony in the East Room of the White House, the president just signed   directing government officials to take steps to bar transgender women from competing in women’s sports competitions.
After making remarks to invited guests, including female athletes such as Riley Gaines, a former University of Kentucky swimmer who sued the NCAA for allowing transgender women to participate in college sports, Trump sat at a table surrounded by a group of young girls.
“I want to make this a really good signature, because this is a big one.” Trump told the children. “Oh, we have a 10,” he said, praising his own signature. “We have a 10!”
In  , Trump had praised the attractiveness of the female athletes in the room, referred to what h called “transgender lunacy” as “this absolutely ridiculous subject”, and said that the US would not stand by and “watch men beat and batter women” by allowing transgender women to compete.
The president also noted that the 2028 Summer Olympics will be held in Los Angeles, and said he had directed homeland security secretary Kristi Noem to deny entry to any trans women trying to enter the United States to compete in the games.
In his somewhat meandering comments, Trump also discussed his plan to build a ballroom in the White House modeled on the one at Mar-a-Lago, and welcomed representatives of Trump thanks Moms for Liberty – a conservative group that was   in 2023 when one of their chapters sent out a newsletter that quoted a remark made by Adolf Hitler at a Nazi rally in 1935: “He alone, who OWNS the youth, GAINS the future.”
 Related:  
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.33pm GMT
block-time published-time 8.54pm GMT 
 Democratic lawmakers have seized on Donald Trump’s dismantling of USAid as a way to rally their base after a disappointing performance in the November presidential election. 
But,  , not all in the party think the agency’s sudden destruction is the issue on which Democrats should make their stand:
When I asked veteran strategist David Axelrod whether Democrats were “walking into a trap” on defending foreign aid, he literally finished my sentence.
“My heart is with the people out on the street outside USAID, but my head tells me: ‘Man, Trump will be well-satisfied to have this fight,’” he said. “When you talk about cuts, the first thing people say is: Cut foreign aid.”
Rahm Emanuel – the former House leader, Chicago mayor and diplomat – told me much the same: “You don’t fight every fight. You don’t swing at every pitch. And my view is – while I care about the USAID as a former ambassador – that’s not the hill I’m going to die on,” he said.
Indeed, the president seems happy with the outrage generated by USAid’s closure, Politico added:
Musk himself spent the following 24 hours   of Democrats protesting the move.
“The federal bureaucracy is very unpopular. … It’s a pretty widely held, majority position – if you poll it, people think the government is wasting money. And, very simply, that’s the battle that we’re fighting,” one senior Trump administration official told me Tuesday. “The Democrats are now taking the opposite position: ‘Everything’s perfect.’ ‘Nothing to look at here.’ ‘No money is wasted.’ ‘All your tax dollars are being spent well.’”
“Not a very politically tenable position,” the person added.
Democratic senator Brian Schatz, however, disagreed, saying that what’s happening at USAid is a prelude of worse to come under Trump, Politico went on:
“People empowered by the president are violating federal law in multiple ways, taking over federal payments, illegally shutting down whole departments, freezing Head Start and Medicaid, and the best these podcasters can muster is that we should wait for a more popular program to defend? Spare me,” said Schatz, the top Democrat on the Senate Appropriations subcommittee overseeing USAID.
“The emergency is now. We need to act like it,” he added. “This isn’t about any particular program or the theater criticism that substitutes for strategy. This is about making sure these billionaires are not able to loot the federal government and strip it for parts.”
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.02pm GMT
block-time published-time 8.33pm GMT 
 Protesters rally against Trump's closure of USAid  
Protesters convened outside the Capitol earlier today to decry Donald Trump ’s move to dismantle USAid, which implements much of Washington’s foreign aid.
Democratic lawmakers addressed the crowd, including representative John Garamendi, who said:
He has absolutely no right in shutting down USAid. We cannot allow that. We’ve got to take to the streets. We’ve got to take to the rallies. We’ve got to fight back and we must resist every motion, every action by Musk and Trump to shut down this government.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.56pm GMT
block-time published-time 8.12pm GMT 
 Trump administration walks back president's comment about US taking over Gaza  
Top officials in Donald Trump ’s administration have walked back the president’s comments yesterday that US troops should deploy to the Gaza Strip and its residents should be dispersed to other countries.
White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt said that Trump “has not committed to putting boots on the grounds in Gaza”, while the secretary of state, Marco Rubio, said the president only wanted to offer US help to clean up war-ravaged parts of the territory.
We have a live blog covering the fallout from the president’s controversial comments, as well as the wider crisis in the Middle East, and you can follow it here:
 Related:  
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.55pm GMT
block-time published-time 7.51pm GMT 
 There’s a Trump in the White House, and, soon, there will be a Trump on Fox News. 
  that the president’s daughter-in-law, Lara Trump, is getting her own show on the right-leaning network. Trump has brought several personalities from Fox News into his administration, notably defense secretary Pete Hegseth, but the relative of a sitting president having their own show on a major television channel is unheard of.
Here’s more, from the Times:
“My View with Lara Trump,” expected to air on Saturdays at 9 p.m. Eastern, will include a mix of analysis and interviews with influential figures. The network is describing the show as focused on “the return of common sense to all corners of American life,” echoing a phrase, “common sense,” that the Trump administration has frequently deployed.
Ms. Trump, 42, who is married to the president’s son Eric, is no stranger to a television studio. She worked for several years as a producer on “Inside Edition,” and served as an on-air contributor to Fox News from March 2021 to December 2022.
“Lara was a total professional and a natural when she was with us years ago,” Suzanne Scott, the chief executive of Fox News Media, told The New York Times in a message on Wednesday. “She is very talented and is a strong, effective communicator with great potential as a host.”
Last year, at the urging of her father-in-law, Ms. Trump ran for and was elected co-chair of the Republican National Committee. She helped oversee the party’s finances, electoral operations and the nominating convention in Milwaukee. She stepped down from the role last month.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.10pm GMT
block-time published-time 7.36pm GMT 
 Trump called back security detail for former defense secretary despite Iran threats – report  
 Donald Trump ordered the withdrawal of the security detail of Mark Esper, his former defense secretary during his first term, . 
Esper has since faced threats from Iran over the 2020 assassination of general Qassem Suleimani. Despite that, Trump ordered the withdrawal of security details from a small number of his former administration officials after he was sworn in again last month, including Esper.
Here’s more, from the Times:
It was not immediately clear when Mr. Esper’s security detail was called off. A White House spokesman and a Pentagon official did not immediately comment. Mr. Esper declined to comment.
Mr. Esper is the latest former senior U.S. official to have his security detail pulled since Mr. Trump, who has also faced threats from Iran, took office. Pentagon officials last week removed Mr. Esper’s portrait as secretary of the Army.
Within hours of his inauguration, Mr. Trump began to systematically pull security details from nearly a half-dozen people who had served in his first term. The U.S. intelligence community has said Iran has sought revenge against American officials involved in the drone strike that killed Iran’s Gen. Qassim Suleimani in early January 2020.
Mr. Esper was protected by federal officials because of ongoing threats from Iran. Four other officials from Mr. Trump’s first administration facing Iranian threats also had their details pulled. The others are: John R. Bolton, Mr. Trump’s third national security adviser; Mike Pompeo, the former secretary of state; Brian Hook, one of Mr. Pompeo’s top aides and a specialist on Iran; and the retired Gen. Mark A. Milley, who Mr. Trump picked to be chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
Those security details were provided by the Biden administration based on assessments from the intelligence community that the threats from Iran were ongoing and credible. The Biden administration had briefed the incoming Trump administration about the threats.
Mr. Trump also pulled protection from Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the infectious diseases doctor who had advised the White House on its response to the coronavirus pandemic, and who has become a target among Mr. Trump’s supporters.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.10pm GMT
block-time published-time 7.18pm GMT 
Donald Trump’s shocking proposal to put the United States in charge of the Gaza Strip has managed to rattle even some of his staunchest supporters in Congress, the Guardian’s   reports:
From “problematic” to “a couple of kinks in that Slinky” to “a bit of a stretch”, reaction from   who weighed in on   proposal to   was mixed on Wednesday, while some senior party leaders gave their blessing.
Some of the strongest criticism came from Rand Paul, the Kentucky senator who posted his opposition to the president’s plan on X on Wednesday morning.
“The pursuit for peace should be that of the Israelis and the Palestinians. I thought we voted for America First,” . 
“We have no business contemplating yet another occupation to doom our treasure and spill our soldiers’ blood.”
His comments contradicted those of Mike Johnson, the House speaker, who said he was backing Trump’s proposal.
“We’re trying to get the details of it but I think this is a good development,” he told Manu Raju, CNN’s chief congressional congressional correspondent.
“We have to back Israel 100%. So whatever form that takes, we’re interested in having that discussion. It’s a surprising development, but I think it’s one that we’ll applaud.”
Paul’s critical comments were an outlier among Republicans, although Lindsey Graham, the South Carolina senator, said he foresaw issues if Trump moved ahead with his declared intention of making   “the Riviera of the Middle East”, and sending US troops to secure the war-torn territory “if it’s necessary”.
“We’ll see what our Arab friends say about that,” Graham said, . 
“I think most South Carolinians would probably not be excited about sending Americans to take over Gaza. I think that might be problematic, but I’ll keep an open mind.”
He said Gaza “would be a tough place to be stationed as an American”.
 Related:  
block-time published-time 6.44pm GMT 
 A US judge has blocked federal prisons from transferring transgender women to men’s facilities, halting one of Trump’s first executive orders seeking to erode trans rights behind bars.  
In a lawsuit filed by three incarcerated trans women challenging Trump’s anti-trans order, US district judge Royce Lamberth in Washington ruled late Tuesday that the US Bureau of Prisons must “maintain and continue the plaintiffs’ housing status and medical care as they existed immediately prior to January 20”. The president’s day-one order had also directed federal prisons and detention centers to deny gender-affirming healthcare to trans people in custody. 
The judge said the trans women had “straightforwardly demonstrated that irreparable harm will follow” if they are denied healthcare and forced into men’s institutions. US officials “have not so much as alleged that the plaintiffs in this particular suit present any threat to the female inmates housed with them”, the judge added. The family of one plaintiff said . 
The judge said there were only sixteen trans women housed in women’s facilities, and the ruling .  Last week, trans women across US prisons   following Trump’s order, reporting that they were placed in solitary confinement awaiting transfers, losing access to healthcare and being harassed and taunted by guards: 
block-time published-time 6.13pm GMT 
 The day so far  
 Donald Trump will this afternoon again turn the focus of his barrage of executive orders towards LGBTQ rights, with   intended to prevent transgender athletes from playing in women’s sports. His administration is also looking at   for “fraud”, while the Human Rights Campaign advocacy group warns the new order   with “harassment and discrimination”. On Capitol Hill, Republican House speaker Mike Johnson said   dismantling the department of education, while the president of the largest federal employees union   that Trump has launched “the biggest assault” on the government workforce in its history.
Here’s what else has happened today:
Pam Bondi  as attorney general, and told Trump, “I will make you proud”.Trump’s attempt to end birthright citizenship   in federal court, with a judge issuing an indefinite nationwide injunction on the president’s executive order.Emil Bove, a former Trump attorney who is now a top justice department official,   over his request for the names of every FBI agent who worked on January 6 cases.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.38pm GMT
block-time published-time 5.51pm GMT 
 Top justice department official says targeting only FBI agents who 'acted with corrupt or partisan intent' in January 6 cases  
A top justice department official has tempered a memo perceived as launching a retaliation campaign against FBI agents who worked on January 6 cases, saying only those who “acted with corrupt or partisan intent” could face penalties.
 Emil Bove, a former lawyer for Donald Trump who is now the acting deputy attorney general, last week asked the FBI to   of all agents who worked on the prosecutions of rioters who stormed the Capitol. The request   from two groups of bureau employees to attempt to stop the sharing of the information.
In an email today, Bove said he requested the full list of employees because the FBI’s leadership refused his request to identify “the core team in Washington DC” who handled the prosecutions. 
“The purpose of the requests was to permit the Justice Department to conduct a review of those particular agents’ conduct pursuant to President Trump’s Executive Order concerning weaponization in the prior administration,” Bove said, adding that because of “that insubordination”, he opted to request a list of all FBI agents who worked on January 6 related cases.
Bove then said:
Let me be clear: No FBI employee who simply followed orders and carried out their duties in an ethical manner with respect to January 6 investigations is at risk of termination or other penalties. The only individuals who should be concerned about the process initiated by my January 31, 2025 memo are those who acted with corrupt or partisan intent, who blatantly defied orders from Department leadership, or who exercised discretion in weaponizing the FBI.
However, he did not specify what “weaponizing” means, and it is unclear at this time whether FBI agents who were zealous or aggressive with their January 6 cases will run afoul of that criteria. Bove’s email was supposed to calm anxiety but instead provided few answers.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 6.02pm GMT
block-time published-time 5.25pm GMT 
 Largest federal union warns Trump is attempting to 'destroy' government  
The leader of the largest union for federal employees has warned a congressional committee that Donald Trump ’s campaign to dramatically downsize the government amounts to “the biggest assault” on its workforce in American history.
“In just the past week, we have seen the administration issue a legally dubious policy to drain departments and agencies of experienced and dedicated professionals, clearly with the objective of crippling the ability of federal agencies to do their jobs and setting them up to fail in the eyes of the American taxpayer. What is happening today is not a drive to streamline government but to destroy it,” Everett Kelley, national president of the American Federation of Government Employees, said in a statement submitted today to the House oversight committee, which is holding a hearing focusing on Trump’s government reform campaign.
Kelley pointed to Trump’s order to   in a way that will make them easier to fire, calling it “the biggest assault on the federal workforce in American history.”
“Make no mistake about it: if the assault that the Trump Administration initiated last month continues unchallenged, every member of Congress will soon hear from angry or confused constituents about why their VA claims have not been processed or why their Social Security retirement benefits have not been delivered,” Kelley said.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 5.40pm GMT
block-time published-time 5.00pm GMT 
 Pam Bondi sworn in as attorney general  
 Pam Bondi has been sworn in as attorney general by supreme court justice Clarence Thomas in an Oval Office ceremony.
 Donald Trump was also in attendance.
In brief remarks after she took the oath, Bondi told Trump:
I will not let you down. I am truly honored, honored, that you have asked me to take on this role, and I will make you proud and I will make this country proud.
…
I will restore integrity to the Justice Department and I will fight violent crime throughout this country and throughout this world, and make America safe again.
block-time published-time 4.42pm GMT 
 Second federal judge blocks Trump from ending birthright citizenship  
 Donald Trump ’s executive order curtailing birthright citizenship has been blocked by a second federal judge, Reuters reports.
Maryland-based district judge Deborah Boardman  issued a nationwide injunction against the executive order Trump signed shortly after taking office, which will go into effect 19 February. The judge ruled in favor of two immigrant rights groups as well was five pregnant women who had argued their children would be unconstitutionally denied citizenship.
“Today, virtually every baby born on US soil is a US citizen upon birth,” said Boardman, an appointee of Joe Biden. “That is the law and tradition of our country. That law and tradition are and will remain the status quo pending the resolution of this case.”
Her decision came after a similar injunction was handed down by a federal judge in Seattle, just days after Trump signed the order:
 Related:  
block-time published-time 4.22pm GMT 
 In theory, House Republicans have a quick way to abolish the department of education: they could pass   congressman Thomas Massie has introduced to do just that. 
But in practice, that legislation is almost certain not get the 60 votes needed to overcome an inevitable Democratic filibuster in the Senate, and it remains to be seen if it could even get through the House, where the GOP currently cannot afford a single defection on its bills.
What’s more likely to happen is that Donald Trump will attempt to abolish the department by executive order, triggering a court fight over whether he can actually do that. Here’s more about what we know about his plans:
 Related:  
block-time published-time 4.02pm GMT 
 Republican House speaker Johnson backs dismantling education department  
 Mike Johnson, the Republican speaker of the House of Representatives, said his lawmakers would support dismantling the department of education.
 Donald Trump signaled he supported the idea yesterday, saying, “What I want to do is let the states run schools.”
At a press conference today, Johnson was asked if he would support passing a law to codify the department’s abolition, if Trump were to have it closed by executive order. “I think that is an idea whose time has come,” Johnson replied. 
“Like everything else, you gotta wait for more details to be laid out, but you’re going to see a lot of support among House and I think Senate Republicans for the general idea of pushing the decisions down, back down to the local level. I think that’s something that would serve us all well.”
block-time published-time 3.41pm GMT 
 Beyond targeting transgender athletes who play women’s sports, Donald Trump has also attempted to prevent hospitals across the United States from offering gender-affirming care to transgender youth. 
Yesterday, the American Civil Liberties Union announced it would sue over Trump’s executive order, even as hospitals across the country announced they were suspending the treatments. Here’s more on that:
 Related:  
block-time published-time 3.20pm GMT 
 Rights group warns Trump's anti-transgender athlete order threatens young people with 'harassment and discrimination'  
LGTBQ advocacy group the Human Rights Campaign has warned that the executive order Donald Trump will sign today meant to stop transgender athletes from participating in women’s sports could create a hostile environment for students nationwide.
“We all want sports to be fair, students to be safe, and young people to have the opportunity to participate alongside their peers,” the group’s president Kelley Robinson . 
She continued:
But an attempted blanket ban deprives kids of those things. This order could expose young people to harassment and discrimination, emboldening people to question the gender of kids who don’t fit a narrow view of how they’re supposed to dress or look. And it comes at a time when the Trump Administration continues to distract and divide the country, handing the keys to the federal government to unelected billionaires and refusing to address urgent issues that the country is facing. Participating in sports is about learning the values of teamwork, dedication, and perseverance. And for so many students, sports are about finding somewhere to belong. We should want that for all kids – not partisan policies that make life harder for them.
block-time published-time 2.59pm GMT 
  has more details on “Keeping Men Out of Women’s Sports,” the executive order that Donald Trump will sign this afternoon targeting transgender athletes in women’s sports: 
The order, titled “Keeping Men Out of Women’s Sports,” sources said, will mandate immediate enforcement, including against schools and athletic associations that “deny women single-sex sports and single-sex locker rooms,” according to the document, and will direct state attorneys general to identify best practices for enforcing the mandate.
The White House expects sports bodies like the NCAA to change their rules in accordance with the order once it is signed, according to a senior administration official.
“We’re a national governing body and we follow federal law,” NCAA President Charlie Baker told Republican senators at a hearing in December. “Clarity on this issue at the federal level would be very helpful.”
…
“We want to take actions to affirmatively protect women’s sports,” deputy assistant to the president and senior policy strategist May Mailman told ABC News, who said that the executive order is designed to further overturn Biden-era policies that required schools and athletic organizations to treat gender identity and sex as equivalent. She noted that a court ruling determined such requirements were not necessary, and that the president’s executive order would explicitly ban them.
block-time published-time 2.41pm GMT 
 Trump administration to review transgender visa applicants for 'fraud'  
As part of its campaign against transgender athletes, the Trump administration plans to review visa applications from transgender people for “fraud”, Reuters reports.
Citing a White House official, Reuters also reports that the education department will also investigate the implementation of Title IX, the federal law that prevents sex discrimination at schools.
block-time published-time 2.21pm GMT 
The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and Department of Commerce appear to be the next targets of Elon Musk’s “department of government efficiency”, the Guardian’s   reports:
Staffers with Elon Musk’s “department of government efficiency” (Doge)   entered the headquarters of the   (Noaa) in Silver Spring, Maryland, and the Department of Commerce in Washington DC today, inciting concerns of downsizing at the agency.
“They apparently just sort of walked past security and said: ‘Get out of my way,’ and they’re looking for access for the IT systems, as they have in other agencies,” said Andrew Rosenberg, a former Noaa official who is now a fellow at the University of New Hampshire. “They will have access to the entire computer system, a lot of which is confidential information.”
 , written by several former Trump staffers, has called for the agency to be “broken up and downsized”, claiming the agency is “harmful to US prosperity” for its role in climate science.
Rosenberg noted it had been a   of corporations that rely on Noaa data to prevent the agency from making the data public, instead of giving it directly to private corporations that create products based on it, such as weather forecasting services.
He also argued there was no legal authority to abolish Noaa or reduce its budget, outside of reducing it through Congress.
“There’s no real transparency. They just show up wherever they want, do whatever they want. They’re following through on major budget cuts and major staffing cuts,” Rosenberg added. “I think the strategy here is: ‘Well, we’re just going to do it and dare somebody to stop us, and by the time they stop us, we’ll have destroyed it.’”
 Related:  
block-time published-time 2.03pm GMT 
 Trump to sign executive order targeting transgender athletes in women's sports  
 Donald Trump will sign an executive order to prevent transgender athletes from competing in women’s sports at 3pm today, the White House said.
Dubbed “No Men in Women’s Sports”, the order will change how the administration interprets Title IX, a civil rights law that addresses sex discrimination at schools that receive federal funding, including in athletics.
After finding success in his presidential campaign by attacking transgender rights, Trump moved swiftly to roll back federal protections for the group after being sworn in. Here’s more on that:
 Related:  
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.27pm GMT
block-time published-time 1.41pm GMT 
 Trump to meet with California governor, Democratic rival Gavin Newsom  
 Donald Trump is scheduled to meet at the White House today with Gavin Newsom, the Democratic California governor who is thought to have presidential aspirations.
Newsom is a rival of Trump’s, and the president has in the past taken to referring to him as “Newscum”, though he has more recently held off on that after the Los Angeles area was struck by deadly and destructive wildfires. 
Newsom is expected to discuss the possibility of federal aid to help southern California recover during his behind-closed-doors meeting with the president, which is scheduled for 4pm ET. One wonders if Trump might also raise his proposal floated yesterday to investigate the slow-moving project to build a high-speed rail line connecting Los Angeles and San Francisco.
block-time published-time 1.20pm GMT 
 US Postal Service resumes receiving packages from China and Hong Kong  
The US Postal Service now says it will take packages coming to the United States from China and Hong Kong, in a reversal of a policy it had announced just hours prior following Donald Trump’s tariffs on Beijing.
“Effective February 5, 2025, the Postal Service will continue accepting all international inbound mail and packages from China and Hong Kong Posts. The USPS and Customs and Border Protection are working closely together to implement an efficient collection mechanism for the new China tariffs to ensure the least disruption to package delivery,” USPS said on its website.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 6.08pm GMT
block-time published-time 1.02pm GMT 
 David Lammy, the UK foreign secretary, has made clear that the UK does not agree with Donald Trump’s proposal to remove Palestinians from Gaza and put the territory under US control, though stopped short of criticising the US president’s plan. 
Asked whether the policy would be a breach of international law at a press conference in Ukrainian capital Kyiv on Wednesday, Lammy began by praising Trump for wanting to rebuild Gaza.
“Donald Trump is right,” Lammy said. “Looking at those scenes, Palestinians who have been horrendously displaced over so many months of war, it is clear that Gaza is lying in rubble.”
But he added: “We have always been clear in our view that we must see two states and we must see Palestinians able to live and prosper in their homelands in Gaza, in the West Bank. That is what we want to get to.”
 Read the full story here: 
 Related:  
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.33pm GMT
block-time published-time 12.46pm GMT 
 Bondi to begin first day as attorney general after Senate approval  
 The new US attorney general, Pam Bondi, is set to begin her first day on the job after being approved by the US Senate on Tuesday. 
Bondi, a strong Trump ally, graduated in 1987 from the University of Florida and earned her law degree in 1990 from Stetson University.
She was a county prosecutor in Florida before successfully running for Florida attorney general in 2010.
The justice department has already made sweeping personnel changes to senior leadership positions since Trump’s White House return.
Last week, at the direction of the president himself, it fired the prosecutors who worked on the criminal cases brought against him in recent years.
Bondi is widely expected to order a review of the more than 1,500 criminal cases brought in connection to the 6 January attack on the US Capitol,  , citing a person familiar with the matter.
During her confirmation hearing, Bondi insisted the justice department would remain independent and continue a policy that restricts interactions with the White House.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.24pm GMT
block-time published-time 12.20pm GMT 
 The US Postal Service has suspended incoming parcels from China and Hong Kong until further notice, the latest escalation of a growing trade war between the US and China. 
The service did not give a reason for the suspension, but the Trump administration has already imposed sweeping tariffs on goods from China and eliminated duty-free exemptions for low-value parcels.
In 2023, a US government report said 30% of small packages coming into the US were  , Shein and Temu. The USPS declined to answer further questions.
Foreign ministry spokesman Lin Jian called on the US to “stop the unreasonable suppression of Chinese companies”.
Trump earlier signalled that talks with his Chinese counterpart, Xi Jinping, could take place this week, but speaking on Tuesday he said he was in “no rush” to speak with him.
 Read the full story here: 
 Related:  
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.54pm GMT
block-time published-time 11.58am GMT 
 Here’s more on the latest remarks from China responding to the 10% tariffs imposed on all Chinese goods by the Trump administration. 
Foreign ministry spokesman Lin Jian said China “expresses strong dissatisfaction and resolute opposition” to the tariffs.
He also called for “fair and mutually respectful dialogue and consultations”.
Beijing has already introduced retaliatory tariffs on a range of US goods, including a 15% tax on coal and liquified natural gas from the US as well as a 10% tax on agricultural machinery and some vehicles.
“The measures taken by China are necessary to safeguard its legitimate rights and interests,” Lin said.
“There are no winners in a trade war or a tariff war.”
Today, the US Postal Service has also suspended all incoming parcels from China and Hong Kong until further notice. More on that in the next post. 
block-time published-time 11.36am GMT 
 Trump calls for 'verified peace agreement' with Iran  
Donald Trump has called for a “verified peace agreement” with Iran that would allow the country to “peacefully grow and prosper”.
“I want Iran to be a great and successful Country, but one that cannot have a Nuclear Weapon,” he said on his Truth Social platform.
“Reports that the United States, working in conjunction with Israel, is going to blow Iran into smithereens, ARE GREATLY EXAGGERATED.”
Ahead of a meeting with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, Trump signed a memorandum restoring his “maximum pressure” campaign on Iran, which includes efforts to drive the country’s oil exports to zero to discourage it from obtaining a nuclear weapon.
Trump continued: “I would much prefer a Verified Nuclear Peace Agreement, which will let Iran peacefully grow and prosper.
“We should start working on it immediately, and have a big Middle East Celebration when it is signed and completed. God Bless the Middle East!”
During his first term, Trump withdrew the US from the Iran nuclear deal, which had been agreed with Iran by the US, the UK, France, China, Russia, and the EU.
The deal limited Iran’s nuclear programme in return for the lifting of sanctions, but faced widespread opposition on the American right.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 5.17pm GMT
block-time published-time 11.10am GMT 
 More now on those reports that the Trump administration has offered the entire staff of the CIA a payoff if they quit their jobs. 
A spokesperson told CNN the decision was taken to “ensure the CIA workforce is responsive to the administration’s national security priorities” and that it was “part of a holistic strategy to infuse the agency with renewed energy”.
The White House last week offered two million civilian full-time federal workers an opportunity to stop working this week and receive pay and benefits through 30 September.
Including the   in that programme seems to have been a recent decision taken personally by the CIA’s director, John Ratcliffe, CNN reported.
The agency has also frozen the hiring of job applicants already given a conditional offer, the WSJ . 
 Read the full story here: 
 Related:  
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.56pm GMT
block-time published-time 10.55am GMT 
 Opening summary: CIA staff 'offered payoffs to quit' as China warns of 'no winners' in trade war  
Good morning and welcome to our US politics blog. Early news is being dominated by Donald Trump’s claim that the US could “take over” Gaza and Palestinians should move to neighbouring countries.
His comments have sparked condemnation at home and abroad and you can follow developments in our Middle East blog here:
 Related:  
But there is plenty of other news for us to follow today, including reports that the CIA has offered its entire staff a payoff to quit as part of Trump’s purge of federal government.
 , the Wall Street Journal and CNN have reported.
The US spy agency is also freezing the hiring of job applicants already given a conditional offer, the WSJ  , quoting an aide to CIA director John Ratcliffe.
The aide, not named in the report, said some of those frozen offers were likely to be rescinded if the applicants did not have the right background for the agency’s new goals, which include targeting drug cartels, Trump’s trade war and undermining China.
In other China news, the country’s foreign ministry has expressed “strong dissatisfaction and resolute opposition” to the 10% tariffs Trump has imposed on all Chinese goods. Spokesman Lin Jian called for “fair and mutually respectful dialogue” and said there were “no winners in a trade war or a tariff war”.
And a federal judge in Maryland is due to hear arguments in a case brought by immigrant rights group seeking to pause Donald Trump’s executive order ending the right to citizenship for anyone born in the US.
The plaintiffs argue that the principle of birthright citizenship is a “foundation of our national democracy… and has shaped a shared sense of national belonging for generation after generation of citizens”.
Stay with us for more on all that and the latest developments throughout the day.

Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
