




Oklahoma Daily: University of Oklahoma Norman Campus
February 19, 2025 Wednesday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 697 words
Byline: Barbara Hoberock, Oklahoma Voice
Body


OKLAHOMA CITY - A Senate panel on Wednesday advanced a bill that would bar mandatory diversity, equity and inclusion programs in state agencies despite concerns it could have unintended consequences.
Senate Bill 1006 would give the Oklahoma Attorney General the power to investigate alleged infractions.
State funded agencies found to be in violation shall have state appropriations reduced by 1%. Unappropriated agencies would be required to increase deposits to the state's General Revenue Fund by 1%.
Independent local journalism for OU and Norman since 1916
Students pay about $14 in annual fees that support the Daily. If you are not a student and find value in our work, please match or exceed that if you can.
MAKE A ONE-TIME OR RECURRING DONATION
Sen. Mary Boren (D-Norman) said the measure could bar programs that seek to attract women to aviation, help a person with a disability get a job or allow a popular campus Christian music festival.
She said she could see student groups being eliminated just to avoid a 1% fine.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
"DEI actually takes us away from that concept of merit based and this is returning us back to that sanity of merit based," said Sen. David Bullard (R-Durant) the measure's author.
DEI dictates that hiring and scholarships be given out based on disability, race or sex instead of merit, Bullard said.
Top stories
Proposed development in North Norman to be considered by planning commission, hold resident meeting
OU Phi Gamma Delta chapter signs agreement with OU to resume limited activities after suspension
Stephen Tyler Holman defeats Larry Heikkila, Riley Mulinix for Norman mayor
Oklahoma softball defeats Baylor 8-0, sweeps Getterman Classic behind perfect pitching from Sam Landry
Oklahoma women's gymnastics loses 198.050-197.675 to No. 2 Louisiana State University
All people are equal under the law, he said.
He said the measure is aimed at not forcing people to participate in DEI programs that are taxpayer funded.
Senate Minority Leader Julia Kirt (D-Oklahoma City) asked if the measure would preclude special treatment for someone who has athletic ability or talents.
"I think what we're looking at here is something we've seen again and again, which is that each year, the majority party picks a new buzzword or concept to blame and causes chaos around rather than solving real problems for the state and for the nation," Kirt said. "DEI is just the latest fabricated distraction to pit us against each other and take away from real issues."
The bill comes after Gov. Kevin Stitt and President Donald Trump both issued executive orders banning it, Bullard said.
The bill passed by a vote of 6-2 and heads to the full Senate.
Oklahoma Voice is an affiliate of States Newsroom, a nation 501(c)(3) nonprofit supported by grants and donations focused on delivering state government news. The Voice maintains full editorial independence. For more stories by Oklahoma Voice go to oklahomavoice.com.
Latest news multimedia
OU's Norman campus will close Thursday, with classes held online and work completed remotely
Dangerous cold sets in as OU moves classes online for second day in a row
OU's Norman campus closes Wednesday
Conditions deteriorating as ice storm impacts OU's campus
OU announces online classes and remote learning for Tuesday
Newsletters
Success! An email has been sent to with a link to confirm list signup.
Error! There was an error processing your request.
OU and Norman headlines
Breaking + Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
OU sports headlines
Breaking + Wednesday, Friday, Sunday
You must select at least one email list.
Please enter a valid email address.
Sign up
Manage your lists

Load-Date: February 19, 2025


End of Document
