




States News Service
February 26, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 States News Service
Length: 2542 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


The following information was released by Maryland Senator Chris Van Hollen:
Americans are witnessing, in real time, the great betrayal. Trump campaigned on lowering prices and looking out for working families. And while this should not come as a surprise, he is doing the exact opposite prices are rising while he and Musk have launched an all-out, illegal assault on federal workers and important public services that benefit the American people. Their lawbreaking spree has nothing to do with making government more efficient and everything to do with making government an instrument to serve the very powerful while hacking away at public programs to help pay for tax cuts for the ultra-rich at the expense of everyone else.
I am doing everything I can to keep you updated on the flood of events imperiling our democracy as well as my efforts to confront them. Two weeks ago, Senator Alsobrooks and I hosted a telephone town hall that was joined by over 17,000 Marylanders.And you can access my earlier urgent e-newsletters here, here, and here. Today, I'm hosting a meeting with my Team Maryland democratic colleagues and leaders from our federal employee unions including AFGE, NTEU, and IFPTE as well as experts from Democracy Forward, who are leading many of the legal fights against the Trump-Musk actions.You can watch a livestream of that meeting here.
Over the last week, the Trump Administration has stepped up its illegal actions against federal employees, firing thousands of "probationary employees" a designation not based on performance, but rather for employees who are newer to their roles or were recently promoted. They fired maintenance mechanics at the Federal Aviation Administration and National Park Service employees who maintain our parks. They fired federal employees responding to the bird flu, working on nuclear weapons, and operating a suicide hotline for veteransthen scrambled to hire some of them back. These across-the-board, indiscriminate, sweeping firings not only harm our dedicated public servants they also undermine the federal government's ability to deliver important services to all Americans. This is not efficiencyit's idiocy, and it's illegal.
Federal employees, including probationary employees, have due process rights. Federal employees may be laid off due to poor performance or misconduct, but not summarily fired without recourse. Many federal employees are receiving notices that they are being fired for performance reasons even when they have received glowing performance reviews. In other words, Musk and his stooges are LYING. That is why, as discussed below, it is important for federal employees to hold on to a copy of your performance reviews and other key documents.
If you or someone you know has been impacted by these illegal firings, you can share that information with us here.
We are fighting this illegal power grab by Trump and Musk at every juncture in the courts, in the Congress, and in communities across America. Below, I will update you on our efforts in each of these three arenas, followed by a section with tips and resources for federal employees.
Fight in the Courts
The framers of the Constitution intentionally formed our democracy to prevent the president from becoming a king by creating a system of checks and balances with three independent and co-equal branches of government. Trump and Musk are hacking away at that constitutional architecture, and we face a clear and present danger to our democracy and the rule of law.
Unfortunately, both the Senate and the House are controlled by Republican majorities who refuse to stand up to Donald Trump or Elon Musk. Democrats in Congress must use every tool we have to slow down and stop the lawbreaking by Trump/Musk, but at this moment our first line of defense is the courts. That is why, in the face of the flood of illegal actions, we have witnessed a surge of lawsuits, and many federal judges have issued injunctions and temporary restraining orders (TROs) against the Trump/Musk actions.
I have spent countless hours on the phone with the lawyers and organizations who are filing these lawsuits, as well as with whistleblowers willing to shine a light on the illegal actions committed by Musk and his DOGE goons raiding federal agencies. I have also been in regular touch with organizations whose federal funds were illegally halted. And I salute all those federal employees who have refused to obey blatantly illegal orders.
For now, judges have handed down temporary restraining orders on Trump's attempts to freeze federal funding for our communities and have also ordered that existing contracts be honored, including USAID contracts and other projects overseas. These emergency pauses are crucial to limiting damage while these cases work their way through the courts.
There are also 12 different lawsuits trying to stop Elon Musk and his DOGE goons from ransacking federal agencies including the Treasury, the Department of Education, and the Social Security Administration and seizing access to your most sensitive personal data. While these cases are being argued, on Friday, a judge enjoined the Treasury Department from granting DOGE access to any payment record, payment systems, or any other data systems containing personally identifiable information and/or confidential financial information of payees. And on Monday, Judge Boardman in Maryland blocked DOGE from accessing OPM records on federal employees and student borrower data from the Department of Education.
While a court briefly halted Elon Musk's "Fork in the Road" offer to federal workers with a temporary restraining order, that order was later rescinded on purely procedural grounds and the underlying issue has yet to be adjudicated. Similarly, a federal judge refrained from halting the firing of probationary employees BUT the decision was not based on the merits of the case itself but on the finding that the federal courts are not the appropriate venue for initiating those kinds of claims. Additionally, a first-of-its-kind class action suit brought on behalf of probationary employees has been filed with the Office of Special Counsel a critical watchdog that helps protect federal employees and whistleblowers to reinstate those laid-off employees. Importantly for that case, on Friday night, the Supreme Court declined to reverse a ruling that put a temporary hold on Trump's efforts to fire the head of the U.S. Office of Special Counsel, Hampton Dellinger. Special Counsel Dellinger has now issued a petition to the Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB) to request a stay on the probationary firing decisions for the case's named employees on the basis that Trump's removals of these federal employees were illegal. If upheld by the MSPB, this will set an important precedent for the handling of these firings and also may be able to extend to the entire class of similarly situated employees.
Multiple federal judges have also placed nationwide stays on the Trump Executive Order that sought to overturn the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution, which grants citizenship to persons born in the United States. And on Friday, another federal judge in Maryland placed a nationwide stay on the enforcement of the Trump executive order that terminated all DEI-related grants or contracts on the grounds that the order was unconstitutionally vague and a violation of the plaintiffs' free speech rights. Another federal judge in Maryland issued a TRO against the Trump Administration's executive order regarding gender-affirming care.
In Congress, especially as the minority party, we are not able to bring cases to court directly, but we are helping however we can. I joined an amicus brief filed in support of a case brought by eight inspectors general (IGs) the people who blow the whistle on waste, fraud, and abuse at federal agencies who Trump illegally fired in the first days of his term. Firing the IGs is part of the Trump-Musk plan to shut down transparency and get rid of the watchdogs who could hold them accountable for corruption and lawbreaking.
These court decisions are having an impact. Musk has responded by calling for the impeachment of judges who hold him and Trump accountable. Trump and Vance have both suggested that they are not bound by court decisions. These dangerous ravings pose a threat to our entire democracy. Federal judges must be ready and willing to issue contempt citations and sanctions against Musk or Trump officials if they intentionally defy court orders, and every member of Congress should back them up.
Fight in the Congress
While there are significant limitations to being in the minority in Congress, Democrats must stand up against Trump's agenda and sound the alarm about the threat that Trump-Musk pose to our Constitution, country, and communities. The Senate should not conduct "business as usual," and I'm committed to voting NO on Trump's dangerous nominees. Together, we're working to block Trump's appointments for as long as we can hold the Senate Floor by objecting to unanimous consent requests that would allow nominees to be confirmed faster. Ultimately, however, Republicans have a 53 to 47 majority in the Senate, so we need at least four of their votes to block unqualified and dangerous nominations.
In the coming weeks, Congressional Republicans will try to enact their and Trump's #1 goal: a giant tax giveaway for corporations and the ultra-wealthy at the expense of all Americans. In the Senate, that process, called budget reconciliation, began last week with consideration of a Republican budget resolution to pave the way for trillions in cuts to programs like Medicare, Medicaid, and food and nutrition programs for kids. Last Wednesday, I went to the Senate floor to sound the alarm about their unfolding plan. All Thursday night and until 4:50 AM Friday morning, Senate Democrats held debate open, spending 10 hours offering amendments to bring down costs of housing and groceries, protect vital services from cuts, and stop tax giveaways to billionaires. I offered an amendment to protect school lunch and breakfast programs. Republicans blocked every one of our amendments. They are setting the stage to take from middle-class and lower-income Americans in order to fund tax breaks for the ultra-rich, while they also add to the deficit and debt. Today, the House is scheduled to consider the House Republican version of the budget resolution. Every House Democrat has committed to voting against it.
While Republicans passed their budgetresolution in the Senate on a party-line vote, we will keep fighting them every step of the way. Remember, the last time Trump was in the White House, he and the Republicans, who then also controlled both the House and Senate from 2017 through 2019, tried to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA). They got the ACA repeal through the House, but it failed by ONE vote in the Senate. We prevailed in that case because of the huge surge of public opinion against destroying Obamacare. That victory is an important reminder of the power of mobilizing public opinion, and I turn to that next.
Fight in our Communities
All across the country, patriots are alarmed by the threat to our republic and our communities and they're fighting back.
Together, we're standing up against the illegal actions of Trump and Musk. On President's Day, I joined hundreds of Marylanders in Annapolis to speak out against the executive overreach of this Administration. On Wednesday, at the Department of Health and Human Services, I stood alongside medical researchers to show the harm being done by the Administration's freeze on certain lifesaving medical research at the National Institutes of Health and the unilateral changes they want to make that would cripple the work being conducted at key universities, including in Maryland. Last Thursday, I spoke alongside veterans, employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and union members about the harm the Trump/Musk cuts at the VA are doing to our veterans and those who serve them.
Trump and Musk are counting on Americans feeling hopeless and falling silent. We must not and will not allow that to happen.
Tips for Federal Employees and Resources for Those Who Have Been Harmed by Trump-Musk Actions
While the actions taken by the Trump Administration are an unprecedented and unconscionable assault on the federal civil service, federal employees have rights and avenues for legal recourse. Click here to learn more. If you need help from my team, you can fill out this form or call my Rockville office at 301-545-1500.
You should also consider the following tips*:
1. Keep a record of everything, including hard copies of performance reviews, SF-50s, and years of service.
2. Consult with your supervisors for guidance when you receive an order or request from outside your agency, such as a directive from OPM.
3. Pursue legal advice from an attorney specializing in federal employee law or from your union.
4. File a complaint if you are targeted. If you are a current or former federal employee or applicant, you may have a right to file a complaint with the Office of Special Counsel (OSC) or an appeal with the Merit Systems Protection Board. If you are in a bargaining unit, you should communicate with your union first, as it is possible that they have a different, negotiated set of grievance procedures.
Another issue of importance: if you have been fired, the State of Maryland encourages anyone to apply for unemployment insurance regardless of the reason for termination. Each claim will be evaluated individually. Seeking unemployment insurance will not terminate your right to pursue legal action for a wrongful firing.
For Maryland federal employees who have been wrongfully laid off or for grant recipients or federal contractors who have had their funding held as a result of the Trump-Musk actions, we are fighting back. As we work to restore jobs and unfreeze this illegal funding blockade, you can visit my website here to find additional resources available. You can also share your story on my website here.
Stay in the Fight
To every civil servant who has lost your job and to every federal employee who fears losing your job, I stand with you and will not stop fighting until we end and reverse these illegal actions. The same holds true for contractors whose agreements have been illegally terminated, for working families just trying to make ends meet, and for every American who recognizes the threat to our democracy and country. We must mobilize people power in every community.
The betrayal we are witnessing is not confined to America. As I said on the Senate Floor last week, Trump has also betrayed the people of Ukraine and those fighting for democracy and freedom around the world. He is a bully who bows down to other bullies. He doesn't understand sacrifice for the greater good. This is a man who called those Americans who died in combat for our country "suckers" and "losers." This is a man whose first act as president was to pardon individuals who bludgeoned and bloodied police officers.
We are living in dangerous and perilous times. I am grateful to all the patriots who are standing up to protect our country and the values we hold dear. I stand with you.

Load-Date: February 26, 2025


End of Document
