




The Guardian (London)
February 7, 2025 Friday 3:53 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved


Section: CULTURE; Version:1
Length: 674 words
Byline: Guardian staff
Highlight: Late-night hosts expressed concern over Donald Trump giving Musk even more power within the government
Body


Late-night hosts spoke about the damage being caused by   ’s new right-hand man as well as the president’s unconvincing attempts to show off his Christian side.
                                        Seth Meyers                                      
On Late Night,   started by saying that despite the recent election, “the real president is   ”, who has shown he is in control despite being “very unpopular” with voters.
He said the billionaire has been launching a “de facto takeover of the federal government” with his “team of unaccountable hatchet men”.
Recent polls have shown that Americans are unhappy with Musk’s increased control but Trump has been defending him during typically hard-to-understand rambles, resembling “a real-time version of Mad Libs”.
Musk has been frantically figuring out what to keep and what to cut within the government, with Meyers showing that he ultimately wants a “wholesale removal of regulations”.
Meyers called it “a billionaire coup”.
Musk has    , with elected senators recently being blocked from entering the agency’s headquarters. “I’d be so embarrassed if I was a senator and I couldn’t enter the building based on something called Doge,” he said.
                                        Stephen Colbert                                      
On The Late Show,   also criticised Musk and his “crew of teenage mutant incels” who are busy trying to “tear apart 250 years of democracy like seagulls fighting over a bag of french fries”.
They are trying to fire many people within the   and part of that has seen the White House ordering the CIA to send an unclassified email with the names of all employees hired over the last two years.
Colbert calmed viewers by saying that according to an official, the people would be protected as the list only included the first names and first initial of the last name. “Well then we’re fine,” he said. “That is an uncrackable code.”
He then joked that no one would be able to figure out who he was targeting if he said that it would be funny and good for the US if “obvious fascist Elon M got his junk stuck in a four slice toaster”.
Colbert then said “Trump’s goons are also doing increasingly useless things just to scour the government clean of any trace of DEI” including taking down   on walls or desks. “No federal agency is safe from the anti-compassion cyberdorks,” he said.
They have also been ensuring that bathroom signs comply with Trump’s ruling. “What a waste of time,” he said. “The only bathroom signs that should be taken down are the confusing ones in theme restaurants.”
He then continued by saying that “it’s not all bad news, some of it is also scary” as he spoke about a   that has now infected cattle. “This can mean only one thing: the birds are having sex with the cows,” he said. “Please no one tell the bees, they’re going to feel so betrayed.”
                                        Jimmy Kimmel                                      
On   Live! the host spoke about this weekend’s  , “also known as ‘get drunk at a friend of a friend’s weird living room’ evening”.
  is the half-time performer, which means that it will lead to the “largest group of people ever to see anyone call Drake a bitch ever”.
Trump will be in attendance and Kimmel joked that “he said he’s gonna let Elon pick the winner this year”.
This week also saw the president attend the National Prayer Breakfast because he “doesn’t like it when people worship anyone but him”.
He added that “of all the unbelievable things about Donald Trump, religious people believing he is also a religious person might be the toughest one to understand”.
Kimmel said that if Trump met Jesus, “he’d call him a loser, he’d tell him to get a haircut and put a shirt on”.
He also said the only reason he is going to the Super Bowl is because “he can’t stand to have even one day when he’s on TV less than Taylor Swift”.

Load-Date: February 7, 2025


End of Document
