




TheHill.com
February 1, 2025 Saturday


Copyright 2025 NEXSTAR MEDIA INC.  All Rights Reserved


Section: CENTRAL AMERICA NEWS, US news & MEXICO NEWS
Length: 459 words
Byline: Steff Danielle Thomas
Body


Mexican President Claudia Sheinbaum issued a statement following Friday’s  in Pennsylvania, which involved six Mexican nationals.
“I regret the death of six Mexicans in the plane crash in Philadelphia, United States,” she wrote on , according to translation. “The consular authorities are in permanent contact with the families; I have asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to support them in whatever way is required.”
“My solidarity with their loved ones and friends,” she added.
Her remarks come less than a day after a JetRescue air ambulance crashed in Northeast Philadelphia Friday evening, killing all six on board, including four crew members and two passengers, one being a pediatric patient. 
The Learjet 55 plane crashed around 6:30 p.m. local time after taking off from Northeast Philadelphia Airport, according to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). It was headed to Springfield-Branson National Airport in Missouri with a final destination in Mexico.
“At this time, we cannot confirm any survivors,” JetRescue said in a press release following the deadly crash. “No names are being released at this time until family members have been notified.”
Philadelphia Mayor Cherelle L. Parker (D) , which left others injured, a “tragedy.”
“This is a tragedy in our city — people have lost their lives and many injured in this horrific crash and the damage is significant,” Parker wrote in a statement. “Our prayers are with the families, friends, neighbors and all of those impacted by the tragic crash. We are unified in our approach — a One Philly philosophy with all hands-on deck.”
President Trump, whose administration has faced two  since he took office last week,  to the crash in a post on Truth Social.
“So sad to see the plane go down in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania,” he wrote. “More innocent souls lost.”
“Our people are totally engaged. First Responders are already being given credit for doing a great job,” the president added. “More to follow. God Bless you all.”
The crash is under investigation by the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) and FAA. 
The Philadelphia incident comes just days after an American Airlines passenger plane and Army  helicopter  outside of Reagan Washington National Airport in Virginia on Wednesday, killing more than 60 people. 
Trump  the crash on diversity, equity and inclusion programs (DEI) and took executive action to overhaul the FAA’s hiring practices in wake of the crash — one of the U.S.’s deadliest aviation accidents in nearly a quarter of a century. The claims have sparked .


Load-Date: February 1, 2025


End of Document
