




Business Insider
February 15, 2025 Saturday 07:25 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Insider Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 448 words
Byline: ledmonds@businessinsider.com (Lauren Edmonds)
Highlight: Sheryl Crow waved goodbye to her black Tesla in a video shared to Instagram on Friday. She also said she donated to NPR.
Body


Singer Sheryl Crow shared an Instagram post on Friday showing her waving goodbye to her Tesla.
Crow said her decision stemmed from her feelings toward Tesla CEO Elon Musk.
She added that she'd donated money to NPR, which has faced recent government scrutiny.
Sheryl Crow says she's done with .
The "Soak Up the Sun" singer shared an Instagram video on Friday that showed her waving goodbye to her black Tesla.
"My parents always said... you are who you hang out with," Crow wrote in the caption. "There comes a time when you have to decide who you are willing to align with. So long Tesla."
Tesla's CEO Elon Musk is leading the , which is focused on reducing federal spending under President Donald Trump. The Department of Government Efficiency, or DOGE, has singled out agencies like the Department of Education and the Federal Aviation Administration in addition to targeting DEI initiatives.
Musk's presence among Trump's allies has garnered  and . Critics have filed several lawsuits opposing the Department of Government Efficiency's efforts. Musk is simultaneously leading Tesla, which reported its  in January with results falling below Wall Street's estimates.
In her caption, Crow said she was donating money to NPR.
"Money donated to @npr, which is under threat by President Musk, in hopes that the truth will continue to find its way to those willing to know the truth," Crow's caption read.
NPR has recently drawn political scrutiny from Republican Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene and others.
Greene, chairwoman of the House Oversight Subcommittee on Delivering on Government Efficiency, has called the CEOs of in a March hearing. In her letter to the media agencies, Greene referenced NPR's coverage of the Hunter Biden laptop story and PBS's coverage of a gesture Musk made during an Inauguration Day event.
The Federal Communications Commission has also set its sights on NPR and PBS. Trump-backed FCC Chairman Brendan Carr ordered an investigation into the media agencies over concerns they could be "violating federal law by airing commercials," per a  obtained by The New York Times.
Carr reposted Crow's video to his X account on Saturday, along with some commentary.
"I know celebrities are hesitant to weigh in on hot button issues, so I appreciate Sheryl Crow making an argument here-not through words alone, but through her actions- that Congress should not force taxpayers to subsidize NPR. Bravo," the post said.
Representatives for Tesla and Crow did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Read the original article on


Load-Date: February 15, 2025


End of Document
