




The Spire: College of the Holy Cross
February 7, 2025 Friday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 919 words
Body


Nathaniel La Blanc '28
Staff Writer
Donald Trump was inaugurated for the second time as President of the United States on Monday, Jan. 20, 2025. Declining to put his hand on a Bible as he took the oath, Trump promised a new "Golden Age of America" in his inaugural address.
On the first day of his Presidency, Trump pardoned some 1,500 convicted criminals involved in the January 6th Capitol Attack. This included shortening sentences for those convicted for attacking and maiming police officers. Trump revoked a 1965 Civil Rights Era executive order mandating non-discriminatory practices in federal hiring, and revoked Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion programs. Trump also attempted to rename the Gulf of Mexico to the Gulf of America although such action has no international recognition. Finally on day one, Trump again withdrew the United States from the Paris Climate Agreement and World Health Organization and declared states of emergency concerning the Southern Border and "National Energy."
Trump's first two weeks were also marked by attempts to get revenge on political opponents. Trump ordered the removal of the portrait of General Mark Milley, the former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, who criticized Trump as a "wannabe dictator." Trump removed the personal security of Milley, former National Security Advisor John Bolton, former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, and former Director of NIAID Anthony Fauci, all of whom have faced death threats.
Many of Trump's actions have also been described as illegal and unconstitutional. The same day he swore to uphold the Constitution, Trump signed an executive order attempting to end the 14th Amendment's birthright citizenship guarantee. This prompted immediate legal action from 22 states and is expected to be struck down. On January 28th, Trump attempted to stop all government grants except for Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid. This would have ended student loans and food stamps, among other things. This is also expected to be struck down as Congress, not the President, appropriates grants.
Trump wasted no time launching his aggressive deportation program, as Immigration and Customs Enforcement has conducted raids on thousands of illegal immigrants across the country. Trump also deployed troops to the southern border and declared several drug cartels as "terrorist organizations." Trump also designated the use of Guantanamo Bay as a migrant detention center. Guantanamo Bay is notorious for its indefinite detention without trial and other human rights abuses, but has only been used in years past to detain suspected terrorists and not illegal migrants. On Capitol Hill, a bipartisan group in Congress also passed the Laken Riley Act, giving Trump his first legislative victory upon signing the bill.
Also on Capitol Hill, the Senate has held hearings for Trump's Cabinet nominees. Secretary of State Marco Rubio and Secretary of Homeland Security Kristi Noem were confirmed with bipartisan support, but controversy soon arose concerning the other nominees. Pete Hegseth, accused of sexual harassment and alcoholism was narrowly confirmed as Secretary of Defense despite all Democrats and three Republicans voting no. Members of Robert F. Kennedy Jr.'s family have come out against his nomination as DHS Secretary, but Kennedy is still expected to be narrowly confirmed. However, even with the Republican majority in the Senate, potential CIA Director Tulsi Gabbard and potential FBI Director Kash Patel are looking increasingly likely to be rejected. Gabbard is under fire for her alleged admiration of Russian President Vladmir Putin and Syrian President Bashar Al-Assad and Patel is under fire for his alleged "enemies list," which commentators have said signals a willingness to weaponize the FBI against Trump's political opponents.
Trump finished this week by starting a trade war with America's two top trading partners. After delaying the implementation of his tariffs, Trump signed an executive order placing 25% tariffs on Mexico and Canada, and a 10% tariff on China. When President Claudia Sheinbaum of Mexico and Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada threatened retaliatory action however, Trump suspended the tariffs for 30 days.
Finally, Elon Musk, the richest man in the world and the leader of the "Department of Government Efficiency" has undertaken a swift consolidation of power within the executive branch. DOGE personnel blocked officers at multiple agencies from accessing their computers like the USAID. EPA officials were ordered to "put down their pencils" and the FBI has seen a purge of nearly all agents involved in investigating the January 6th Capitol Attack. Additionally, many agencies reported implementing "loyalty tests" for all new hires. Trump's mass firings resulted in agencies like the FAA being understaffed, a consequence of which, critics allege contributed to an aircraft collision over the Potomac, despite Trump blaming the crash on "DEI."
Donald Trump's first two weeks were an aggressive show of force that worried markets and allies alike. His first two weeks had one of the lowest recorded approval ratings in history, second only to the first two weeks of his first presidency. Additionally, the first two weeks were the only time in his entire first presidency that Donald Trump had a positive approval rating. Americans are questioning how the next four years will look, but nobody will know the full picture until Trump leaves office on Jan. 20, 2029.
Featured image courtesy of NPR

Load-Date: February 7, 2025


End of Document
