




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 18, 2025 Tuesday 8:44 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 570 words
Byline: Avery Lotz
Body


February 18th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
Data: Harris poll; Chart: Erin Davis/Axios Visuals
Democrats and Black and Gen Z shoppers are carving a new path of resistance by refusing to shop at certain stores over their political stances in the new Trump era.
Big companies like    
Why it matters: Consumers on both sides of the political spectrum have  
"It seemed like consumers are just fatigued by all this shifting politics in their brands," Harris Poll CEO John Gerzema told Axios, comparing the drive to "opt out" of the economy to "a mental health break."
"Instead of maybe standing in the checkout line, they're just sort of checking out," he added.
State of play: Democrats were more likely to say they'd stop shopping at companies that have political views they disagree with, with 45% saying they'd dump a brand compared to 34% of Republicans, according to The Harris Poll findings shared with Axios Tuesday.
Half of Democrats indicated they had shifted their spending entirely in the last few months to align with their morals compared with Republicans (42%).
By the numbers: Around four out of 10 Americans have changed their spending habits over the past few months to align with their moral view, the poll found.
Some 24% of respondents said they had stopped shopping at their favorite stores because of their politics, a sentiment 35% of Black respondents and 32% of Gen Z respondents shared.
Between the lines: Conservatives in recent years were more vocal about dumping companies they deemed political or "woke."
Right-wing activists led a boycott of Bud Light in 2023 that   
Last year, Target chose to sell its  
Zoom out:     
Others, like Apple and Costco,  
Calls to boycott Target since it changed its DEI policies have gained broad  
Twin Cities Pride  
What's next:  
Activists have encouraged "intentional spending" to support minority-owned or small businesses. The NAACP's recently  
Go deeper:  
Methodology: This survey was conducted online within the U.S. by The Harris Poll from January 30th to February 1st, 2025, among a nationally representative sample of 2,108 U.S. adults.


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 19, 2025


End of Document
