




Newsweek.com
January 29, 2025 Wednesday 1:49 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 1235 words
Byline: Rachael O'Connor
Highlight: "There is a big difference between taking a stand through a keyboard threatening a boycott and taking stand through a wallet and actually engaging in a boycott."
Body


There has been a divided response to calls for a boycott of , after the retail giant announced it was ending its Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) goals.
Target's DEI initiatives had included hiring and promoting more women, members of the LGBTQ+ community, racial minority groups, veterans and people with disabilities, and recruiting diverse suppliers.
But on January 24, the company stated it would be "concluding our three-year diversity, equity and inclusion goals" and "stopping all external diversity-focused surveys."
Target added it remained "focused on driving our business by creating a sense of belonging for our team, guests and communities through a commitment to inclusion." Newsweek has contacted Target for comment on this story.
It comes after President  issued a raft of executive orders shortly after his inauguration, including , and ordering all federal government Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility (DEIA) staff be  as their offices began closing down. He had pledged during his victorious election campaign to get rid of DEI initiatives, and in his order on 21 January said DEI schemes were "dangerous, demeaning, and immoral."
Boycott Could Harm People You Want To Help
The move from Target prompted a big response, including  of the store and its products—but there was also pushback to this idea, including from Emmy-winning actress and vegan lifestyle influencer .
Brown has partnered with Target since 2022, and pleaded with people not to boycott, considering how it could impact Black-owned brands carried by the retailer. Brown herself has multiple collections through the company, including swimwear, home goods and cookware. Newsweek has contacted Brown for comment on this story.
As the debate raged on, videos shared online gave a glimpse into the divide. Newsweek spoke to two people who shared their thoughts on their personal social media accounts, as well as three experts in DEI and business to find out whether a boycott can have an effect.
Boycott Like You Mean It
Danisha Carter, 27, a content creator based in Los Angeles, told Newsweek: "I don't often have a stance on boycotting—I think people can boycott whatever they'd like."
However, she warned: "If you want boycotting to work, it must be done correctly."
In  to her  account, @danishacarter, she told the camera: "There is no point in boycotting a company unless your boycott only ends once you get what you want. Staging a boycott with an announcement that it ends three days or a week later just tells the company that they need to move around the budget for the next three days."
She added: "The purpose of a boycott is to say 'we are not giving you money, you will not make a dime until you do what we want.' "
Focus On Your Morals and Ethics
Jen Avery 38, a website designer from Austin, Texas, shared a video to her  account @jen_avery, and pointed out that in 2023, Target removed parts of their LGBTQ+ Pride accessories "due to pressure from conservatives," which also prompted calls for a boycott at the time.
She wrote: "Stop boycotting because it's a trend, and admit you only care because it's cool right now, but Target is such a part of your identity at this point that you just hope no one sees you there tomorrow."
In 2023, some Pride items were pulled from shelves in some U.S. regions after what the company said was hostility from customers. The merchandise was pulled after hostility impacted team members' "sense of safety and well-being while at work," the company wrote in a press release at the time.
The following year, Target announced it would sell the Pride range "in select stores, based on historical sales performance," and online.
Speaking to Newsweek, Avery said "without protesting via nonconsuming, Target will only continue feeling vindicated in its decision to do away with its DEI policies," and suggested the company could give up any initiatives or partnerships "if it doesn't fit their financial agenda."
"When it comes to boycotting, it's important that everyone focuses on what pertains to their morals and ethics. It's hard to be completely ethical in capitalism, as a consumer or business owner."
She acknowledged "a lot of people have argued that DEI never helped at all, that discrimination continued regardless, and this is true. However, I think we have all come to agree that words matter, even more than intentions sometimes."
Emotional Boycotts Are Blips
Newsweek spoke to Paolo Gaudiano, founder and Chief Scientist of inclusion assessment platform Aleria, who said there is "not much evidence that these kinds of 'emotional' types of boycott amount to much more than a blip."
"Especially with social media amplifying negative reactions, a lot of people may take to the internet to voice their discontent, but unless there is a major societal upheaval, brands are unlikely to react in a significant way."
He warned that DEI is currently being "polarized to an extreme," and some brands have "apparently succumbed to pressure from their customers."
However, he suggested "what is more likely is that these companies were not really committed to DEI at the leadership level, and this presented an opportunity to back out of commitments."
Boycotts Can Spark A 'Buycott'
Vassilis Dalakas , Professor of Marketing at Cal State University San Marcos, referred to a 2021 study on calls for boycotts of several different brands, which found " and that threats to boycott may not always translate to actual boycotts."
He said: "As we saw in our study, people's motivations for posting boycott threats sometimes are truly intending to pressure the company into changing a behavior while other times are mostly emotion-based, intended to argue for or against whatever the controversy is about."
He noted "boycott threats mobilize both sides": those who are against the brand or company, and those who agree with the company's stance.
Those in agreement with the company "rally behind it with posts of supports and promises of increased purchases," calling this phenomenon "buycotting."
"I would say there is a big difference between taking a stand through a keyboard threatening a boycott and taking stand through a wallet and actually engaging in a boycott," Dalakas said.
Boycotts Can Hurt
But Daria Shevchenko, CMO of marketing platform Snov.io, noted the boycott of  in the midst of the Israel and  war, and said "of course, boycotting works." In Starbucks Corporation's first-quarter earnings report in January 2024, the company posted quarterly sales of $9.4 billion, below the expected $9.59 billion.
"Based on this example, I think boycotting can work as long as it is based on a clear message and not on punishing the company for all its sins ever. This is what's called targeted activism," she said.
"Once the corporation starts feeling the economic pressure, they will begin to act. But they need to know what exactly you want them to do."
Starbucks was hit by a boycott over the Israel-Hamas conflict because of a statement by its employees' union, Starbucks Workers United, which posted a message on social media expressing solidarity with Palestinians. Some people mistakenly thought Starbucks itself was making the stance, leading to calls for a boycott from those who disagreed.
.


Graphic

 
Target
Getty Images/Mario Tama
Pictured, the outside of a Target store in Los Angeles in August 2024.

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
