




States News Service
January 29, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 States News Service
Length: 489 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: ALEXANDRIA, Va. 
Body


The following information was released by the Security Industry Association (SIA):
By Jake Parker
On Monday, Jan. 27, 2025, the White House Office of Management and Budget (OMB) issued a memo halting all federal grants and loans. The pause mandates that federal agencies review their programs to ensure compliance with President Trump's executive orders.
The memo requires a comprehensive report from federal agencies no later than Feb. 10, 2025 to identify which programs, projects and activities may be implicated under any of the president's executive orders. In the meantime, they are required to pause "(i) issuance of new awards; (ii) disbursement of Federal funds under all open awards; and (iii) other relevant agency actions that may be implicated by the executive orders, to the extent permissible by law" until OMB is able to review and provide guidance to the agency.
In conjunction with the memo, OMB provided more specific instructions to agencies regarding compliance with the directive which includes a full list of programs on which agencies are to report and which could be affected by the pause. Notably for the security industry, this includes most homeland security grant programs, as well as infrastructure grants through U.S. Department of Transportation agencies. At least some federal grant program administrators sent instructions to grant recipients on Tuesday, Jan. 28, to temporarily curtail spending.
The directive sparked widespread confusion among grant recipients and criticism on Capitol Hill, with both Republicans and Democrats expressing concern for protecting congressional appropriations authority, which prompted OMB to release a QandA document on Tuesday in an attempt to clarify the scope, stating that "any program not implicated by the President's Executive Orders is not subject to the pause," and specifying "DEI, the green new deal, and funding nongovernmental organizations that undermine the national interest" as programs, projects and activities implicated by priorities in the executive orders.
Nevertheless, the National Council of Nonprofits and other organizations took action in court against the Office of Management and Budget for failing to explain the source of OMB's legal authority, citing "immediate nationwide harm and disruption" from the guidance. Just minutes before the directive was supposed to take effect at 5:00 p.m. EST on Tuesday, Jan. 28, a federal judge issued an administrative stay, blocking the funding freeze until Monday, Feb. 3, when another court hearing is scheduled to consider the issue.
The Security Industry Association (SIA) is actively tracking this issue and provided updates as needed. We are interested in hearing from members regarding any impact expected from these events, especially regarding specific grant programs. Please provide any feedback to Lauren Bresette, senior manager of government relations at SIA, at 

Load-Date: January 30, 2025


End of Document
