




The Alestle: Southern Illinois University - Edwardsville
January 22, 2025 Wednesday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 1138 words
Body


In the wake of the 2024 U.S. general election, many around the country have expressed feelings of fear and uncertainty about the future. 
Members of the LGBTQ+ community in particular believe they stand to lose a lot in the near future. In his official plan for his second term, "Agenda 47," President-Elect Donald Trump has promised to cut funding for gender-affirming care, as well as cut funding for schools that promote "radical gender ideology" to students. 
Vice President of the Gender-Sexuality Alliance Thalia Williamson, a senior music education major, said she saw many unsettling parallels between the 2016 election and this year's. 
"[We had] Trump, someone we were expecting not to do as well as he did, versus a woman who was following someone who isn't necessarily the most liked in certain spheres," Williamson said. "There was a sense of hope that shattered the night of [the election]."
Williamson said her fears - particularly as a member of the LGBTQ+ community herself - have not been taken seriously by many in her social circle, including her own mother. 
"[My mother] texted me, 'Why are you wanting to leave the country? Show me proof of what you're saying. It sounds like hysteria. He was in office for four years and you lost nothing,'" Williamson said. "2016 wasn't as bad as it could've been, but he didn't know what he was doing back then. Now, he has an entire plan laid out for him that he could implement day one."
Perisa Nikpouri, a first-year pharmacy student and ally of the LGBTQ+ community, said she shares the same concerns as those she knows who do identify with the community. 
"It affects the people around me, the people I love," Nikpouri said. "There are people who are fortunate enough to not be affected by the outcome of this election, and there are people who are not thinking about how other people are going to be affected by the outcome of this election."
Williamson also said she was concerned about her future as an educator, especially with bills, such as one in Missouri, being proposed that would put teachers on a sex offender registry if they showed any sign of support to queer students. 
Vice Chancellor for Anti-Racism, Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Jessica Harris said her department has been monitoring changes in DEI education. 
"We just responded to shifts in Title IX regulations based on the position of the Biden administration, but we know with the advent of the Trump administration, there will likely be other changes," Harris said. "As we have done and continue to do, where there are any sort of regulatory shifts on the federal level, we will work with general counsel to puzzle through those changes."
"Any changes we may have to make ... will not be at the expense of our fundamental mission," Harris said. "For me, it's about supporting and caring for the members of our community, no matter what identities they hold."
Williamson said she believes SIUE will make an attempt to stand up for its LGBTQ+ community but is unsure how successful they will ultimately be. 
"They'll want to help the student body. My fear is I don't know if they will know how to, or if they will fully be able to support in the ways that they want," Williamson said. "This is not the opinion of the GSA. This is my own personal opinion as someone who has seen multiple campuses as a trans person."
Nikpouri said she isn't certain about the university's willingness to help. 
"I feel that the school is a little lax on some things and could be better allies to their LGBTQ+ faculty and students," Nikpouri said. "I would hope that they can make the right decision and advocate and be an ally for their students, but we don't really know until [it happens]."
Harris said she is committed to ensuring that all students feel at home at SIUE, but that the uncertainty of the near future does pose an issue for planning. 
"It's very difficult to say definitely what we will do when we don't really know what we are preparing for," Harris said. "Regardless of what happens around us, we have to fulfill our mission or else we're not doing our job as an institution."
"I worry that their hands will be tied," Williamson said about SIUE. "Project 2025 is bigger than we all think, and even if they do go out and fight full force, I think their hands will be tied, and they won't be able to do much. That's the scary thing about this."
Trump's official plan for his second term is known as "Agenda 47." Project 2025 is a separate initiative created by the Heritage Foundation that Trump has said he knows nothing about, despite his connections with the writers. 
Harris said that times of upheaval like these can be good opportunities for community engagement and interaction. 
"This is an opportunity for allies and supporters to step up and create space of support and care," Harris said. "It's important that we amplify the voices of members of our marginalized communities. A lot of the dialogues we are having post-election can't just be about the election results. It's important to have ongoing conversations about the kind of campus community we want to be."
Williamson said she wished people who did not vote or have since wanted to change their vote paid more attention to the election. 
"To those who didn't fully realize what was behind it, I wish you would've cared more when the election cycle was going," Williamson said. "I wish you would've talked with people and actually listened instead of waiting for a response."
Williamson also said she believes those who did vote Republican this year will still be affected by Trump's policies, even if they don't think so. 
"To those who are still in the Trump camp, pushing these ideas of hatred toward minority people, you will still be affected [financially or emotionally], even if you are a cishet white male," Williamson said. 
"People are worried and concerned, but I do think, at the end of the day, the university has a mission to fulfill and we are gonna stay focused on that," Harris said. "My hope is that we will continue to forge together as a community and as an SIUE family to navigate the unknown terrain of what's going to happen over the next four years."
Queer Faculty and Staff Association President Nick Niemerg declined to comment for this story, and SIU System Vice President for Anti-Racism, Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Sheila Caldwell did not respond to The Alestle's request for comment. 
Resources for members of the LGBTQ+ community include PFLAG, the Trevor Project and the Metro Trans Umbrella Group. Additionally, PFLAG has a list of hotlines and other intervention resources for those experiencing a crisis. 
SIUE also has resources for its LGBTQ+ community members, including the Gender-Sexuality Alliance, the Queer Faculty and Staff Association and the Campus Climate Reporting System for incidents of bias and hate.

Load-Date: January 23, 2025


End of Document
