




The Daily Telegraph (London)
February 13, 2025 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 18
Length: 342 words
Byline: James Titcomb
Body


THE owner of Sky is being investigated over its diversity policies by Donald Trump's broadcast regulator.
Brendan Carr, the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), has written to Comcast over concerns that the company may be promoting "invidious forms of discrimination".
It is the latest investigation launched by Mr Carr into US media networks since Mr Trump returned to the White House.
Comcast owns NBC, which runs Left-leaning news channel MSNBC. The president has described it as "close to death" and "the enemy of the people".
In a letter to Comcast chief executive Brian Roberts, Mr Carr said that US communications laws prohibit regulated companies from discriminating on the basis of characteristics such as race and gender.
He said he was concerned that diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) policies at Comcast and its US network NBCUniversal could "deprive Americans of their rights to fair and equal treatment under the law".
The investigation is unlikely to affect employees at Sky, the majority of whose staff are in Europe. The British company, which Comcast acquired in 2018, has a series of DEI programmes designed to increase its share of staff who are black, Asian and ethnic minorities. It said in 2021 it would invest £10m a year "to improve representation and progression of minority groups".
Mr Trump has vowed to wage war on DEI schemes. He signed an executive order in his first week labelling the schemes illegal and saying they undermine hard work in favour of "an unlawful, corrosive and pernicious identity-based spoils system".
A Comcast spokesman said: "We have received an inquiry from the Federal Communications Commission and will be co-operating with the FCC to answer their questions. For decades, our company has been built on a foundation of integrity and respect for all of our employees and customers."
Mr Carr has also criticised NBC after Kamala Harris made an appearance on its comedy show Saturday Night Live.
'Our company has been built on a foundation of respect for all of our employees and customers'

Load-Date: February 13, 2025


End of Document
