




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 24, 2025 Friday 6:48 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 399 words
Byline: Kelly Tyko
Body


January 24th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
This is no longer a rumored collaboration: Graeter's Ice Cream and   
The big picture: The two Ohio-based companies  
"Everyone who knows chili knows Skyline and, as longtime fans ourselves, we were eager to collaborate on a one-of-a-kind, must-try flavor," Graeter's CEO Richard Graeter said in a statement Friday.
Flashback: The collaboration was  
"Last year, speculation about our unconventional and somewhat polarizing partnership started a social media frenzy," Graeter said.
 
Graeter's Skyline Spice available to order online
The new flavor combines Graeter's French Pot ice cream with Skyline's signature chili spice mix and oyster crackers, the companies say in their announcement.
The flavor is available to order at  
It can be ordered as part of a six-pint cooler for $84.95 or as part of a 12-pint cooler for $129.95 plus shipping.
What they're saying: Dick Williams, Skyline Chili chairman and CEO, said it was the first time Skyline has done a dessert collaboration.
"Graeter's Skyline Spice Ice Cream has the heart and soul of both beloved Midwest-born brands in every bite," Williams said in the news release.
Where to buy Skyline Spice ice cream
What's next: On Monday, the ice cream will be available in 5-ounce scoops in all Skyline restaurants, in a pint and by the scoop at all Graeter's scoop shops.
It will be available in pints at select Kroger stores throughout Cincinnati, Columbus, Indianapolis and Louisville.
Our thought bubble: Axios has not been able to try the controversial new flavor yet but we hope to report back with a taste test.
Fingers crossed that it tastes better than  
More from Axios:





Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 24, 2025


End of Document
