




USA Today Online
February 28, 2025 2:12 AM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Section: RETAIL INDUSTRY NEWS & SMALL BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 952 words
Byline: Kasey Caminiti, USA TODAY
Body


— Recommendations are independently chosen by our editors. Purchases you make through our links may earn us and our publishing partners a commission.
On Friday, February 28, a consumer-driven movement is set to take place as people across the nation unite to participate in a . This 24-hour event is meant to shed light on the recent removal of  across major retailers, growing concerns about the negative impacts of large corporations and the importance of supporting small businesses that are the heartbeat of local communities. While consumers are being urged to avoid shopping for the day, if you need to make purchases, there are plenty of alternative retailers to check out. From Black-owned companies and Latinx-run brands to independent businesses that will benefit greatly from your support, discover several top picks below.
Shop alternative small businesses on Feb. 28
: Get organic produce and pantry staples that might not necessarily meet traditional standards delivered to your doorstep. Misfits Market aims to help reduce food waste and offer people solid value.
: The membership-based platform offers a range of organic and natural products at highly discounted prices, making healthy living accessible and affordable for everyone.

: Shop sustainably at Public Goods. You’ll find accessible, healthy products across food, beauty, cleaning and more.
: We all have to eat. Try supporting your local restaurants, grocery stores and shops with help from Goldbelly. Whether you're craving a classic New York bagel or a Texas BBQ feast, Goldbelly can deliver culinary delights right to your doorstep. Get $20 off your first order when you sign up for Goldbelly emails.
: If you're shopping for unique or handcrafted items, Etsy is a great alternative to big stores. You can find discounts across various shops and creators. From custom jewelry to home décor, Etsy offers a vast selection of one-of-a-kind products created by talented artisans. 
Why is the consumer boycott happening?
The  has been organized because of various claims against big box retailers linked to "corporate greed." The activists behind the February boycott are encouraging consumers to avoid shopping from the companies that have rolled back their diversity, equity and inclusion efforts and President Donald Trump's efforts to eliminate federal DEI programs since taking office.
Along with unfair labor practices and environmental impact, big box retailers can harm small, locally-run businesses. A number of  have been especially vocal on social media to help give consumers alternative shopping recommendations during the boycott to support local companies.
Following the freezes on DEI initiatives, reduced funding for the National Institutes of Health and actions on immigration, Latino Americans have turned to social media to suggesting buying only the essentials and to focus on supporting "Latino American, Black American and Allied American Businesses that are supportive to this movement." 
Latinx and Black-owned businesses to shop:
: Colombian-American Cassandra Morales Thurswell created Kitsch to offer the most essential item that everyone is always looking for: . Get the cult-favorite hair tie along with skincare, body care and more. 

: Co-founded by Ali Mejia and Mariela Rovito, Eberjey offers luxurious and beautifully designed, ultra-soft sleepwear and loungewear.
: Founded by Maritza Abreu, Pisqueya offers a bold taste of authentic Latin-Caribbean flavors through premium hot sauces and seasonings inspired by her Dominican heritage.
: Support Black-owned business Ami Cole get free shipping on all orders of $55 or more and save 10% on your first order, including the . Specializing in skincare and makeup for melanin-rich skin, Ami Cole's sale is the perfect opportunity to stock up on your favorite essentials. 
: Support the sustainable sneaker brand that first took off on social media. Save 10% on your first order of vegan kicks.
: Shop 100% natural and non-toxic beauty products at the Latinx-owned beauty brand. Founder Tata Harper is a Colombian native, where she first found her passion for skincare and beauty.
: You'll find a range of different types of flesh-toned bodywear and hosiery in 12 shades of nude, designed to match a variety of complexions at Nude Barre.
Costco hot dogs and hot deals:  
Alternatively, Reverand Al Sharpton and the National Action Network have held "buy-cotts" to bring supporters to Costco to spend money in support of the company's board of directors, which 

Costco Membership
Get a $65 Gold Star membership and a free $20 Costco Shop Card on Groupon.

Who is organizing the consumer boycott?
The  is organized by John Schwarz, who goes by TheOneCalledJai on Instagram. He founded The People's Union, a grassroots movement dedicated to economic resistance, government accountability and corporate reform. The boycott is in protest of corporate greed and the rollback of diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) initiatives by big box retailers. Participants are being urged to abstain from all non-essential purchases for 24 hours.
Prices were accurate at the time this article was published but may change over time.
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
