




MailOnline
January 26, 2025 Sunday 3:45 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: SNAPCHAT; Version:1
Length: 719 words
Body


                     Saturday Night Live mocked 'King' Donald Trump's new 'whitely' republic as Lin-Manuel Miranda made a surprise return in his role as Alexander Hamilton.
As the comedy staple marked its 50th year, the cast roasted the President with James Austin Johnson portraying the 78-year-old Republican. 
In the sketch, Johnson's Trump boasted about his executive orders and cabinet picks and talked of being in his 'king era.'
The show's cold open was a hit with fans, featuring a humorous take on the Founding Fathers drafting the Declaration of Independence before the group were interrupted by the newly inaugurated Donald Trump. 
Miranda opened with an inspiring line: 'I say, our lives matter not if we lose them in the cause of liberty. What matters is the nation we built...
'Because in America, all men are created equal. America, not England, we do win the sequel, and we will have leaders, but know one thing in America - we will never have a king.' 
It was at that moment things took a comic turn as James Austin Johnson, portraying a realistic Donald Trump, interrupted Miranda, quipping: 'Never say never. I'm in my king era,' referring to Trump's inauguration earlier this week.
'Kidding', the fake Trump continued, 'though in many ways I am not.
'I'm in my king era. But just like the Founding Fathers, I am creating a new country as well, and just like them, we're doing it very whitely.' 
The sketch showcased Johnson's Trump impression as he boasted about his inauguration week, bragging about his executive orders and cabinet picks.
Miranda's Hamilton and the other Founding Fathers stood frozen in disbelief at the president's antics. 
At one point, Miranda visibly struggled to stay in character as Johnson's Trump quipped: 'He's in sniffing distance of an EGOT, and he's got to stand there till I'm done.'
Johnson's Trump stole the spotlight with his signature blend of over-the-top humor and political satire. 'Just like the founding fathers, I am creating a new country as well,' Johnson's Trump proclaimed. 
'And just like them, we're doing it very lightly. DEI is over. It's dead. 
'Workplaces must go back to looking like the TV show The Office: mostly white people, but with one funny black guy who's having a really bad time. 
'We need to bring back Stanley culture, right? In terms of crossword and with regard to pretzel day.'
Trump then turned his attention to Lin-Manuel Miranda as Hamilton: 'Look at Lin. He got tricked into coming here, and now he's frozen on stage.' 
Miranda's Hamilton endured a barrage of playful jabs from Johnson's Trump.
'Oh, look at Lin. Look at how bad he wants to do a rap and he doesn't get to do it. Oh, the audience would have eaten that right up. 
'We're not gonna hear it. He's in sniffing distance of an EGOT, and he's got to stand there till I'm done.'
Trump then boasted about his 'great first week' in office, calling his inauguration 'a tremendous success.' 
Johnson's Trump reeled off a list of real life executive orders, including one redefining sex as strictly male or female, pulling the U.S. out of the Paris Climate Agreement, and cutting ties with the World Health Organization. 
The satirical president then teased his cabinet picks. 
'We're filling my cabinet with some of the best people. They're all very good, except for most of them. 
'Oh man, what is SNL gonna do? Who's gonna play [Pete] Hegseth? I mean, look at these guys back here. 
'None of them have the build, nobody has the jaw. Plenty of [Mark] Zuckerberg options, though.'
Timothee Chalamet returned to SNL this week to host and serve as the show's musical guest, but not before throwing in an off-color joke about the death of Jimmy Carter.
During one sketch about a 'workout so good you don't actually have to exercise' Timothee appeared as a fitness instructor and told participants to 'do the Jimmy Carter.'
It saw the six cast members taking part in a fake exercise class lying prone as they hung from the ceiling, appearing to be dead. 
The dark humor didn't go down well with viewers with one X user blasting the sick joke.
'SNL Jimmy Carter joke was so dumb even i gasped... could have been do a better controversy next time Timothee,' wrote one.
'Oh. That Jimmy Carter line on #SNL was just cringe.....,' tweeted another. 
'Uhhh Snl the jimmy carter thing wasn't funny,' wrote a third.

Load-Date: January 26, 2025


End of Document
