




telegraph.co.uk
February 24, 2025 Monday 7:00 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: WORLD NEWS; Version:4
Length: 1357 words
Byline: By James Badcock in in Madrid
Highlight: Pedro Sánchez’s battle with the ‘international far-Right’ may be more of a desperate bid for survival than a matter of political principles
Body


 , Spain’s prime minister, has stood out among European leaders as an outspoken critic of the Trump administration and Elon Musk.
However, the Left-winger’s decision to pick a fight with the US leaders of what he calls the “international far-Right” may be less a reflection of political principles and more a desperate bid for survival, as his coalition government risks disintegration.
Under Mr Sánchez’s leadership, Spain is positioning itself in the opposite corner to   government on issues ranging from Palestine to gender equality quotas – risking trade tariffs, political destabilisation and US interference in Madrid’s international affairs.
Mr Sánchez, who   on Monday, is known for being a political gambler, as he showed by surviving a snap election he called two years ago when the polls were stacked against him.
While avoiding naming Mr Trump directly, Mr Sánchez has made a series of speeches in recent days aimed at creating a polarising contrast between his progressive Madrid government and the aggressive new team in Washington DC.
“We defend an international order that works for peace,” Mr Sánchez said before his socialist party parliamentary group last week
“There are those who want to dismantle global trade and international institutions. They want to impose a system based on aggression, on the law of the jungle.”
On the threatened tariffs against EU exports to the US, Mr Sánchez promised to fight back if provoked by a “trade war in which no one wins”.
“We’re going to support the EU,” he said. “  are those of the Spanish people, of workers, of companies. We are going to support them, whatever it is the far-Right and neo-liberals decide to do.”
Mr Sánchez has   when referring to the political influence of Elon Musk, the head of Mr Trump’s newly created Department of Government Efficiency.
In a speech earlier this month, the Spanish leader called on Democrats to “rebel” against what he described as the “tech caste”.
He has also accused individuals such as Mr Musk and Mark Zuckerberg of distorting politics across the world in order to satisfy their own ambitions.
“It’s no longer enough for this billionaire elite who don’t pay tax to earn as much money as 150 countries,” Mr Sánchez remarked.
He added: “Now they also want political power, to take up cabinet seats – the masks are off.”
Days after Mr Musk expressed public support for the hard-Right Alternative for Germany (AfD) party ahead of the country’s general election on Sunday, Mr Sánchez accused the X chief executive of “fostering authoritarianism and hatred as we are seeing in very important  ”.
Mr Trump has criticised EU fines imposed on US tech giants as a kind of taxation and JD Vance, the vice-president, warned that   could strangle the technology.
However, Mr Sánchez has argued that Europe should go more on the front foot against social media and tech company power.
The Spanish leader also wants to bring US tech giants to heel by ending social media anonymity, making sites responsible for published material and demanding they make their algorithms transparent.
As well as holding American-owned platforms to account, Mr Sánchez promotes European technological alternatives.
As Mr Trump’s Republican administration and congressional majorities roll back diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) regulations in the US, Mr Sánchez has said his government will be on the look-out for American multinationals flouting Spain’s progressive rules.
“We want to be the first country in the world to close the gender gap. We will not allow anyone, including any private operator, to push back against this objective,” he said.
Spain is one of a minority of EU countries that has not been warned by the European Commission for failing to meet the objective of a minimum 40 per cent representation of women on the boards of large companies.
On global politics too, Spain is strongly opposing the Trump administration, notably on Gaza.
Madrid chose to give official recognition to the Palestinian state last May, halfway through the . 
Last summer, Spain became the third European country, after Belgium and Ireland, to support South Africa’s genocide case against Israel at the International Court of Justice.
Mr Sánchez’s support for the Palestinian cause saw Israel sarcastically call for Madrid to offer to take in Gazan refugees, after Mr Trump suggested expelling Palestinians as part to develop the Strip into the . 
José Manuel Albares, Spain’s foreign minister, has continuously pushed for a peace conference to be held in Madrid that would aim at reigniting the two-state solution.
Arab countries have expressed enthusiasm for the idea except for Israel, which currently does not have an ambassador in the Spanish capital.
Mr Sánchez is a political survivor, but drawing the ire of Mr Trump to paper over the cracks in his rag-tag coalition of support in Spain’s parliament could be his biggest gamble yet.
The 52-year-old has negotiated his way through seven years as prime minister without ever coming close to a parliamentary majority.
Mr Sánchez called a snap general election in July 2023 that he framed as a referendum between his leadership and a coalition between . 
The prime minister’s Socialists came second, behind the centre-Right People’s Party (PP).
However, PP failed to win a majority, not even with the support of  , which is part of Patriots for Europe, a Trumpian party in the European Parliament.
Mr Sánchez formed a second government and  , but his Left-wing coalition requires the support of all regional Basque and Catalan parties, which are not all Left-leaning.
The result has led to not a single major piece of legislation being passed in this parliament, with the government operating on a twice-rolled-over budget from 2023.
Mr Sánchez must also rely on the Catalan Junts, led by Carles Puigdemont, the fugitive independence leader, which recently allied with the Right to halt a tax on energy companies and a series of social measures.
Worse still for Mr Sánchez, his cabinet is becoming a war zone between ministers from his Socialist party and those of the hard-Left junior partner Sumar.
 , Sumar’s founder and the government’s labour minister, has claimed she had “no idea” that María Jesús Montero, the Socialist finance minister, would not raise the income tax threshold to reflect a rise in Spain’s national minimum wage.
Mr Sánchez’s government is also increasingly tarnished by corruption allegations.
Although a judicial investigation involving Mr Sánchez’s wife and brother may be somewhat weak, a sprawling Covid-era case involving José Luis Ábalos, a former minister and close aide to the prime minister, could do lasting damage to the Socialist-led government.
Spain may not be top of Mr Trump’s list of enemies, but it was perhaps telling that the freshly inaugurated US president wrongly referred to it as “one of the BRICS countries”, in reference to the Russian-led bloc of emerging economies.
                     Recommended                   
Spain calls on world to fight against Trump's 'Silicon Valley techno-caste'
What could the consequences be for Mr Sánchez of provoking Mr Trump?
In terms of trade, Spain is not in a bad position as it has a large trade deficit with the US, unlike other EU countries like Germany.
The US Chamber of Commerce in Spain has written to the Trump administration asking for clemency regarding Madrid once tariffs are applied to EU nations, given the good performance of American imports into Spain.
More worrying could be maverick political moves. Michael Walsh, of the Washington DC Institute of World Politics, wrote that the Trump administration could seek to sour relations between   by redirecting a gas pipeline to Gibraltar.
Mr Walsh wrote that Mr Trump could even refuse to recognise Morocco’s claims over Ceuta and Melilla, the two Spanish enclaves on the North African coast.

Load-Date: February 24, 2025


End of Document
