




States News Service
February 3, 2025 Monday


Copyright 2025 States News Service
Length: 357 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


The following information was released by the Office of the Speaker of the House Mike Johnson:
This morning, Speaker Johnson joinedFox and Friendsin studio to recap President Trump's first two weeks back in office, provide an update on House Republicans budget reconciliation plans, and preview Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's visit to Washington and Capitol Hill this week.
Watch the full interviewhere.
On the first two weeks of the Trump-Vance Administration :
Look, we're excited about everything that President Trump is accomplishing. He's done more in 14 days for the American people than Joe Biden did in four years. 300 executive actions, all the priorities that we promised everyone on the campaign trail that we would take care of. He's doing what he said he would do. Removing dangerous illegal aliens, securing the border, standing up to terrorists. I mean, he's unleashing American energy again. He's gotten rid of the DEI and gender ideology madness. It's win after win after win. So, he's doing a lot by executive authority, which we applaud, and we're going to follow that up.
On budget reconciliation:
We have to do the reconciliation process, which you know is the way to get around the 60-vote threshold in the Senate. That's where a lot of the big changes are going to be made, and House Republicans are working right now to negotiate what that looks like... So we've got to find those savings, but all these pieces are going to be a part of that. You know, the tariffs are going to bring in revenue. We're going to have massive savings by making government more efficient and effective. And that's exactly what we and President Trump promised the American people.
On Israeli PM Netanyahu's visit to Washington:
I'll be meeting with him on Thursday in my office on Capitol Hill. We need to be supporting Israel right now as, as strongly as ever. It's a critical time in the Middle East and they've got a real dilemma on their hands. I think President Trump is going to echo that. I think Marco Rubio is doing a great job at State already. Everyone in the world needs to know that America stands with Israel, and we will.###

Load-Date: February 3, 2025


End of Document
