




Targeted News Service
January 22, 2025 Wednesday 11:17 PM  EST


Copyright 2025 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved


Length: 680 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


(Rep.) -- House Speaker Mike Johnson, R-Louisiana, issued the following news release:
* * *
Speaker Johnson: President Trump Has Done More for the American People in 48 Hours than Joe Biden Did in Four Years
For Immediate Release
January 22, 2025
Contact: Taylor Haulsee
WASHINGTON -- This morning, at the weekly House Republican Leadership press conference, Speaker Johnson discussed working with President Trump and his first days back in the Oval Office and highlighted the Fix Our Forests Act and the Born Alive Survivors Protection Act, two bills the House will pass this week.
Watch Speaker Johnson's full remarks here
On President Trump's first days in office:
What came out of the meetings of the White House yesterday was that we're going to do this in a bicameral manner. You're going to have the Senate Republicans and House Republicans working together to advance the America first agenda, and we will deliver now. The President's wasted no time either. As you saw, it's been mentioned the executive orders just in the past two days. Just a couple of highlights, some were mentioned.
Listen to this list: he ended catch and release, he shut down the ridiculous CBP One app, he began restoring American energy dominance, already restored merit-based hiring for the federal government and eliminated DEI initiatives, ended the radical gender ideology madness, and revoked the security clearances of the former intelligence officials who signed the bogus and discredited letter about Hunter Biden's laptop. President Trump truly has, as Whip Emmer said, he's done more in the last 48 hours for the American people than Joe Biden did in four years. And this is just the beginning of much more to come.
On the Fix Our Forests Act:
The reason this is so important is because we see what happened in California, the lack of leadership there. Mayor Karen Bass and Governor Gavin Newsom, having mismanaged virtually every aspect of that and preparation, they did not prepare their state or the city or the county for what was to come. There was a 117-million-gallon reservoir right outside Pacific Palisades that was left empty for over a year. They did not manage the forest as they were supposed to, and they let forest debris pile up near homes in at risk areas. All of this was known. They assumed the risk because they advanced their radical political agenda, and now people are paying a heavy price for that. We think that needs to be taken into account going forward, but the bipartisan Fix our Forest Act will do what the Governor of California would not do, and that is restore the health of our forests and make communities more resilient to wildfires. This is again, a return to common sense, and that's the theme that President Trump will be echoing over and over, and we will as well.
On the Born Alive Survivors Protection Act:
A matter of common sense and a matter of just basic human dignity, morality and ethics, we'll be voting at the end of this week on the Born Alive Survivors Protection Act. Here's the question and don't let anybody distract you from what the question is. If a child is born alive, you're in an attempted abortion, and is crying and struggling to breathe on the operating table, should the doctor try to keep that child alive, or should the doctor deny that crying newborn child medical care and let the child die?
Who could answer that question with the latter response? We're going to give them a chance. It's basic humanity. 210 Democrats voted against that bill in 118th Congress, and we're going to pose that question to them again to see if they'll do the right thing. I certainly hope so. I hope Democrats stand with common sense. I hope they vote for the bill. I hope they stand with basic human dignity. If they don't, you'll need to ask them why they don't believe that those innocent lives deserve to be protected.
***
Original text here: 
Copyright Targeted News Services
MSTRUCK-9009369 MSTRUCK

Load-Date: January 23, 2025


End of Document
