




The University Star: Texas State University - San Marcos
February 20, 2025 Thursday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINIONS; Pg. 1
Length: 984 words
Body


content"class="skip-to-content">Skip to Content
Search this site
Submit Search
35°
San Marcos
The University Star
Facebook
Instagram
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Email Signup
News In Brief Breaking San Marcos City Council Hays County Commissioners Court University Faculty Senate Student Government Crime Elections
Life & Arts Features Fine Arts Music Events This Weekend on the Town
Sports Football Baseball Softball Men's Basketball Women's Basketball Volleyball Soccer Golf Track and Field Tennis
Opinions Columns Senior-30 Editorials Letter to the Editor Clash of Columns
Multimedia Gallery Video Audio
Podcasts In Orbit Star Sports Other
Advertising Ad Terms Classifieds Media Kit 24-25 Rack Locations
About us Star Stories Meet the Staff
More
Open Navigation Menu
The University Star
News In Brief Breaking San Marcos City Council Hays County Commissioners Court University Faculty Senate Student Government Crime Elections
Life & Arts Features Fine Arts Music Events This Weekend on the Town
Sports Football Baseball Softball Men's Basketball Women's Basketball Volleyball Soccer Golf Track and Field Tennis
Opinions Columns Senior-30 Editorials Letter to the Editor Clash of Columns
Multimedia Gallery Video Audio
Podcasts In Orbit Star Sports Other
Advertising Ad Terms Classifieds Media Kit 24-25 Rack Locations
About us Star Stories Meet the Staff
More
The University Star
Open Search Bar
Search this site
Submit Search
Open Navigation Menu
The University Star
News san-marcos In Brief Breaking Elections Crime University City-Council
Life & Arts Features Fine-Arts Music This Weekend on The Town
Sports Football Baseball Soccer Golf Softball Tennis Men's Basketball Women's Basketball Volleyball Track and Field
Opinions Senior-30 Columns Editorials Talk it Out
Multimedia
Podcasts
Advertising Classifieds Media Kit 24-25 Rack Locations
Jobs
About us Meet the Staff
More
The University Star
Open Search Bar
Search this site
Submit Search
Trending Stories
1
THC ban may impact product access 2
Texas State football conference outlook 3
Man banned from campus following threats 4
Student-run business bring Louisiana flavor to San Marcos 5
Buc-ee's breaks ground with new San Marcos location 6
Grins to change management after celebrating 50-year anniversary 7
Senate Bill 3 will harm Texans and local businesses 8
Assault suspect arrested on campus 9
SMTX community holds rally against Trump administration 10
Texas State lands two QBs from Transfer Portal
SUBMIT NEWS
If you're interested in submitting News, click here. Submit
LETTER TO THE EDITOR
If you're interested in submitting a Letter to the Editor, click here.
Submit
Categories:
editorials
features
Opinions
Uncategorized
Speak On It: NAACP President discusses hardships at Texas State
Staff
February 20, 2025
Sarah Manning
For the third Black History Month edition of "Speak On It," The University Star interviewed the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People President Jordan Williams to hear his perspective on the experiences of Black students at Texas State.
The NAACP was founded in 1909 to fight for civil rights and justice. Williams said the Texas State NAACP chapter doesn't cater to only Black students.
"Ultimately our goal is to end racial injustice around the United States and more specifically on the Texas State campus," Williams said. "We're mainly focused on working with student government and building student alliances so we can come together and take a stand."
Williams said during his time as the NAACP president, he has worked through many instances of discrimination at Texas State. One that stands out to him was when a student's car was vandalized with a racial slur on Sept. 24, 2024.
"Having to deal with it directly, [was] a really bad experience for me," Williams said. "Having to speak to the victim and [his] family, it made me sad to know that's what they have to go through."
Williams said at the time of the incident, university administration wasn't working to help the victim. In an Oct. 3, 2024 Instagram post, Williams urged President Kelly Damphousse to speak out against the hate crime.
For Williams, it was disheartening that the NAACP had to push for the university to speak out against discrimination on campus. Damphousse ultimately did respond, but, to Williams, there will always be room for improvement.
"[That incident] was the only time I've ever seen Texas State University speak out about something like that," Williams said. "Student organizations always speak out and that's one thing I love about Texas State. We were able to pressure and move the university through the way we speak."
Since the implementation of Senate Bill 17, a bill requiring Texas universities to shut down diversity, equity and inclusion offices, at Texas State, Williams said he no longer feels like he has equal opportunities when compared to his white peers.
"As a minority, I have to work 10 times as hard just to get on the same level as someone who doesn't have the same skin color as me," Williams said. "We're fighting for stuff that we fought for 50 years ago. It makes it really hard to progress forward when we keep going back more and more."
Williams said Texas State has not communicated with the NAACP since DEI offices were dissolved.
"I wish [Texas State] would come out and take a stand on what it is they plan to do to help minority people on campus," Williams said. "While I understand they can't put [DEI] in place directly, I wish they had some sort of team that was able to work with us... to protect those students."
Despite the hardships, Williams said the NAACP is dedicated to advocating for students. The organization is currently working on a seminar for students dedicated to information about Project 2025, as well as lobbying and writing to Texas legislators.
Speak On It is a collaboration of voices compiled by The University Star's Editorial Board. Opinions expressed are not necessarily those of our entire publication.

Load-Date: February 20, 2025


End of Document
