




The Eagle: American University
February 4, 2025 Tuesday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 1274 words
Body


The Eagle's editorial board is composed of its staff but does not represent every individual staffer's views. Rather, it provides an insight into how The Eagle, as an editorially-independent institution, responds to issues on campus.
When President Donald Trump wasinauguratedon Jan. 20, D.C. seemed to stand still. With the exception of Trump's supportersgatheringin Capitol One Arena and surrounding places near the National Mall and Gallery Place, the city felt deserted. This quiet seemed, however, to be the calm before the storm.
Within hours of his inauguration, Trump signed a record-breaking26 executive orderson day one alone, many of which will profoundly impact American University students and the broader AU community. Trump began byrescindingmany policies set forth by former President Joe Biden that focused on racial and gender equality,launchingmass deportations and attempting torevokebirthright citizenship. Many of his actions threaten the values of inclusivity, diversity and overall global engagement that AU prides itself on.
One of the executive ordersrolled backdiversity, equity and inclusion initiatives within the federal government, including eliminating DEI-related positions and funding. Removing such programs on the federal level, especially in D.C., sends a harmful message to underrepresented AU students - that the federal government doesn't value their contributions. This is not just an issue in the government - prominent private companies like Target, Meta, Amazon and McDonald's have all begun toscale back or eliminatediversity efforts. Universities have also come under fire for their DEI initiatives, with Trumpthreateningto tax endowments of schools he deems "woke." In light of Trump's actions, AU students may fear the rollback of the University's DEI-related programs in an attempt to appease Trump and keep its almost $1 billionendowmentsecure.
Trump'simmigration-related executive orderspose an immediate threat to those on AU's campus. Hisdeclarationof a "national emergency" at the southern border, thereinstatementof the "Remain in Mexico" policy and the outrightbanon birthright citizenship for children of undocumented immigrants and those on temporary visas have fueledfear and uncertaintyamong students across the U.S. of immigrant backgrounds. For AU students who are undocumented or are part of families with mixed status, these policies can take away from their focus on education and everyday life as students worry about their family, friends or even themselves being victims of these actions.
During Trump's first term in office, the University saw anti-immigration sentiments rise on campus. In January 2018,anti-immigrant posterswere found around campus reading "#MyBordersMyChoice" and "NO means NO," - inflammatory statements that can perpetuate hate, violence and harm toward Latinx and immigrant students on campus. After former AU President Sylvia Burwell sent an emailcondemningthe posters,Latinx student leadersgrew frustrated, saying Burwell's response lacked resources and support for students affected. In September 2017, Burwellsaidthat students who are part of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, a program that Trump attempted toendvia executive action but wasoverturnedby the Supreme Court, would continue to be supported on campus, although she fell short of labeling the University as a "sanctuary campus" for undocumented students, echoing claims from Harvard University that the classification could bring unwanted attention to DACA students. Burwell's predecessor, Cornelius Kerwin, alsosignedletters in December 2016 committing to protecting undocumented students under the DACA program.
Additionally, Trump'sseries of executive orders in his firm term that temporarily banned travel to the United States from seven Muslim-majority countries - Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen - caused an outcry on campus. Along with studentprotests, Kerwinissueda memo in February 2017 urging Trump to reconsider the travel ban. At the time,21 AU studentswere citizens of the affected countries. Like Burwell, Kerwin did not proclaim the University as a "sanctuary campus" but said AU wouldactively opposethe ban. AU has taken stances on inflammatory policies that impact students on personal levels before and needs to continue to do so under the second Trump administration.
The Trump administration's stance on education is also worrying to many students. Although Trump has said that student loanswill not be affectedfor now, his long-term goal ofclosingthe Department of Education raises many alarming questions about the future of federal aid programs. Many AU studentsrelyon FAFSA and federal grants to afford tuition - what happens to those students if the programs are closed? The uncertain future of the Department of Education also serves as a major blow to the AU students in the School of Education, who found out last semester that SOE maycloseas an independent school and be integrated back into the College of Arts and Sciences due to the University's budget deficit. During a time when SOE students' futures may already seem grim, Trump's plans for the Department of Education present even more uncertainty, especially for those who aim to work in education policy.
More from The Eagle
Satire: American University commits itself to free speech as long as it's good for PR
Books to cozy up with this February
How to host the perfect 'Galentine's Day'
This uncertainty is not limited to SOE, as many of Trump's policies threaten the University's core values: educating civil servants. One of thelargest drawsof AU is the proximity of campus to downtown D.C. and the ability to receive internships with prestigious institutions they wouldn't otherwise have access to. Students seeking internships or jobs in federal agencies have already begun facingcancellationsdue tofunding and hiring freezesthat Trump announced on Jan. 24 andreversedon Jan. 29. Even though he reversed the budget freeze, uncertainty in budgets could make federal agencies hesitant to offer internships or entry-level jobs, leaving AU students with fewer opportunities in government-related fields.
At a time when the federal government is enacting policies that deeply affect AU students, the University needs to take a firm stand. University leadership needs to issue a clear statement reaffirming its commitment to diversity, support for immigrant and international students and how it plans to address the potential impact of Trump's policies on students. AU has a responsibility to acknowledge the uncertainty on campus and provide reassurance that it will continue to support students, no matter the political climate.
Transparency is crucial in moments like these. Students deserve to know how AU will protect them and encourage them to keep working on their passions despite federal cuts that may upend their life's work. AU must expand resources through affected students - whether through career support for students and graduates who have lost internships or jobs, increased funding and commitment to the University's DEI programs or even through making it known that there is help if emotional support is needed.
Trump's executive orders are not just policy shifts; they directly conflict with many of AU's defining principles. As changemakers and future leaders, students deserve support from the University - not just with words, but with meaningful action and intent behind them.
This piece was written by Alana Parker and edited by Abigail Turner. Copy editing done by Luna Jinks, Olivia Citarella, Emma Brown and Nicole Kariuki.


Load-Date: February 4, 2025


End of Document
