




CNN Wire
January 26, 2025 Sunday 2:08 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Cable News Network All Rights Reserved
Length: 1247 words
Byline: By Andrew Torgan and Daniel Wine, CNN
Dateline: (CNN) 
Body


             (CNN) - The richest man on the planet has a new enemy: the humble penny. Elon Musk's fledgling Department of Government Efficiency wants to , which costs more than 3 cents to produce. Advocates say simply rounding up (or down) to the nearest nickel would solve any price issues. A nickel, by the way, costs more than 13 cents to produce, according to .
Here's what else you need to know to Start Your Week Smart.
The weekend that was
· The Senate narrowly voted to confirm embattled , in a major win for President Donald Trump and his new administration. Vice President JD Vance cast the 51-50 tie-breaking vote after three Republicans joined Democrats to oppose Hegseth's nomination. The Senate also confirmed . .·  in a second round of releases under a ceasefire deal that also saw Israel accusing Hamas of failing to fulfill its obligations to release civilians first. Israel released 200 Palestinian prisoners from detention centers, including 121 prisoners who had been sentenced to life imprisonment.·  on insurrection charges over his brief declaration of martial law, making him the first sitting president in the country's history to be indicted. His move in December plunged the country into political turmoil and was overturned within hours by parliament.·  during a trip to tour damage from Hurricane Helene flooding in North Carolina, a state he's said "has been abandoned by the Democrats." He also traveled to California, where wildfires have ravaged the Los Angeles area.· The Supreme Court agreed to decide whether states may , agreeing to hear arguments in an appeal out of Oklahoma involving the first such school in the nation.
The week ahead
MondayJanuary 27 marks a grim milestone - the 80th anniversary of the liberation of the Nazi concentration and extermination camp . In 2005, the UN declared the date as .
Monday is also the first day the IRS will start accepting and processing .
Wednesday The Federal Reserve will announce its first interest rate decision of 2025. In December, officials signaled they were  in the future since inflation remains stubbornly above the central bank's 2% target. Policymakers penciled in just two rate cuts for this year - down from the four they projected in September.
Robert F. Kennedy Jr. - Trump's  to serve as Health and Human Services secretary - will face a confirmation hearing in front of the Senate Finance Committee. Kennedy will sit before the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee the following day.
Former New Jersey Sen. Bob Menendez will be sentenced after being convicted in July on multiple corruption charges. Prosecutors are seeking  for the former chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
ThursdayThe Senate Intelligence Committee has  for Tulsi Gabbard, Trump's choice to .
SaturdayFebruary 1 marks the beginning of , a time in the US to honor the contributions and achievements of Black people in history.
Listen in
One Thing:  DEI takedownIn this episode of the  podcast, CNN's Rene Marsh explains why Trump's executive orders targeting diversity, equity and inclusion programs could impact a large chunk of American life. 
Photos of the week
from the week that was, curated by CNN Photos.
What's happening in entertainment
TV and streamingThe medical mystery drama  debuts tonight on CBS. Following the death of Sherlock Holmes - stay with us here - Dr. John Watson (Morris Chestnut) opens a clinic in the US to diagnose and treat unusual medical conditions. Think "House," minus the addiction issues.
Will Ferrell and Reese Witherspoon star in  a comedy about two weddings booked at the same venue, coming to Prime Video on Thursday.
In theaters based on the popular children's book series of the same name, arrives on the big screen Friday. For the uninitiated, the animated film's crime-fighting protagonist is indeed half dog, half man.
 is a tale as old as time ... Boy meets girl. Girl turns out to be a robot. Robot turns homicidal. Lather, rinse, repeat. ("Companion" is from Warner Bros. Pictures, which, like CNN, is a unit of Warner Bros. Discovery.)
What do you get when a buoy and a satellite meet online and fall in love after the end of human civilization? You get  starring Kristen Stewart (Buoy) and Steven Yeun (Satellite).
Music, featuring a star-studded lineup of musicians, will take place Thursday at two Los Angeles-area venues. All ticket proceeds and donations will be distributed under the advisement of the Annenberg Foundation for short-term relief efforts and long-term initiatives to prevent future fire disasters throughout Southern California, according to the . Artists scheduled to perform include native Angelenos Billie Eilish, the Red Hot Chili Peppers and Gracie Abrams, along with Lady Gaga, Katy Perry, Olivia Rodrigo, Pink, No Doubt, Tate McRae, Earth, Wind & Fire, Green Day, Jelly Roll, Joni Mitchell, Lil Baby, Rod Stewart, Sting, Stephen Stills and Stevie Nicks.
What's happening in sports
At a glance ...The  with a trip to Super Bowl LIX on the line. The Washington Commanders take on the Philadelphia Eagles at 3 p.m. ET, while the Kansas City Chiefs face the Buffalo Bills at 6:30 p.m. ET. The Chiefs have knocked the Bills out of the playoffs three of the past four seasons, while Buffalo has dominated the regular season clashes with four straight victories, including handing Kansas City one of its two regular season losses in Week 11 this year. Should the Chiefs prevail, it would mark their fifth trip to the big game in the last six years and potentially their third consecutive Super Bowl victory.
In tennis, the  wrapped up today with the men's singles final. , defeating Alexander Zverev. Zverev had advanced on Friday after  one set into their semifinal due to injury - halting his quest for a record 25th grand slam title. On Saturday, the women's final ended in thrilling fashion with , stunning No. 1 Aryna Sabalenka.
For more of your favorite sports, head on over to  as well as , which - like CNN - is owned by Warner Bros. Discovery.
Quiz time!
to see how much you remember from the week that was! So far, 76% of fellow quiz fans have gotten eight or more questions right. How will you fare?
Play me off ...
'Penny Lane'Despite what Musk wants, you have to admit, "Nickel Lane" is not as catchy... ()         
             By Andrew Torgan and Daniel Wine, CNN         
TM & © 2025 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.

Load-Date: February 24, 2025


End of Document
