




Business Insider
February 12, 2025 Wednesday 09:08 AM EST


Copyright 2025 Insider Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 1642 words
Byline: ahoover@insider.com (Amanda Hoover)
Highlight: As Big Tech cuts back on cushy perks, startups are offering everything from college funds for employees' kids to 'compassionate leave' for breakups.
Body


Two years ago, Erika Burghardt got into an MRI machine. She didn't think she was sick - the hourlong full-body scan was preventive, to search for cancer, aneurysms, and medical conditions that people often don't know they have until they feel symptoms. She had a stopper in one hand in case she felt panicked, while she watched "Sex and the City" on a screen above her.
The MRIs cost about $2,500 a person, but Burghardt's bill was fully , the media company 1440. Recently, the company added preventive scans as a benefit for its 19-person team and their spouses. Burghardt, 1440's director of growth, said she found one minor health issue and was able to follow up with her doctor to keep an eye on it, which gave her peace of mind. "It is very much a privilege to work for a place that offers this," she told me. "I've never seen anything like it."
"We actively look for our benefits to be the best in the world," Tim Huelskamp, 1440's cofounder and CEO, said. Beyond the usual package of healthcare, paid time off, and retirement savings, his company also allows  for all employees and contributes $500 each year to college funds for employees' children. Offering a suite of perks is not only "the right thing to do," he said, but also an effective weapon in what he called the raging "talent war." Only one worker has quit since 1440's founding in 2018, Huelskamp said, adding: "I want people here who want to be here for the next couple decades."
It's one of many smaller companies festooning their benefits packages with new bells and whistles to compete for hires.
A decade ago, trendy perks were everywhere. Dropcam offered employees helicopter rides, piloted by the company's CEO. Eventbrite added an arcade game to its office each month, and  had a concierge service to run errands, making any employee feel like an executive. But  have stopped caring about your feelings. Layoffs have been rampant. Last year, in what was dubbed , Meta fired employees for using $25 Grubhub credits on personal care items instead of food. This year, Mark Zuckerberg has told all employees to "" for an "intense year." Companies like Target, Meta, and McDonald's are  as President Donald Trump's administration ends the practices in federal agencies. Companies are also enacting return-to-office mandates, and workers are rebelling in manners both quiet and loud.
As the gap in work-life balance grows at many major companies, smaller firms are seizing on a chance to stand out and using more individualized benefits to signal to workers that they do care - while hoping workers repay them with higher rates of productivity and loyalty.
People aren't likely to pick a job for a one-off benefit. But companies are focusing on "flexible, personalized, and inclusive" perks that appeal to employees across generations, Theresa Adams, a human-resources knowledge advisor with SHRM, said. "Employers are trying to make benefits more unique to their employees to gain top talent."
The real benefit comes when a company's perks can speak to and influence its culture overall.
Companies used to measure how successful their benefits were by how many workers used them, but the focus has shifted, said Samantha Saxby, the director of marketing for the National Human Resources Association and a managing director at the benefits company Perky. "Instead of prioritizing sheer numbers, they're investing in targeted, high-impact support that enhances employee well-being and commitment, even if it serves a smaller segment of the workforce," Saxby said. She cited robust benefits for new parents as an example - they might be accessed by only a small number of employees at any given time but create more engagement, satisfaction, and retention.
At the software company Pipedrive, its 750-some employees can receive five days of "pawternity leave" when they adopt a pet (as long as it has furry paws; sorry, turtles). It also offers "compassionate leave," an expanded bereavement category for anything from the death of a loved one or a pet to a breakup. The benefits, added late last year, signal that Pipedrive isn't catering only to traditional family structures. "It's about recognition that everyone's situation is different," Tanya Channing, Pipedrive's chief people and culture officer, said. The company's benefits are ways to showcase its culture, she said, and Pipedrive trusts its employees to work hard and not abuse them. If management strictly polices who takes what benefits when just a small number of people might exploit them, "you're penalizing the 98% who don't," she said.
Across all industries, companies' health benefits have stayed relatively flat, with some falling slightly, a recent Society for Human Resource Management survey of more than 4,500 employers found. In the survey, the proportion of companies offering paid mental health days dropped from 20% in 2022 to 16% in 2024, and dependent-care flexible spending accounts fell by 6%, with 58% of employers offering them in 2024. Surveyed companies offering access to elder care services and information fell from 11% in 2020 to 7% in 2024. And just 1% gave employees subsidies for elder care, while 3% handed out childcare subsidies. Dependent care is an increasingly valuable but still rare perk as Gen Xers and millennials find themselves caring for children, parents, or, sometimes, both at once.
For some companies, holding on to benefits is a way to signal their values. Run for Something, which recruits and supports young progressive political candidates, offers workers a four-day workweek and fully covered health insurance premiums, along with a $500 "treat yourself" stipend to be spent on anything from a nice dinner to a night in a hotel, to encourage work-life balance. Amanda Litman, Run for Something's cofounder, sees the company's benefits as central to its mission. And as more places look to roll back diversity, equity, and inclusion initiatives, Run for Something has no plans to change its policies about being an . "It is fundamental to the way that we operate," Litman told me. "Even if it wasn't a moral good - to hire the best possible people of all backgrounds - it's good for business." It seems to be working: Litman said the team of 30 had seen incredibly low turnover, and each time the company lists a new position, hundreds of people apply.
A flashy benefit can catch the eyes of prospective workers. Grant Lowe, a technical writer at the streaming service Philo, was applying for his job two years ago, when one benefit stood out: a $2,000 bonus that gets paid out when employees take their vacation. It was the "cherry on top" of an already appealing role, he said. Last month, Lowe flew to Hawaii and visited his two brothers, the first time the three were together in eight years. "The signal that it sends is, 'Hey, we want you to take that time,'" he said.
The idea is to get people to take at least two weeks of their unlimited PTO, said Pearlie Oni, Philo's head of people. The company also allows employees to work fully remote but will pay a $500 monthly bonus to employees who commit to being in the office three days a week, as well as subsidies to help with commuter costs. It's the kind of balance that lets people choose between extra cash or being home for kids after school. Forcing people back to their cubicles doesn't work, Oni said: "The vibe is going to be off." With the bonus, "we can get the people that want to be there," she added.
With grocery and restaurant costs rising sharply since the pandemic, money to splurge on food is another valuable benefit. Since 2020 the cloud-based web accessibility company AudioEye has offered employees a $20-a-family-member weekly meal credit. "The shift to remote work blurred the lines between work and home, and we wanted to encourage our employees to step away from their screens and enjoy quality time with their families," Brittani Morelli, the company's vice president of human resources, told me in an email. Close to two-thirds of employees use it regularly, she said, and the company also covers some in-office lunches as people return to working in person.
Regardless of what the benefits are, the days of dangling lavish perks in front of people in lieu of good salaries and health benefits are over. Mostly, people need to like the work they do and feel valued by compensation and benefits that actually support their lives. In the 2010s, "they all needed to have this long laundry list of, 'Here's all the quirky things we offer,' just to seem like they did a lot," Amy Spurling, the CEO and founder of the HR services company Compt, said. Now, that can backfire. "The market and the employees are smarter than that," she added.
Flexibility in benefits is the future, Spurling said. If you offer pet grooming, that's attractive to pet owners only. The same goes for fertility or commuter benefits for all - some will love the stipends, and those who don't need them may shrug them off. But personalized stipends for things like childcare or wellness, or  and lunch stipends for companies with RTO mandates, can help people to pay for what they need as they need it.
As costs for workers pile up, fun perks won't be the whole answer. Ultimately, people want to work jobs they like for equitable pay and work-life balance. The real benefit comes when a company's perks can speak to and influence its culture overall. And the more that the line between work life and personal life blurs, bosses may have to keep doing more to show they care about your feelings.
 is a senior correspondent at Business Insider covering the tech industry. She writes about the biggest tech companies and trends.
Read the original article on


Load-Date: February 12, 2025


End of Document
