




States News Service
February 10, 2025 Monday


Copyright 2025 States News Service
Length: 550 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: NEW YORK, NY 
Body


The following information was released by the U.S. Mission to the United Nations:
Jonathan Shrier
Acting Representative to the UN Economic and Social Council
New York, New York
February 10, 2025
AS DELIVERED
Thank you, Madam President, and thank you, Madam Executive Director,
Madam President, pursuant to President Trump's Executive Order, the United States is reviewing the international organizations and other bodies of which we are a member to assess our relationship and determine which organizations align with U.S. interests.
We look forward to the briefings later today on the report of the Board of Auditors, governance and oversight, and risk management as well as the forthcoming effectiveness review of UN Women from the Multilateral Organization Performance Assessment Network.
We hope this assessment provides useful insights into the efficiency and efficacy of the agency and actionable recommendations that will be incorporated into UN Women's strategic planning and budgeting processes going forward.
Madam President, the United States strongly supports protecting women and girls, defending their human rights, and promoting their empowerment.
In 2017, President Trump signed the Women, Peace, and Security Act the first comprehensive law in the world on this issue. This historic legislation helps to prevent and resolve conflicts that threaten U.S. national security, which cannot be achieved without women and girls.
In February 2019, President Trump established the Women's Global Development and Prosperity Initiative, as our first whole-of-government effort to advance global women's economic empowerment, which has reached over 12 million women worldwide.
On February 5, 2025, President Trump issued an Executive Order keeping men out of women's sports to improve the safety of all females participating in athletic competition. And on January 20, 2025, President Trump issued an Executive Order defending women from gender ideology and restoring biological truth. Indeed, as noted in the EO, "Efforts to eradicate the biological reality of sex fundamentally attack women by depriving them of their dignity, safety, and well-being." The United States will defend women's rights and protect freedom of conscience by using clear and accurate language and policies that recognize women are biologically female, and men are biologically male.
In this regard, Madam Executive Director, as we collectively look ahead to the next Strategic Plan, we urge UN Women to focus on efforts to ensure the equality of women and girls, and insist upon avoiding a focus on radical causes such as DEI and gender ideology, neither of which will improve the functioning of UN Women and both of which are demeaning, unfair, and dangerous to women and girls.
It is important to acknowledge the biological reality of sex to support the needs and perspectives of women and girls.
Additionally, DEI and related initiatives such as those rooted in "critical race theory" are immoral and discriminatory and have no place in charting the future of this organization.
Madam President, the United States is committed to helping UN organizations realize their full potential. To do so, these organizations, must not as in the past champion divisive and dangerous cultural causes over the concerns of member states.
Thank you.
###

Load-Date: February 11, 2025


End of Document
