




Targeted News Service
January 28, 2025 Tuesday 7:17 PM  EST


Copyright 2025 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved


Length: 333 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


Rep. Harold Rogers, R-Kentucky, issued the following news release:
* * *
STATEMENT FROM CONGRESSMAN ROGERS
WASHINGTON, DC (January 28, 2025) -- U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers released the following statement regarding President Donald Trump's executive order temporarily pausing some federal funding for grants and loans that do not promote the Trump Administration's America First agenda.
"Americans endured costly extreme policies over the last four years under the Biden Administration that led to skyrocketing inflation, and President Trump has effectively pulled the emergency brake on all of it. His temporary pause strictly applies to grants and loans that promote DEI, the green new deal, and funds for organizations that undermine national interests. Despite fear tactics from liberal extremists, the Trump Administration clearly stated that the hold will not apply to Social Security, Medicaid, SNAP, Medicare, Head Start, Pell Grants, and other programs that provide financial assistance directly to individuals, including funds for small businesses and farmers.
"We've received multiple calls from across southern and eastern Kentucky with questions about the full impact of President Trump's executive order and the length of this temporary pause. As we await more details, I encourage agencies in Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District to call my offices with any questions about federal grants and loans that could be temporarily paused. I look forward to working with President Trump to help protect the hard-earned money of the American people, and safeguarding critical programs in southern and eastern Kentucky."
Click here to download a fact sheet from the Office of Management and Budget.
For more information about Congressman Rogers' work in Washington and at home in Kentucky, visit halrogers.house.gov and follow him on social media.
***
Original text here: 
Copyright Targeted News Services
MSTRUCK-9023100 MSTRUCK

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
