




MailOnline
February 5, 2025 Wednesday 1:56 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 771 words
Byline: James Gordon For Dailymail.com
Body


Stephen A. Smith delivered a stunning rebuke of former Fox News host Pete Hegseth, questioning his qualifications for the role of Secretary of Defense - all while appearing live on Fox News.
Smith's remarks came during a heated discussion with Sean Hannity on Tuesday evening as the debate - which began on diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) initiatives - took an unexpected turn.
The ESPN personality seized the opportunity to call out Hegseth's lack of credentials for overseeing the nation's military operations.
The segment began with Hannity criticizing a DEI policy implemented under the Obama administration. 
He took aim at the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), linking its diversity efforts to two recent plane crashes, despite a lack of any evidence suggesting DEI played a role.
'Their diversity push includes a focus on hiring people with "severe intellectual" and "psychiatric' disabilities," Hannity asserted, while omitting the fact that similar language was also used during the first Trump administration. 
'Now Stephen A. you fly a lot. Do you want people with intellectual and psychiatric disabilities in that control tower?'
Smith immediately pushed back, making it clear that his concern wasn't with ending DEI initiatives, but rather with the way their elimination was being framed.
'Not at all,' Smith responded. 'My issue with the eradication of DEI was... the explanation that the Trump administration and others were giving about it. I don't want to hear DEI automatically being about people who happen to be minorities that are unqualified. 
'That is what I was saying, is that it's one thing to get rid of it altogether. It is another thing entirely to articulate and verbalize the position that, excuse me, you know what? Everybody that was associated with DEI are unqualified individuals.'
Hannity nodded in agreement, but Smith wasn't finished and quickly pivoted to Hegseth, making an example out of the former Fox & Friends Weekend host and military veteran.
'But when you have somebody like Hegseth, for example,' Smith said. 'Let's use him because he's your former colleague at Fox News...'
Hannity, sensing where the conversation was going, interjected. 'Keep my friend outta this.'
Smith, known for his no-holds-barred style, pressed on. 'Excuse me, listen, I'm not bringing up anything personal,' he insisted. 
'I'm simply saying my God, Sean. When you're talking about people who are unqualified, I wish him nothing but the best, he served our country in the military, I get all of that. But when you are a weekend host on Fox News and now you are the defense secretary of the United States overseeing three and a half million people, that is not qualified.'
Hannity was left stunned for a moment, but quickly attempted to mount a defense of Hegseth.
'Did you serve in Iraq, Afghanistan, and Gitmo?' Hannity shot back. 'Did you go to Harvard or Princeton?'
Smith, unfazed, responded that he had not. But the damage had been done. 
Conservatives have largely rushed to Hegseth's defense, pointing to his military service and Ivy League education as evidence of his qualifications.
'Stephen A forgot to mention that 'the weekend host on Fox News' SERVED IN THE MILITARY. If that ain't enough qualification right there, then idk what is,' added one user. 
'No offence, Mr Smith... Just who is qualified, if not Pete? Have you been In The Army, Military? Are senators qualified when voted in?,' asked another.
'Another loudmouth leftie! Pete Hegseth is more than qualified! What does this hack know about Pete? Just because he was on Fox News, this disqualifies him to hold one of the highest offices in the land? Hogwash! Pete Hegseth is multi-dimensional and a jack-of-all-trades? I am more than confident he is the right man to head the DOD!' chimed a third. 
Critics of Hegseth meanwhile argued that experience as a TV host does not equate to readiness for a high-level government position with immense responsibility.
'Even with his military background in the national guard he still wasn't qualified. He had never managed over 1000 people and he doesn't have the proper experience and training. His resume pales in comparison to any and all others nominated to that position in history,' wrote one user.
'He is about as correct as it is possible to be.,' added a second.
'Can't stand Stephen A Smith but he is 100% correct here. Anyone defending these unqualified nominations while claiming they want meritocracy is just flat out wrong, or lying to themselves,' wrote a third. 
'Haha, Fox News gets a dose of truth. Too much for Sean to handle,' quipped another, noting Hannity's uncomfortable reaction. 

Load-Date: February 5, 2025


End of Document
