




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 28, 2025 Friday 11:20 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 392 words
Byline: Martin Vassolo
Body


February 28th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
South Florida's leading LGBTQ museum and archive says it's been effectively cut off from state, federal and corporate funding due to anti-LGBTQ policies from Tallahassee and the White House.
Why it matters: The  
What they're saying: Robert Kesten, CEO of the Fort Lauderdale-based museum, tells Axios that government policies targeting the LGBTQ community and diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) programs have spooked corporate donors.
"This is stretching into places that we really have not seen before," Kesten said. "Our future is threatened now."
Catch up quick: Gov. Ron DeSantis struck the first blow last year when he  
President Trump's executive orders combatting DEI - including banning    
Case in point: Two weeks ago, Kesten says, the museum received a $50,000 federal grant from the National Endowment for the Arts for educational programs and exhibits - but he doubts the museum will receive another grant given the  
The museum's   
The museum has four open positions it can't currently fill.
Some prospective board members now hesitate to join the nonprofit because they need approval from their employers, he added.
What's next: Kesten says the museum will continue its mission of protecting, defending and sharing the resources in its archive and library because there's "never been a more important time to know your history."
He encourages members of the community to donate to the museum if they can.
"We will be stronger and better than we were before. One way or another, we will be here."


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 28, 2025


End of Document
