




States News Service
January 24, 2025 Friday


Copyright 2025 States News Service
Length: 439 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


The following information was released by the office of Missouri Rep. Sam Graves:
The golden age of America has arrived.
On day one, President Trump began issuing hundreds of executive actions and orders to secure our border, cut wasteful diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) spending, and unleash American energy independence.
His declaration of a national emergency at our southern border isn't just important news for states like Texas and Arizona. Virtually every state in the country became a border state in Biden's America. Even in Missouri, we've seen criminal illegal aliens flooding into our communities and countless children poisoned by the deadly fentanyl smuggled across the border. Thankfully, Biden's open-border policies are now a thing of the past.
President Trump has reinstated the highly successful "Remain in Mexico" policy. Now, instead of everyone who shows up at the gates getting a free pass into the United States, individuals will have to wait in Mexico while their asylum claims are processed. That's important because it will discourage thousands of illegal immigrants from trying to game the system.
The President also shut down the CBP One app to reduce fraud and ensure every immigrant is fully vetted and axed the failed "catch and release" policy. If we catch an illegal immigrant at the border, we shouldn't turn around and release them. We should detain them and send them home.
Perhaps most importantly, he designated the violent drug cartels as foreign terrorist organizations. That's exactly what they are, murdering innocent Americans and destroying our country with fentanyl. We've already seen the damage Tren de Aragua has done in our communities, and it's time to remove their members and other cartel members from our country.
Congress is already working hand in hand with the President to swiftly secure the border. We passed the Laken Riley Act this week, which will ensure that we detain illegal immigrants who have already been charged with crimes like theft. It's illegal for them to be here in the first place, but if they're going to commit other crimes, they've got to go before they hurt anybody. The bill is headed to the President and will be signed into law soon so we can better protect American citizens.
For the last four years, I've said that keeping President Trump's border policies in place would make us safer. He has now reinstated many of them and taken even more decisive actions. There is much work to be done on the border crisis and many other issues, but President Trump is moving quickly, and I look forward to helping him get America back on track.
Sincerely,
Sam Graves

Load-Date: January 25, 2025


End of Document
