




The Main Campus: University of Maine
February 17, 2025 Monday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 465 words
Byline: Harry Grenier
Body


The early days of President Donald Trump's second term have been interesting to say the least. It began with a flurry of executive orders to undo previous orders by Former President Joe Biden. Characteristics of these first actions by the President have been an attempt to gut the "bloating" federal government.  
The recent development has been the gutting of "DEI programs" throughout various executive agencies. Recently, there have been several plane crashes, and they have been the direct result of Donald Trump firing several high-level officials in the Federal Aviation Administration . The FAA was left in shambles after mass firings, causing horrific mismanagement and likely confusing directions and mixed signals, ultimately leading to the crashes. We've all, at one point or another, had to deal with this kind of mismanagement- it's hard to work under. Imagine how hard it is to manage hundreds of planes after most of the upper and middle-level management has been fired for ambiguous political reasons. This kind of deregulation for the sake of deregulation, smaller government for the sake of small government, simply must stop.  
There are reasons why agencies like the FAA, FCC, FEC and EPA exist. Federal regulatory agencies don't simply exist to take money from the American people. They exist to protect the American people. Contrary to popular belief, tax money does not go directly into politicians and other middle-level bureaucrats' pockets. Tax money goes all over the place and doesn't even pay for everything we need it to. There's a reason trillions of dollars are added to the American debt yearly. The idea behind taxes is that we pay them as not only our patriotic duty, but as our way of contributing to society, and contributing to the development of our country.  Roads, bridges, schools and hospitals would all have to be built privately and be upkept privately if we weren't all collectively contributing to them. The government is meant to work for the people, but when we elect people who don't have our interests in mind, it can't.  
The EPA is in charge of many regulations to ensure our safety, like levels of clean drinking water, air quality, etc. Imagine what would happen if all of a sudden the new EPA director, along with the rest of the agency were to decide that the safe levels of lead, toxic waste, were to be raised, leading to lead poisoning. These regulations and regulatory bodies exist for a reason. If we allow these agencies to be stripped of their power, we're taking away a lot of the safeties we get in exchange for our taxes. We're getting rid of everything we actually get in exchange for our taxes.  We're ripping our country apart by allowing everything we've built as a nation be torn apart just for the sake of tearing it apart.

Load-Date: February 17, 2025


End of Document
