




Montana Kaimin: University of Montana
February 6, 2025 Thursday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 1328 words
Byline: Henry Doellinger
Body


Josiah Begay, a junior enrolled in the Rosebud Sioux Tribe and double majoring in Native American Studies and Philosophy, stands in the Payne Family Native Amerian Center on Jan. 30. 
Henry Doellinger / Montana Kaimin
Students from across the University of Montana are concerned how executive orders implemented by President Donald Trump aimed at reversing diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives will affect them now and in the future. 
Trump signed 35 executive orders during his first couple weeks in the White House regarding education, immigration and birthright citizenship. 
Josiah Begay, an enrolled citizen of the Rosebud Sioux Tribe from Columbia Falls, became uneasy as he heard community members worry about their safety. After Begay, a junior at UM, and a handful of Indigenous students came back from a trip to India, a core group of them decided it was time to reach out to University President Seth Bodnar. 
Starting an email chain on Jan. 27, Begay and his friend Millie Bearleggins reached out to Bodnar to address their concerns. 
"I know it's probably a bit out of the ordinary for you to meet with students, but considering these dire circumstances where people's education, employment and safety are completely up in the air, I think it's absolutely warranted," Begay stated in the email to Bodnar. 
One executive order of concern for Begay is Order 14160, signed on Jan. 20, which would end birthright citizenship. Indigenous Americans were granted citizenship in 1924. If this order is implemented, it could revoke citizenship from children who are born in the United States whose parents are on a visa, Indigenous or not U.S. citizens. 
"What really sounded my alarm was birthright citizenship," Begay said. "Maybe the birthright citizenship thing is catching people's attention, Native students being like 'Whoa, they can actually do that.' Up until that, maybe it didn't feel real, then that feels very real. 'I can't be a citizen?'"
However, the District of Columbia and attorney generals from 22 states filed lawsuits against the action on Jan. 21, stating that citizenship is protected under the 14th Amendment. The amendment states all individuals born or naturalized in the United States are under legal authority of the government and are therefore citizens. A federal judge blocked Trump's order from Jan. 23 to Feb. 6.   
Begay also referred to three specific executive orders which were signed by President Biden in the fall of 2021 which are now being repealed by Trump. These orders focus on educational inequalities for Hispanic, Black and Indigenous students. Each order addresses the systemic obstacles and disparities students of these racial groups have experienced in public education. 
"I would imagine if I was some sort of higher level official in University, and I had students that would be affected by this, we should address it," Begay said. 
One of Biden's orders that focused on Hispanic Americans states only 40% of Latino children attend preschool compared to the 53% of white children who attend. 
The order regarding Black Americans states, "Black students remain more likely to attend high-poverty and racially segregated schools than white students." These students are also unfairly disciplined and suspended at disproportionate rates compared to white students, according to the order. 
The order discussing Indigenous students recognized these students experiencing the largest decline in undergraduate enrollment during 2020 and 2021.  
"It is the policy of my Administration to advance equity, excellence and justice in our Nation's education system and to further Tribal self-governance, including by supporting activities that expand educational opportunities and improve educational outcomes for all Native American students," Biden's order stated. 
These were just three of the 78 Biden era executive orders that President Trump rescinded on Jan. 20 with Executive Order 14148. 
This left Begay, a double major in Native American studies and philosophy, wondering, "What does that mean? How far does that reach? In the best case scenario, maybe it doesn't really mean anything. Maybe it's just a statement on a wall, and now that gets taken down," he said. 
The executive order that repealed the previous 78 stated the previous administration embedded "deeply unpopular, inflationary, illegal and radical practices" into every office of the federal government. It further stated this input of diversity, equity and inclusion, otherwise known as DEI, has corrupted institutions by removing hard work, quality and equality.  
"It is the policy of the United States to restore common sense to the federal government and unleash the potential of the American citizen," the Trump order stated. 
This order calls for the end of DEI programs, policies and mandates within the federal government. This includes a review and revision to federal employment, contracts and training programs. 
On Jan. 29, Begay decided to take action with other Indigenous students and organized a protest at the Missoula Courthouse. Begay and Bearleggins were able to gather about 40 members of the community to support each other. 
But DEI isn't only on Begay's mind. Oliver Hughes, a junior in astrophysics, is concerned for the diverse staff and students at UM. Feeling more seen by diverse individuals on campus, he wonders what these orders could change. 
"The diversity that comes from being in college is incredible. You go and meet people from all walks of life and you change and evolve," Hughes said. "It's, like, such a changing time in your life."
Hughes is also worried about the rights of transgender people. One of the orders determines the federal government would only recognize two unchanging sexes, male and female. The definition is based on if people are born with eggs or sperm and not their chromosomes. 
"I transitioned medically in 2020, and socially before," Hughes said. "All these really intense things are not only an attack on transgender individuals, but on science."
This could potentially mean federal funding could not be allocated to transition services, leaving Hughes wondering if their right to healthcare could become compromised. 
As the election geared up and executive orders came down, Hughes has felt a significant mental weight. 
"I can't sleep very well because you just sit there and think, 'Oh my god, how's this gonna affect me?' But you can't directly change what's happening," they said. "Some days I'm sitting there just doom scrolling through all of it."
With Trump in office, Begay feels, regardless if people think Trump is racist, racist comments have increased. 
"The fact that there are people that do feel emboldened to confront you based on the color of your skin. And threaten your life and tell you, 'You don't belong here,' and it's like, 'I'm Native, I'm not an illegal that you think I am,'" Begay said. 
According to the Pew Research Center, in 2017, almost a year into Trump's first term, 60% of Americans reported worse race relations, which are the interactions and dynamics between different racial groups. 
While the effects of DEI executive orders start to change policies on the federal level, there will be no changes at the University level until the Department of Education Commissioner or the Board of Regents says to cut programs and policies, according to University spokesperson Dave Kuntz. 
While waiting for Bodnar's response, Begay said he was shocked the University had not yet addressed the Indigenous population, especially because "[UM] seems to be very proud of Native Americans in the student population."
"It doesn't need to be this political statement, you don't need to be condemning Trump. You don't need to do anything," he said. "At a bare minimum, a statement of some sort, that's just, like, the bare minimum."
On Jan. 30, Bodnar responded to the email chain and agreed to meet with the students voicing their concerns, but a meeting time has yet to be scheduled. 

Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
