




USA Today Online
January 31, 2025 10:06 AM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Section: CHARLOTTE NEWS, CHARLOTTE NEWS & SPORTS: OLYMPIC GAMES NEWS
Length: 7498 words
Byline: Chris Kenning, USA TODAY
Body


!function(e,n,i,s){var d="InfogramEmbeds";var o=e.getElementsByTagName(n)[0];if(window[d]&&window[d].initialized)window[d].process&&window[d].process();else if(!e.getElementById(i)){var r=e.createElement(n);r.async=1,r.id=i,r.src=s,o.parentNode.insertBefore(r,o)}}(document,"script","infogram-async","");
Married figure skating champions. A student returning to college after attending a funeral. A lawyer heading home from a work trip on her birthday. Members of a steamfitters union. A 28-year-old airline officer engaged to be married in the fall. Three members of a military helicopter crew.
Wednesday night’s crash between American Airlines Flight 5342 and a U.S. Army Black Hawk in Washington D.C. is believed to have spared none of the disparate lives on board both aircraft when they collided – including 60 airline passengers and four crew members.
They were parents, coaches, professionals, teenage athletes, soldiers and children.
The deaths came after the passenger jet was preparing to land shortly before 9 p.m. at Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport after flying from Wichita, Kansas. An air traffic controller sought to guide the helicopter around the incoming plane.
"PAT25, do you have a CRJ in sight? PAT25, pass behind the CRJ," an air traffic controller could be heard hailing the helicopter at 8:47 p.m.
Then came the crash. Both aircraft plunged into the frigid Potomac River. The jet broke into pieces. "I just saw a fireball and then it was just gone," an air controller said.
By the following morning, first responders who had raced to locate passengers believed no one had survived the deadliest U.S. passenger air crash since 2001. Search-and-rescue efforts switched to recovery. The cause remained under investigation.
"Our community is uniting as one Wichita, one Kansas, and one American community," Mayor Lily Wu said on a day when local residents and faith leaders packed into Wichita City Hall to pray and console each other over a tragedy that stunned the nation and left painful questions.
Family members mourned. Others waited for word of a safe arrival that never came; for the identities of those whose lives were cut short began to emerge.
USA TODAY has reached out to family members as they have identified loved ones lost in the crash. This story will be updated as more victims are identified and more tributes become available.
!function(e,n,i,s){var d="InfogramEmbeds";var o=e.getElementsByTagName(n)[0];if(window[d]&&window[d].initialized)window[d].process&&window[d].process();else if(!e.getElementById(i)){var r=e.createElement(n);r.async=1,r.id=i,r.src=s,o.parentNode.insertBefore(r,o)}}(document,"script","infogram-async","");
Franco and Luciano Aparicio: 'Pillars of strength, kindness'
Videos of double axels and triple toes are everywhere on 14-year-old Franco Aparicio’s Instagram account.
The U.S. Figure Skating honored Franco on their website, remembering him as a "gracious, hard-working skater whose smile would light up the ice and who pursued excellence in everything he did."
Franco was a decorated skater, placing first at the National Qualifying Series and at the Middle Atlantic Championships. This was the second year he qualified for the national development camp, according to the site.
In an Instagram post, his sister called him "the best brother ever" and the ," thank you for being you and for being my best friend. you don’t deserve this and you have "the sweetest soul."
The comment section under Franco’s posts are flooded with condolences from strangers and memories of the young boy from friends. On many posts prior to Wednesday, Franco, a member of the Washington Figure Skating Club, can be seen interacting with fellow skaters, including a number of the victims traveling on the American Airlines flight.
“See y’all next year ✌️,” Franco commented under his last posted video on Tuesday, just one day before the plane collided with a Black Hawk.
A GoFundMe page dedicated to raising money for the Aparicio family describes Luciano, a father of three, as “a wonderful person whose bright smile and infectious laugh made everyone around him happy,” adding, “His positive energy will be missed.”
Elonce, an Argentinian news service, reported Franco was born in Chile and Luciano was originally from Argentina, now working for an energy company.
A Meal Train fundraiser said Franco and Luciano are survived by mother and wife, Barbara, and two sisters and daughters.
“Luciano was the embodiment of a true skating dad—always present, always cheering, always offering encouragement to his children and their friends. His love and dedication to his family and the skating community were unmatched. Together, Franco and Luciano were pillars of strength, kindness, and inspiration to so many of us.”
-- Sam Woodward, USA TODAY
Sarah Best: 'Her impact will never fade'
Sarah Best wanted to change lives.
“Her legacy isn’t just in her achievements, which were many, but in the people she inspired along the way," said Derek Elkins, a friend of Best’s when both were students at Northeast High School in Clarksville, Tennessee. "Losing her is heartbreaking, but her impact will never fade.”
Best was 2009 valedictorian at Northeast High School in Clarksville, according to friends. She went on to Vanderbilt University where she graduated in 2013 with a double-major in Neuroscience and Classical Languages, according to the university.
Best taught at Pearl-Cohn High School in Nashville in 2015-16 and 2016-17, the school's former Executive Principal Sonia Stewart said. Best then went to LEAD Public Schools, Metro Nashville Public Schools spokesperson Sean Braisted said.
“Sarah Best was that rare teacher who cultivated trust at warp speed,” said Chad Prather, a coordinator on the Talent Management Team in the Human Resources Department at MNPS. Best worked at Pearl-Cohn when Best was there.
“They knew they mattered to her, that she had their back, that she valued their communities, that she believed in their genius, that she would never give up on them or let them give up on themselves.
“She was that classroom leader who shoved and hugged in perfect balance.”
Best’s former students have commented they have pursued math and finance careers because of her impact, Prather said.
“She was so talented at everything she did,” former Pearl-Cohn teacher Kathleen Turnmire said. “And when I say she got the kids excited to do math, it made me want to take calculus again.”
“Unbelievably bright, but was really, really good with kids,” said Stewart, who is now Deputy Superintendent for Hamilton County Schools in Tennessee. “She taught upper-level math and was really good at getting kids who didn’t understand math to understand math.”
At the time of the crash, Best was working as an associate at the Wilkinson Stekloff law firm in Washington D.C. Best had also attended the University of Pennsylvania Law School and was the senior editor of the University of Pennsylvania Law Review, according to biographical information on the Wilkinson Stekloff website.
Stewart is working with Wilkinson Stekloff, which is trying to put together a remembrance, though details weren't immediately known.
Best was married to Dan Solomon, Turnmire said.
− Andy Humbles, USA TODAY Network
Brielle and Justyna Beyer: A 'spunky, polite' skater and 'devoted mother'
The loss of 12-year-old figure skater Brielle Beyer and her 42-year-old mother, Justyna Beyer, “leaves an irreplaceable void in the hearts of family and friends,” a GoFundMe page set up to help their family reads.
Brielle, the fundraiser said, “was a bright light, carried a charming smile and was known for her endless commitment to achieving goals.” The skater “had dreams as big as the sky.” Justyna was “a devoted mother (who) exhibited unconditional love and support towards her two children and loving husband,” and “sacrificed so much to provide for Brielle’s future as an Olympic figure skater.”
US Figure Skating called Brielle “spunky, polite and talented” in a memorial post to skaters lost in the crash. The Washington Post reported that the girl had battled neuroblastoma as a baby, and Justyna quit her job as a nurse to care for her.
Justyna’s sister, Mariola Witkowska, told NBC News the family is “heartbroken.” Brielle had been skating all of her life, and her mother had been very active in her daughter’s pursuit: “Brielle and ice skating was pretty much her life.”
Justyna was born in Poland and came to the U.S. as a child, her husband told the Post, and she enjoyed trips to Disney World and decorating their home with multiple Christmas trees. “She wanted to make everything memorable,” Andrew Beyer said.
Brielle’s Instagram account is full of photos and short videos of her and her figure skating friends. In a Dec. 31 post, she wrote about her excitement for the new year, her pride in landing all her triples, her medals and strong performances at competitions.
“Thank you to all my coaches, family, and friend for being there for me every step of the way,” she posted. “On the way to National Development Camp in three weeks!!!”
−Phaedra Trethan, USA TODAY
Jonathan Campos: A pilot who wanted to 'soar like a bird'
Just before Capt. Jonathan Campos boarded the American Airlines flight he would pilot to Washington D.C., he called his aunt: He was looking forward to a Feb. 8 Caribbean cruise with extended family they’d been planning for a year.
Campos planned to arrive in Washington D.C. Wednesday night, get to Philadelphia and catch a flight back home to Ormond Beach, Florida, his aunt, Beverly Lane, told USA TODAY.
“That was the last time I heard from him,” she said.
His life was cut short, along with all passengers and crew, when the flight collided with an Army helicopter over the Potomac River on Wednesday night.
Campos’ late father was a New York City police officer, Lane said, instilling a love of service. And he wanted to be a pilot since he was a child.
“He always wanted to soar like a bird,” she said.
The 34-year-old studied at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University and graduated in 2015.
"Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University is deeply saddened to learn of the passing of Captain Jonathan Campos (Aeronautical Sciences,’15)," Sarah Barczyk, the university's vice president for communications, wrote in a short statement. "Our thoughts are with his family and the families and loved ones of all impacted by this tragic accident.”
He also received his instructor certification at Epic Flight Academy in New Smyrna Beach, Florida. Epic Flight Academy said Campos was working for PSA Airlines, a wholly owned subsidiary of American Airlines.
The flight school put a statement on Facebook Thursday sending condolences calling Campos "a skilled and dedicated pilot with an undeniable passion for flying."
Campos was adventurous - he was a certified scuba diver and loved to travel.
“Two weeks ago, he was in Whistler, Canada, where he tried helicopter skiing for the first time,” Lane said. “He lived life to the fullest, as though each day was the last.”
Lane said his body had been recovered and the family plans to lay him to rest next to his father in Queens, New York.
Last week, President Donald Trump blamed the crash on diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives where reportedly less-qualified minorities are awarded jobs to fulfill race-based hiring quotas. That isn't how airline pilots are hired, said Nick Shaw, a part-time pilot for Spirit Airlines who used to be a captain for American Eagle, a regional carrier for American Airlines.
He said he doesn't know of any pilot in the industry hired because of DEI.
"You don't just show up and become the captain of an airline," said Shaw, a close friend of Campos. "You have to earn it through seniority and through rigorous training. You are responsible for people's lives."
Trump did not elaborate on what he meant by saying DEI hiring may have been a factor in the plane crash.
In any case, Campos was no DEI hire, even though he was of Puerto Rican descent, Shaw told the Daytona Beach News-Journal, part of the USA TODAY Network.
"He doesn't speak a lick of Spanish," he said of Campos. "Dude was from New York. He was as New York as New York gets. When he was a freshman at Embry-Riddle (Aeronautical University), we used to call him 'Brooklyn.'"
--Chris Kenning, USA TODAY; Clayton Park, Daytona Beach News-Journal
Chris Collins: His 'kindness and compassion extended to everyone'
Chris Collins had a kindness that extended to everyone.
The Dighton, Massachusetts native was living in Stamford, Connecticut and working as a vice president at Moody’s Investor Service.
"Our family is devastated by the loss of Chris, our beloved husband, son, brother, and uncle," the Collins family said in a statement.
After growing up in Dighton, Collins, 42, graduated from the University of Massachusetts-Dartmouth and earned his master of arts from Brown University in public policy analysis. Collins moved to New York City to pursue a career in finance, "where he fell in love with a city girl, his cherished wife Jen."
"Chris grew up in North Dighton, MA, adored by his parents Bob and Nancy and was always ready for friendly competition with his brother, Matt," his family said. "Chris’ kindness and compassion extended to everyone, whether you were a family member, friend, or one of the many strangers he connected with."
Collins' family said that he was "a true adventurer with a passion for the outdoors and a lifelong love of animals."
"Chris’ call to the outdoors never wavered, whether it was hiking Lögberg in Iceland, camping and rafting in the Great Smoky Mountains, skiing and snowboarding, and most of all, enjoying the coastal outdoor landscape of Brewster, MA and the rest of Cape Cod," his family said.
"The love of dogs he discovered early in life only grew stronger over the years. His frequent walks with the dogs at Lucky Dog Refuge in Stamford, CT brought him tremendous joy."
"He will be in our hearts forever," his family said.
− Emma Rindlisbacher, USA TODAY Network
Casey Crafton: A devoted husband and father
Casey Crafton worked for an aircraft sales company, according to a relative, sometimes traveling to assess planes for possible purchase.
But the Salem, Connecticut man who lost his life in the Washington D.C. aircraft crash was best known for being a devoted father who left behind a wife and three children.
​​“He was such a good husband and father. He loved her and the boys so much,” Cindy Clouther, a family friend, wrote on Facebook.
Crafton and his wife, Rachel, met while attending Bob Jones University near Greenville, South Carolina and graduated together in 2008, according to Larry Hunt, a university employee who assisted in their marriage ceremony in a barn on Rachel’s family farm.
"Our hearts are grieving with the Crafton-Gadbois families as they mourn Casey’s earthly passing," said Josh Crockett, president at Bob Jones University, who taught Casey in a class nearly 20 years ago while he attended college.
Crafton graduated with an aviation and airway management degree and went on to work as a technical services coordinator and manager at Guardian Jet, LLC., which is located in Hartford, Connecticut, according to Crafton's LinkedIn profile.
“The company he worked for, he would travel for them, go look at different airplanes and inspect them, check them out, make sure they're good to go,” Crafton’s cousin, Will MacPherson, told CT Insider. “He would let them know, ‘This would be a good plane for us to buy.’”
Crafton was traveling home to Salem, Connecticut from Wichita, Kansas, with a layover in Washington, D.C., when the crash occurred.
Crafton was an active member of the Salem community, participating in Salem Little League, the town's recreation commission and as a coach for the Montville Youth Soccer Club.
"Coach Casey was a valued volunteer with Montville Youth Soccer who helped to enrich the lives of all those that he came in contact with," said the soccer club of their departed coach on Facebook.
–A.J. Jackson, The Greenville News, Catherine Messier, USA TODAY NETWORK New England, Chris Kenning, USA TODAY
Pete "PJ" Diaz: An avid traveler for work and fun
Pete “PJ” Diaz 30, was a fan of traveling.
The Wichita man traveled often for his aviation job, the Wichita Eagle reported, but he also enjoyed cruises and was planning a longer cruise later this year. This trip was for leisure rather than for work, the Eagle reports.
Diaz is survived by his parents and two older sisters.
“I don’t post often but my heart is broken and reaching out for prayers for me and my family,” his mother, Linda Diaz, said in a GoFundMe that was set up to help the family.
"Please pray God gives us strength to get through this devastating time. I love you PJ and always will,” she said.
Lifelong friend Ashley Karleskint said the two had grown up together. When the news had reached Karleskint, she knew she wanted to find a way to make it easier for the family to arrange the next steps. Quickly, they formed a GoFundMe with the hope of donations helping the family recover.
“Our families have been really close, so we’re just trying to do everything we can to make it less stressful for [his mom] and make everything easier for them,” Karleskint said.
“It feels good to know that there are many people who want to help out, and I’m grateful they’re donating their hard-earned money to make something like this a whole lot easier for the family,” she said.
− Josh Kelly, USA TODAY Network
Kiah Duggins: A former Miss Kansas contestant who believed in 'radical love'
Kiah Duggins, 30, was a civil rights attorney, aspiring law professor, a former White House intern and Miss Kansas contestant.
"Kiah believed in radical love, unwavering truth, and the fight for a better world. Let’s carry her torch forward," family member Aisha Duggins wrote in a fundraiser for causes and initiatives "dear to (Duggins') heart, ensuring that her work and passion live on."
Prior to her death, Duggins was "set to begin a new chapter as a professor at Howard University in the fall," the university posted on social media.
She dedicated her career to fighting against "unconstitutional policing and unjust money bail practices in Tennessee, Texas and Washington, D.C.," the post reads.
While at Wichita State University as a Clay Barton Scholar and student government chief of staff, she helped found the university’s first student resource pantry that is still helping students in need. She also interned at the White House under the Obama Administration and taught English in Taiwan before graduating in 2017.
"I can't think of anybody better than Kiah to represent not just Wichita State, but the United States and humanity," Wichita State University enrollment executive Bobby Gandu told USA TODAY. "She was just such a wonderful person, and you knew that she was going to go into an area that might be poverty stricken or lack opportunity, and she would bring such joy to the people in that community."
−Natalie Neysa Alund and Anthony Robledo, USA TODAY
Andrew Eaves: 'The more he gave the more room he had for more loving'
Andrew Loyd Eaves, 39, grew up in a small rural town in east-central Mississippi before going into the military and finding an aviation career.
Eaves first served in the Navy, from August 2007 to September 2017, before becoming a UH-60 pilot for the Army, beginning in September 2017, the Army said. On Thursday, Mississippi Gov. Tate Reeves acknowledged Eaves' death.
"Mississippi is mourning the loss of Brooksville native Chief Warrant Officer 2 Andrew Eaves, who was killed in last night’s accident at Reagan National Airport," Reeves said on X. "Elee and I are praying for the victims’ families and first responders who are assisting."
In a Facebook post, his wife, Carrie Eaves, said, "We ask that you pray for our family and friends and for all the other families that are suffering today. We ask for peace while we grieve."
Eaves' mother, Betty Eaves, wrote in a now private Facebook post about Eaves' loving nature.
"If you knew Andrew Eaves, animals or people you never run out of love," she said. "The more he gave the more room he had for more loving."
The Army said Eaves and the other crew members were “exceptional leaders and teammates.”
“Their legacy and honorable service to our Nation will forever remain," Lt. Col. Erika A. Holownia, commander of the 12th Aviation Battalion, said in a news release. "Their experience and dedication made our unit better, every day. As we mourn this tragic loss, our top priority is supporting their families, friends, and fellow Soldiers. Our thoughts and prayers are also with the families and friends of American Eagle Flight 5342."
− Terry Collins, Eve Chen, USA TODAY and Lici Beveridge, USA TODAY Network
Danasia Elder: Pursuing ‘one of her dreams’
Charlotte-based flight attendant Danasia Elder was flying high, chasing her dreams.
Elder, 34, a wife and mother of two, worked for PSA Airlines, a regional partner of American Airlines which was operating the flight from Kansas. The Wednesday night flight was supposed to be Elder’s last before she changed careers at American Airlines, her cousin, Carolyn Edwards told NBC News.
Her brother-in-law, Brandon Payne, told TV station WSOC that becoming a flight attendant had been an aspiration of Elder’s.
“She was very bright, very smart. She was an entrepreneur. This flight attendant thing was kind of like one of her dreams she wanted to do,” Payne said.
She would want others to chase their dreams “no matter what,” just like she had, he added. “Don’t let nothing scare you, push you away. Just believe in yourself, believe in God, and follow the path.”
A GoFundMe for Elder, created by her brother Dajour Brown, had raised more than $98,000 as of Feb. 4. All of the funds will go to her husband and two children, ages 5 and 13.
− Karissa Waddick, USA TODAY
Brian Ellis: 'He was one of the best'
Brian Ellis, a retired Lt. Col. who may have flown “a couple of hundred" missions as a helicopter pilot for the U.S. Marine Corps, is among those lost in the crash.
Ellis, 53, flew helicopters and taught other pilots how to fly from 1993 until 2005, according to his LinkedIn profile. He had deployed “three or four times, moving Marines, bringing in heavy equipment and supporting Marine engagements,” said Chad Chatlos, a friend of 35 years.
“The irony is tough to swallow,” Chatlos said, “for him to make it through night missions, dangerous missions and gunfire through 12 years of flying . . . For a collision with an Army helicopter to be the reason he’s no longer with us.”
Ellis retired in 2015, after serving more than 21 years in the Corps, and went to work for Deloitte, a global professional services company. Last week, Ellis, a senior manager for the company, had traveled to Kansas on business.
“If he was going to do something, he would do it full go,” Chatlos said. “He’s one of those guys who would measure something 100 times before cutting it. “
“He was very high integrity and very humble,” Chatlos said. “All of his friends say he was one of the best.”
Ellis leaves behind two sons, one a recent college graduate and the other a senior in college, his parents and siblings. That includes Chatlos and two other friends who all met in their early days at the U.S. Naval Academy in 1989, where they played football. The quartet graduated from the Academy in 1993.
In a statement, the school district where he graduated high school in Clayton County, Georgia, said: "He is leaving a legacy of leadership, dedication and selflessness."
– Dinah Voyles Pulver, USA TODAY
Ian Epstein: 'He made flying fun for the passengers'
One of the flight attendants on board the commercial jet was Ian Epstein, a jokester who loved making passengers comfortable, according to his ex-wife.
Ian Epstein worked for PSA Airlines and lived in Charlotte, according to his Facebook page.
"It is with a very heavy heart and extreme sadness that myself along with our children Hannah Epstein and Joanna Epstein and his sister Robbie Epstein Bloom her husband Steven Bloom and nieces Andi and Dani inform you that Ian Epstein was one of the flight attendants on American Airlines Flight 5342 that collided last night when they were landing in DC.," his former wife Debi Epstein posted on social media Thursday.
She asked for prayers as the family travels to Washington, the post reads.
According to his ex-wife, the couple's daughter, one of their two children, is set to be married in less than two months.
“He made flying fun for the passengers on the plane so they didn’t get scared,” Debi Epstein told The Charlotte Observer by phone Thursday. “He was always the jokester and just doing the announcements with the twist.”
An outgoing person, she told the outlet, her ex-husband "died doing what he absolutely loved.”
"He had a beautiful energy about him," Jerri Sherer, of Jackson, Mississippi, told USA TODAY. "He was fun and flirty and kind to everyone."
The two met on a flight from Charlotte, Sherer said, and later dated and kept in touch over the phone "for hours".
"His sign off was what convinced me I need to give him my phone number," Sherer, 48, said. "I’d never done that to a stranger before. It was his own personal statement and was lovely. He cared about people and wanted to make others happy."
–Natalie Neysa Alund USA TODAY
Lindsey Fields: Dedicated to 'changing students' lives every day'
Lindsey Fields loved big cats.
For the past decade, Fields, 40, taught biology at Butler Community College in the Wichita, Kansas area. She was beloved at the school, which praised her energy and dedication to her craft.
"Lindsey was a colleague, friend, and educator who dedicated her wisdom and talents to changing students’ lives every day. We owe her much gratitude for sharing her light with us and we will forever feel this loss. We send much love and support to her family and friends during this most difficult time," the school said in an announcement Friday morning.
All Butler Community College campuses will observe a moment of silence on Monday, Feb. 3 at 9:45 a.m.
Fields was also president-elect of the National Association of Biology Teachers board of directors. According to an NABT post on Facebook, she was headed to Washington D.C. to represent the organization and advocate for excellence in life science education.
After earning a master's degree in zoology from Oklahoma State University, she interned with the Oklahoma City Zoo.
Oklahoma State Professor Andy Dzialowski was her coursework adviser at the university. He said Fields took on the rare job of being an undergraduate teaching assistant, which is a role usually reserved for post-graduate students.
"If you asked people in her department who would have been one of the most successful teachers, it would be Lindsey," he said. "She was a really nice person. A great big smile."
−Dale Denwalt, USA TODAY Network
Jin and Jinna Han: Role models for the sport of figure staking
Jinna Han, 13, was another figure skater with the Skating Club of Boston.
She, along with fellow ice skater Spencer Lane, was returning home after the U.S. Figure Skating National Development Camp in Wichita, according to U.S. Figure Skating.
Like Lane, Han competed in the U.S. Figure Skating 2025 Eastern Sectional Singles and U.S. Pairs Final in the Novice Women Free Skate, where she placed fourth, according to the national governing body for the sport. Han’s performance can be found in a YouTube video posted by the association.
Han was in Wichita attending the U.S. Figure Skating's National Development Camp, according to the club.
The camp is for the “young competitive skaters of tomorrow with the most promise to be a champion of tomorrow," said Doug Zeghibe, CEO and executive director of the Skating Club of Boston, in a statement.
Han’s mother, Jin Han, was on the flight with her and is also presumed dead. She was a "wonderful, pleasant, polite" member, he said.
"Never a discouraging word," he said. "Always appreciative, always supportive of not just Jinna, her daughter, but every athlete. Just role model parents in your sport, and you don't always get that."
− Julia Gomez, Terry Collins, USA TODAY and Melina Khan, USA TODAY Network
Cory Haynos: Skater nailed triple axel hours before crash
It’s not surprising that Cory Haynos nailed a triple axel at a prestigious developmental skating camp just hours before his death, a former coach recalled. The 16-year-old rising intermediate figure skater was full of potential.
Cory and his parents, Stephanie and Roger Haynos, were among those killed onboard American Airlines Flight 5342 that collided with a Black Hawk helicopter plunging into the Potomac River near Reagan Washington National Airport on Jan. 29.
The Haynos family was returning from the U.S. Figure Skating training camp in Wichita. They lived in Annandale, Virginia.
As a 6-year-old, Cory knew he wanted to be a skater and showed great promise, Olga Garrity, one of his first skating coaches, told USA TODAY on Tuesday. When learning that Cory landed the triple axel at the skating camp in Kansas, Garrity said she beamed with pride.
“Cory had boundless energy, determination, and grit. He also loved to have fun,” Garrity said. “Cory had immense talent, even when he was little. You could see he was really coming into his own and that confidence came directly from his parents.”
Garrity said Cory’s parents, Roger and Stephanie, were “fiercely devoted” to their children, including their 19-year-old daughter Emily, who skated competitively and is currently studying nursing at Ohio State University.
Garrity said there was never any question about Roger and Stephanie Haynos’ commitment as parents. The couple retired early from their respective jobs in the Fairfax County Public Schools in Virginia to focus on their kids’ ascension into skating, Garrity added.
“Their parents would walk through fire for them without even giving a second thought,” said Garrity who has created a GoFundMe page for Emily. “They supported them in whatever endeavors they pursued.”
− Terry Collins, USA TODAY
Roger Haynos: 'absolute love' for family
LaRaviere said he was left "heartbroken," in a Facebook post on Jan. 30.
“Roger has always inspired me by his absolute love for his family and dedication to providing only the best for his wife and kids,” LaRaviere said.
LaRaviere said his cousin was excited about Cory’s future and was honored that LaRaviere and his wife were planning to see Cory perform in an upcoming event.
“We all were expecting Cory to represent our country in the U.S. Olympics in the future,” LaRaviere said.
Garrity agreed. She added that Cory and many of his skating colleagues were on the right track.
“This hole will be felt for years to come because they were this nation’s best up-and-coming skaters,” Garrity said. “They were the future of the sport; All of them.”
− Terry Collins, USA TODAY
Stephanie Haynos: a ‘contagious laugh’
Longtime family friend Kimberly Blosser Haug, 59, of Fairfax, told WJZ-TV she had known Stephanie Haynos since high school. Haug remembers Haynos having “a contagious laugh.” Haynos was adopted as a child, which led her and her husband to adopt their children, Emily and Cory, Haug added.
"And that to me says so loudly what kind of human being she was," Haug said about her friend’s compassion.
Roger Haynos’ cousin, Matthew LaRaviere, shared similar sentiments with WRC-TV.
“Always a few minutes into your conversation, it was always back to Cory and Emily. Always,” LaRaviere said. “I think that they were just so honored to have kids and to be able to adopt them that they never let go of that dream.”
Haug told WJZ-TV that knowing the family was part of a tragic incident has been numb and hard to put into words. Haug said their deaths have brought heartache and shock to those who knew and loved her.
“A lot of shock that this could happen at all, and affect so many," Haug said. “I think it's very important that we stop and remember that these are lives — plain and simple. There are families and friends who are missing very important parts of their lives now."
− Terry Collins, USA TODAY
Elizabeth Anne Keys: Pushing people to be 'the best versions of themselves'
Elizabeth Anne Keys was flying back on her birthday from a work trip.
Instead, Wednesday night would be her 33rd and final trip around the sun.
"She was just the best partner and so special, had such a sharp wit, and just really pushed everyone around her to be the best versions of themselves," said her partner of six years, David Seidman.
Keys was a 2010 graduate of Madeira High School in Ohio, where she was valedictorian, according to a statement from her family. She then attended Tufts University, graduating in 2014 while also playing four years on the varsity sailing team. In 2020, she earned her Juris Doctor degree from Georgetown University Law Center.
She had been an attorney at Wilkinson Stekloff LPP in Washington D.C. since 2021, according to her LinkedIn page.
"Elizabeth was strong and fearless – she embraced life at full speed ... She loved deeply and was deeply loved," her family said in a statement. "She was so fun – and funny! Liz had a sharp wit and appreciated it in others ... We are filled with unbearable sorrow and despair at our loss."
Along with Seidman, who the statement says is the "love of her life," Keys is survived by her parents, Martin and Mary Keys, and her Yorkie terrier, Tucker.
—Aaron Valdez, Cincinnati Enquirer
Christine and Spencer Lane: Ice skater with 'infectious' energy
Spencer Lane, 16, was also a promising young figure skater with the Skating Club of Boston onboard.He too was returning home from the camp in Wichita, according to an Instagram post he made hours before the crash.
“I am so happy to have qualified for national development camp earlier in November. It has been my goal almost ever since I became aware that it was a thing,” Lane wrote in the post. “I learned so much new information that I can apply to my everyday life, and met so many amazing people!”
In November 2024, Lane competed in the Eastern Sectionals and won first place while also achieving new personal best in the short and free skate portion of the competition, according to another post. It was his first competitive season.
One of the last photos Lane posted was to his Instagram story and captured the wing of the plane that would later be involved in the devastating crash.
"Spencer, in the best way possible, was a crazy kid," said Doug Zeghibe, CEO and executive director of the Skating Club of Boston.
Lane "has not been skating that long, and just rocketed to the top of the sport,” he said.
Douglas Lane, the skater's father, told WPRI on Thursday the teen’s energy was "infectious" and he was "loved by everyone.”
Lane’s mother, Christine Lane, was onboard the plane with him and is also presumed dead.
Related: Figure skaters from US, Russia among those aboard doomed plane that crashed near DC
"She was one of those people that could plug in anywhere and connect with people and build a real bond," Douglas said of his wife.
Elin Schran said Spencer was brilliant and kind. Schran, daughter of skating great Dr. Tenley Albright, cast him in his first professional show in December in Cambridge.
"After the show he came over and he was just beaming," Schran said. "He was so talented. He'd only started skating a couple of years ago and he had all his triples. And not just that but his natural grace and beauty and understanding of ice and speed. His positions were just so gorgeous."
She said something clicked for Spencer during that show. "He came to me smiling, ear to ear, saying 'I get it now. I understand.' He started to discover the connection to the audience and that joy he was giving other people through his gift."
− Julia Gomez and Melina Khan, USA TODAY Network
Everly, Alydia, Donna and Peter Livingston: Dedicated to skating and each other
The Livingstons, a family dedicated to each other and the sport of figure skating, were all onboard the flight toward their Ashburn, Virginia home following the Wichita event.
Comcast business executive Donna Livingston and real estate agent Peter Livingston raised Everly, 14, and Alydia, 11.
The two sisters began skating before either of them turned 5. They were following in the footsteps of Peter, who skated when he was younger. Both parents put their daughters' passion above their own careers − from near-constant traveling to finding private ice rinks, according to close friend Dalal Badri.
“He was such a dedicated father. No matter what. He would always, always make time for them so they can skate,” Badri told USA TODAY. “You can't find a lot of dedicated skating families. They're very rare. But Donna was willing to do anything. And if we couldn't figure out how we're going to do this she was like, ‘Don't worry. We'll make it work.’”
The two competed across the country, both earning several juvenile championships and medals that go along with it. They thrived at both figure and roller skating, mastering different disciplines from solo dancing to freestyling.
“Everly was such a shy girl, but so focused and she just opened up and lit up when she got on the ice,” Badri said. “Alydia was just always laughing and joking and smiling. She would always pop a joke, even if she had a straight face and was the kind of person that always wanted to make others laugh.”
-Anthony Robledo, USA TODAY
Alexandr Kirsanov, Angela Yang, Zheheng "Lily" Li, Sean and Yulia Kay: A coach and his beloved skaters
A Delaware coach and at least two members of the University of Delaware Figure Skating Club were on the flight, the coach's wife confirmed to Delaware Online/The News Journal, part of the USA TODAY Network.
Alexandr "Sasha" Kirsanov, who coached Angela Yang, 12, and 11-year-old Sean Kay, was among those killed in the crash, his wife, Natalia Gudin said in a phone call from Washington, D.C., where she was staying as recovery efforts continued.
On Friday, close family friend Anna Ulyanova confirmed to The News Journal that Kay's mother, Yulia, was also on the flight. Her husband, Vitali, 14-year-old daughter and two sons, ages 10 and 7, have been left "shattered."
“We’ve known each other for a while,” Ulyanova said of the Kays. “We’ve known each other for close to 20 years.”
Ulyanova said they are all from the Chicago area, including two friends who “jumped in the car” and drove to Delaware to help support the Kays. Yulia was an "incredible" woman "who lived for her children," according to a GoFundMe created by Ulyanova and her husband.
Kirsanov, 46, was a professional ice dancer who competed for the U.S., Azerbaijan and Russia, according to International Skating Union results. He competed until 2004, then transitioned to coaching and choreography. He coached his daughter, Nicole, now a professional skater.
“We always use American Airlines when we go to competition,” Gudin, his wife, said. “This time, they go without me, and all of them are gone.”
Sean Kay and his brother, Skyler, competed in Austin, Texas, in 2023 at the Excel National Festival, which gives skaters an opportunity to develop skills while showcasing their strengths. An article on the U.S. Figure Skating website interviewed the brothers’ mother, Yulia Kay, who explained the Excel Series gave her sons a chance to travel, compete, and to make personal connections with other skaters.
“Their favorite part was meeting other boys who love the sport as much as they do,” Yulia Kay said in the article. “It’s amazing to watch them as they support each other, encourage each other, wish good luck before competitions and congratulate each other on a great skate.”
On Jan. 21, the University of Delaware Figure Skating Club posted on its social media accounts that it was sending skaters to Wichita. “Congratulations to everyone and we wish you all the best!” the post read, with Yang, Kay and two other skaters pictured, medals around their necks.
In a November post, the club offered a glimpse of Yang in a Skater Spotlight post. She said she got into skating because of older siblings who played hockey. She, too, started playing, but, she said, “I soon discovered a passion for ice dance.” As her hockey skills were eclipsed by her dancing, she decided to focus on the latter.
She talked about how her family and her coaches were her inspiration, and, asked what she did in her time off the ice, she said she created digital art, painted and enjoyed traveling and playing video games.
Yang also said she had two chinchillas, Star and Space, a guinea pig named Reese’s and a parakeet named Cloudy.
Angela's mother, Zheheng "Lily" Li, was also on board the flight. According to a GoFundMe campaign organized for Angela’s family, Li was a devoted mother who dedicated her life to raising her three children while managing her own business. She raised them largely on her own in the U.S. while her husband worked overseas, supporting her children’s academic and athletic pursuits with unwavering commitment.
—Isabel Hughes, Delaware News Journal and Phaedra Trethan, USA TODAY
Samuel Lilley: A first officer who 'soared beyond his career'
Samuel Lilley, 28, was the first officer on the flight, according to a Facebook post made by his father Tim Lilley. The same post stated that the younger Lilley was engaged and to be married in the fall.
“I was so proud when Sam became a pilot,” the post read. “Now it hurts so bad I can’t even cry myself to sleep.”
USA TODAY reached out to Lilley’s father, Tim, who said he wasn't immediately available to speak about his son. But he told the Daily Mail that his son was near becoming a captain.
Lilley graduated from Georgia Southern University in 2018 with a bachelor's degree in business administration. President Kyle Marrero in a statement to USA TODAY said the university community, “is deeply saddened by the loss of one of our outstanding alumni Sam Lilley (‘18) who embodied the eagle spirit and soared beyond in his career.”
“We will continue to keep Sam’ s family and friends in our thoughts as they grieve this tragedy,” Marrero said.
-Chris Quintana, USA TODAY
Rebecca Lobach: A patriot who 'deserved to be there'
When Sabrina Bell called Capt. Rebecca Lobach last Wednesday evening, she hoped to plan a trip to see a dear friend from her time at Fort Belvoir in Virginia.
Now stationed in Alaska as a chief warrant officer 2, Bell badly missed Lobach – her openness, cultured perspective and, most of all, her deep empathy.
Within hours, when she got the call, Bell was hit with a wave of shock, then disbelief. Lobach was one of three military personnel in the Army helicopter that collided with a passenger plane near Washington, D.C., sending both aircraft spiraling into the Potomac River.
Lobach, a 28-year-old aviation officer assigned to the 12th Aviation Battalion, was the only female pilot on the flight. In an unusual move, the Army granted her family's request to withhold her name before it was released on Saturday evening.
"Not only did she deserve what she achieved, but she was overqualified most of the time for what she was able to accomplish," said Capt. Bilal Kordab, who recruited Lobach to the North Carolina National Guard. "Nothing was just handed to her."
"I am hoping that people can look past the political aspect of the whole situation and look past her race and her gender," Bell said. "I hope that she's remembered more for the impact that she had on other people's lives."
Lobach's friends say excellence was her natural state of being.
A Durham, North Carolina, native, Lobach enlisted in the state's Army National Guard in December 2018.
She was commissioned as an active duty aviation officer months later. She quickly skyrocketed through the ranks, and latched onto piloting like a bird to air.
Lobach graduated from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill with a degree in biology in 2019. A distinguished military graduate, she was in the top 20% of cadets in the nation, according to the Army.
For her friends in college and in service, she was a baker of delicious bagels and a "sounding board" for on-point advice, according to Bell.
Lobach previously played on the basketball team of Sewanee, the University of the South, in Tennessee, and she never let her physical strength slide.
Lobach's service extended beyond the military – she was a certified victim advocate with SHARP, the Army's Sexual Harassment/Assault Response and Prevention program, and a White House military social aide.
Lt. Samantha Brown, a close friend who near Lobach for years after they met at UNC, said she was confident, despite the political rhetoric swirling around her friend's death, that Lobach would be remembered for one thing – that she heartily deserved her success.
"Rebecca earned her place in that aircraft," she said. "She was outstanding, and she deserved to be there."
"Rebecca was a patriot. She was a daughter, a sister, a friend," she said. "I'm going to miss her for the rest of my life."
−Cybele Mayes-Osterman, USA TODAY
Pergentino “Bong” Malabed Jr.: A peacemaker and dedicated public servant
Filipin

Load-Date: February 5, 2025


End of Document
