




The Triangle: Drexel University
January 31, 2025 Friday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 1393 words
Byline: Nicole Marie
Body


Photo by Evie Touring | The Triangle
Since his second inauguration on Jan. 20, President Donald Trump has signed over 35 executive orders, many of which echo claims and promises he made during his campaign and previous presidency. These orders have the potential to impact Drexel University students and Philadelphia residents.
According to Vice Provost of Faculty Advancement and Inclusion Leslie Ashburn-Nardo, Ph.D., "While Drexel is not part of the federal government, orders that affect the federal government can have implications for institutions like Drexel that receive federal funding. Drexel has always needed to comply with a wide array of terms and conditions that agencies require from federal grant recipients."
One executive order that may have prominent effects is titled, "??Ending Radical And Wasteful Government DEI Programs And Preferencing," and calls for "the termination of all discriminatory programs, including illegal DEI and 'diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility' mandates, policies, programs, preferences, and activities in the Federal Government."`
Following the overturn of court precedent protecting affirmative action in 2023, this executive order further pushes for the ridding of programs meant to provide historically marginalized groups a more equitable chance of receiving valuable resourcessuch as higher education.
In response to the executive order, Grace Harvey, a first-year master's psychology student, said, "Unfortunately, I can't say I was surprised to hear about this order."
Harvey has a "deep concern that this is just the beginning of President Trump's attack on our nation and its people."
As a first-year psychology major at Drexel, Gabby Rodriguez recalled, "I was terrified."
Having worked as a DEI representative during their time in high school, Rodriguez said, "It was devastating to learn that Trump would be ending something so significant, something that genuinely strengthens communities and gives everyone a better understanding of people like us."
"There is a reason these programs were established, and there is an equal and opposite reason why these programs are being terminated," Harvey continued. "There is no denying this fact."
While this order is not in effect yet and will not immediately impact universities, many wonder about its implications.
"There are many conversations happening among leaders across the university to determine the impact of this and other executive orders on all operations," Ashburn-Nardo said. "Such conversations are always necessary; they are not unique to this order."
While it is not clear how it could affect Drexel's DEI department and Lindy Center, students worry about the safety and environment of student-dominated spaces.
Without DEI policies, students are "anxious" about how "places that have more constricted point of views...will look like now," according to Rodriguez.
"I feel it would affect...anything within the diversity programs or scholarships, and especially our clubs that center certain ethnicities, races, and cultures because all of those clubs are meant to create a more inclusive environment," Rodriquez said. "While I hope Drexel would fight against that as a private institution, it's hard to see how that order will affect everything."
Harvey shared a similar sentiment: "I hope there is a certain amount of resistance from universities."
"This order risks making students feel unsafe on campus and attempts to do away with important policy and education that promotes institutional alignment with equity and antiracism," Harvey continued.
Another order, titled "Protecting The American People Against Invasion", calls for "sanctuary" jurisdictions to be denied access to federal funds.
Since 2016, Philadelphia has acted as a sanctuary city as enacted by Executive Order No. 5-16, signed by former Mayor Jim Kenney. This means the city limits the collaboration between local law enforcement and Immigration and Customs Enforcement; ICE detainer requests will not be granted unless supported by a judicial warrant for someone who was previously convicted of a violent felony.
According to CBS News, "many city departments will not ask for immigration status and are under orders not to disclose anyone's status if they know it."
However, people feel that the order still poses a threat to not only those figuring out their immigrant status but to anyone who may be wrongly profiled.
"I'm Puerto Rican, born here, and raised in Philadelphia, but even my place as a Puerto Rican goes into question," Rodriguez mentioned. "Especially after the remarks at Trump rallies with jokes pertaining to my island being 'trash,' I don't feel that I would be looked at as any part of the USA even if I tried, and I feel Trump has made that clear."
"There is already news of ICE 'detaining' Puerto Ricans and targeting people who look like me," Rodriguez shared. "It's a terrible thought to think...something would happen to me or my family just cause we look a different way."
"Again, these orders aren't surprising, President Trump was incredibly clear about his initiative to remove protection for immigrants," Harvey said.
"This order, along with mass deportation efforts beginning to take place in the United States, is deeply troubling. I am saddened for the families who will be affected by these orders," Harvey shared. "Additionally, I am concerned about the increase in violence that will arise from this order and the President's harmful rhetoric towards immigrants."
Trump also rescinded many of President Joe Biden's orders, including Protected Areas Policies, through the "Initial Rescissions Of Harmful Executive Orders And Actions" executive order.
According to Harvey, "These orders remove previously safe places...This may cause people to avoid healthcare facilities, schools, and churches out of fear. There is no good that can come from that. I hope there is power in the community to do what we can to protect our neighbors."
Not only will this order impact Philadelphia, but it "could make students feel unsafe on campus," Harvey said. "This increases the risk of ICE activity in schools, specifically areas on campuses that are considered 'public.'"
Advocating for student organizations, Rodriguez said, "As someone who is not only Latinx, but queer, spaces that help us fit in [are] important...I feel there could possibly be an invasion to these clubs or safe spaces and threaten what they are meant to do for us as students. It takes away pure sense of belonging and instills fear."
Another order that students believe will have a significant impact is titled "Defending Women from Gender Ideology Extremism and Restoring Biological Truth to the Federal Government". This order establishes that the federal government will only recognize two sexes, male and female, "with a disregard for gender identity," according to Harvey.
"I believe this order, along with all the previously mentioned orders, will absolutely pose a threat to cause harm to all the people of the United States," Harvey stated.
"Trump [is] basically saying we don't exist, which is not only harmful for students who are queer but affects the way we go about expressing ourselves, telling our teachers our pronouns [and] being open about our queerness," Rodriguez said. "This threatens our freedom."
As more executive orders are being signed each day, they draw attention to "consequences on systemic and interpersonal levels," according to Harvey.
"I understand that the uncertainty raised by these orders can create a great deal of confusion, anxiety, fear, and distress. At times like this it is important to come together as a community and support one another as we work toward answers," Ashburn-Nardo said. "In addition to the strength we gain from being together as a community, there are a number of resources available to help manage the stress and anxiety students, staff, or faculty might be feeling, including those offered by our Counseling Center and Employee Assistance program."
"Please educate yourself and please spread anything that will help regarding DEI, ICE, or queer issues that are happening," Rodriguez said. "Even if you can't physically do anything, sharing and standing by us is what we need."
"As a community, we have the power to make change," Harvey said. "Take care of your neighbors. If you think this doesn't affect you, it probably does."

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
