




The Lawrentian: Lawrence University
February 14, 2025 Friday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 966 words
Byline: Madeline Forman
Body


On Saturday, Feb. 8, the Lawrence University Students for a Democratic Society led a town hall in Youngchild Hall of Science from 2:30 p.m. to 4 p.m. The town hall was in direct response to recently re-elected President Donald Trump's administration policies, executive orders and legislation that have taken place since his return to the Oval Office. SDS collaborated with numerous student organizations, including Lawrence University Gaming Club, Sustainable Lawrence University Gardens , Lawrence University Young Democratic Socialists of America , Alianza, Beta Theta Pi, Lawrence University Disability Working Group (LUDWiG), Lawrence University's Queer Alliance and Lawrentians Enhancing Diversity in Science to bring together grievances against Trump's administration.
Students participate in Feb. 8 town hall. Photo provided by Adam Fleischer.
The town hall began with a reading of a poem by Audre Lorde, a Black lesbian poet. The poem, entitled "The Transformation of Silence into Language and Action," is about the need to speak out against oppression and the importance of turning silence into vocal resistance. Lorde addresses the challenges faced by marginalized groups and the necessity of confronting these struggles head-on through self-expression and activism.
The town hall was followed by a series of group discussions about the policies that Trump has initiated in the first few weeks of his presidency. The first part of the discussion focused on the termination of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion programs in the workforce. The reversal of the DEI programs has sparked concerns among many in the community, who see these initiatives as essential for promoting a culture of inclusivity and respect in the workplace. The group discussion centered around the potential implications of this policy change, including the potential for increased discrimination and decreased opportunities for underrepresented groups. During the town hall, participants spoke on the importance of collective action, claiming that students should unite to ensure Lawrence University remains committed to advancing DEI initiatives on campus.
The group then examined the implications of President Trump's administration on these communities, with many participants expressing alarm at the erosion of protections and services. The discussion highlighted the implications of the U.S.'s withdrawal from the World Health Organization . Students and faculty alike voiced concern about the loss of access to crucial information on infectious diseases. According to a packet that was passed around to garner discussion, without membership in the WHO, the U.S. would no longer have a seat at the global table in terms of disease surveillance and prevention. The group then spoke about the Trump administration's efforts to undo previous executive orders related to COVID-19 protections and the data purge from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. The absence of these resources raised concerns among participants about the administration's priorities and commitment to addressing pressing health issues. Many in the town hall expressed fear that the loss of reliable information would lead to misinformed decision making, putting vulnerable populations at greater risk.
As the discussion progressed, participants turned to the experiences of transgender individuals' access to healthcare and navigation of bureaucratic systems. Trump has announced that the U.S. will only legally recognize two genders, male and female, the one that is assigned at birth. The group discussed the impact of the administration's policies on the transgender community, including the proposed reversal of former President Barack Obama's protections for transgender students in education. Participants claimed there is a power in collective action, solidarity and resilience. They urged Lawrence University students to remain vigilant and engaged in advocating for disability rights, transgender rights and the well-being of all members of the university community. Many students stated that they are committed to ensuring Lawrence remains an inclusive community for these individuals.
The town hall concluded with a discussion surrounding the increased presence of Immigration and Customs Enforcement and the emotions it creates in students, particularly those who are undocumented. Participants expressed concern that ICE may infringe upon students' rights and attempt to conduct enforcement actions on campus, which they thought could jeopardize the safety and well-being of the entire community. The discussion then turned to informing students of their legal rights regarding ICE. These rights include the Fifth Amendment right to remain silent in the face of ICE officials without legal representation present, the Sixth Amendment right to a lawyer and the Fourth Amendment right to refuse entry to law enforcement without a warrant, as well as who to contact on campus in case of an encounter with ICE.
After the town hall, SDS senior Adam Fleischer spoke about the importance of solidarity and asked all students to stand together in defense of their peers and foster a supportive environment.
"As a community, we must persist in engaging in meaningful conversations that foster change," Fleischer stated. "This gathering serves as a crucial starting point to gauge interest in mobilizing efforts. It's essential for students to publicly demonstrate their opposition and convey that Lawrence University does not condone any of the policies being implemented by Trump's administration. We can express our dissent through protests, educational programs and collaborative events. Together, we can find strength in our community to advocate for the values we uphold and create a more inclusive environment for all."

Load-Date: February 14, 2025


End of Document
