




The Kentucky Kernel: University of Kentucky
February 13, 2025 Thursday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 676 words
Body


Due to recent executive orders signed by President Donald Trump, University of Kentucky students joined in a "March for Justice" around campus.
On Feb. 12 at 8 p.m., students got together at William T. Young Library and continued to walk until the Bowman Wildcat Statue in front of Historic Memorial Coliseum.  
The crowd began to chant "Say it once, say it twice, we will not put up with ICE (U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement)" as they walked across campus.
"They're (Trump's administration) trying to make us feel scattered . . .  protests like this really help get our word out there," Olivia Taylor, a senior communications major at UK, said. 
Kendall Belcher, a senior psychology and social work major at UK, said he organized the march to encourage "critical conversations" in the Lexington community. 
"The main goal today is simple: to create a space where students can learn about what's happening, ask questions and talk about ways to make a difference," Belcher said. 
Reylyn Robertson, a housekeeper at UK's hospital, said how important solidarity and resilience is when bringing the community together, especially in the transgender community.
"They're (transgender people) already having trouble getting their hormones," Roberston said. "My roommate has been trying to get top surgery for a while, that's pushed it back further."
Robertson said their concerns about the future of the United States depending on policy changes.
With changes already occurring, Robertson said lives could be at risk if things do not change. 
"If you have X as your gender identifier now, it's virtually impossible to get your visa updated," Robertson said. "Now that DEI has been taken out . . .  they're (transgender women) scared  because now people in the workplace can 'freefully' be hateful towards."
Throughout the march, students spoke to the group of protestors about their personal stories about recent executive orders impacting them.
Marshae Dorsey, senior integration and communication major and Spanish minor at UK, said how a majority of what is happening is a systemic issue.
Dorsey said she works as a Step-Up fellow, an organization that allows students to work with international students, specifically, in the Latino community in high schools around Kentucky.
"It affects my spirit," Dorsey said. "Seeing the way I see families are being displaced, seeing the fear . . .  I don't feel like people that have fought so hard to get to this country for a better life should be so carelessly misplaced and thrown back."
Dorsey had a coworker on a parole humanitarian visa that is choosing to move to another country in hopes to come back to the U.S.
"He's voluntarily leaving because he'd rather him leave himself than ICE knock on his door, separate him and his daughter and his wife," Dorsey said. "He'd rather be here where he's being persecuted than the dangers from where he was at home . . . that to me is the biggest injustice."
Students came from outside of the Lexington area to march, including Eastern Kentucky University and Boyle County.
Callie Roessley, a senior in high school from Boyle County, said she came to support without knowing anyone in the Lexington area.
"There's a lot of students who are afraid right now and we don't live in a very supportive community," Roessley said."I don't have anyone around here, so I decided that I wanted to come and support out here." 
Due to the noise, students stopped across the street to see what was happening on campus. 
Spencer Marcum, a freshman history major at UK, stopped to watch from across the street out of confusion and curiosity for what was going on.
"I'm rather confused by the whole thing, maybe it's because I don't have a personal stake in the matter . . .  maybe I just don't understand," Marcum said.
The march ended with chants of "The work does not stop."
"This is about breaking down recent policies, encouraging critical conversations and starting to work towards change," Belcher said.
View Story Comments
1
Like This Story
Share on Facebook
Share on X
Email this Story
Print this Story

Load-Date: February 13, 2025


End of Document
