




Targeted News Service
January 21, 2025 Tuesday 7:40 AM  EST


Copyright 2025 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved


Length: 370 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


The Sunrise Movement issued the following statement on Jan. 20, 2025:
* * *
This afternoon, President Trump is reportedly enacting sweeping executive orders that hand billions to fossil fuel billionaires, dismantle green energy initiatives, and scapegoat marginalized communities. In response, Sunrise Executive Director Aru Shiney-Ajay issued the following statement:
"These actions are an unprecedented handout to billionaires. They will make a small handful of rich men unimaginably richer while killing good-paying jobs and threatening our health and homes. As wildfires rage across California, families flee their homes, and workers struggle to make ends meet, Trump's actions make it clear whose side he's on: the billionaires and powerful corporations who bankrolled his campaign.
Trump's actions on day 1 of his administration make it unmistakable that he doesn't care if we keep losing our jobs, homes, and lives -- as long as he and his fellow billionaires keep getting richer.
Trump is trying to distract and deflect blame from the people truly responsible for working people's struggles. Instead of going after real causes like corporate price gouging and predatory lending, or raising the minimum wage, Trump is trying to convince Americans that immigrants and DEI are why our rents are rising and we're struggling to get a good job.
We are organizing in every corner of the country to make sure the American people see these actions for what they are: handouts to billionaires at our expense. Democrats must take off the gloves and do everything in their power to expose this blatant corruption and stand against Donald Trump's agenda."
* * *
The Sunrise Movement is a youth movement to stop climate change and create millions of good jobs in the process. We unite to make climate change an urgent priority across America, end the corrupting influence of fossil fuel executives on our politics, and elect leaders who stand up for the health and wellbeing of all people.
* * *
Original text here: 
[Category: Political]
Contact: Denae Avila-Dickson, 512/762-1961, 
Copyright Targeted News Services
MSTRUCK-9006753 MSTRUCK

Load-Date: January 21, 2025


End of Document
