




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 8, 2025 Saturday 9:00 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 472 words
Byline: April Rubin
Body


February 8th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
Data: Axios research;Chart: Tory Lysik, Maura Losch and Shoshana Gordon/Axios Visuals
American Sign Language   
The big picture: Disability rights and visibility are under attack by the Trump administration as part of its anti-DEI policies during the first few weeks of the new term.
Driving the news: The association requested that Fox Sports show ASL performers on the main broadcast screens or via picture-in-picture technology, as well as on the big screen on Super Bowl Sunday inside Caesars Superdome in New Orleans.
Zoom out: Trump's attacks on diversity policies could  
Some saw increases in employment rates after the pandemic boost in remote work.
That work is now getting pushback from the federal government, as the Trump administration terminated what it called "DEI discrimination" in the federal workforce and spending.
By the numbers: About half a million people throughout the U.S. use ASL to communicate as their natural language, according to ASL Deafined, a video lesson program.
After English and Spanish, it's the third-most commonly used language in the U.S.
State of play: Since the 1992 Super Bowl, most ASL performers appeared on screen for 8% or less of the broadcasted national anthem, per an Axios analysis. In 16 of the 33 years, they weren't on screen at all.
At the 1993 Super Bowl, country singer Garth Brooks was joined by ASL performer Marlee Matlin, who was fully visible the entire performance. It's one of two broadcasts where both performers were visible during the full national anthem.
"This is the standard that should be met," the National Association of the Deaf said in a January community letter.
Zoom in: The ASL pregame performances and ASL Halftime show will be supported by Deaf civil rights attorney Alexis Kashar, who also founded ASL jewelry company LOVE SIGN, and Howard Rosenblum of advocacy organization Deaf Equality, according to a  
ASL performer Stephanie Nogueras will sign the national anthem and "America the Beautiful," according to the  
Matt Maxey will perform the ASL rendition of Kendrick Lamar's halftime performance.
Spokespeople for the Super Bowl and Fox News did not respond to Axios' requests for comment on plans for showing the ASL stream on the main broadcast.
Go deeper:




Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 8, 2025


End of Document
