




Bowdoin Orient: Bowdoin College
February 7, 2025 Friday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION; Pg. 1
Length: 696 words
Body


On Wednesday, Randy Nichols, associate vice president of the Office of Safety and Security, sent an email to all Bowdoin students and employees addressing the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement's rumored immigration raids in Brunswick. While reassuring students that the rumors had been false, Nichols also validated the concerns students had for their safety by providing guidelines on the existing Bowdoin Safety and Security practices. This response to the recent concerns was able to address some anxieties undocumented students had, especially regarding concrete actions students could take should a raid happen on or near campus.
While we appreciate the efforts made by Safety and Security and believe this advice will help prepare students for possible encounters with immigration law enforcement, we urge the College to administer a broader response on how it will protect both international and undocumented students during these distressing times. Whether students themselves are directly affected by these policies or are concerned for family and friends back home, we have a collective responsibility to help students navigate the emotional toll these inhumane acts are having in our day-to-day lives.
Additionally, this threat to student well-being is not just a Safety and Security issue. Aside from Nichols' email, international students have not been contacted by the College with any information regarding the impact of President Donald Trump's policies since he was inaugurated. Students navigating Trump's new immigration policies are experiencing distress. Bowdoin has provided plentiful resources for students in the past during difficult political moments, including promises to continue providing reproductive healthcare after the overturn of Roe v. Wade. The challenges international and undocumented students currently face certainly warrant similar levels of on-campus support. This can include mental health resources and communication from the Office of the Dean of Students about how the College plans to support students.
According to the Office of Identity and Culture, "Bowdoin continues to admit students regardless of their immigration status." According to the Office of Admissions, "Bowdoin meets every student's full calculated financial need, regardless of citizenship." The College has demonstrated a commitment to welcoming international and undocumented students in the past. Now, Bowdoin needs to follow through by supporting these students.
During the previous Trump administration, Bowdoin was one of 60 colleges and universities that signed Amicus Briefs in support of international students continuing their education at their respective institutions. We hope to see further actions like this from the administration. Regardless of the actions the administration does or does not take, it is integral for all members of our community to protect and look out for one another.
It's also important to acknowledge the multitude of other students who have already been affected by Trump's policies, both at home and on campus. From erasing the rights and freedoms of members of the LGBTQ+ community to attacking institutions upholding DEI policies, the Trump administration has been taking many steps that are an active threat to minority students. Bowdoin should acknowledge the rapid changes that have been happening in the last months and reiterate to students that they belong at Bowdoin and that Bowdoin will do its best to assure their safety.
Bowdoin, at its core, is an international institution educating students of various citizenship statuses. The presence of this cohort of students enriches our campus community. The only way students will be able to pursue the education and resources that the College promises is when they feel secure enough to do so. If the College wants to continue to lead in higher education for students without U.S. citizenship, it should provide more concrete support for students impacted by Trump's new citizenship policies.
This editorial represents the majority opinion of the Editorial Board, which is composed of Julia Dickinson, Catalina Escobedo, Claire Shim, Kristen Kinzler and Vaughn Vial.

Load-Date: February 7, 2025


End of Document
