




MailOnline
February 26, 2025 Wednesday 2:32 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 1196 words
Byline: Kelly Garino For Dailymail.Com
Body


A US attorney has honed in on an influencer who called for Elon Musk's assassination while making a bold admission about paying taxes. 
Social media creator Sarah C Roberts shared a video to TikTok where she threatened the billionaire's life before boasting about how she's skipped taxes for the past eight years.
The controversial video garnered immense attention, including from Musk and Acting United States Attorney Ed Martin of the District of Columbia, who vowed to take action against Roberts.
Though the influencer's accounts have since been deactivated, Libs of TikTok reposted a recording of the video to X on Monday.
In the clip, Roberts says: 'I promised myself I would avoid the news, but obviously, I haven't,' Roberts said as she filmed herself. 'Here's my one thought - I have many thoughts - Elon Musk.' 
She then mentioned the Tesla CEO by name and made a hand gesture, appearing to reference slashing a throat.
'We need to X him,' she said. 'And by X, I mean formally known as assassination.'
Roberts then began to mumble in a whispering tone as she spoke of the FBI, claiming that the department would never show up to catch her.
'Arrest me. You don't have enough people to even investigate me at this point. I haven't filed my taxes in like... eight years and yet no one's come for me,' Roberts said with a grin-like smirk.
'So I'm going to f***ing say it. Let's assassinate some motherf******,' she concluded the video.
Musk, who is now a White House Senior Advisor tasked with overlooking DOGE, joined the voices sharing their dismay in the comments. 
'Death threat and admission of multiple counts of tax fraud,' he wrote, while also tagging US Attorney Ed Martin to the thread.
Martin later responded from his own X account, re-sharing the Libs of TikTok viral clip. 
'Duly noted,' Martin wrote to the platform. 'Thx for letting us know. We'll put you in the system. Talk soon, M'am. #NoOneIsAboveTheLaw.'
Musk and DOGE's efforts to reduce government waste have continued to capture the headlines as Democrats and government workers are protesting in the streets about the cuts. 
The 'First Buddy' Musk has seen resistance from the typical places - liberal activist groups and even some DOGE employees who resigned en masse Tuesday - since becoming a prominent face alongside the president.
Just last week, Congress was left in surprise over a sudden uptick of angry protestors at normally quiet Republican Congressional town hall meetings and Tesla dealerships.
Left-leaning groups, Indivisible and MoveOn, were at the center of the protests as they recruited activists to oppose the billionaire's efforts to slash government spending and enact reforms.
MoveOn Civic Action triggered a nationwide call to action during Congressional recess urging activists to show up at town hall meetings to remind lawmakers that 'Congress Works for Us, Not Musk.'
They also helped organize a 'Nobody Elected Elon!' rally in Washington, DC outside the Treasury department.
The group Indivisible urged activists to launch anti-Musk protests in their districts.
'Members of the House of Representatives will be back on your home turf from Friday, February 14th, through Sunday, February 23rd, and it's our opportunity to remind them who they work for,' the group wrote offering members an activist kit to help them protest.
'Fighting back against the Trump-Musk coup is going to take all of us,' the group added. 'Sign up for updates and ways to take action against the Trump-Musk coup.'
Indivisible has also helped coordinate anti-Musk protests at Tesla dealerships. Activists at local dealership were holding signs accusing Musk of being a 'Nazi' and condemning Tesla vehicles as 'Swasticars.' 
However, Trump has continued to support Musk, endorsing his efforts to slash government despite triggering a flood of angry protestors. 
Martin, who was nominated by the president earlier this month to be the top federal prosecutor in Washington on a permanent basis, has previously emerged as a powerful ally for both Trump and Musk as he voiced his support for DOGE.
The Conservative activist had been serving as a US attorney for the District of Columbia on an interim basis since just after Trump was sworn in for his second term.
Martin had previously been a prominent supporter of the Stop the Steal movement that claimed fraud in the 2020 presidential election.
He also represented three rioters who were charged in connection with the January 6 Capital riot, which he said in an old post was 'like Mardi Gras.'
Then, when he assumed his new role in Washington DC, Martin dismissed some 30 federal prosecutors who worked on January 6 cases and ordered a probe of prosecutors who were linked to the Capital riots. 
Amid the dozens of claims that members of DOGE are being threatened and harassed, the attorney has recently vowed to operate as a legal attack dog for the billionaire and his department while labeling himself and his office as Trump's personal lawyers. 
Martin had reached out to Musk earlier this month, where he promised to take legal action against anyone who tries to sabotage the department's shakeup of the federal government.
His pledged loyalty came after WIRED Magazine released the identities of six software engineers that work for the new department, which prompted online hate. 
'We must keep all our American government employees safe and we must protect the American people's property. Anyone imperiling others [is] violating our laws,' Martin said, without specifying which laws have been broken. 
'I ask that you utilize me and my staff to assist in protecting the DOGE work and the DOGE workers,' Martin told Musk. 'Any threats, confrontations or other actions in any way that impact their work may break numerous laws.
'Let me assure you of this: We will pursue any and all legal action against anyone who impedes your work or threatens your people,' he continued.
'We will not act like the previous administration who looked the other way as the Antifa and BLM rioters as well as thugs with guns trashed our capital city.
'We will protect DOGE and other workers no matter what,' Martin said.
Musk has claimed that those interfering with DOGE's efforts have 'broken the law,' and Martin agreed. 
In a separate statement on the US Attorney of DC's X account, Martin claimed: 'Our initial review of the evidence presented to us indicates that certain individuals and/or groups have committed acts that appear to violate the law in targeting DOGE employees.
'We are in contact with the FBI and other law enforcement partners to proceed rapidly,' he claimed. 'We also have our prosecutors preparing.'
Martin then quoted the statement from his own office and added, 'See something, say something.'
In response to his efforts to prosecute anyone who threatens the DOGE employees, Musk simply wrote: 'Thank you, receipt via X acknowledged.'
Meanwhile, his department is continuing its onslaught of the federal government.
The massive DOGE federal review has already saved about $65 billion in taxpayer dollars, the group claims. 
Those billions in savings came from DOGE cutting many contracts for foreign aid, DEI education, thousands of recently hired federal employees and more. 

Load-Date: February 26, 2025


End of Document
