




Forbes.com
February 19, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Forbes LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 964 words
Byline: Maria Gracia Santillana Linares, Forbes Staff
Highlight: Plus, the current state of federal job cuts, the best small businesses to buy and how banks are pulling back on DEI language in this week s Careers Newsletter.
Body


This is a published version of Forbes  Careers Newsletter. Click  to subscribe and get it in your inbox every Tuesday. 
<figure>
<figcaption>
Tax season is in full swing   here's what you need to know about your taxes at work.
getty
</figcaption></figure>
Tax season is already in full swing, though it s admittedly off to aslower startthan usual  submitted filings were down 8% in the first week of February compared to last year. But this filing season has got me thinking about personal finances at work.
Talking about money in the office can sometimes be considered taboo, but movements toward salary transparency and a larger trend of talking aboutmoney with familyis helping to normalize financial conversations.
Money is especially on the minds of the thousands of Americans returning to the office for in-person work this year.Research from BetterUpshows that workers are spending an average of $561 a month for in-person costs, including lunch, travel and childcare expenses.
For those still working from home, tax season is also a timely reminder that corporate W-2 employees still can t claim deductions for home office expenses  those are reserved for freelancers and small business owners, according to.
And if all of this information about taxes made you spiral about this year s season, see my colleague and tax advice extraordinaire Kelly Phillips Erb srefresher on what you need to know about taxes. 
Happy reading, and have a lovely week!
WORK SMARTER
Practical insights and advice from Forbesstaff and contributors to help you succeed in your job, accelerate your career and lead smarter
Problem-solving, initiative andadaptabilityare just some of the thingsmanagers look for when handing out promotions.
If you find yourself reaching for your phone(or mishearing a Slack or email notification), you could bedigitally fatigued.
Chaos at work?Here s how tokeep thrivingwhen uncertainty becomes the norm.
Deep Dive: Trump s Federal Job Cuts
President Donald Trump has kicked off his new term with a record number of federal jobs cuts. Here are some of the most notable additions and cuts. 
From the first day he took office, President Donald Trump and Elon Musk s Department of Government Efficiency have become cost-cutters-in-chief.
All in all, the Trump Administration has so far fired nearly 10,000 workersacross federal agencies and departments. The cuts have hit several agencies, includingseveral hundred at the Federal Aviation Administrationjust weeks after a fatal collision occurred near Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport.
Some 5,200 probationary employees were laid off across the National Institutes of Health and the CDC. Another thousand were cut at the Department of Veterans Affairs, and 3,400 were fired from the U.S. Forest Service.
Then there are the 75,000 workers that accepted the government s deferred resignation offer. While the buyout offer was temporarily paused amid a lawsuit, a federal judge allowed theprogram to resumeWednesday.
Not all of the layoffs have gone smoothly. Nearly all of the 300 employees at the National Nuclear Security Administration that were fired last week werereinstated Monday. The firings wereheavily criticizedacross the political aisle last week as they included staff that worked directly with nuclear weapon facilities, design and contractor oversight. It s a stark reminder to leaders that layoffs must be done carefully, and should be alast resort for cost cuttingrather than a go-to quick fix.
TOUCH BASE
News from the world of work
Hospitals ranked highinForbes latest lists ofAmerica s Best Large and Midsize employers.Houston Methodist ranked third on the large employer s list thanks to development programs for workers looking for growth opportunities, while Shriners Hospitals for Children topped the midsize employers list.
Fitness hubs and gyms were in high-demand in 2024, as small business owners looked for ways to cash-in on record health club memberships, Brandon Kochkodinreportsin his story on thebest small businesses to buy now. Also on the list: day-care (and doggy day care) centers benefitting from a larger return-to-office push.
Companies givingworkers early access to their paycheckshave gained popularity in recent years.annual Fintech 50 list, released on Tuesday, highlighted two of the major providers: Daily Pay, which works with employers, and Chime with its direct-to-consumer offering MyPay.
Banks are cutting back on DEI references from public-facing documents, including financial reports and websites. Morgan Stanley, Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase are just some of the companies slashing the mentions,just days after JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon said he would cut  stupid  costs after an employee asked about the company s DEI efforts at a town hall. Dimon had previously stood firmagainst calls for ending DEI programs.
The Equal Employment Opportunity Commissiondropped six lawsuits alleging workplace discrimination against transgender or nonbinary workerson Saturday, following Trump s executive order to recognize male and female as the only two sexes.
Workers looking for new jobs are also looking to change industries, according to data fromLinkedIn. With job searches taking over six months and an increasingly competitive job market, 14% of job seekers are actively looking for an industry change.
NUMBER TO NOTE
40%
That s how much job cut announcements decreased in January, though announcements have continued into February. Chevron, for example, announced a 15% to 20% cut last week.  
VIDEO
How This Entrepreneur Went From 13-Year-Old Translator To Real Estate Billionaire
QUIZ
Ten years after it was launched, which of the following companies had the highest average ranking inForbes  list of America s Best Employers?
A. Wegman s
B. Apple
C. Trader Joe s
D. Google
Check if you got itright here. 

Load-Date: February 20, 2025


End of Document
