




MailOnline
January 27, 2025 Monday 9:38 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 734 words
Byline: Emma Richter For Dailymail.Com
Body


Target has been banned from participating in the Minneapolis Pride parade after the retail store decided to axe its DEI program. 
                     The retailer has long supported Twin Cities Pride, but after news broke of the company deciding to cut back on its policies, the pride organization's Executive Director Andi Otto banished the store and its $55,000 in funding. 
The parade organization took to social media on Sunday to share that the company's decision - announced in a newsletter on Friday - was 'the breaking point', even though Target was expected to sponsor the parade again this year. 
The retail giant announced the drastic change after President Donald Trump initiated orders to sever diversity, equity and inclusion policies across the nation last week.
'Throughout 2025, we'll be accelerating action in key areas and implementing changes with the goal of driving growth and staying in step with the evolving external landscape,' Target said. 
As part of that change, the company said it plans to end its three-year DEI goals, conclude its Racial Equity Action and Change (REAC) initiatives, halt 'external diversity-focused surveys,' and rename its 'Superior Diversity' outreach to 'Supplier Engagement.' 
                     The company's former programs focused on recruiting more diverse suppliers, including those with disabilities, veterans, women and members of the LGBTQ+ community. 
Target also made it a point to hire and promote more women and members of racial minority groups. 
Otto told the Star Tribune that although the company has previously 'always been supportive of hearing me and the impact that their choices made on the community,' he does not want Target to be a part of the festivities any longer. 
'But unfortunately, in a time where it's been a really, really rough week for our community given everything that has come down from the new administration, this was kind of the straw that broke the camel's back.' 
Twin Cities Pride officially announced the 'bold decision' on social media, stating that even though Target's absence at the parade 'means losing $50,000 in funding,' it had to be done. 
The group urged the community to instead donate to Twin Cities Pride to help 'fill the gap' from the money lost. 
'Your donation will ensure we can continue providing year-round programming, celebrating Pride with authenticity, and creating safe, inclusive spaces for all,' the post read. 
DailyMail.com contacted Target for comment on the decision. 
This is not the first time Target has been in the DEI spotlight, as the store previously faced backlash for selling Pride-themed merchandise for children. 
Since 2013 the retailer has sold inclusive clothing, but ahead of its Pride product release in June 2024, the company chose to scale back its children's clothing in that department. 
The adult-only options come a year after calls to boycott the brand over its collection, including 'tuck-friendly' swimsuits and children's T-shirts with the slogan: 'Trans People Will Always Exist!' 
The company then decided to only release that specific clothing to about half of its 2,000 stores nationwide, 'based on historical sales performance,' Bloomberg previously reported. 
When it first was faced with backlash, the outrage grew to the point that several stores received bomb threats if they didn't pull the clothing line, and the company's share price tanked by over $10 billion.
Right-wing customers erupted in fury at some of the offerings, which also included children's literature such as 'Bye Bye Binary', and wall posters reading, 'Ask me about my pronouns.'
Calendars reading 'Queer All Year' were also among the products, with others including rainbow covered children's clothes and adult bodysuits.
Target CEO Brian Cornell pulled the merchandise from stores just days before Pride Month began amid the controversy, and defended the move by noting the bomb threats and hostility directed at his employees.
'I've seen natural disasters, the impact of COVID, the violence that took place after George Floyd's murder,' he told CNBC at the time.
'But I will tell you what I saw back in May is the first time since I've been in this job where I had store team members saying, "It's not safe to come to work."'
'We had to prioritize the safety of our teams... And I knew personally this was not going to be well received. But we had to prioritize the safety of the team.'

Load-Date: January 27, 2025


End of Document
