




Newsweek.com
February 4, 2025 Tuesday 6:08 AM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 469 words
Byline: Sean O'Driscoll
Highlight: A police pension fund claims that it lost money because of backlash to Target's diversity policies
Body


Target shareholders are suing the company for failing to predict the backlash to its diversity program.
Newsweek sought email comment from Target on Tuesday.
Why It Matters
The case stems from a major consumer backlash against Target's Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) initiative and feeds into a wider debate about diversity policies.
What To Know
 displayed pro-LGBT items in May, 2023, and removed any reference to Target's toys being for boys or girls. This led to a conservative backlash and consumer boycott.
Target is now facing a class action lawsuit from investors who lost money on its shares. This follows a major drop in Target's share price after the boycott.
The complaint was filed in a Florida court on January 31 by the City of Riviera Beach Police Pension Fund, which is seeking others to join the class action lawsuit.
The complaint accuses Target CEO Brian Cornell of failing to properly disclose the risks of consumer boycotts stemming from the company's DEI programs.
The case has been marked as related to a similar lawsuit taken by Target shareholder, Brian Craig, in the same court in Florida in August, 2024.
On January 24, Target ended its DEI program, as well as a separate initiative to support Black-owned businesses that it had launched in 2020.
It is one of many corporations abandoning DEI policies amid a conservative backlash.
High-profile companies , , , Harley-Davidson and John Deere have recently reduced or .
The Trump administration opposes DEI policies. Upon returning to office on January 20, President  signed an executive order to .
What People Are Saying
Brian Craig's lawsuit, related to the latest one taken by the Riviera Beach Police Pension Fund, quotes a  article in stating that Target is the store of the "boomer mom who drives a minivan and lives in the suburbs."
Craig's lawsuit says Target directors "betrayed both Target's core customer base of working families and its investors by making false and misleading statements concerning Target's Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) and Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) mandates that led to its disastrous 2023 children-and-family themed LGBTPride campaign."
What Happens Next
Grant & Eisenhofer, the law firm suing on behalf of the Riviera Beach Police Pension Fund, said in a January 31 statement that it is looking for a lead plaintiff to join the lawsuit.
"If you wish to serve as lead plaintiff, you must move the Court by no later than April 1, 2025, which is the lead plaintiff deadline that was established by publication of this notice on January 31, 2025. You do not need to seek to become a lead plaintiff in order to share in any possible recovery," the statement reads.


Graphic

 
target sign
Mario Tama/Getty Images
The Target logo is displayed at a Target store on August 20, 2024 in Los Angeles, California.

Load-Date: February 4, 2025


End of Document
