




The Famuan: Florida Agricultural and Mechanical University
January 31, 2025 Friday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 732 words
Body


Photo Credit: Target Corporation
As Donald Trump settles into his second term as President of the United States, several executive orders have caused a gradual upheaval of everyday life for American citizens. 
The dismantling of federal diversity, equity, and inclusion programs, prompting major corporations to reevaluate their DEI commitments, was among the most concerning executive orders. 
Target, among others, caused shock and frustration after it announced that it would be rolling back its DEI initiatives, which has significant implications for Minority-owned businesses. 
Since launching its diversity strategy in 2023, Target has branded this initiative "Belonging at the Bullseye." Originally, the program was designed to promote inclusion and a sense of belonging among employees, customers, and the communities the company serves.
On Friday, Jan. 24, Target posted to its corporate website a statement regarding these policies and its intention to adjust its approach to DEI while prioritizing long-term business success:
"We remain focused on driving our business by creating a sense of belonging for our team, guests, and communities through a commitment to inclusion. Belonging for all is an essential part of our team and culture, helping fuel consumer relevance and business results. In every area of our business, we are constantly listening, learning, and adjusting to set ourselves up for long-term success. As we start a new fiscal year, we're continuing to shape the next chapter of Belonging at the Bullseye.
Our strategy is rooted in: 
Our team: We recruit and retain team members who represent the communities we serve and fuel a culture where everyone has access to opportunity and growth, enabling our team to deliver business results. 
Our guests: We aim to create joyful experiences through an assortment of products and services that help all guests feel seen and celebrated, increasing relevance with consumers. 
Our communities: We build deep and lasting relationships with the communities we serve, driving impact, economic vitality, and connection that fuels loyalty. " - Target Corporate Team
Changes within the "Belonging at the Bullseye" policies include Target concluding its three-year DEI goals and phasing out the Racial Equity Action and Change initiative by 2025. Stopping all external diversity-focused surveys, including HRC's Corporate Equality Index, and  Further evaluating their corporate partnerships to ensure they are directly connected to Target's roadmap for growth.
"As a retailer that serves millions of consumers every day, we understand the importance of staying in step with the evolving external landscape, now and in the future - all in service of driving Target's growth and winning together," said Kiera Fernandez, Executive Vice President, and Chief Community Impact and Equity Officer, in a memo to the company.
These adjustments, however, still foster a sense of uncertainty as black business owners question Target's allegiance to them as suppliers and partners.
FAMU Alum and CEO of Chazam Fans Chazriq Chazam Clark expresses hopes for this shift in the business world to improve the landscape of how business is done.
"When looking at how stores are changing their DEI policies to align with this new Executive Order, I expect race, gender, and other factors to not be included in the decision process for businesses to get into their stores," Clark said.
Companies that have confirmed their commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion in their business practices include Ben & Jerry's Ice Cream, Walgreens, and Costco. Companies that have officially rolled back DEI policies include Meta Platforms [Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp, Messenger], Amazon and Walmart.
Social media influencer and entrepreneur Tabitha Brown did a live stream via Instagram on Saturday, Jan. 25, as news of the executive order shocked communities. Tabitha Brown is revered in the black community for her diverse offering of food, cooking, household goods, personal hygiene, and kitchen items that have been sold in Target and other retailers since 2022.
"If we all decide to stop supporting [said businesses] and choose to spend our money elsewhere all of our sales will dwindle, and these companies [can] put their preferred business on the shelves," Brown said. "... I'm not telling you what to do, I am telling you as a business owner, what we still need."

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
