




Forbes.com
January 24, 2025 Friday


Copyright 2025 Forbes LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 793 words
Byline: Conor Murray, Forbes Staff
Highlight: Target has previously balked on its social justice efforts in response to conservative backlash, as it minimized its Pride Month merchandise line in 2023 and 2024.
Body


Topline
Target is scaling back some of its diversity, equity and inclusion policies as an anti-DEI wave continues tosweep over corporate Americafollowing President Donald Trump s election, marking another instance when the retailer curbed its diversity efforts after reducing its Pride Month collection last year after conservative backlash.
<figure>
<figcaption>
Target is the latest in a series of companies to roll back diversity initiatives. (Photo by Robyn Beck / AFP) (Photo by ROBYN BECK/AFP via Getty Images)
AFP via Getty Images
</figcaption></figure>
Key Facts
Target said in astatementit would phase out its  three-year diversity, equity and inclusion goals,  which itpreviously implementedto increase hiring and promotions of employees of color and women, and to increase its spending on diverse suppliers.
The retailer said it would shift its  Supplier Diversity  team to a  Supplier Engagement  team to  better reflect our inclusive global procurement process across a broad range of suppliers. 
The company also said it would no longer participate in external diversity surveys, including the Human Rights Campaign s Corporate Equality Index, a measure of LGBTQ workplace inclusion that has been a frequent casualty of theanti-DEI wave.
The company will also phase out its Racial Equity Action and Change initiatives whichincludedanti-racism training for employees, a focus on hiring and promoting Black employees and sourcing more products from Black employees which the company said were planned to end this year.
In a memo shared with Forbes that was sent to employees by Kiera Fernandez, Target s chief community impact and equity officer, she wrote that  many years of data, insights, listening and learning  have informed Target s policy changes, including an effort to stay  in step with the evolving external landscape. 
Robby Starbuck, an anti-DEI conservative activist who has led online pressure campaigns against other corporations, claimed credit for the policy changes in a post on X, claiming the company made the announcement after finding out Starbuck was doing a  story on wokeness  at Target.
Key Background
Target, which previously increased its diversity efforts after the 2020 police killing of George Floyd, and has also been a vocal supporter of Pride Month, for which it has sold an expansive (and oftenwidely memed) merchandise line, has previously stepped back from social justice causes in response to conservative backlash. In 2023, Target faced backlash from conservatives because of its support for Pride. That wave of backlash was partially aided by misinformation as conservatives accused Target of selling a  tuck-friendly  swimsuit for children, which it had not the swimsuit was actually sold in adult sizes only. But the false claims went viral, and Rep. Marjorie Taylor-Greene, R-Ga., slammed Target in apost on X,accusing it of  pushing the trans agenda on children.  The companyannounced it would removecertain items from its pride line in May 2023, citing threats and violent confrontations against its employees that impacted  our team members  sense of safety and well-being while at work.  The decision sparked backlash from LGBTQ advocates, including Democratic California Gov.Gavin Newsom, who accused Target of  selling out the LGBTQ+ community to extremists.  The following year,Target saidit would no longer sell Pride-themed merchandise for children and that Pride items would only be sold in a select number of stores. At the time, thecompany saidthe decision was made based on  historic sales performance  and that it remains  committed to supporting the LGBTQIA+ community during Pride Month and year-round. 
What Other Companies Are Pulling Back From Dei?
Many companieshave backtracked on their diversity, equity and inclusion commitments in recent weeks, including Amazon, which earlier this month said it would roll back employee programs that were established to address a  specific disparity,  and Meta, which said it ended programs meant to increase its hiring of diverse candidates. Other companies that have recently walked back DEI initiatives include Walmart, McDonald s, Boeing and Molson Coors. Trump has also quickly taken aim at DEI in his first week of his second presidential term, issuing anexecutive orderrequiring federal agencies to drop their DEI programs. At the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland this week,Trumpcalled DEI programs  discriminatory  and  absolute nonsense,  stating the United States would become a  merit-based country. 
Further Reading
DEI Under Fire: Target Rolls Back Diversity Plans As Costco Keeps Them Here s The List Of Major Companies Dropping DEI(Forbes)
Target Removes Pride Items After Conservative Firestorm Sparking Criticism From LGBTQ Groups(Forbes)

Load-Date: January 25, 2025


End of Document
