




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 27, 2025 Monday 10:00 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 716 words
Byline: Kelly Tyko
Body


January 27th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
The   
Why it matters: The  
The IRS  
By the numbers: 37% of taxpayers depend on their refund to make ends meet, including 50% of millennials, according to a  
A third of American taxpayers say they would pay a fee, or plan to pay a fee, to access their tax refund early.
Nearly half (47%) plan to use their refund to pay down debt, including 59% of millennials, the online survey conducted by Qualtrics found.
When does the IRS start accepting returns
State of play: Jan. 27 is the first day of the IRS tax filing season.
It's two days earlier than last year, when  
Tax refund 2025: Lower taxes, bigger refunds
The big picture: Annual    
34% of Americans believe they'll get more money in tax refunds in 2025 than they did in 2024, a  
Direct File 2025
What we're watching: The Treasury Department estimates that more than 30 million taxpayers will be eligible to use the expanding Direct File program across the 25 states where it's available.
Direct File is mobile friendly; works on smartphones, tablets and computers; and is available in English and Spanish.
There's a new chatbot to guide users through the eligibility checker, the IRS said.
Direct File will be available in the same 12 states it was available in 2024: Arizona, California, Florida, Massachusetts, Nevada, New Hampshire, New York, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Washington and Wyoming.
It'll also be available in 13 new states: Alaska, Connecticut, Idaho, Illinois, Kansas, Maine, Maryland, New Jersey, New Mexico, North Carolina, Oregon, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.
Flashback: During the 2024 filing season, more than 3 million users checked to see if they were eligible to use the site, and more than 140,000 taxpayers used Direct File, surpassing the agency's goal of 100,000.
Direct File users saved an estimated $5.6 million in tax prep fees, the Treasury Department said.
What's next: President Trump's nominee for Treasury secretary, Scott Bessent,  
IRS tax deadline 2025: When are taxes due
April 15 is the federal tax filing deadline for most taxpayers to file their personal federal tax returns, pay any taxes owed or request an extension.
The IRS  
April 15 is also the deadline to file for a six-month extension.
Where's My Refund tool and IRS refund schedule
Follow the money: The IRS said it issues   
For paper returns, plan to wait about four weeks for an update on your refund.
The IRS said it will offer voicebot services to all taxpayers who call the agency for refund information.
IRS $1,400 stimulus checks
Zoom out: The IRS is also sending out  
The special payments are as high as $1,400 per individual and should arrive by late January in most cases, the IRS said in a  
The IRS advised taxpayers who have not filed 2021 tax returns that "they may be eligible for a refund if they file and claim the Recovery Rebate Credit by the April 15, 2025, deadline."
More from Axios:





Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 27, 2025


End of Document
