




USA Today Online
January 27, 2025 8:19 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Section: EUROPE NEWS & UK NEWS
Length: 393 words
Byline: Natalie Neysa Alund, USA TODAY
Body


A teacher in Fort Worth, Texas is under investigation by district officials after allegedly asking U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) on social media to raid a public high school they teach at in the city.
On Mondayconfirmed to USA TODAY that it had been notified about a substitute teacher, implying the immigration law enforcement agency should visit one of its secondary schools.
School officials did not respond to a request to identify the teacher, or say how long they had taught in the district.
"We are aware of a recent social media post referencing North Side High School, which was allegedly made by a substitute teacher and has caused concern among our Fort Worth ISD community," said the district in a statement obtained by USA TODAY. "We take this matter very seriously and are conducting a thorough investigation to understand the circumstances and ensure appropriate actions are taken."

The post, the district confirmed, read, "I have many students who don't even speak English, and they are in 10th-11th grade. They have to communicate through their iPhone translator with me. The @USEDGOV should totally overhaul our school system in Texas."
After taking office on Jan. 20, President Donald Trump almost immediately signed a flurry of executive orders related to . He is also attempting, contrary to the .
What the Trump administration means for your identity:  for USA TODAY's This is America newsletter.
'This will not stand':  
Teacher who reportedly told ICE to visit high school not permitted on campus
The district said the substitute teacher would not be permitted on campus during its internal investigation.
"We are committed to maintaining a positive and supportive environment for our students," the statement continues. "We appreciate your patience and understanding as we address this matter."
This story has been updated.
Contributing: USA TODAY's Zac Anderson
Natalie Neysa Alund is a senior reporter for USA TODAY. Reach her at   m and follow her on X @nataliealund.
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: January 28, 2025


End of Document
