




Business Insider
February 2, 2025 Sunday 11:38 AM EST


Copyright 2025 Insider Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 1038 words
Byline: eic@businessinsider.com (Jamie Heller)
Highlight: In this Sunday edition of Business Insider Today, we're taking you through all the major changes Big Tech companies made to the workplace this week.
Body


This post originally appeared in the BI Today newsletter.
You can sign up for Business Insider's daily newsletter here.
Welcome back to our Sunday edition, where we round up some of our top stories and take you inside our newsroom. Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang said the first thing he'd do as a student today is . The next 10 years, he said, will be about the application of AI as much as the core development of it.
On the agenda today:
Federal employees react to Trump's payout offers.
Hedge funds are pushing legal and ethical limits to verify traders' past performances.
Eggs got expensive and are likely staying that way. Here's why.
Older Americans who retired with more than $1 million share their advice and regrets.
But first: A big week for Big Tech.
If this was forwarded to you, . Download Business Insider's app 
Inside tech
Our name is Business Insider for a reason.
We aim to bring you inside what's going on at the world's most influential companies.
This past week, our reporters hustled to get you scoops on Meta, Amazon, Microsoft, and Dell.
And we've extended our focus to the federal government, the nation's biggest employer, which is not a company but is .
Even if you don't work in these places, the insights our exclusives offer are relevant to almost anyone in the workplace.
BI reporters Jyoti Mann and Hugh Langley brought readers details from , where he talked about the importance of "AI agents" to the future of work. The Meta CEO predicted this would be the year an intelligent and personalized digital assistant would help 1 billion users. "I think whoever gets there first is going to have a long-term, durable advantage towards building one of the most important products in history."
Our ace Amazon reporter Eugene Kim unearthed more about the company's efforts to become leaner, including one set of guidelines that advised managers .
Meanwhile, Ashley Stewart scooped more details about , and Polly Thompson and Jyoti were first out with  - five days a week if you live near a Dell office.
From AI and ROI to RTO and DEI, workplaces are changing rapidly. Helping you navigate it all is a key goal for us at Business Insider. As always, please let me know how you think we are doing at .
Blindsided by payouts
Outrage. Despair. Confusion.
In interviews with BI, federal workers described feeling a flood of emotions about the Trump administration's widespread payout offers.
Some are defiant - "I have no intention of quitting" - while at least one worker is considering moving to the private sector. Many also had questions about whether the administration will stick to its commitment of steady pay and benefits through September for those who accept the offer.

Also read:
The Trump administration says 'lower productivity' federal workers will be better off in the private sector
Hedge fund hiring's catch-22
For hedge funds, hiring a bad PM can come with sky-high costs. Knowing that plenty of PMs exaggerate their exploits for a chance at a multimillion dollar job move, some funds ramp up their vetting process by asking candidates for evidence of past performance.
The problem? Evidence is often sensitive information that's difficult to access legally. That leaves funds in murky legal and ethical territory as they look to suss out bad potential hires without breaking confidentiality agreements and alienating top candidates.
.
Also read:
Private-credit salaries: See what 16 nonbank lenders, from Blackstone to Apollo, are paying at all levels
Eggs may be expensive forever
If there's one grocery item that epitomizes consumers' frustration with high prices nowadays, it's eggs. They're a staple in the kitchen and a healthy protein source that won't break the bank - that is, until recently.
The cost of a dozen grade-A large eggs hit $4.15 in December, per the Bureau of Labor Statistics, up from $2.51 a year ago. Factors like the fight against bird flu, increased demand, and the push toward cage-free eggs, are some reasons egg prices are spiking. And it's not clear when it will come back down.
.
The millionaire boomer next door
They might not have a flashy car or a big house, but plenty of older Americans are sitting pretty in retirement. BI spoke to four boomers with over $1 million in assets about how they built such a healthy nest egg.
The retirees spoke about their savings journey, the mistakes they made along the way, and how they're spending their money now.
.
This week's quote:
"Our whole air traffic control system has been blinking red, screaming at us that we've got it overloaded."
- Brian Alexander, a military helicopter pilot and a partner at the aviation accident law firm Kreindler & Kreindler, .
More of this week's top reads:
The final minutes of American Airlines flight 5342.
I asked DeepSeek and ChatGPT for financial advice on investing and retirement. Here's how the two rival chatbots stack up.
Hollywood's new formula: Fewer TV shows.
New York City is still the center of the hedge fund universe. Here are the numbers.
Bosses are done caring how you feel.
Like any millennial, Yahoo wants to be seen as cool again.
Hollywood wants its next 'Beast Games'.
They spoke out against their employer. Then they were hit with trade secrets suits.
The rise of 'friendship apps.'
What every homeowner should learn from the LA wildfires.
Inside the bitter feud roiling the doomsday bunker business.
Churned customers, incriminating texts, and a CEO's involvement: The latest claims from Yipit in its legal fight with rival M Science.'
Crypto cops: The 8 agencies policing the wild west of digital currency in the Trump era.The BI Today team: Dan DeFrancesco, deputy editor and anchor, in New York. Grace Lett, editor, in Chicago. Amanda Yen, associate editor, in New York. Lisa Ryan, executive editor, in New York. Elizabeth Casolo, fellow, in Chicago.
Read the original article on


Load-Date: February 2, 2025


End of Document
