




Fox News THE FIVE 5:00 PM EST
January 21, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 8961 words
Byline: Dana Perino, Jesse Watters, Greg Gutfeld, Jeanine Pirro, Jessica Tarlov
Body


DANA PERINO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Congratulations.
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Great job.
JEANINE PIRRO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL LEGAL ANALYST: We love you.
WATTERS: Congratulations, you're welcome.
WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Thank you, thank you. Dana, Greg, Jesse, Judge, Jessica, thank you all so much. Have a good show. Appreciate you.
PERINO: Great first show.
WATTERS: All right, good luck.
PIRRO: Bye.
JESSICA TARLOV, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: Bye, Will.
WATTERS: Hello, everybody. I'm Jesse Watters along with Judge Jeanine Pirro, Jessica Tarlov, Dana Perino and Greg Gutfeld. It's 5:00 in New York City, and this is THE FIVE.
President Trump's kicking button taking names as he turbo charges America into the golden age. At any moment, 47 will be making a massive infrastructure announcement at the White House, an A.I. project named Stargate.
President Trump hitting the ground running as he ruthlessly wipes away the stench of Joe Biden's awful record.
So far, he's purged over 1,000 Biden appointees.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Decision of 78 Biden era executive actions, executive orders, presidential memoranda and others. Workers return to full time immediately. A withdrawal from the Paris climate treaty.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: The guy is also on an executive order rampage, Roman Coliseum style, MAGA fans roared at the Capital One Arena as Trump said at a desk on stage, pen in hand, churning out orders on gender, DEI, the TikTok ban and ditching the Paris Climate Accord.
And he was loving every second of it, tossing pens into the crowd like he was launching T-shirts from a cannon. The liberal media just can't handle this much winning.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He has decided to make good on his promise to be a dictator on day one.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There will be a lawsuit over birthright citizenship. There will be a lawsuit over suspending asylum. You know, if it's not broke, don't fix it.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There were a lot of big lies there.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: And president for a grand total of 11 hours, and he wasted no time imposing his will on American government.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is just shocking awful.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The executive orders on DEI, we imprisoned migrant shelters, as well as in spaces like rape shelters, that could mean that people that are transgender could be moved out of those spaces.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Judge Jeanine, we did a little research. I was expecting people to laugh when I said that.
And the amount of executive orders on day one for Biden or Obama, there's a couple. I mean, this is testament to how well he was prepared going in.
PIRRO: Well, first of all, when you listen to those left wing progressive, you know, hosts and talking heads, do they not understand what happened on November 5th? Do they not understand that everything the president was talking about as he signed those executive orders or promises that he made during the campaign, that he said he would do and that he is in the process of delivering? Do they not understand how unprecedented this country is in terms of, you know, the border disaster, in terms of the lack of law and order, what it needs to get this country back on track.
I mean, Joe Biden was probably, to me, one of the worst presidents in history. He allowed an invasion of the border. They shut us up for two years by saying, you know, we are people, we're xenophobes, you know, we don't want other people coming into this country, therefore don't say it's an invasion.
It's exactly what it was. They were unvetted, they came in, they committed crimes. We're not allowed to keep numbers on them, because Secretaries of State and other state officials will not give us that information.
And now, what you've got are these people saying it's terrible. He -- and Jeh Johnson saying, if it's not broke, don't fix it. Is the border not broke? Is law and order not broke in this country?
And finally, let me just say, I love a president who can go from church in the morning to all kinds of ceremonies and inauguration and then go to the arena, sign these orders and then go to every ball and, you know, be out there and be responsive to the press and invite them into the Oval Office. It's like, this is my home. Come on in. I'm signing laws for you. They're crazy on the left.
WATTERS: Speaking of, Jessica, we'll go to you next. What is your favorite if you had to pick one executive order?
TARLOV: My favorite as a Democrat or my favorite as an American?
WATTERS: I don't see why you should differentiate.
TARLOV: Because there is some partisanship going on in all of this.
PIRRO: So, you admit that there's some partisanship is un-American?
TARLOV: I think, to some degree, of course, I think, there is some consensus to be had in this. And you know, like the back to work policy that will penalize some people that I think have legitimate reason to need to work from home, and hopefully they'll be able to make their case, whether that's, you know, taking care of a loved one, they maybe have moved during the pandemic and are still doing their job effectively, but I think it's a good thing that people are in their office. I think that that makes sense.
I think some of the DEI programs went too far, and everyone has accepted that in the public and the private sector, right? You have a huge surge of roles in companies, large and small after the murder of George Floyd and a lot of them have just quietly gotten rid of them, even before it was clear that Donald Trump was going to win again.
So, I think that we can talk about things like that. You can even talk about the E.V. mandate, all of the automakers who share the same aspirations and goals as former President Biden have said, we're not going to make our targets, so obviously we need to reassess that to some degree.
But when the Judge says, you know, this is what the people voted for, some of it, they absolutely did not. And Donald Trump promised that he would bring the costs down right away, and he revoked Biden's policy to lower prescription drug prices or to make it so Medicare, can't negotiate itself for prescription drug prices. That's not cool.
PIRRO: Where is that? Where is that?
TARLOV: Look in the list.
PIRRO: Well, show me.
TARLOV: What do you mean?
PERINO: There's a lot more to that issue.
TARLOV: OK, did the American people on November 5th vote for 16,160 Afghans who are being resettled here have gone through the government process, people who helped us during the war in Afghanistan, which shows translators risking their lives. People are on target list for the Taliban. They had their flights canceled.
GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: The answer is yes, they did vote for him.
TARLOV: No, they didn't -- they didn't.
GUTFELD: Yes, they did.
TARLOV: If you sat there --
GUTFELD: Yes, they did.
TARLOV: No, they didn't.
GUTFELD: Sorry, Trump did not hide any of this from anyone.
TARLOV: That's not true.
PIRRO: And that's the difference.
TARLOV: And you guys sat here and you argued that the Afghanistan withdrawal was one of the worst atrocities in foreign policy that we left people behind, not only American service members and Americans who are still living, the American service members who passed away tragically, and the ones who are still living, but the people that helped us for years during that war, and now you say it's fine that their flights are just canceled?
GUTFELD: No, I didn't say it's fine. I'm saying that Americans voted for it. That's the difference. I don't have to say it's fine. I'm just telling you the reality.
TARLOV: Did you vote to revoke birthright citizenship for the children of people who are here legally?
GUTFELD: Do you understand what that means?
TARLOV: Yes, I do.
GUTFELD: Tell me about it. Tell me what birthright citizen citizenship meant.
TARLOV: Well, I think when Donald Trump was talking about it and disparaging people over here, he was talking about undocumented people who come and drop their anchor babies, he wasn't talking about people who are here on student visas, people who are here on H-1B visas.
GUTFELD: You're always going to choose this weird exception. The fact is, the system is being gamed.
TARLOV: It's not weird.
GUTFELD: Americans voted for Donald Trump because they saw these systems, these institutions being gamed, the asylum issue, the birthright citizen issue, Title IX issues, every single part of society was being gamed by the left.
And finally, Americans got pushed too far. They don't -- the point is you don't have to like everything in the restaurant to like the restaurant. There are things I go to a restaurant I don't eat any seafood, but I like that restaurant because it's got steak. There are things that Trump will do that I will disagree with, but the entire package is as close as you're going to get to what Americans want.
Trump is redefining basically what a human being can do in 24 hours. It's incredible. He did more in a day than Biden did in his damn career. And it's exhausting. It's exhausting. He would -- he had three balls last night. That's three more than Adam Kinzinger, the guy hasn't slept in two days.
I mean, the thing is, it's amazing. It's possible. It is possible, Donald Trump could complete his presidency in three months, right? And then he could just say, you know what -- he goes, you know what, J.D., you put -- you take it from here. I think I did everything I could do. It's incredible.
And by the way, you brought up, and you said it was a good thing, you know, the fact that, like these people, have to go back to work. But then you mentioned all these challenges they have. Well, welcome to America.
Every single one of us has a challenge, but yet we come to work. I'm not going to pay for their porn addiction. If they want to sit home in front of Pornhub and go, I have chronic fatigue syndrome. You know what? Everybody in America could stay home because they have a sick loved one or a baby, but they aren't. They're coming to work. They should go. I'm glad that he got rid of the appointees. I need work around the house. I pay well, but I'm not done. I'm not done.
I got to bring up the Nazi hoax thing, because we all -- we all know this is B.S., and yet the media is redefining losing every single day. Day one, they say Elon Musk made a Nazi salute. And I'm beginning to think, you know, they know they're lying. So, why are they doing? Why are they doing this? Because they realize they cannot rebuild their credibility. They're like a fat guy on death row. What's the point in dieting? You're already dead.
WATTERS: Looking forward to that last meal. Dana Perino, your thoughts.
PERINO: I just add a couple things. So, one of the things President Trump was doing was not creating new policy. He was getting rid of policies that Biden had put in place that people said they didn't want, and ending DEI 70 percent so they supported that, ending the E.V. mandates, that was 70 percent, finishing the border wall and deportation, 70 percent.
Now, they might not have gotten there without Joe Biden's broken border policy. That might have been a lower number, but that's where they were on Election Day. Getting men out of women's sports. That was like an 80-20 issue, maybe even more.
And so, it wasn't so much that there was like, Oh, here's a brand new policy. It was like, here's all these things that you said America you did not like for the last four years and how I'm going to be able to make it better.
GUTFELD: All right, like Greg said, you don't have to like everything on the restaurant menu. You just have to like a few things, and you'll patronize the place day after day.
TARLOV: I will not spend my money.
WATTERS: OK, we'll see about that. President Trump expected to speak at any moment from the White House, but up next, what a difference a president makes. President Trump holds court with the media.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
PIRRO: President Trump is expected to speak at any moment now from the White House. And thank God our free willing president is back after four years of press dodging Joe Biden, President Trump had no trouble mixing it up with the media, casually chatting for over an hour in the Oval Office while he signed one executive order after another. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Does Biden never do news conferences like this?
PETER DOOCY, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Like this?
TRUMP: None?
DOOCY: Did President Biden gave you a letter?
TRUMP: He may have. But don't they leave it in the desk? I don't know. Oh.
DOOCY: What's in there?
TRUMP: Thank you, Peter, it could have been years before we got it. Wow. Thank you.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Can you read it?
DOOCY: Can you read that on the outside?
TRUMP: Maybe we should all read it together.
DOOCY: Let's read it.
TRUMP: Well, maybe I'll read it first and then (INAUDIBLE).
DOOCY: That sounds great.
TRUMP: Peter, thank you very much. I may not have seen this for months.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PIRRO: Even the liberal media had to admit how refreshing it was to have a president who can speak.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DAVID AXELROD, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: I actually think it's refreshing for presidents to be -- I mean, I was among those who was critical of the lack of exposure of President Biden, and I think it's good for presidents to be exposed, it's better if they're -- if they tell the truth when they're doing it.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PIRRO: OK, Greg, I'll start with you. I mean, you got David Axelrod there saying it's refreshing to see the president do a presser while he actually signed these executive orders. He can actually walk and talk, I bet he can climb stairs too.
GUTFELD: And just to see how hungry the media is. I'll leave that to you, Dana. You know what's amazing about him is that this is a facet of the transparent persona, and I think this is why his critics don't like him, because he doesn't have a problem putting himself out there. He's completely at ease with just saying whatever he wants, because he is almost genetically incapable of embarrassment.
He is not frozen in his fear of saying something stupid, and it has been an inspiration to people like me and others, because he's willing to share the risk. Say something outrageous, say what he thinks, because what's the worst that could happen? Let's just see what happens. I don't know.
You know, I'm going to talk a little bit about famous people. Jesse, one day, you'll get there. There are famous people who hate being among the public. They talk about the challenges and the struggles of fame. I wish I could be anonymous. I wish I could just be rich and anonymous.
But then you see somebody like Bill Murray, right? Bill Murray, you ask for a selfie, he'll sit down and serenade you. You know, Trump could retreat into a protected bubble like Biden did, but he doesn't. And you could say, oh, it's because he loves attention.
I disagree. I believe he chooses to love attention because it's better than hating it. There's a difference -- there's a difference. He's chosen to avail himself to the world and refuses to whine about it, it's a really interesting thing. He doesn't have to do this. You know, he doesn't want to -- I get exhausted watching it, you know?
PIRRO: That's it?
GUTFELD: That's it. See you guys later.
PIRRO: All right, Jesse, when he's in the Oval Office, he brings a press in, and it's like he's bringing the press and America into his home. I mean, it was incredible. No hiding, no intermediaries, no picture cards. You know, so different from the guy who would just walk away, shake his head and be condescending like you fools.
WATTERS: The first term he was the social media president, and now he's the podcast president. He sits at an executive desk, he's got his big fat black sharpie, he's got his stack of papers, and he brings the media in, and that's it. It's all you need. And you'll see that probably for the rest of this term.
Biden was like the letter president. He actually wrote a letter to the American people one of his final acts. No one read it. No one cared. Biden didn't even read it. It just shows you how different these people are.
As old as he is, he's more modern than almost any of those young reporters covering him.
PIRRO: Right here is President Trump in the Roosevelt Room.
TRUMP: Thank you very much, and it's an honor to be here today. We have first full day as president. We're back, and we had a great first term, but we're going to have an even better second term, and I think we're going to do things that people will be shocked at. We're starting off with tremendous investment coming into our country at levels that nobody's really ever seen before, and they're very happy with the fact that I won the race and that they feel confident in their investments, and it's big money and high quality people.
So, my first day back from having a nice life, it's my honor to welcome three of the world's leading technology CEOs, and in the case of Larry, Larry Ellison, it's well beyond technology, sort of CEO of everything. He's an amazing man, an amazing business person.
But to announce the largest A.I. infrastructure project by far in history, and it's all taking place right here in America, as you know, there's great competition for A.I. and other things, and they're coming in at the highest level. We're joined by Oracle executive chairman Larry Ellison, SoftBank CEO, my friend Masayoshi Son and CEO of OpenAI, and I would say the by far the leading expert, based on everything I read, Sam Altman, so that's great that you're coming in together. That's a massive group of talent and money.
Together, these world leading technology giants are announcing the formation of Stargate. So, put that name down in your books, because I think you're going to hear a lot about it in the future, a new American company that will invest $500 billion at least, in A.I. infrastructure in the United States.
And very, very quickly, moving very rapidly, creating over 100,000 American jobs almost immediately, this monumental undertaking is a resounding declaration of confidence in America's potential under a new president.
Let me be a new president. I didn't say. Yet they did. So I appreciate that, fellas, but it will ensure the future of technology.
What we want to do is we want to keep it in this country. China is a competitor, and others are competitors. We want -- we want it to be in this country, and we're making it available. I'm going to help a lot through emergency declarations. Because we have an emergency, we have to get this stuff built.
So, they have to produce a lot of electricity, and we'll make it possible for them to get that production done very easily at their own plants, if they want where they'll build, at the plant, the A.I. plant, they'll build energy generation, and that will be incredible, but it's technology and artificial intelligence all made in the USA.
Beginning immediately, Stargate will be building the physical and virtual infrastructure to power the next generation of advancements in A.I., and this will include the construction of colossal data centers, very, very massive structures.
I was in the real estate business, these buildings, these are big, beautiful buildings are going to employ a lot of people and physical campuses and locations currently being scouted nationwide. They're making their choices of locations. I think they have their choice.
I'd like to ask Larry, Sam and Masa to say a few words and just talk about a little bit about what they're doing and if you have any questions, and then we'll go into a couple of other subjects also.
But this is, to me, a very big thing, $500 billion Stargate Project. I think it's going to be something that's very special, it'll lead to something that could be the biggest of all.
So, Larry, maybe we'll start with you and we'll go down the line. Thank you.
LARRY ELLISON, CEO, ORACLE: Thank you, Mr. President. We certainly couldn't do this without you. It would simply be impossible.
A.I. holds incredible promise for all of us, for every American. We've actually been working with OpenAI for a while, and with Masa for a while. The data centers are actually under construction, as the first of them are under construction in Texas. Each buildings a half a million square feet. There are 10 buildings currently being built, but that will expand to 20 and other locations beyond the Abilene location, which is -- which is our first location.
The kind of applications that we're building, to give you an idea, maybe the most charismatic, and the one that I think touches us all, is electronic health records, not just maintaining electronic health records, but by looking at electronic health records, understanding the condition of doctors better understanding the condition of their patients and being able to provide healthcare plans that are much better than they otherwise would be.
A doctor in Indian River Reservation would be able to see how a doctor at Memorial Sloan Kettering would treat the patient, or a doctor at Stanford would treat the patient. We actually provide all of that information, all of that guidance, to the doctors who are treating cancer patients or patients of any other kind of disease made possible by A.I.
I'm not going to take a lot of time. I'm going to -- I'm going to pass it to Masa, but this is a very exciting program for Oracle to be a part of. Thank you.
MASAYOSHI SON, CEO, SoftBank: Thank you, sir. That's good. That's great. I feel tall now. Thank you.
Well, Mr. President, last month, I came to celebrate your winning, and promised that we will invest $100 billion and you told me, oh, Masa, go for 200.
Now, I came back with 500 because this is the -- as you say yesterday, this is the beginning of golden age of America. This is one great example, I think, right? We wouldn't have decided to do this. This is the beginning of golden age. We wouldn't have decided, unless you won't.
And yesterday, we agree. We signed to make this happen because of this thing.
So, we would make this happen. We would immediately start deploying $100 billion with a goal of making $500 billion within next four years within your power (ph), right, because of your success.
So, we are very, very excited to do this. And our partner is, of course, SoftBank, OpenAI, Oracle and additional investing partner with MGX. On top of that, we have the technology partner Nvidia, and of course, Microsoft has been very, very supportive to Sam and continue to support all our success.
This is not just for business. As Larry said, this will help people's life. This will help solving many, many issues, difficult things that otherwise we could not have solved with the power of A.I.
I think AGI (ph) is coming very, very soon. And after that, that's not the goal. After that, artificial super intelligence will come to solve the issues that mankind would never, ever have thought that we could solve.
Well, this is the beginning of our golden age, thank you very much.
SAM ALTMAN, CEO, OPENAI: I don't have too much to add, but I did want to say I'm thrilled we get to do this in the United States of America. I think this will be the most important project of this era, and as Masa said, for AGI to get built here, to create hundreds of thousands of jobs, to create a new industry centered here.
We wouldn't be able to do this without you, Mr. President, and I'm thrilled that we get to. I think it'll be an exciting project. I think we'll be able to do all of the wonderful things these guys talked about. But the fact that we get do this in the United States is I think wonderful. So, thank you very much.
TRUMP: We have so many positive things about what it's going to do for medical research and for solving things, cancer and all the different problems. How will A.I. help us with the fight against the various problems, diseases, et cetera?
ALTMAN: These guys can maybe share more about some of the work they're doing there. I think they'll jointly be some of the leaders about driving progress here. But I believe that as this technology progresses, we will see diseases get cured in an unprecedented rate. We will be amazed at how quickly we're curing this cancer and that one in heart disease and what this will do for the ability of -- to deliver very high quality health care at the costs, but really to cure the diseases at a rapid, rapid rate I think will be among the most important things this technology does.
TRUMP: Very good.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (INAUDIBLE).
LARRY ELLISON, CHIEF TECHNOLOGY OFFICER, ORACLE: So, we're currently working on -- can I step on this? OK. All right. No, no, no. I'm not -- I'm not that tall. I'm not that tall. I'm not that tall. I'm not that tall. Thank you, Mr. President. One of the most exciting things we're working on, again, using the tools that Sam and Masa are providing, is a cancer vaccine. It's very interesting.
Early diet -- it turns out -- I'll be quick, all of our cancers, cancer tumors, little fragments of those tumors float around in your blood. So, you can do early cancer detection. If you can do it -- using A.I. -- you can do early cancer detection with a blood test. And using A.I. to look at the blood test, you can find the cancers that are actually seriously threatening the person.
So again, cancer diagnosis, using A.I. as the promise of just being a simple blood test. Then beyond that, once we gene sequence -- once we gene sequence that cancer tumor, you can then vaccinate the person, the design of vaccine for every individual person to vaccinate them against that cancer. And you can make that vaccine, that mRNA vaccine, you can make that robotically, again, using A.I. in about 48 hours.
So, imagine early cancer detection, the development of a cancer vaccine for your particular cancer aimed at you, and have that vaccine available in 48 hours. This is the promise of A.I. and the promise of the future.
TRUMP: Thanks.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Can I ask more questions?
TRUMP: Yes, just one second, we'll finish up. But, you know, these are highly respected guys. I was shocked with Larry, because I don't even think Larry does this stuff. He did a very good job for a guy that doesn't do it much, right? But he's so respected, and the group -- and it's really an honor. But for Larry to be here and do this is very unusual, because he doesn't do this stuff. He doesn't need it. He does -- and you don't need it, do you? You don't need it.
But I just -- I think it's an honor to the country. It's a great honor that this group, these are the top people that they -- they're going to do it, and they're going to do it here. And we're going to make it as easy as it can be. A $500 million Stargate Project comes in addition to a separate pledge between $100 and $200 billion from, as we know, from Masa that we talked about before. Also, $20 billion from the Mac, which was great. And we have many others that are coming.
Some might just say, just announce it, it's easier. But with some, I know them, and they're so highly respected, I'd rather do it this way. Many would like to do it this way, but we're letting the world know what's happening. This is money that normally would have gone to China, or other countries, but in particular China. And total, before the end of my first full business day in Washington and the White House, we've already secured nearly $ 3 trillion of new investments in the United States. And probably that's going to be six or seven by the end of the week.
Tremendous amounts of money are coming in for many things, other than even A.I. A.I. seems to be very hot. It seems to be the thing that a lot of smart people are looking at very strongly. Our country will be prospering like never before. I think that's true, and it's going to be the golden age of America. As I say yesterday, we had the most ambition -- ambitious action-oriented day of any administration in history. There's never been a first day like yesterday, as you know.
I signed a sweeping slate of executive orders to stop the invasion of our borders. I launched a government-wide effort to defeat inflation and bring down the cost of daily life, and bring down the cost of energy, magnificently bring it down. And when an energy comes down -- Larry, I'd say generally speaking, when energy comes down, everything else comes down. The prices of food and the prices of food and the prices of everything else come down.
Energy is the big -- that's the big baby. And we declared a national energy emergency to drill baby drill, our term that we use. We're going to drill baby drill like never before. We ended destructive DEI mandates across the federal government and returned our country to a merit-based system and a common-sense system. As you know, the Supreme Court gave us a decision on merit, where things in this country can be based on merit now, instead of a lot of different rules, regulations, and things that really put our country at a big disadvantage.
We permanently stopped government censorship and restored Free Speech that was signed yesterday. We renamed the Gulf of Mexico, the Gulf of America. It sounds so beautiful, the Gulf of America. And returned the name of a great president, William McKinley to Mount McKinley. They took off the name. And he was actually a great president. He was a very, very successful businessman. He ran for Governor of Ohio. He won and did a great job as governor. He ran for president, and he won. He was assassinated, ultimately, in the second term, unfortunately.
But he was the Tariff King, and he -- I don't think he was as bad as I am. I think I believe in him even more than him, but he believed in him very strongly. And he raised massive amounts of money. Our country was at its -- at its richest from 1870 to 1913, we had the most -- that was when we were the richest, relatively speaking. We were the richest during that period of time. That was tariffs from other countries.
And our administration is moving with unprecedented urgency and speed to confront every single crisis facing us. And we'll get the job done. And again, I want to thank Sam and Masa and Larry for being here. It's an honor to have them. And we'll take a few questions if you want.
(CROSSTALK)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You would agree that it's never acceptable to assault a police officer.
TRUMP: Sure.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So then, if I can. Among those who are pardoned, D.J. Rodriguez, he drove a stun gun into the neck of the D.C. police officer, who was abducted by the mob that day. He later confessed on video to the FBI and pleaded guilty for his crimes. Why does he deserve a pardon?
TRUMP: Well, I don't know. Is it a pardon? Because we're looking at commutes, and we're looking at pardons.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's a pardon.
TRUMP: OK, well, we'll take a look at everything. But I can say this. Murderers today are not even charged. You have murderers that aren't charged all over. You take a look at what's gone on in Philadelphia. Take a look at what's gone off in L.A. where people murder people and they don't get charged. These people have already served years in prison, and they've served them viciously. It's a disgusting prison. It's been horrible. It's inhumane. It's been a terrible, terrible thing.
I also say this. You go to Portland, where they did -- where they wrapped police officers, shot police officers. Nothing happened to anybody. You go to Seattle, where they took over a big chunk of the city, and people died. Portland, a lot of people died. Wait a minute. And you go also take a look at Minneapolis, because I was there, and I watched it. If I didn't bring in the National Guard, that city wouldn't even exist today. People were killed, and nobody went to jail.
So, these people have already served a long period of time, and I made a decision to give a pardon. Joe Biden gave a pardon yesterday to a lot of criminals. These are criminals that he gave a pardon to. And you should be asking that question. Why did he give a pardon to all of these people that committed crimes? Why did he give a pardon to the J-6 unselect committee when they burned and destroyed all documents which showed that they did what was wrong, not me.
Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Why did they give a pardon to all of his relatives, his brother, who made millions of dollars? To all these different people, he gave pardons. That's the question you should be answering.
All right, go ahead. Yes, please.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If I can just --
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: No, no, no, that's enough. Go ahead.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Tell us all about your meeting with Speaker Johnson, Senator Thune. Did you reach any conclusion on this one big --
TRUMP: Pretty much. I think we have a good situation now. It's been in some ways made simpler by Los Angeles, because they're going to need a lot of money. And generally speaking, I think you find that a lot of Democrats are going to be asking for help. So, I think maybe that makes it more one sided. And I think we're going to do very well.
Look, we're going to take care of Los Angeles. I'm going there. I'm going to North Carolina, which has been abandoned by the Democrats. And I'm going to North Carolina very importantly first. I'll be there on Friday. And then I'm going from there to Los Angeles. And then I'm going to Nevada. And I'm really going to Nevada to thank them for the vote, because we won Nevada overwhelmingly. And that's usually a Democrat vote. And I just want to go there to thank the people of Nevada for the big vote. So, we'll be making that.
Yes, please.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The leaders of the Proud Boys and the Oath Keepers were free following their pardons yesterday. At the time back in 2021, you've urged them to stand back and stand by. Is there now a place for them in the political conversation?
TRUMP: Well, we have to say if they've been given a pardon. And I thought their sentences were ridiculous and excessive. One of the guys took down a flag that was an anti-American flag. And he was given years in jail. I don't know the exact number, but he was given many years in jail. I thought it was very excessive. And at least the cases that we looked at, these were people that actually love our country. So, we thought a pardon would be appropriate. Yes.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Mr. President, is it also true in your conversation with Republicans today that you asked them to consider recess appointments for cabinet officials?
TRUMP: I think, yes, if it's needed. I don't think it's going to be needed. Marco, as you know, got passed overwhelmingly with 99 to nothing, which is pretty amazing. Marco is going to do a great job, Secretary of State. But he just got -- I guess he was the first one and just got approved. That's some vote, 99 to nothing. And the nothing was a vote that he would have gotten if we wanted to do it. But who's vote that was, who's doing a great job right now as Vice President?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You also talk about sort of a trade or a deal involving wildfire relief in an extension for a -- that's --
TRUMP: What I really want to have done -- I was talking about this with the guys back in the Oval Office. Los Angeles has massive amounts of water available to it. All they have to do is turn the valve. And that's the valve coming back from -- down from the Pacific Northwest, where millions of gallons of water a week and a day, even, in many cases, pours into California. It goes all through California down to Los Angeles. And they turned it off. It's off now.
The valve goes -- it turns toward the Pacific Ocean and all that water goes pouring into the Pacific Ocean. If they did what I told them to do, they wouldn't do it because politically, they didn't think it was good. I think -- I think it's great politically. I think they're dead politically. What they've done, they've destroyed the city.
What they've done to that city is unbelievable. The sprinklers, they're sprinklers in there like these, right here that you see, none of them had any water on them. They didn't have any water. The fire hydrants, 40 percent of them had no water. The brush was soaked -- was just dry. Everything was dry. The sprinklers in the lawn weren't allowed to even be used. So, you know, everything was dry and it was an inferno. They created an inferno.
So, we're demanding that they turn the valve back toward Los Angeles right now. It's not even believable that they haven't done it. Just so you know, they have a valve. And it's turns -- like, think of a sink, but multiply it times many thousands of times the size of it. It's massive. And you turn it back toward Los Angeles. Why aren't they doing it? They either have a death wish, they're stupid, or there's something else going on that we don't understand. But we want the water that they're throwing away to be used for California.
And that includes the farmers of California. You know, when you drive up north, you see all of the land -- I couldn't believe it. I was with Devin Nunes when he was a congressman and some other congressman from the area. And we're driving up -- and we're in the highway. And I keep looking at these farms and the land is bone dry. And then you'd see an acre, about an acre or two acres, with the most beautiful green plants growing. And it's the most beautiful -- it's rich stuff. And you look at the soil and it's so rich. That soil is almost the equivalent to like Iowa soil. It's phenomenal. It's got no water.
But the reason it has no water. I said, do you have a drought? No. I said, what do you mean do you don't have a drought? Look at the thing. It's dry as a bone. The reason you have like an acre is because they say, you can -- you can farm one acre but no more. Because they didn't want to waste water. But they throw the water into the Pacific Ocean. These people are crazy. So, we're going to be issuing an executive order demanding that they immediately let that water come down to through California.
Farmers, even people living in Beverly Hills. Now, those people have been a lot -- I mean, a lot of them are wiped out. Believe it or not, you know, they were having restrictions. Larry, you know about this. They wanted to restrict you to 38 gallons of water a day. That sounds like a lot, but it's not. When you're a rich person, you like to take a shower. 38 gallons doesn't last very long.
And they have all this water. And it's really good water. Up high Pacific Northwest, some comes in from Canada. A nice country, by the way. It comes in from Canada. And it comes all the way through California. And they're restricting it. You even have the half pipes. You know, the half pipes. The cut pipes. Big ones, bigger than this room. And they go all the way down. And they're bone dry. And they could be loaded up with water.
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: No, but isn't it incredible that they don't do it? And it's to protect the delta smelt. It's a fish that's doing poorly anyway. But it's how are you protecting the delta smelt by not giving it water? It's a fish. It needs water. Nobody can answer that question.
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: Let me do this first.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Are you open to Elon buying TikTok?
TRUMP: What's that?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Are you open to Elon buying TikTok?
TRUMP: I would be if you wanted to buy it. Yes.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: On your inauguration -- on your inauguration --
TRUMP: I'd like Larry to buy it too. I have the right to make a deal. So, the deal I'm thinking about, Larry, let's negotiate in front of the media. The deal, I think, is this. And I met with owners of TikTok, the big owners. It's worthless if it doesn't get a permit. It's not like, oh, you can take the U.S. -- the whole thing is worthless. With a permit, it's worth like a trillion dollars.
So, what I'm thinking about saying to somebody is buy it and give half to the United States of America, half, and we'll give you the permit. And they'll have a great partner, the United States. And they'll have something that's actually more valuable because they have the ultimate partner. And the United States will make it very worthwhile for them in terms of the permits and everything else.
But -- so think of it. You have an asset that has no value or has a trillion dollar value. It all depends on whether or not the United States gives the permits. So, what I'm saying is let the United States give the permit and the United States should get half. Sounds reasonable. What do you think?
ELLISON: It sounds like a good deal to me, Mr. President.
TRUMP: He can afford it too.
(CROSSTALK)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Mr. President, your friends has long said that you backed with blue, but aren't you sending the message that assaulting officers is OK with these pardons?
TRUMP: No, the opposite. In fact, I'm going to be letting two officers from Washington Police, D.C. I believe that from D.C., but I just approved it. They were arrested, put in jail for five years because they went after an illegal. And I guess something happened where something went wrong. And they arrested the two officers and put them in jail for going after a criminal, a rough criminal, by the way. And I'm actually releasing.
No, I'm the friend of -- I am the friend of police, more than any president that's ever been in this office.
(CROSSTALK)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: More than 400 of the people that you've partnered though assaulted officers. So, I want to ask you about the Vice President, J.D. Vance, he said, if -- this is a week ago. He said, if you've committed violence on January 6th, obviously you should not be pardoned. Why is your Vice President wrong?
TRUMP: Well, only for one reason. They've served years in jail. They should not have served -- excuse me. And they've served years in jail and murderers don't even go to jail in this country. And we had 1,500, we have 16 under review, as you know. We commuted about 16 of them because it looks like they could have done things that were not acceptable for a full pardon. But these people have served years of jail, and their lives have been ruined. And in many cases -- listen to me for a second. Stop interrupting. They've served years in jail.
And if you look at the American public, the American public is tired of it. Take a look at the election. Just look at the numbers on the election. We won this election in a landslide because the American public is tired of people like you that are just one-sided, horrible people in terms of crime. You don't talk about all the people that have been killed and what happens to those murderers. Murderers get no time.
You take a look at some of these DAs. They go after political opponents, but they don't go after people that shoot people in the street. They're caught. They know where they're living. They know everything. They don't even go up to pick them up anymore. They just let them live there. They know all about it. They have their pictures. They have the tape of the shooting. And they don't even go up and talk. And you're talking about this.
No, we pardoned people that were treated unbelievably well -- poorly. In the history of our country, there's never been anything take place like this. They're still looking for them, but they're not looking for the murderers, the people that are killing everybody. We are, though, and we're getting them out of the country. We just started that. We're getting them out of the country. And they're going to be gotten out of the country first.
They came in illegally from jails and from prisons. They killed many people. Some of them killed many people. About 50 percent of them killed more than one person. They were released into our country. That's what we're focused on. Not the kind of nonsense you're talking about.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You called for a ceasefire -- you called for a ceasefire in Ukraine. If Vladimir Putin doesn't come to the table to negotiate with you, will you put additional sanctions on Russia?
TRUMP: It sounds likely.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: And do you think that the war should be frozen currently along with --
TRUMP: The war should have never started. If you had a competent president, which you didn't, the war wouldn't have happened. The war in Ukraine would have never happened if I were president. But that couldn't happen because the election was rigged. Yes, go ahead.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Mr. President, there's been some debate within your orbit over whether or not to keep or eliminate H-1B visas. What's your position on that? Do you want to keep H-1Bs or do you want to get them?
TRUMP: Well, I like -- I like both sides of the argument. But I also like very competent people coming into our country. Even if that involves them training and helping other people that may not have the qualifications they do. But I don't want to stop. And I'm not just talking about engineers. I'm talking about people at all levels. We want competent people coming into our country.
And H-B1, I know the program very well. I use the program. Maitre D'hotels, wine experts, even waiters, high quality waiters, you got to get the best people. Now, then you go into people like Larry and he needs engineers and Musk needs. And this gentleman needs engineers like nobody's ever needed engineers, right? So, we have to have the quality of people coming in.
Now, by doing that, we're expanding businesses, and that takes care of everybody. So, I'm sort of on both sides of the argument. But what I really do feel is that we have to let really competent people, great people, come into our country. And we do that through the H-1 program.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Mr. President, are you going to impose tariffs on Canada and Mexico in an effort to force negotiations sooner on USMCA?
TRUMP: No, it's really, and not on USMCA, it has nothing to do with that. They've allowed both of them. And Canada very much so. They've allowed millions and millions of people to come into our country that shouldn't be here. They could have stopped them and they didn't. And they've killed 300,000 people last year, my opinion, have been destroyed by drugs, by fentanyl. The fentanyl coming through Canada is massive. The fentanyl coming through Mexico is massive. And people are getting killed and families are being destroyed.
I mean, the son gets killed. And the family is a basket case for the rest of their lives. I mean, I've seen mothers that thought they'd heal. They never heal. They say it gets worse with time. It gets worse with time. They lose their boy. They lose their baby. They lose their young daughter to fentanyl poisoning.
And I had that talk with President Xi the other day, too, of China. I said, we don't want that crap in our country. We got to stop it. I would have stopped it. I had a deal with him where he was going to give the maximum penalty, which in China is the death penalty for drug dealing. And he was all set. He was going to give the maximum penalty to fentanyl dealers if they send to the United States. So, we're going to get the death penalty.
And of course, Biden didn't pick that up. I had that deal all done. It was all wrapped up. We were going to have it done. And then the election went. Let's put it nicely. It didn't go the proper way. I'm doing -- I'm trying to be nice about it. It was rigged. And we had an incompetent president elected, and he never followed up on that deal. But he should have followed up. Because if they got the death penalty, they wouldn't be sending fentanyl to Mexico, Canada, and other places.
(CROSSTALK)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: How much will the tariffs on China, Mr. President? How much will the tariffs --
TRUMP: We're thinking about that, too. We're talking about a tariff of 10 percent on China based on the fact that they're sending fentanyl to Mexico and Canada.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: How soon? How soon on those tariffs?
TRUMP: Probably February 1st is the date we're looking at. For Mexico and China, we're talking about approximately 25 percent.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Any update on the Gaza ceasefire? And are you claiming to travel to the Middle East soon?
TRUMP: We're thinking about going to the Middle East. Not yet. We have a thing called the hostages are coming back going on right now, and they are coming back. Some of them have been very -- you know, very damaged. You look at the young lady with her hand practically blown off. You know how that happened, right? Did you know that happened? When you find out, you're not going to be too happy because it was terrible.
But the hostages are starting to come back. Oh, if I -- if I weren't here, they wouldn't be back ever. They would have never come back. They would have all died. If this were done a year earlier, if Biden would have done this deal a year and a half, two years ago -- or frankly, it should have never happened. October 7th should have never happened. Nobody should be dead. But through weakness, they allowed it to happen. And then it was a disaster from them.
But you go back just six months ago, many of these young people were living. You know, young people don't die like that. They're just dying. And young people aren't dying at 22 and 23 years old. They don't die. But now they're dying. And you wonder why they're dying. They're being killed. And they have been killed. But they say six months ago, you would have had 11 more living hostages. Think of that -- six months ago.
But Biden couldn't get it done. And it was only the imposition that I put on it as a deadline that got it done. But it's a very sad situation. It should have -- it should never happened. I'll tell you, two things should have never happened -- three things. Inflation should have never happened. It would have never happened, except for what they did to energy and their crazy spending. And Ukraine would have never happened. Never.
By the way, Russia never would have gone into Ukraine. I had a very strong understanding with Putin that it would have never, ever happened. He disrespected Biden. Very simple. He disrespects people. He's smart. He understands. He disrespected Biden. And also, the Middle East would have never happened because Iran was broke. They had no money. They had no money for Hamas. They had no money for Hezbollah. It would have never happened. October 7th would have never happened.
But it did happen. So, this is the cards I've been given. And we're getting the hostages back. That would have never happened on the Biden. They would have never come back. They were just dying very -- not that slowly. They were dying or being killed. But that was what was happening.
(CROSSTALK)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Are you going to keep sending weapons to Ukraine or are you going to send -- turn off the tap soon?
TRUMP: Well, we'll look into that. We're talking to Zelenskyy. We're going to be talking with President Putin very soon. And we'll see how it all happens. We're going to look at it very soon. One thing I do feel. The European Union should be paying a lot more than they're paying because under Biden, I mean, we're in there for $200 billion more. Now, it affects them more than it affects us. We have an ocean in between, right? Little thing called an ocean.
The European Union should equalize. We're in there for $200 billion more than the European Union. I mean, what are we stupid? I guess the answer is yes. Because they must -- they must think so. But the European Union takes advantage of us tremendously on trade. And they now take advantage of it and always have.
If I didn't get involved years ago, my first term, one of the first things I noticed was that they're not paying enough. They're not paying. And a lot of those countries weren't even paying the NATO countries. They weren't paying. Only seven out of 28 were paying. We were one of them. And Poland was one. And they had a few of them that were paying. And some were paying very proudly.
Usually, they're closer to the borderline of Russia. They were the faster they paid. OK. The ones that were further away tended not to pay so fast. And one thing on that, I think they should lift their number, not to two percent but to five percent. NATO should be at five percent, not at two percent. Two percent is ridiculous, you know.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Did you asked President Xi in your conversation about Ukraine? Did you asked him to get involved in helping to settle that? Can you tell us about that?
TRUMP: Yes, I did. Yes, I said, you ought to get it settled because he's not done very much on that. He's got a lot of -- a lot of power, like we have a lot of power. I said, you ought to get it settled. We did discuss it. Yes.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (INAUDIBLE) products that benefit yourself personally while you're president?
TRUMP: Well, I don't know if it benefited. I don't know where it is. I don't know much about it other than I launched it. I heard it was very successful. I haven't checked it. Where is it today?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You made a lot of money, sir.
TRUMP: How much?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Several billion dollars, it seems like in the last several days.
Trump: Several billion? That's peanuts for these guys.
(CROSSTALK)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Sir, you're talking about the letter from President Biden. Can you give some sense --
TRUMP: I he gave me a nice letter. I mean, I did open it last night. And I didn't know Peter said, did you get the letter? I said, wait a minute. Let's say the letter is sort of a tradition. You put it in the drawer, especially of the beautiful resolute desk, right? And I opened it and there it was. It said to number 47. And it was a very nice letter.
I mean, I could show it because I think it was a nice letter. Maybe I will. I think --
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (INAUDIBLE) What does it said --
TRUMP: Just basically it was a little bit of an inspirational type letter, you know. Joy it, do a good job. Important, very important, how important the job is. But I may -- I think it was a nice letter. I think I should let people see it because it was a positive for him in writing it. I appreciated the letter.

Load-Date: January 21, 2025


End of Document
