




MailOnline
February 26, 2025 Wednesday 5:08 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:2
Length: 629 words
Byline: Sarah Ewall-Wice, Senior U.S. Political Reporter for DailyMail.com on Capitol Hill
Body


Sign up for the latest with DailyMail.com's U.S. politics newsletter
As the Trump administration looks to root out and terminate DEI across the federal government, Senator Ted Cruz is getting in on the action.
 His team at the Senate Commerce Committee has been investigating diversity training provided to federal workers at the Commerce Department by the company NewPoint Strategies to the tune of thousands of dollars.
But when committee staff requested a copy of the paid-for training, NewPoint Strategies stonewalled them for months, according to Cruz's team.
In the end, the company provided only one document with little relevant information.
Now the Texas senator wants to subpoena the company for documents and communications related to the training it provided for 'propaganda.'
'Republicans in Congress need to help President Trump root out DEI indoctrination in our government,' Cruz said in an exclusive statement provided to DailyMail.com.
It comes as the Trump administration through billionaire Elon Musk's DOGE team has been combing through federal contracts and data to eliminate DEI initiatives and offices across the government.
NewPoint Strategies once defended DEI from being cut in a 2023 post which has since been removed from the company website, archives show.
According to USASpending, the Commerce Department has paid the company more than $771,000.
'The Biden administration and the DC consultant class turned the Woke Mind Virus into a booming business, bilking government agencies and taxpayers for millions of dollars in an effort to indoctrinate federal workers,' Cruz said in his statement.
The senator said when his team asked NewPoint Strategies to turn over material related to DEI training, the company refused to hand over documents and disregarded their oversight authority.
'As the Chairman of the Committee, we will be voting to issue a subpoena for the propaganda presented to U.S. government employees,' Cruz said.
The committee staff first requested a meeting with the company's president back in May 2024. According to them, they had to follow up multiple times before scheduling a call.
Last August, the company provided a table of contents for its training to NOAA employees, but it has ignored follow-ups for additional material.
While committee staff have been unable to obtain the specific training provided, based on information publicly available, they suspect the training has ideological leanings.
DailyMail.com reached out to NewPoint Strategies for comment.
According to its website, the company has expertise in 'managing high-risk employment issues' with a wide range of clients from Fortune 500 corporations and government agencies to universities and unions.
Some examples of training scenarios deal with addressing sexual harassment in the workplace. Other examples include pronouns, talking about immigrants and discussing the 'normal' family.
Committee staff suggest it is not clear whether some of the training is an issue or not and is up for interpretation.
As the committee conducts its own investigation, DOGE recently identified a more than $177,000 NewPoint Strategies training on 'Harassment Prevention & LGBTQIA+ Awareness' provided to the National Gallery of Art.
The team lead by billionaire Elon Musk has been scouring the federal government as part of Trump's directive to root out waste, fraud and abuse.
The president has made the elimination of DEI in the federal government a top priority after campaigning aggressively on the issue ahead of the 2024 election.
Among his first actions after being sworn into office was to sign executive orders to block equity-related grants and end DEI initiatives and offices in the federal government.
Some of his efforts have already been held up by legal challenges in the courts.

Load-Date: February 26, 2025


End of Document
