




thetimes.co.uk
February 24, 2025 Monday 9:35 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 1239 words
Byline: Alistair Dawber, Washington
Highlight: A new poll suggests a rise in economic optimism and presidential approval — but there is some division over key figures and policies
Body


Most Americans approve of the job President Trump has done during his first month in office, with particular support for policies on immigration, his cabinet nominations and the administration’s approach to public spending.
A Harvard/Harris poll shows that Trump, 78, has a gross approval rating of 52 per cent after setting a breakneck pace in the first four weeks of his second term. He has signed more than 70 executive orders on everything from 
, 
 and 
.
The White House will be heartened by a steep rise in the number of Americans who believe the country is doing well: 42 per cent of voters say the country is on the right track, up 14 points from January 2025. 

Asked about the poll during his joint press conference with President Macron of France on Monday, Trump said: “I was honoured by it, it’s a big poll … it has us not only leading but leading by a lot, leading on every single issue. We’ve become the party of common sense. We’ve moved very rapidly, and I think very effectively, so I was honoured by that poll.”
The survey, which was conducted on February 19 and 20, was based on responses from 2,443 registered voters. 
Here are its ten biggest findings. 
                   1. Is the country back on track?                   
The poll shows that 42 per cent of voters think things are going well. While this is below 50 per cent, it is a 14-point increase since January, when 
 was preparing to leave office. It is also the highest level since 2021.
The figures do, however, highlight the splits among Americans. While more than 70 per cent of Republicans say the country is moving forward, just over a fifth of Democrats feel the same way. 
                   2. Optimism about the economy                   
There is similarly growing optimism — and a partisan split — over the economy. A total of 38 per cent say the economy is on the right track, but there is evidence of a Trump dividend, with the overall number jumping 10 percentage points in a month.
The president has blamed the Biden administration for 
, and has promised tax cuts and high tariffs on imports to the US. The policies are popular among Republicans, with 63 per cent saying they believe the economy is moving ahead, up 30 points on a month ago. Only 20 per cent of Democrats agree, a drop of 14 points.
                   3. Three in ten feel personally better off                    
Some voters are also becoming more optimistic about their personal finances under the new administration. Almost a third say their own circumstances are looking up, a jump from 26 per cent last month. 
Those that are gloomy about their prospects are still in the majority, however, at 41 per cent, but the good news for the White House is that the number is down five points in a month. There is again a political split, with Republicans more upbeat than Democrats.
                   4. Just over half of Americans approve of Trump                    
Trump is the undisputed king of the Republican Party, with almost nine in ten registered party voters approving of the president’s work. Democrats are less enthused, with 19 per cent approving of the job Trump is doing. Overall, 52 per cent approve of the president’s performance. 
                   5. Beating Biden                   
Despite dire warnings from Democrats on what a second Trump term might bring, there is little buyers’ remorse among Americans, according to the poll. On key policy areas, Trump’s approval is ahead of where Biden was a month ago.
Trump has double-digit leads over Biden the top five policy areas, including the economy, immigration, foreign affairs, government administration and inflation. 
                   6. Democrats’                   
 dire ratings
The poll shows that there is little cheer among Democratic voters, who watched their party lose the White House and fail to stop the Republicans winning both houses of Congress in November’s elections. Only 36 per cent approve of what the Democrats are doing, down from 41 per cent a month ago. With the midterm elections just over 18 months away, party leaders will be concerned about the downwards slide.
By contrast, 51 per cent of voters approve of the job Republicans are doing.
                   7. Personal popularity                   
It is not just Trump who enjoys support among voters. Some of those he has invited into his administration have courted controversy over past statements are policy positions, but several of them enjoy positive favourability ratings.
, the health secretary, has questioned the safety of childhood vaccines. Despite some of his opinions contrasting with accepted scientific evidence, 46 per cent of voters approve of his work, compared with 37 per cent that do not.
, the head of Trump’s new Department of Government Efficiency (Doge), has a net level rating, with 44 per cent of voters backing the job he is doing and the same number disapproving. Tulsi Gabbard, the new director of the national intelligence agency, has a net favourability rating of plus three, despite past praise for President Putin of Russia and Bashar al-Assad, the former president of Syria.
The contrast is stark for leading Democrats: Biden and 
, his vice-president who is said to be planning a campaign to replace Gavin Newsom as governor of California at the end of his term, have net ratings of well below 50 per cent, on minus 24 and minus 14 respectively.
                   8. Breakdown of support by policy                   
The poll indicates that the new administration is enjoying a honeymoon in office, with most of its newly announced policies enjoying popularity.
Four fifths of voters approve of deporting illegal migrants who have committed crimes, including 70 per cent of Democrat voters, while banning those born male from competing in women’s sports has 69 per cent support overall, including half of Democrats.
Only the decision to rename the Gulf of Mexico as the Gulf of America has a net unpopularity rating, with 61 per cent saying it is the wrong move. Almost two thirds of Republicans (63 per cent) approve of the decision, however.
                   9. Div                   
ision over 
                   DEI                   
The Trump administration has launched an attack on diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) initiatives across the federal government, but there is a split among voters over whether this is a good move.
The poll shows that 51 per cent of voters say DEI departments in government are needed, compared with 49 per cent who say they are not. Again there is a party political split, with 78 per cent of Democrats saying the programmes are needed and only 30 per cent of Republicans agreeing.
                   10. Cut spending and taxes                   
One of the most significant moves introduced by the Trump administration is the creation of Doge, whose task is to cut billions of dollars of federal spending.
Eighty-three per cent say that government expenditure should be reduced, to cut federal debt, rather than taxes being increased. Trump has promised big tax cuts for Americans. Meanwhile, three quarters of voters say that there needs to be a full examination of all government spending, as Doge is purported to be doing. 

Load-Date: February 25, 2025


End of Document
