




Newsweek.com
January 31, 2025 Friday 6:58 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 549 words
Byline: Peter Aitken
Highlight: Abbott signed an executive order on Friday that seeks to end all diversity, equity and inclusivity (DEI) policies.
Body


Texas Governor  has signed Executive Order No. GA-55, which seeks to install "color-blind guarantees," which some have claimed effectively seeks to follow the federal government's example and end diversity programs.
The Texas governor's office directed Newsweek to a press release when asked for comment.
Why It Matters
The Trump administration has prioritized ending Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) practices. President  on January 21,  in federal departments. After his confirmation as Secretary of Defense,   at the DOD.
Some companies have also ended their diversity initiatives—most notably, , which announced last week that it would  and other equity initiatives.
What To Know
Abbott signed GA-55 on Friday, declaring that the state must pursue "the color-blind guarantee of both the state and federal Constitutions, including by ensuring that all agency rules, policies, employment practices, communications, curricula, use of state funds, awarding of government benefits, and all other official actions treat people equally, regardless of race."
In the order, Abbott declared that DEI "agendas," which he labeled "new forms of racism," aim to "divide us rather than unite us and have no place in the state of Texas."
In 2023, Abbott signed  Bill 17, which prohibited DEI policies in state colleges and universities, including diversity offices and employees.
The groundwork for GA-55 was laid out by the Texas Agriculture Commissioner Sid Miller's "war on DEI" declaration on Tuesday.
Miller announced that effective immediately, he would direct TDA staff to cease doing business with vendors or subcontractors who "promote, maintain, or enforce biased, prejudiced, and unfair DEI or DEIA policies based on race, color, sex, sexual preference, religion or national origin."
What People Are Saying
Texas Governor Greg Abbott, in a press release: "DEI agendas divide us rather than unite us and have no place in the state of Texas. These radical policies deviate from constitutional principles and deny diverse thought. Every Texan is equal under the law, including the state and federal Constitutions, both of which prohibit government discrimination based on race.
"That is why I directed all state agencies to eliminate any form of DEI attempting to divide Texans. We must always reject race-based favoritism or discrimination and allow people to advance based on talent and merit."
Texas Agriculture Commissioner Sid Miller, in a press release: "During the four years of the Biden Administration, these dangerous policies were allowed to infect all aspects of our federal government, major corporations, financial institutions, the medical industry, and institutions of higher education."
Miller added: "Not only do they violate the letter and spirit of the hard-won civil rights laws of our state and nation, but they also undermine our national spirit and weaken the traditional values that have made America strong and the envy of the world."
What Happens Next
Executive Order No. GA-55 will take effect and supersede all previous orders. It is unclear if the order has any retroactive impact or merely applies to new policies.


Graphic

 
Greg Abbott Texas Executive Order
Andrew Harnik/Getty Images
Texas Gov. Greg Abbott speaks on stage on the third day of the Republican National Convention at the Fiserv Forum on July 17, 2024 in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
