




Arkansas Traveler: University of Arkansas
February 20, 2025 Thursday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 1229 words
Body


Born in 1964, Bryson Austin's grandmother grew up fearing the consequences if she did not take her receipt at the grocery store as a Black woman. Now 60 years old, she has witnessed the progression of social justice, inspiring Austin to advocate for diversity, equity and inclusion.
Austin, the director of diversity and inclusion for the University of Arkansas Associated Student Government , said fear-mongering around DEI programs in the U.S. is prominent, but he remains committed to being a voice for these initiatives, as he said he believes they foster a more inclusive society.
"There is no room for fear when your job is to protect people who are scared," Austin said, "when you have to represent 30,000 students, a third of the population of Fayetteville, which is the second largest city in the state, and at the flagship institution of the state."
While ASG is interested in DEI on campus, Austin said the UA administration has been hesitant to provide their full support for these initiatives because they are concerned about losing funding or the potential impact on their jobs. He said he understands their worries, but at the same time, standing up for justice is crucial.
"If you're not willing to put up a fight," Austin said, "and if you're not willing to do what's unequivocally correct and right, then I don't really understand what keeping the money means."
In June of 2023, the university closed its DEI office. However, Chancellor Charles Robinson ensured the closure was not because of political pressure. On the other hand, Stephen Caldwell,  a UA Faculty Senator who was the chair of the executive committee in 2023, told the Washington Times that shutting down the DEI office would increase access to DEI initiatives, as they are not just one person's responsibility.
The Arkansas Traveler reached out to Robinson and Caldwell requesting an updated comment on DEI. After multiple attempts to contact him via email, Caldwell did not answer by the time of publishing.
John Thomas, UA manager of university communications, responded in an email on behalf of Robinson. He wrote that the best way to fulfill the university's land-grant mission of providing opportunity to all Arkansans is by actively fostering and promoting the success and belonging of all students.
"I think the question people in our campus community should be asking is, 'Is the university fulfilling its land-grant mission by providing access to all Arkansans, and support for student success and a sense of belonging for all of our students and employees on campus?' Thomas wrote. "The answer is yes as outlined in our 150 Forward Strategic Plan which emphasizes strengthening our efforts in providing Student Success, achieving Research Excellence and enhancing our status as an Employer of Choice."
Dola Flake, a third-year UA public policy doctoral student with a focus on social justice, said the university has decreased their DEI initiatives since it closed the office. She said she hopes the university will make tremendous efforts to continue to have an inclusive environment, but only time will tell.
In the past, the university implemented DEI in various ways such as an ambassador program to foster belonging and a resident assistant position to support underrepresented students living on campus. However, these two programs no longer exist.
Flake said the initiatives started to address inequalities between marginalized groups and have brought a variety of perspectives to campus.
President Donald Trump has called these programs "discrimination," ordering DEI elimination from the federal government on a wide scale, according to the Associated Press.
"I would say that anti-DEI legislation is resulting in the censoring of voices and language in a way that we have historically not seen in higher-ed," Flake said. "There are real threats for freedom of speech to be impeded upon, and for the gaps between groups to increase."
Roughly one year after UA DEI the office closed, two students were charged with defacing the university's Fulbright College dean's office with racist, anti-Semitic anti-gay words and symbols, according to a press release from the director of the African and African American Studies Department, Najja K. Baptist. The university did not immediately release a statement about the incident, which caused some students to be shocked and disappointed, as reported by the Arkansas Traveler.
"If they're going to give us a symbol of hate, then we have to do the opposite," Austin said, "and I don't think that's partisan. I don't think it's political. I don't think it is inappropriate. It used to be common sense, and that is something I think five years ago, the university would have had no problem calling out."
Adrain Smith, director the the UA Multicultural Center , said when he thinks of belonging at the UofA, students exploring all aspects of campus life come to his mind.
"Students have found connection on campus, wherever that might be," Smith said. "It may be through an RSO, that may be through research, that may be through a faculty member, or that may be through fraternity life, sorority life, Greek life in general. Where individuals are finding their connections, they're finding their community."
Smith said despite DEI erasure, the MC staff feels equipped and supported to help students meet their goals, and his philosophy is to continue celebrating their differences to foster success.
Furthermore, he said he looks at the situation from an ethical standpoint, understanding that it would be illegal to erase every DEI initiative. For example, people with disabilities are included in DEI, and he said he does not think the Center for Educational Access will disappear, as it complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act , which prohibits discrimination for people in public life, according to the ADA website.
Austin said he thinks opposition against DEI has grown because people in authority recognize they are losing control of power as marginalized groups continue pursuing fair treatment. While he said the programs are meant to help marginalized groups, white women have disproportionately benefited from them, according to Forbes.
When Trump took office, he pardoned Jan. 6 U.S. Capitol rioters but threatened to deport pro-Palestine protestors and cancel their student visas, according to a White House Fact Sheet. Because of this, Austin said the president makes his intentions clear - people who stand up for those who have historically been disenfranchised will face consequences.
"I'm not trying to tear people down," Austin said. "I'm not interested in normal people losing. I'm interested in powerful politicians losing. I'm interested in corrupt systems losing. Everyone else, I want them to thrive because I have empathy for everybody."
Flake said it is important to unite voices in expressing the values of DEI. Over the next four years, she said she believes its disappearance will serve as a reminder of why it started in the first place, leading to a return of the programs.
"We as a society have to come together and recognize that when we are all on the same page, when we all do good, when individual groups that have been oppressed do better, we all do better," Austin said. "It also builds a stronger economy, and it allows us to become the country that we espouse to be-a country of freedom, equality and justice."

Load-Date: February 21, 2025


End of Document
