



Fox News ONE NATION WITH BRIAN KILMEADE 9:00 PM EST
February 8, 2025 Saturday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7700 words
Byline: Brian Kilmeade, Carley Shimkus, Chanley Painter
Guests: Sage Steele, Tony Robbins, Adam Carolla, Danica Patrick
Body


MARK LEVIN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST, "LIFE, LIBERTY & LEVIN": Every day, there's something positive in the media about what's taking place and I'm sure our common enemies are about as concerned and upset as they possibly can be, and that's a good thing, but thank you for everything you're doing, and God bless you, my friend.
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER: Thank you. Thank you, Mark.
LEVIN: We will see you next time on "Life, Liberty & Levin."
BRIAN KILMEADE, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST, "ONE NATION": Hi, everyone. Welcome to ONE NATION. I am Brian Kilmeade. I am pumped up tonight. I'm glad that you dated early or dated late.
Let me tell you amongst our guests today, what a roster -- Sage Steele from New Orleans. She'll preview the game and talk about her big visit to the White House.
Tony Robbins, who's got what's really happening in Los Angeles, and can a business person thrive at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue and in the Eisenhower Building? You'll know what I'm talking about.
And Danica Patrick, she thought Trump was cool before everyone else did. She'll tell us why.
But first things first: You have to admit, it's getting better all the time.
So last week, we talked about speed, if you do remember. The president's quick pace combined with the momentum, means America is changing, changing for the better.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Our country is starting to do very well again. It is happening fast, a little faster than people thought.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
KILMEADE: Think about it. Trump is making our military great again fast. It used to miss recruiting goals. Remember, as a country? Now we're surpassing them.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PETE HEGSETH, US DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SECRETARY: The morale of our military is sky high. It's the President Trump effect. They want to serve under a commander-in-chief they know will have their backs.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
KILMEADE: And every branch has showed increases. The US is finally regaining strength on the world stage.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER: Now, in the first days of your second term, you picked up right where you left off. Can we imagine where we'll be in four years? I can. I know you can, Mr. President.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
KILMEADE: Prime Minister is pretty pumped there.
Our southern border crossing slowed to double digits. Double digits. Mexico deployed thousands of their Marines to their southern border after Trump's tariff threat. Canada up north, appointed a fentanyl czar, suddenly committed to massive increase in security and surveillance.
And there's big changes at home, too. DOGE is cutting the fat like a private company would do to survive, axing government waste, discovering massive abuse, dismantling DEI in government, with Google being the latest in the private sector to kill diversity hiring and going to this thing called meritocracy.
And the NFL even sobered up, getting rid of the embarrassing social justice slogans. Don't expect to see "End racism" in the end zone after Saquon and Mahomes gets a touchdown.
The US is also rounding up illegal migrants in the thousands. The worst of the worst is heading over to Gitmo. Yes, they got some vacancies.
Things are getting better, and Trump knows exactly who to credit.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DANA WHITE, UFC PRESIDENT: I told him to stop so many times. It's just like, you have such a good life, and you could do all of these other things. But the thing is, with President Trump is he believes -- he believes in God. He believes that to his core, that God has spared his life to be the president and do the things that he's going to do over the next four years.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
KILMEADE: Interesting. It's always good to see Piers, one of our favorite guests.
Not all our problems are being solved, though, but at least our president is doing something at a pace we never imagined possible, and unlike the previous commander-in-chief, he used to give one word answers to an uncurious press corps, while the world spun out-of-control.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOE BIDEN, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES/WILMINGTON, DELAWARE/DECEMBER 22, 2020: You're a one-horse pony.
REPORTER: Mr. President, have you talked to Netanyahu already?
BIDEN: No.
REPORTER: Mr. President, did you get a heads up from Israel on the Iran strike?? Did you get any heads up?
BIDEN: Yes.
DAVID MUIR, ABC NEWS: Will you accept the jury's outcome, their verdict, no matter what it is?
BIDEN: Yes.
MUIR: And have you ruled out a pardon for your son?
BIDEN: Yes.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
KILMEADE: Yes. Well, it turned out to be a no, but they were both one words.
One of the major wins this past week was no more men in women's sports, no more boys in girls' sports. President Trump is rounding out his week by attending the Super Bowl tomorrow, and the players are among the many who will be honored to know that he's making the effort to be there.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PATRICK MAHOMES, KANSAS CITY CHIEFS QUARTERBACK: It's cool to be able to play in front of a sitting president, someone that is at the top position in our country.
TRAVIS KELCE, KANSAS CITY CHIEFS: I'm excited, because it's the biggest game of my life, you know, and having the president there, you know, it's the best country in the world. So it would be pretty cool.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
KILMEADE: It is. It's the first time ever a sitting president would attend the game, and he's going to be doing just that.
So let's get some perspective from New Orleans. ESPN anchor, former ESPN anchor, turned host of "The Sage Steele Show."
Sage, great to see you again.
So your thoughts --
SAGE STEELE, HOST, "THE SAGE STEELE PODCAST": Hey, Brian. It is great to see you.
KILMEADE: Absolutely, New Orleans, the game. They got it back. They're used to having the big game. Your thoughts about the president attending?
STEELE: I'm absolutely thrilled about it. I'm still so shocked that he will be the first sitting president to do so though. Don't you think that's crazy?
President Trump has obviously made a habit, and he loves going to other games. I mean, I was with him when he went to the Sunday night football game, Steelers and Jets a couple of months ago. He goes to Army Navy. Joe Biden never once went to Army Navy, which is, I think, disgusting, frankly.
KILMEADE: Nuts.
STEELE: So this is crazy. I'm so excited that he's going to be here.
KILMEADE: And you've got Taylor Swift on one box. You've got President Trump on the other box, and let's see if they could come together while there's a game going on, on the field.
Sage, also, this week, the president went out of his way to call girls to the White House, of all ages, including you were in the White House this week to say no more boys in girls' sports, no more men in women's sports, and you're out of the locker rooms.
He had the sense to wave them in as he signed that piece of paperwork. Your thoughts about that moment?
STEELE: Brian, standing on the rafters right behind him as he was signing it, I got choked up, along with many of the other mothers who were there with me, because this has been a battle that many of them, as the mothers of young girls, my kids are much older. They've been fighting this for three, four, five plus years.
It was emotional, and I've never been in there before. This is -- and I forgot which part of the White House, the East Wing, I'm going to get the name wrong.
KILMEADE: Yes.
STEELE: But everybody told me, the senators and the congressmen, they said it has never been that packed in the room. There were standing ovations, especially when he brought up Riley Gaines' name. It was an incredible scene.
And as he said several times during it, he said, it's crazy that I even have to take this action, but he did it. We are so beyond grateful. It was an honor to watch something that is truly that important.
And I've got to tell you, I've been on the streets of New Orleans here getting ready for the Super Bowl. I've had hundreds of people, men, mainly, coming up and saying, thank you for what you're doing for women's sports.
So, I feel like this is something that everybody wanted. I mean, you saw "The New York Times" poll, 79 percent of Americans believe that boys should not be in girls' sports, so it was just a beautiful thing to watch.
KILMEADE: So let me bring you to a headline now on FoxNews.com.
Los Angeles is not buying into it. California is not buying into it. They are going to ignore the executive order and still allow -- California plans to continue to allow trans athletes to compete in girls' sports despite the executive order.
It's unbelievable that they would be that tone deaf and that defiant.
STEELE: It is, but I guess if there were any state that we would expect something like this to come from, it would be the state of California, sadly. I don't know exactly what happens when, if and when that happens and they decide to allow boys continue to play, I imagine there'll be a lot of lawsuits. But I think that eventually, you hope they fall in line.
When the NCAA came out yesterday and said they're going to fall in line, that was such a pleasant surprise to me. I thought maybe, but they had been pushed and pushed for so long and refused to do so.
I believe if institutions like the NCAA are doing it, then you hope the states will eventually fall in line as well. Because guess what? At the end of the day, it isn't about anyone else's ego. This is about women and girls and safety and making sure that they are safe while playing sports. It is so simple.
Shame on California. Let's see if Governor Newsom decides to do something right, but I'm not holding my breath.
KILMEADE: Everybody knows you're an accomplished broadcaster. I think Tom Brady would be curious with your opinion. He has had a fantastic first year. Best game was the championship game.
He joined "Fox & Friends" on Friday and said this about the position he's in right now as a seven-time champ, about to do his first as a broadcaster.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KILMEADE: Do you think part of your success is the chip on your shoulder from being a six-round draft pick?
TOM BRADY, FOX SPORTS ANALYST: Absolutely, I feel like overcoming those challenges and adversities that I had, whether it was in high school and college, allowed me to be the professional athlete that I was.
I learned a lot of things through failing that a lot of guys didn't learn through high school and college because they were the best athletes.
So these sustainable qualities that you have as an athlete, like your work ethic, like your discipline, like your determination and competitiveness, those are what people would call intangibles, because we can go measure physical strength or speed or all the things that are important, but in the end, they're not sustainable over the course of a 23-year career.
And I look at what we're doing to college kids and high school kids, and we make it so easy on them.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
KILMEADE: Because they're allowed to transfer if they're now playing, and the NIL and everything else. But your thoughts about Brady the 40 something -- you know, 47-year-old, as opposed to Brady the starting quarterback in the Patriots and Bucs.
STEELE: It's been a beautiful thing to watch his evolution, in particular, obviously the greatness in New England for all of those years and I was at ESPN right in that region throughout all of it, all of his success.
But I think the coolest part for me was to watch him then go to Tampa and see the personality of Tom Brady come out. There is so much more to him than the robotic man that we had gotten used to seeing and hearing from in interviews.
And he came out, and there was personality, and he and Gronk just had so much fun. You could see that in him, then taking the year off after retiring and going into broadcasting, so smart for probably personal reasons as well.
But professionally, people don't understand how tough his job is. It's one thing to be able to be a great athlete and go execute on the field at the highest levels of pressure. It's another thing to be able to actually say what's happening, and, you know, bring it down a little bit out of the X's and O's levels for millions of people to understand and comprehend and timing. He's worked his butt off, just like everything else. And I think it's showing.
I will say this, 30 years as a sportscaster, Brian, I never got to interview Tom Brady, I'm so jealous of you right now. What is that?
KILMEADE: I don't know. I think there's got to be at least one thing that you're jealous of me, so at least I'll take that.
Sage, thanks so much. I will check out your Podcast, "The Sage Steele Show." Sage, thank you.
See you in New Orleans.
STEELE: Thanks, Brian..
KILMEADE: Meanwhile, before heading to New Orleans for the Big Game, President Trump sat down with chief political anchor, Bret Baier for an exclusive one-on-one interview at Mar-a-Lago. Tune in to Fox News at three o'clock Sunday Eastern Time and check it out.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. JASMINE CROCKETT (D-TX): We are going to be in your face. We are going to be on your (bleep).
You and your little friend off of Twitter, y'all about to find out, all right?
REP. MAXINE WATERS (D-CA): We have got to tell Elon Musk, nobody elected your (bleep).
REP. AYANNA PRESSLEY (D-MA): Elon Musk is a Nazi nepo baby.
REP. ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ (D-NY): This dude is probably one of the most unintelligent billionaires I have ever met.
REP. ROBERT GARCIA (D-CA): (Speaking in foreign language.)
SEN. ED MARKEY (D-MA): This is a dictatorship in the making.
REP. JONATHAN JACKSON (D-IL): We're not going to have apartheid in America anymore.
REP. JOHN GARAMENDI (D-CA): We cannot allow that. We've got to take to the streets. We've got to take to the rallies. We've got to fight back.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
KILMEADE: Unhinged Democrats launching a scathing attack on Elon Musk because he wants to use his extraordinary business acumen to put our fiscal house in order. Can you imagine?
Is it possible to take that private business mindset and shape a civil service attitude and have our nation live within its means for the first time, in I don't know? A century and not run trillion-dollar deficits?
Joining us right now is the life and business strategist and author of "The Holy Grail of Investing," Tony Robbins.
Tony, I think the quote of the day was from AOC: "He's the most unintelligent billionaire" she's ever met. So knowing that you can only be second must be a relief.
So for you -- can you -- what's going on here? The private sector trying to mix with the civil service? Can it work?
TONY ROBBINS, LIFE AND BUSINESS STRATEGIST, "THE HOLY GRAIL OF INVESTING" AUTHOR: Well, it has to work, right? Because we can't continue down this line. If you listen to Ray Dalio and some of the most brilliant financial minds in the world, they're all talking about, we're ready for a heart attack, financial heart attack in this country. We cannot continue to spend this way. The debt levels keep expanding. It has to stop.
But we've got no auditing, right? So it's like somebody's had a credit card they never have to pay off. They never have to pay attention to. That's basically how Congress has operated.
So now there's somebody coming in and taking a look, you know, I'm an Independent. You know, I voted on both sides of the aisle.
I look at this and say, this is just ridiculous. We have to have fiscal integrity. And saying this guy is, you know, a demon, that he's -- you know, that he's a dictator. He can't do anything that Trump isn't empowering him to do.
All he's doing is looking at the books, but they couldn't even find all the numbers. They had to work to get all the numbers together for the federal government. No one has audited this.
And as you know that, you know Department of Defense, the Pentagon, has failed eight straight, you know of their appraisals of looking what's going on with their finances. There's a trillion dollars missing, a trillion with a T.
So something has to change for America. And this is just, you know, blasting because they don't want to lose control of the way they have purse strings right now to their benefit.
Again, I could say it on either side of the aisle. Both sides have done this over time.
KILMEADE: But only one is making an effort to dive into the Treasury for the first time in my lifetime and find out who's writing what checks.
ROBBINS: Mine, too.
KILMEADE: And it's easy to do when it's not your money. Tony, how many businesses are you running right now? But it's Anthony Robbins' money. You know exactly where it came from. You know what your lease is. And Goldman Sachs, for example, I didn't know this, at the end of every year they might let go of 10 percent of their workforce. They've just got to keep it going. You've got to be productive.
So people are offered payouts to get out. What's wrong with that?
ROBBINS: There's nothing wrong with it. But again, when you have people that are used to the status quo, and they're used to power being in a certain way, in control, you know, I have 114 companies. I started from nothing. We do $9 billion in business.
And if we didn't audit our numbers, and if we didn't let people go at various times, we wouldn't be in business. I mean, in the beginning, I didn't do that because I love people, you know, I'm a loyal guy, but I stayed loyal to people that weren't loyal to the organization, and that's what's in our government.
You have people not loyal to the American people in any way, forget parties. They're getting what they want out of the money from the government, and that's all of our tax dollars. So I think it's phenomenal this is happening. I am sorry it's creating conflict, but that's part of the process when you're trying to change something that's been around for so long that's out of control.
KILMEADE: Exactly. He wants to cut $2 trillion by exposing, so let's do it.
Meanwhile, you're spearheading an effort at a place you used to live, you used to call home. You grew up in Los Angeles. I can't believe it looks like Hiroshima. That's how much damage is done.
They need billions of dollars to rebuild, and they're not getting permission to do that nearly at the pace they need to. What are you doing?
ROBBINS: Well, I was there a couple of weeks ago when the fires broke out on a Tuesday and Wednesday, and I was visiting some friends, and it was brutal. I have multiple friends that lost their homes. I lost my home many years ago, so I could at least kind of counsel on the process.
But I was going to give a million dollars, which I thought would be a good donation. I know that's what Fox did, but I saw that, you know, people are being really generous around food, but it's not going to last, right? And the bigger issue that costs more is housing.
So I gave four-and-a-half million dollars. I gave $3 million to three different organizations, a million each. And I'm mentioning it to people, because if you know anybody that needs help, go to Airbnb. I've got them to put up $25,000.00 home nights. I've put up $5,000.00; also the Dream Center in LA, if you go dreamcenter.org, I put up a million dollars in matching funds.
So if you knows somebody who needs housing, they should go there. Or if you want to donate, and you go there, I will double what you're doing, and then a million dollars to the Be Good Foundation, which is Beyonce's organization, a million for food, and a half million because the dispatch system broke down for the Fire Department, so we bought them a new dispatch system with video.
But more importantly, I think it's important for people to have the emotional tools. And we've got two tools that, if people go to TonyHelpsLA.com, TonyHelpsLA.com, you can see where to send money if you want to do it. You can see -- so you can double the impact. You can see where to send people if they need help.
But also, there are these two tools that can help people get through the trauma and the emotion that we give for free to people as well.
KILMEADE: All right, and also, you're a man of action at times of stress, it's time to step up. They've got to relax and get a plan.
Lastly, and I notice it, you guys out in LA, they are out in LA spending $40 million to Trump proof the state. They want to make sure illegals get to stay there illegally. We see people dig in and feel like they lost November 5th, and other people feel like they won.
How do we get past the politics, being that many people will never meet the candidate they live and die with? How do we get past the emotion that seems to be wrapped in today's politics?
ROBBINS: Well, I don't know that we will. I think what's happened is you go through a process over time, right? We threw our pendulum so far to the left, people got out of control with that, and it has swung back to the right. And I think you're going to find -- we will find some balance.
Right now, it's still a very intense political environment. But the truth is, our focus should just be on issues, voting for the people. I think in LA, for example, in California, you know, you've got 117 million gallons of water that we're missing out of Pacific Palisades because they had a tear in the top and they were going to repair it.
I mean, they knew this was happening. They knew this was coming. They were warned about this. So I think people are going to start voting not blue or red, but competency. And I think that's the good news.
I think people are getting tired of the political side. We're not there yet, but we'll get there. Everything balances out in the end. And I think focusing on the issues, I mean, think about if you talk about any issue, you talk about guns, it's not about guns. What we have to focus on is what do we agree with? We both, whether you're right or left or independent, we all want our kids protected.
We have different ideas of how to do it. Some people say no guns. Some people have say, have guns. So instead of focusing on our differences in strategy, I think we've got to spend more and more time on the focuses on what we're here for.
And in LA, you're seeing a lot of unification happening right now, because when things get tough, that's a great thing about the American people.
KILMEADE: Right.
ROBBINS: We come together.
KILMEADE: Right, because you can't look for leaders, they've totally let us down in so many cases. And when I hear from the White House, more than anything else, commonsense --
ROBBINS: That's right.
KILMEADE: I don't hear about conservative, I hear commonsense.
Tony, thanks so much for your quality time.
ROBBINS: I agree with you a hundred percent.
KILMEADE: And again, you take action in time of strife, and you should be saluted for that, although we've gotten used to it, because you've always done it.
Tony Robbins, thank you.
ROBBINS: Thanks for having me, Brian. Take care
KILMEADE: So the Democrats, the left cannot get over that President Trump is returning our country to a meritocracy.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOSH JOHNSON, "THE DAILY SHOW": Wait, what's going on?
JON STEWART, "THE DAILY SHOW" HOST: I'm sorry, Desi, this is Josh's report.
DESI LYDIC, "THE DAILY SHOW": Oh, you guys didn't get the executive order? We can't do DEI anymore.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
KILMEADE: Comedian, Adam Carolla gives us his take only on ONE NATION.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
STEWART: Josh, what are you hearing about the DEI initiatives?
JOHNSON: Jon, what this administration is doing is dangerous. It is the perversion of the dream of Martin Luther King, Jr. They've turned it into a nightmare where the content of a -- wait, what's going on?
STEWART: I'm sorry, Desi, this is Josh's report.
LYDIC: Oh, you guys didn't get the executive order? We can't do DEI anymore.
JOHNSON: You're replacing me, but you're a woman.
LYDIC: Yes, a White woman. The fact is that DEI is over, Jon, which means only the most competent people will --
MICHAEL KOSTA, "THE DAILY SHOW": I don't see sex or color, okay. I just see SAT scores.
RONNY CHIENG, "THE DAILY SHOW": Oh, I'm sorry, are we talking SAT scores? Really?
KOSTA: No, no, no. We're not talking -- we're not talking your SAT scores.
CHIENG: Oh, , that's right, because it's all about merit and high test scores until it looks like this.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
KILMEADE: So the left is melting down. They just can't get over the fact that this is the death of DEI in America. Many like Stephen A. Smith are lambasting it as a racist war.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
STEPHEN A. SMITH, HOST, "THE STEPHEN A. SMITH SHOW": When you handle it the way that the Trump administration is handling it, we want the most qualified, we want the smartest. We want this. We want that.
What you're really saying is, we want White dominance again, that's what you're really saying. You want White dominance.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
KILMEADE: I'm so disappointed in him hearing that.
Joining us now to react is comedian, the host of "The Adam Carolla Show," Adam Carolla.
Adam, welcome. Great to see you. This is the first time I've seen you since DEI died.
So I know you're not going to the funeral, but you're celebrating it. Your thoughts about the pushback from some in the media.
ADAM CAROLLA, COMEDIAN AND AUTHOR "EVERYTHING REMINDS ME OF SOMETHING: Yes, that was kind of sad, because I normally like Stephen A. and he sounded like an ass when he just said that, but he's probably just race hustling. I don't think he really means it.
I don't think most of these people really mean it. I think they're trying to keep the race hustle going, and it's basically gone, and they're still working on it.
I don't know why the Democrats like DEI. They just got burned by Kamala Harris. She was the ultimate DEI hire, and they just got screwed by her because she's an idiot and she's unqualified. So why, of all groups would the Democrats be championing DEI when Kamala Harris just screwed them?
KILMEADE: I hear you. Affirmative action is out of colleges. The Supreme Court made sure of that. Hopefully they'll play the game, but a lot of people in Berkeley are still going behind and doing some underhanded things to keep maybe Asians out of their school.
But the other thing to keep in mind is Tulsi Gabbard is going to get DNI. She's a woman. No one is saying a woman got it. No one is saying that Linda McMahon is going to be in Education, while a woman is going to ascend. Kash Patel is going to run the FBI. No one is talking about his race or his skin color. They are talking about his resume. I think that is a great thing.
CAROLLA: They don't count people who are conservative as DEI hires. You know, they don't look at Thomas Sowell as Black. They certainly don't look at Candace Owens and people like that. I mean, they're the enemy. They're worse because they're Uncle Toms. They're sellouts to their race.
You know, the people they hate the most are Black women who are conservative because you're a woman and you're Black and you disagree with our cause, those are the ones who get the most ire.
So no, Kash Patel or whomever, Clarence Thomas, whomever it is, it is really about agreeing with them. It has nothing to do with the skin color. They're liars.
Obviously, if it was only about their nationality or their sex or their proclivities sexually well, then they would support these people, but they don't look at it that way at all.
I mean, there's a long list of Black or female, or Black female or gay, Persian, whatever it is, who are conservative that they do not count as DEI.
KILMEADE: I hope we come together on this, and it's got to start in Los Angeles, where you live.
I think cancel culture is over, and I get you -- I'll give you the best example, the biggest story in entertainment, Blake Lively and Justin Baldoni, signified that this culture shift because one was trying to cancel the other, the other one fought back with facts.
So instead of knuckling under, apologizing, going away and hoping people forget, now we look at a situation where both sides are fighting it out. On some level, is this is a good news story that you're not going to be canceled by some allegation?
CAROLLA: Yes, it's all they understand because they're bullies, and they call everyone else bullies, but they're the bullies. And I said this years ago when I was interviewing Tucker Carlson for my podcast. He said, when does this end? I said, when we stop apologizing. Meaning when they call you a racist, you don't say, but I have Black friends. Stop it.
Stop apologizing. We got screwed with COVID because people were scared it. They don't understand anything but a punch in the face because they're bullies. So that's all we got.
They're essentially terrorists, and we think we can negotiate with terrorists and we can't. We have to eliminate them, and that's all they understand.
KILMEADE: Adam, I know you're still working doing your podcast. How are you doing with the house? You lost everything?
CAROLLA: The house is intact. There's no utilities. It's only been over a month, and I cannot go back.
So I have a house, but I can't live in it, so I'm technically homeless, so I've joined the lion's share of Los Angelenos in my homeless title now.
You know the thing that's interesting, if you think about it, thousands of people were homeless overnight after the fire swept through. Literally one minute they had a home, the next minute they were homeless. How come nobody slept on the street? How come I didn't sleep on the street? Yet we have a huge problem with homelessness.
Because they're drug addicts and because they have mental problems. Everyone else who became homeless fell back on their network and went to a friend's house or checked into a hotel.
KILMEADE: I hear you. A lot of it is a choice, and there's obviously some issues there. I know you and Dr. Drew have talked about that for years.
Adam, thanks so much. Great to see you.
CAROLLA: Good to see you, Brian.
KILMEADE: Be sure to check out Adam, by the way, great special. It's on Fox Nation. Adam closes, he is the headliner. It is great. Jimmy Failla hosts and does a wonderful job. Check out Fox Nation.
Meanwhile, coming up, you won't believe the question that stumped former vice president and presidential candidate Kamala Harris in the unedited transcript of the infamous "60 Minutes" interview.
More on that with Carley Shimkus on the Media Moments That Matter.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CHANLEY PAINTER, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Welcome to "Fox News Live." I'm Chanley Painter in New York.
Final security preparations are underway as football fans flock to New Orleans for Super Bowl LIX.
Nearly 3,000 officers from multiple agencies will be stationed around the French Quarter and surrounding areas, along with security barriers. New Orleans Police superintendent says Bourbon Street will be closed to traffic from 5:00 PM to 5:00 AM.
It is all following the deadly New Year's Day attack where a man drove a pickup truck into a crowd, killing 14 people.
President Trump is expected to attend the game.
And three more Israeli hostages and over 180 Palestinian prisoners are free following another round of exchanges between Israel and Hamas. Israel is expressing concerns about the hostages saying their appearance is "disturbing." This is the fifth round of exchanges as part of the ceasefire.
I'm Chanley Painter, now back to ONE NATION.
KILMEADE: All right, it is time now for only one thing, the Media Moments That Matter. We ask our favorite Fox anchors and hosts, they watch TV all week long. Get their VCR out, tape everything, watch it back, and pick out their moments of the week.
This assignment was given to Carley Shimkus.
CARLEY SHIMKUS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST, "FOX & FRIENDS" FIRST: Hello.
KILMEADE: And I know you've been exhausted. You have a kid to raise, but thanks for putting that all aside and putting this together.
SHIMKUS: Well, it is all worth it for being among your favorites. That is so kind.
KILMEADE: Oh, yes.
SHIMKUS: All right, let me set this first topic.
KILMEADE: First one, it is.
SHIMKUS: So right before the presidential election, you may remember, Kamala Harris does an interview on "60 Minutes," and we soon find out that it was edited, some would say, deceptively in her favor. And to make matters worse, CBS refuses to release the transcript for the raw footage.
Well, the FCC did just that this week, and we learned that this key moment was left out of the broadcast. It's a key question, should have been a simple answer, but listen here.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BILL WHITAKER, "60 MINUTES" CORRESPONDENT: The most basic of questions: Why do you want to be president of the United States?
KAMALA HARRIS (D), FORMER VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: There are many reasons, but probably first and foremost, I truly believe in the promise of America. I do, and I love the American people. You know, we are people who have ambition and aspirations and dreams and optimism and hope.
WHITAKER: That's why you want to run. That's why you want to be president.
HARRIS: That's why I'm running -- that and some other reason.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
SHIMKUS: Oh my gosh, Brian, you cannot hesitate when somebody asks you why are you running for president? I mean, that should be an automatic answer. Donald Trump could answer that in his sleep.
KILMEADE: How about how bad the answer was, and the fact that again --
SHIMKUS: And some of the reasons.
KILMEADE: Yes, and some other reasons, and Bill Whitaker was like, that's why you're running?
SHIMKUS: Yes, I thought he did a good job there.
KILMEADE: Yes, I mean, because he said, you're raising over a billion dollars. You've got the whole DNC behind you. You're running on joy. You've got Oprah hopefully hosting a marathon telethon for you. And you're running because of, I believe in the promise of America. What about you?
SHIMKUS: Yes.
KILMEADE: That's why people sing the National Anthem.
SHIMKUS: Exactly.
KILMEADE: So I thought, in the big picture, that this should have some perspective. I'm older than you. We're going to actually do a forensic look. But I do remember one of the big stories in 1980 there was a thought that Jimmy Carter was so unsuccessful, there was a movement to get Ted Kennedy, fresh off the assassination of his brother, 10 years later to run for president.
So he does an hour special with Roger Mudd, I think at CBS, and they asked the simplest question, and his answer led to the end of his presidential run. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ROGER MUDD, JOURNALIST: Why do you want to be president?
TED KENNEDY, POLITICIAN: Well, I'm -- were I to make the announcement and to run, the reasons that I would run is because I have a great belief in this country.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
KILMEADE: Did you hear that?
SHIMKUS: Yes, I mean, it's like history repeating itself. It turns out that people want to know why you want the job, not just a job, the highest office in the land in order for you to vote for them.
Okay, so here's another topic --
KILMEADE: By the way, the pause killed them.
SHIMKUS: Yes.
KILMEADE: The pause.
SHIMKUS: That's what I said. You cannot hesitate when you're asked that question.
Let's go over to "The View" because the ladies there are beside themselves over Donald Trump's presidency and all that he's doing alongside Elon Musk.
KILMEADE: They're not supporting him?
SHIMKUS: Listen to this. Brian, shock of all shocks.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SUNNY HOSTIN, CO-HOST, "THE VIEW": What the heck is he doing? Like we have no transparency.
ANA NAVARRO, CO-HOST, "THE VIEW": It's only been two-and-a-half weeks. God help us. We have to go through four years of this.
What I want to know is, when are we going to hit the streets?
WHOOPI GOLDBERG, CO-HOST, "THE VIEW": To not give a damn about the country, to allow it to get torn apart this way is freaking me the hell out.
ALYSSA FARAH GRIFFIN, CO-HOST, "THE VIEW": So tell me what we are cutting, make me know that it's not something I have to be worried about. It's not going to affect my life. It's stuff that's unnecessary within the federal government, those questions have not been answered at this point.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
SHIMKUS: Yes, they're talking about DOGE, of course, that they would all say that the one comment that stood out to me was, "when are we going to hit the streets?" There was actually a protest after Donald Trump was inaugurated. There was a Women's March 2024, and like four people showed up, because more people are optimistic now than outraged aside from them.
KILMEADE: And you saw the storming of the Education Department. You saw the screaming on the steps. Nobody cares, because what they're doing is logical. He's doing exactly what he said. There really is no confusion.
And people decided, I can't touch Trump, but I can go after Elon. My worry is that Elon is going to quit, because I think he's been doing a remarkable job. You sleep in your office with your best people --
SHIMKUS: He's got the skin.
KILMEADE: -- who built seven remarkable businesses. I want you try to fix my government.
SHIMKUS: Let's see.
KILMEADE: Next?
SHIMKUS: Okay, so there is a comedian. Her name is a Amanda Ruffin, and she is a --
KILMEADE: Amber Ruffin.
SHIMKUS: Okay and she is a writer for Seth Meyers' show. She's also hosting the White House Correspondents Dinner, and she was recently asked: Do you want Donald Trump to show up to the event? And listen to this self- inflicted wound of an answer.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JAKE TAPPER, CNN ANCHOR: Donald Trump never went to it during his first term in office. Do you want him to be there this year?
AMBER RUFFIN, COMEDIAN: No. Nobody wants to know -- no one wants that. He should. He's missing out on one of the cool things about being the president of the United States.
But I don't know that anyone is looking forward to being in the same room as him.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
SHIMKUS: Of course, you want him to go. You're hosting the event, and you don't want the most powerful man in the world to go. Even if you don't like him, you want him to go because more eyeballs, more people will watch. If he's not there, it doesn't make news.
KILMEADE: Who picked her? Number one. Number two is, how is -- the White House Correspondents Dinner, your chance to relax and have the give and take. Trump got ridiculed for not showing up for four years. He said it would have been insincere.
Hopefully, they could bury the hatchet this year.
SHIMKUS: Yes.
KILMEADE: Do you think that she keeps this job?
SHIMKUS: I mean, I think that she probably says swing and a miss. I should have answered that one differently.
KILMEADE: And she keeps -- and she is still hosting?
SHIMKUS: Who knows? Well, we shall see.
KILMEADE: All right, Carley, can I watch you Monday through Friday, five to six --
SHIMKUS: You know what? Yes, you can.
KILMEADE: And then actually, from five to nine.
SHIMKUS: And I do know that you can keep your job.
KILMEADE: I can.
SHIMKUS: You do a phenomenal job.
KILMEADE: Thank you very much. At least, I wasn't in one of your bad clip reels. Thanks so much, Carley. Have a great weekend.
SHIMKUS: Thank you.
KILMEADE: And have a great Saturday night.
SHIMKUS: You, too.
KILMEADE: Meanwhile, it's officially cool to be right, but former race car driver, Danica Patrick was ahead of the curve in supporting the president, thinks he's one of the in guys now, she was there first. That story only coming up on ONE NATION.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BILL MAHER, HOST, "REAL TIME WITH BILL MAHER": Here's how bad the Democrat (bleep) up. Trump is cool now.
MAHOMES: It's always cool to be able to play in front of a sitting president.
KELCE: It's the biggest game of my life, you know, and having the president there, you know, it's the best country in the world. So it would be pretty cool.
DERRICK DARBY, PHILOSOPHY PROFESSOR, RUTGERS UNIVERSITY: Trump 47 is basically the gangster version of an American president. With every executive order that he signs, with every press conference, all we can really do is say, "Damn, that was gangster."
(END VIDEO CLIP)
KILMEADE: Gangster in a good way. It's suddenly cool to be right to the right, and many are celebrating Donald Trump's quick accomplishments. So far, he is sprinting out front.
Racing icon, Danica Patrick is one of them. She's ahead of the curve when she was talking about somebody being cool, she did it early, and she knows a thing or two about lapping the competition, pun intended, which is exactly what the president is doing. Nobody can quite keep up.
Joining us now is Danica Patrick, the racing icon herself.
Danica, how do you feel about this guy being, I don't know if you use the term gangster, but it seems to be -- it seems suddenly Donald Trump is cool at 78 again.
DANICA PATRICK, FORMER RACE CAR DRIVER: Yes, I mean, let's face it, he was never really not cool, but for that little span of time, for about eight years, everybody loved him. I mean, everybody on "The View" even loved him.
But I think that overall, I just think that, you know, the ideologies and the things being pushed just got so far away from the way that people really live their life for a vast majority of the country, so it became completely unrelatable.
On top of that, you know, you're mentioning all of these people talking about him. He went on Joe Rogan and Theo Von's show, and he's like, really doing the things that people pay attention to and are fans of and follow and trust these day in this day and age, with really conveying the real them.
So I think also his sort of longer format of being vulnerable, I think has really done a good job for him. And the first president to go to the Super Bowl now, right?
KILMEADE: Yes.
PATRICK: Isn't he the first one?
KILMEADE: Yes. It's going to be great.
PATRICK: Pretty cool.
KILMEADE: He's going to interview with Bret, and he's going to fly out there with his people and the reason why he's going, he won the election. He just loves sports. I mean, the guy own the Generals in the 80s.
PATRICK: Yes.
KILMEADE: And we know about that. The other thing is, he is naming different people to his Cabinet, one of which, I know you're tight with, Tulsi Gabbard, and it looks like she's got through committee, and next week, she's going to get a vote, and she's going to be Director of National Intelligence.
But you know what we're not talking about, Danica. We're not saying woman, we're not saying Hawaiian, we're not saying former Democrat. We just said the best person for the job. I think that's the commonsense attitude he's trying to bring.
PATRICK: Right. Well, obviously down with DEI. I mean, the first official hire that he had, and for a major seat, was Susie Wiles, so it was a woman for that position. So I think that women have nothing to do with it. I think he's always been extremely supportive.
I think it has everything to do with the best person for the job, which, again, is what everyone wants to hear and what everyone wants. And I think people are finally realizing how important it is to have those people in that position and also run the country like a business.
And, you know, I don't know, I haven't read the "Art of the Deal," but I now, in the last like two weeks, I'm like, I need to read that book.
KILMEADE: Absolutely. But this week, we had a chance to go -- Daytona 500 kicks off in two weeks right after the Super Bowl. So the Busch car came to our plaza and they said, Brian, do you want to get in? I knew there wasn't -- I thought they were going to be able to open up a door with the demo. But could you tell me if you see anything wrong with my mounting and dismounting of the car? And be brutally honest.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KILMEADE: What should I know how to get it?
ROSS CHASTAIN, RACE CAR DRIVER: Put your leg up there, man. Don't rip your pants.
STEVE DOOCY, FOX NEWS CHANNEL ANCHOR, "FOX AND FRIENDS": Come on.
AINSLEY EARHARDT, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST, "FOX AND FRIENDS": Oh gosh.
KILMEADE: Okay.
CHASTAIN: Bring it up.
LAWRENCE JONES, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: I thought you were flexible.
CHASTAIN: That's right. Keep going.
EARHARDT: There you go.
JONES: Oh, there you go, Brian.
DOOCY: Is this the actual car you are going to be driving?
CHASTAIN: It has got scratches on it. But yes, this is the car.
EARHARDT: Oh my gosh. What does that feel like, Brian?
CHASTAIN: Good flexibility.
KILMEADE: Anybody have a new steering wheel?
EARHARDT: Brian, what does that feel like?
KILMEADE: It feels like I shouldn't -- it is not for a human being.
JONES: Did it rip?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
KILMEADE: Didn't look to good, did it?
PATRICK: Did it rip? I mean, the first concern I had was when you said you thought that there was going to be a door for this -- this car.
KILMEADE: Yes, I did.
PATRICK: That's the first mistake. But, you know, the weird thing is, is that you have to get your legs in first. It's not a -- it's not a normal way of getting in a car. And I have to be honest, the first time I got into a stock car, too, I didn't look very elegant, either.
But it does take a technique and a level of flexibility, and I hope you didn't rip your pants, but feet first, and then you've got to have some upper body strength to lower yourself in. So there's a bit of a technique for it. We could try again.
KILMEADE: All right, good. Thanks. You are very nice.
Danica Patrick, thanks so much. Hopefully, I'll be able to talk to you regularly, and great to see you. Enjoy the game.
PATRICK: Thank you.
KILMEADE: All right, meanwhile, I'll be on stage one week from tonight in Jacksonville, at the Florida Theater. I cannot wait. Well, they have opened up the second tier, VIP is sold out, some in the balcony. BrianKilmeade.com.
Also St. Louis the next month, March 22nd at The Factory. Go to BrianKilmeade.com. This is all streaming on Fox Nation, and special Fox Nation deals including some announcements there.
You are watching ONE NATION. We'll be right back, and I'm gradually going to walk off this little pod here.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
KILMEADE: Sadly, that's it for us tonight.
Make sure you watch "Fox & Friends" tomorrow morning. Four hours, in those four hours, Alina Habba is going to be on. You have Louisiana Governor Jeff Landry hosting the Super Bowl, and Jim Gray, one of the finest sportscasters in the world.
And don't forget to listen my radio show. It is the fastest growing in the country, nine to noon, BrianKilmeadeShow.com if you're not in our family of affiliates.
But guess what, I checked the TV Guide. Coming up right now is Jimmy Failla. It is Saturday Night with Jimmy Failla. So Saturday night, it is Jimmy Failla. I am going to go watch. You know I watch in the studio.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: Show

Publication-Type: Transcript

Transcript: 020801cb.272

Subject: ARMIES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BODIES & OFFICES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); MILITARY RECRUITING (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY & FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); TRANSGENDER ATHLETES (89%); TRANSGENDER REGULATION & POLICY (89%); WOMEN'S SPORTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); WOMEN (78%); GOVERNMENT ADVISORS & MINISTERS (74%); GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS & AUTHORITIES (74%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); OPIATES & OPIOIDS (63%); NEGATIVE NEWS (62%); Government (%); Politics (%); Donald Trump (%); Military (%); Foreign Relations (%); DOGE (%); Elon Musk (%); Race Relations (%); Immigration (%); Policy (%); Women and Girls (%); Sports (%); California (%)

Company:  FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (95%);  GOOGLE LLC (58%)

Industry: NAICS516120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (95%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (95%); NAICS519290 WEB SEARCH PORTALS AND ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (58%); ARMIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); MILITARY RECRUITING (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); OPIATES & OPIOIDS (63%)

Person: ELON MUSK (92%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (90%); DONALD TRUMP (89%); TOM BRADY (85%); PETE HEGSETH (79%); DANICA PATRICK (58%)

Geographic: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON DC, USA (79%); UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%); ISRAEL (92%)

Load-Date: February 9, 2025


End of Document
