




USA Today
February 17, 2025 Monday
1 Edition


Copyright 2025 USA Today All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. A7
Length: 841 words
Body


Diversity, equity and inclusion means that checking a list is more important than getting the right person in the position. This has affected my life because as a Caucasian man, I feel less sure when applying for a position because I know that I don't check any of the boxes companies are looking for.
I support the elimination of DEI because we want the best qualified people in the right positions, no matter their race or gender. Nothing should replace DEI. The less government interference, the better.
- Edward McIntire, Monon, Indiana
I suffered because there was no DEI
I will not be spending any of my hard-earned money at any place that does not have DEI practices.
I worked for 51 years and I watched all my white counterparts advance and make more money than I did doing the same job. Today,  I don't even get the amount of Social Security payments I should be getting because of the small amount of earnings I made in those 51 years.
- Stephany Walton, Louisville, Kentucky
Don't single out one group as 'bad guys'
DEI makes a difference in that it singles out one group of people as "the bad guys" and the ones by whom all the problems in the world are caused. It does not seek to lift everyone up. I believe I lost a position and was rejected for multiple other positions because I could not present the "correct" answer when asked about DEI during job interviews.
I fully support removal of government and company DEI initiatives changes.  These are places of business, not social experiment and values factories. I worked at a place that had a DEI program, and it took the focus away from customer service and taking care of people.
- Scott Piepenburg, Williamsport, Pennsylvania
Live up to the American dream
DEI is America going the extra mile to live up to the American dream. It is an attempt to bring about equal outcomes for all segments of American society.
America has prospered for as long as it has because our diversity is our strength. Tapping the talents of all segments of our society strengthens and reinforces the matrix that is America. World War II examples include Navajo Code Talkers, second-generation Japanese American soldiers in Italy and the Tuskegee Airmen.
The anti-DEI campaign by President Donald Trump could well mark the final stage of the South's victory in the Civil War. That war was fought to keep African American slaves in their place. When their military efforts failed, the South resorted to other means: the Ku Klux Klan, Jim Crow laws, lynching, segregation, voter suppression, etc.
The anti-DEI campaign is all about marginalizing and persecuting minorities and trans people while cementing the power of Trump and his oligarchy of rich white men.
I happen to be a white male, age 73. I had a 40-year career as a Defense Department civilian and I was, and remain, a supporter of DEI.
- Thomas Gorman, Beavercreek, Ohio
DEI makes the country less safe
This policy has made it less safe to do many things in America because of cases where the most qualified person was not hired so a DEI quota could be met. It uses my tax dollars for implementing a bad policy.
At its core, DEI is simply a form of racism or an unfair and inappropriate bias for one person over another to be selected. An unfair and sometimes dangerous policy  needs to be canceled, so that the best, most qualified human can be selected for the position, without consideration of anything other than qualifications, skills, knowledge and ability to perform the task or job.
- Terry Swant, Rockford, Iowa
We don't want to go back
As a 69-year-old retired attorney, I remember when it was known that white men were the preferred hires and that women and minorities were always let go first no matter what their background was. I remember in law firms where I was the only woman who was not a legal secretary. I remember over and over again when the partners were all white males except for one token white female, who was often interchanged with other white females.
I remember in high school when women got no money for interschool sports because it was before Title IX. I remember never seeing a lawyer who was a woman or a person of color before I started law school in 1977. I remember when we studied the reasonable-man standard in law school before it was  changed to the reasonable-person standard in the late 1970s. I guess before that there were no reasonable women in the law.
DEI is only attempting to get non-white, non-male people a chance  when we had not gotten the chance before. I remembered getting paid significantly less than straight white males who had less experience than I did and knowing I just had to accept it.
There are good reasons for DEI measures: The wrongs have not been righted. Straight white men still have way more power - financially, legally, etc. - than their percentage in the U.S. population would indicate. And now we are going to go backward?
- Susan Nicholson, Danville, California
Letters and comments may be edited for space constraints and clarity.
Illustration by Bill Campling/USA Today Network; Getty images

Load-Date: February 17, 2025


End of Document
