




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 3, 2025 Monday 12:05 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 364 words
Byline: Sara FischerKerry Flynn
Body


February 3rd, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
Celebrity A-listers took not-so-subtle jabs at   
Why it matters: The Grammys marked the first award show to air since Trump's inauguration last month, and the first since   
The performance-packed show was produced to  
While the mood throughout the night was mostly energetic and festive, a few speakers took aim at Trump's policies.
Zoom in: "There's been a few changes in Washington. So I'm gonna enjoy tonight because this may be my last time I get to host anything in this country," South African comedian and Grammy host Trevor Noah told an audience of thousands at the Crypto.com Arena in downtown Los Angeles.
He later joked that the Recording Academy cast votes from "13,000 members" and "20 million illegal immigrants."
Shakira, who performed Sunday night, dedicated her Grammy win for best Latin pop album "to all my immigrant brothers and sisters in this country."
Other artists expressed support for LGTBQ+ rights and diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) initiatives - a  
"It's such an honor to sing for all of you. I just want to say tonight that trans people are not invisible," Lady Gaga said in her acceptance speech for best pop duo/group performance. "Trans people deserve love. The queer community deserves to be lifted up."
"This is not the time to shut down a diversity of voices," said Alicia Keys, while accepting a global impact award. "We've seen on this stage talented, hard-working people from different backgrounds with different points of view, and it changes the game. DEI is not a threat - it's a gift."
Representatives for Trump did not immediately respond to Axios' request for comment on Sunday,
The big picture: Award shows became overwhelmingly political during the  
Grammy viewership    


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 3, 2025


End of Document
