




The Associated Press
February 19, 2025 Wednesday 11:48 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: DOMESTIC NEWS; POLITICAL NEWS
Length: 5395 words
Byline: The Associated Press
Body


The Justice Department’s second-in-command demanded that a judge  against . The mayor, who faces conspiracy, wire fraud and bribery charges in a five-count indictment, declared, “I have not committed a crime.”
Manhattan federal  declined to rule immediately, saying he wanted to carefully review the “unusual situation,” but did acknowledge the vast political and legal implications. “I’m not going to shoot from the hip right here on the bench,” said Ho before acknowledging, “It is not in anyone’s interest for this to drag on.”
Here's the latest:
Trump says Zelenskyy ‘has done a terrible job’ and blames him for war
Trump is repeating his blistering criticism of Volodymyr Zelenskyy, again calling the Ukrainian president a “dictator without elections” and blaming him for the ongoing war. Zelenskyy was elected in 2019.
“The only thing he was really good at was playing Joe Biden like a fiddle,” Trump said of Zelenskyy, adding that the Ukrainian leader wants the war to continue “to keep the gravy train going.”
He repeated his claim that Ukraine has misused U.S. money and pushed for Europe to take on a greater role.
“I love Ukraine, but Zelenskyy has done a terrible job,” Trump said. “His country is shattered, and millions and millions of people have died.”
Trump’s assessment is at odds with the prevailing sentiment in the aftermath of Russia’s 2022 invasion, when Ukrainian battlefield successes and Zelenskyy’s leadership were sources of inspiration in the West.
Democratic senators want answers about VA dismissals
U.S. Sen. Tammy Duckworth said she is seeking answers about how last week’s layoffs of more than 1,000 probationary employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs affected efforts to prevent suicide through the confidential Veterans Crisis Line.
In a call with journalists, the Illinois Democrat said her staff heard from VA employees who worked for the crisis line or supported the VA claims process. She said two from Illinois may have been reinstated after she intervened, “but they’re still locked out of their portal, so I don’t know if they actually have been rehired.”
Sen. Richard Blumenthal, the ranking member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, joined Duckworth on the call. He said he regrets voting to confirm Doug Collins as VA secretary because the workforce reductions are hurting veterans.
The VA did not offer a statement Wednesday.
Trump is still spreading false Social Security claims
Trump is continuing to spread misleading claims about scores of very old Americans getting Social Security checks despite the new acting head of the agency 
The president repeated false claims Wednesday about the program providing benefits to millions of people ages 110 or older.
Lee Dudek, who was named acting chief of the Social Security Administration by Trump, seemed to confirm Wednesday that confusion had arisen about people older than 100 receiving benefits because of the default settings on the agency’s database.
“The reported data are people in our records with a Social Security number who do not have a date of death associated with their record. These individuals are not necessarily receiving benefits,” Dudek wrote.
Trump says his administration is considering giving 20% of DOGE savings to citizens
Trump touted the Department of Government Efficiency, claiming it was “saving taxpayers billions and billions of dollars every single day.”
He said under consideration is a concept in which the administration gives 20% of DOGE’s savings to American citizens and 20% goes to paying down the national debt.
Trump kicks off summit hosted by Saudi Arabia’s sovereign wealth fund
Trump spoke to a Miami conference of international investors and billionaires, kicking off the first day of the three-day conference in Miami Beach’s Faena Hotel & Forum.
The conference includes panels discussing technological disruption, artificial intelligence and the landscape of global investment.
Speakers are set to include global financial executors and tech company CEOs, as well as Miami Dolphins owner Stephen Ross and star athlete Serena William
In his speech, Trump called out governor of the $925 billion Saudi Public Investment Fund, Yasir Al-Rumayyan.
Attorneys for entities promoting DEI efforts request a temporary pause on Trump’s anti-DEI executive orders
The attorneys argued before a federal judge that Trump’s executive orders are already having a chilling effect on free speech. The judge said he would issue a ruling at a later date.
“What’s happening is an overcorrection and pulling back on DEI statements,” attorney Aleshadye Getachew said during Wednesday’s hearing.
Trump signed an executive order his first day in office directing federal agencies to terminate all “equity-related” grants or contracts. He signed a follow-up order requiring federal contractors to certify that they don’t promote DEI.
Attorneys for the government said Trump was targeting only DEI programs that violate federal civil rights laws.
The plaintiffs’ attorneys claim they are already suffering the effects of the executive orders as Trump seeks to suppress views he doesn’t agree with.
“But the President simply does not wield that power,” they wrote in the complaint. “And contrary to his suggestions otherwise, his power is not limitless.”
Energy Secretary Chris Wright says global warming can be a good thing
“Everything in life has tradeoffs,” Wright told Fox Business. “But a warmer planet with more CO2 is better for growing plants.”
The world has been getting greener for decades, Wright added, claiming that there is “14% more greenery around the planet today than there was 40 years ago.”
More people die from cold weather than extreme heat, Wright said.
“So, everything has a tradeoff,” he said. “There’s pluses to global warming as well as negatives. But the bottom line is it’s just nowhere near the world’s biggest problem today. Not even close, it seems to me.”
New research shows that even as climate change fuels hotter temperatures, cold weather is becoming an increasing risk in the United States.
How long will the partnership between Trump and Musk last?
It’s been a burning political question for weeks: How long will  — who doesn’t like sharing the spotlight — be able to do just that with , a billionaire also overly fond of attention?
In a joint Fox News Channel interview that aired Tuesday, both insisted they like each other a lot and would stick with their arrangement despite what Trump said were attempts by the media to “drive us apart.”
▶ Read more about their friendship, what it means and 
GOP’s Graham echoes Trump’s call for elections in Ukraine
Republican U.S. Sen. Lindsey Graham has joined Trump’s push for elections in Ukraine.
Graham has been a longtime defense hawk supporting Kyiv as it battles Russia, but the senator echoed the White House's demands.
“We need elections in Ukraine,” Graham said. “Soon.”
New York governor fires back after Trump declares himself a ‘king’
“New York hasn’t labored under a king in over 250 years," Gov. Kathy Hochul said. “We sure as hell are not going to start now.”
The comment from Hochul came after the Trump administration ordered a halt to New York City’s congestion pricing toll program and the president took to his social media platform to claim victory with the statement “LONG LIVE THE KING!”
White House amplifies Trump quote declaring, ‘LONG LIVE THE KING!’
Trump called himself “king” in a social media post celebrating his administration’s move to end congestion pricing in Manhattan.
“CONGESTION PRICING IS DEAD. Manhattan, and all of New York, is SAVED,” Trump wrote on Truth Social. “LONG LIVE THE KING!”
The White House  a short time later. A post on the social platform X from the official White House account repeated Trump’s quote and added a computer-generated image of a smiling Trump wearing a crown, Manhattan in the background. It’s made in the style of “Time” magazine but replaces the publication’s name with “Trump.”
Environmental groups sue Trump
Environmental groups sued President Donald Trump and other federal officials Wednesday, arguing that Trump exceeded his authority with an executive order that seeks to reverse the Biden administration’s ban on  in vast swaths of U.S. coastal waters.
Earthjustice filed the lawsuit in federal court in Alaska on behalf of a coalition of groups. It says the federal Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act authorizes a president to protect from drilling unleased offshore areas but does not authorize a president to revoke those protections.
The lawsuit names Trump,  and Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnick as defendants. An Interior spokesperson said the agency doesn’t comment on pending litigation. An email seeking comment also was sent to the Commerce Department.
Hawaii governor signs executive order to help state employ laid-off federal workers
Hawaii Gov. Josh Green has signed an executive order to help the state employ newly laid-off federal workers. The initiative fast-tracks hiring so qualified candidates can receive a conditional job offer within 14 days. He said the state needs conservationists, engineers, nurses, information technology professionals, accountants and others.
“With so many federal jobs being cut, I want to make sure those with the skills to protect and serve our islands have a place here,” Green said in a social media post on Tuesday.
Hawaii’s Department of Human Resources Development says about 4,000, or 23.5%, of the state’s 17,000 civil service jobs are currently vacant.
Hundreds rally against federal workforce cuts outside HHS building
About 300 protestors, many of them current or former federal employees, rallied Tuesday outside the headquarters of the Department of Health and Human Services.
Amid frigid temperatures and light snow, attendees chanted slogans like “Funding, not freezes” and carried signs which proclaimed, “Protect civil servants because they protect you!”
Among the protesters was Ellen Bak, a former scientist with the National Institutes of Health who was terminated. Bak said her research into stem cells had essentially been lost. And since she was the lab manager, the rest of her team’s research has been slowed as they absorb her admin duties.
“The sheer amount of money and time and testing and care and effort,” she said. “Is it all just gone?”
Civil rights organizations sue Trump administration over DEI executive orders
The NAACP Legal Defense Fund and Lambda Legal filed a lawsuit Wednesday on behalf of advocacy groups, challenging three  from the White House.
They claim the orders will significantly limit how plaintiffs — the National Urban League, AIDS Foundation Chicago and the National Fair Housing Alliance — will provide services including HIV treatments, fair housing and civil rights protections to people nationwide. The orders that are being disputed would end grants specific to this work, stop collaborative funding efforts from DEI programs and erase transgender people from existence, the lawsuit claims.
“For these organizations, choosing between ending their diversity, equity, inclusion and accessibility initiatives and losing federal funds is really no choice at all,” said Jin Hee Lee, director of strategic initiatives at the Legal Defense Fund, during a media briefing. “This is in direct violation of our clients’ free speech rights.”
Jobs cut at the FAA helped support air safety, union says
President Donald Trump’s administration has said no one at the Federal Aviation Administration with a “critical safety” position has been fired. But some FAA jobs that were eliminated had direct roles in supporting safety inspectors and airport operations, according to their union and former employees.
About 400 personnel were let go starting Friday. The union representing about 130 of them said the staffers included aviation safety assistants, maintenance mechanics and nautical information specialists.
They’re the types of workers tasked with helping aircraft safety inspectors, repairing air traffic control facilities and updating digital maps that pilots use in flight.
“We protected roles that are critical to safety,” Department of Transportation spokesperson Halee Dobbins said Wednesday. “On the layoffs, these were probationary employees — meaning they had only been at the FAA for less than two years, represented less than 1% of FAA’s more than 45,000 employees.”
JD Vance warns Ukraine’s Zelenskyy that ‘badmouthing’ Trump is a bad idea
In the midst of escalating tensions between Trump and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy about the U.S. administration’s push to end the Russia-Ukraine war, the U.S. vice president is suggesting the Ukrainian leader knock it off.
“The idea that Zelenskyy is going to change the president’s mind by bad mouthing him in public media, everyone who knows the President will tell you that is an atrocious way to deal with this administration,” Vance told the Daily Mail.
Vance’s warning came in an interview published Wednesday as sharp words between Trump and Zelenskyy continue.
Trump in his latest salvo on social media called Zelenskyy a “dictator without elections.” Ukraine has delayed its April 2024 election because of the ongoing war. Zelenskyy, meanwhile, said Trump was being influenced by Russian disinformation as the U.S. administration tries to bring the fighting to a close in the three-year war on terms that Kyiv says are too favorable to Moscow.
Pence criticizes Trump's Ukraine comments
Former Vice President Mike Pence is pushing back on his onetime boss’ comments about Ukraine.
In a post on X on Wednesday, Pence directed his comments to Trump and said, “Ukraine did not ‘start’ this war. Russia launched an unprovoked and brutal invasion claiming hundreds of thousands of lives. The Road to Peace must be built on the Truth.”
Trump administration appeals ruling that blocks the president's order ending birthright citizenship
The Trump administration has appealed a  the president’s executive order ending birthright citizenship for people whose parents are not legally in the country.
Attorneys for the administration filed a notice of appeal to the First Circuit Court of Appeals on Wednesday. The appeal comes nearly a week after U.S. District Judge Leo Sorokin issued a preliminary injunction in a case brought by New Jersey and 17 others states in Massachusetts federal court.
Three other federal judges have issued temporary blocks of the president’s order.
French president and British PM to travel to Washington
French President Emmanuel Macron and British Prime Minister Keir Starmer will travel to Washington next week, according to Trump’s national security advisor Michael Waltz.
Waltz disclosed the plans in an interview with Fox News.
The visit from Macron and Starmer would come during a moment of rising transatlantic tension over European security and next steps in the war in Ukraine.
Trump orders a halt to New York City's congestion pricing system
The newly instituted system is designed to reduce traffic and fund mass transit by imposing high tolls on drivers entering some parts of Manhattan.
There is no reaction yet from New York Gov. Kathy Hochul.
“By blocking this successful policy, Trump will be directly responsible for more traffic, more crashes, more polluted air, slower buses and less funding for our transit system. This means no new station elevators for elderly and disabled riders, and no new subway signals to speed up commutes for working New Yorkers,” said state Sen. Andrew Gounardes, a city Democrat.
Gounardes promised a court challenge.
▶Read more about 
Senate confirms Kelly Loeffler, former Georgia senator, to lead Small Business Administration
The U.S. Senate on Wednesday confirmed , a Georgia businesswoman and former senator, to lead the Small Business Administration, returning a stalwart supporter of Trump to Washington.
At SBA, Loeffler will oversee the entity that describes itself as the only Cabinet-level federal agency “fully dedicated to small business” by providing “counseling, capital, and contracting expertise as the nation’s only go-to resource and voice for small businesses.” Typically, the agency — which was founded in 1953 — offers Economic Injury Disaster Loans to help meet working capital needs caused by a disaster, loans that can be used to pay fixed debts, payroll, accounts payable and other expenses that would have been met if not for the disaster.
The Senate confirmed Loeffler on a 52-46 vote.
Labor nominee supports EEOC and NLRB as confirmation hearing ends
Chavez-DeRemer says it’s important for the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and National Labor Relations Board to operate.
She expressed support for the two independent agencies toward the end of her confirmation hearing to become Labor Secretary.
Trump fired two Democratic commissioners at the EEOC, which enforces civil rights laws, and a member of the NLRB last month. The firings left both agencies without a quorum to operate.
“Have you ever taken the position as a congresswoman that either the NLRB or the EEOC should be defunded or eliminated?” asked Sen. Tim Kaine, D-Virginia.
“No, not that I recall,” Chavez-DeRemer replied.
Asked whether the EEOC and NLRB should have a quorum to operate and protect workers, Chavez-DeRemer answered “yes.”
New Acting Social Security Administrator says 100-year-olds are ‘not necessarily receiving benefits’
The Social Security Administration’s new acting administrator Lee Dudek said in a statement Wednesday that 100-year-olds on Social Security’s internal lists of beneficiaries are “not necessarily receiving benefits” from the agency.
Dudek, who became SSA’s acting chief over the weekend sent a public message that covered Department of Government Efficiency actions at the agency as well as transparency commitments to the Public. Dudek said DOGE personnel “CANNOT make changes to agency systems, benefit payments, or other information. They only have READ access.”
“DOGE personnel must follow the law and if they violate the law they will be referred to the Department of Justice for possible prosecution,” Dudek said.
Dudek also acknowledged Trump administration claims that tens of millions of dead people over 100 years-old are receiving Social Security payments. “The reported data are people in our records with a Social Security number who do not have a date of death associated with their record. These individuals are not necessarily receiving benefits.”
Trump administration labels 8 Latin American cartels as ‘foreign terrorist organizations’
The Trump administration is formally designating eight Latin American crime organizations as “foreign terrorist organizations,”  operating in the U.S. and on anyone aiding them.The move, carrying out , names Tren de Aragua in Venezuela, MS-13 in El Salvador and others.
The designation will be published in Thursday’s edition of the Federal Register, according to a notice Wednesday.
The “foreign terrorist organization” label is unusual because it deploys a terrorist designation normally reserved for groups like al-Qaida or the Islamic State group that use violence for political ends — not for money-focused crime rings such as the Latin American cartels.
The Trump administration argues that the international connections and operations of the groups — including drug trafficking, migrant smuggling and violent pushes to extend their territory — warrant the designation.Read more 
Job cuts at National Science Foundation
The National Science Foundation let go of 170 employees Tuesday to ensure compliance with a Trump administration executive order, spokesperson Michael England said in a statement. The cuts comprise about 10% of the foundation’s total workforce.
Established in 1950 to promote science and welfare, the foundation supports research on astronomy, artificial intelligence and more at colleges and other organizations across the country. The recent dismissals included probationary workers and temporary employees appointed as experts.
Labor secretary nominee Chavez-DeRemer backtracks on right to work
At her hearing Wednesday, Chavez-DeRemer said that she no longer supported provisions of a labor bill that would overturn so-called “right to work” laws in states across the country.
While a member of the House, Chavez-DeRemer co-sponsored the Protecting the Right to Organize Act, an expansive bill that would make it far easier for workers to organize in workplaces in the country.
“Right to work” laws require that employees are allowed to refuse joining a union in their workplace. A section of the PRO Act would have overturned those laws.
Pressed by Republican senators, Chavez-DeRemer said she no longer supported that part of the bill.
“I fully fairly and support states who want to protect their right to work,” Chavez-DeRemer told Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky.
“So you no longer support the aspect of the PRO Act that would have overturned state right to work laws?” Paul directly asked.
“Yes sir,” Chavez-DeRemer responded.
Trump calls Zelenskyy a ‘dictator’ as tensions rise between the leaders over the Russia-Ukraine war
Trump called Volodymyr Zelenskyy a “dictator without elections," lashing out after the Ukrainian president said Trump was being influenced by Russian disinformation as he moves to end the Kremlin’s war against Ukraine on terms that Kyiv says are too favorable to Moscow.
In a post on Truth Social, Trump called Zelenskyy “a modestly successful comedian” who talked the United States into spending billions of dollars “to go into a War that couldn’t be won, that never had to start.” He said Ukraine would be unable to end the war without Trump’s help.
Trump’s post comes a day after he suggested in a news conference that Ukraine should hold elections as part of a peace plan.
“A Dictator without Elections,” Trump wrote Wednesday.
Zelenskyy was elected president in 2019 after a career as an entertainer. He resisted pressure to leave the country when Russia invaded in 2022, mounting a defense that protected the capital, Kyiv.
Zelenskyy accused Trump earlier Wednesday of living in a Russian-made “disinformation space.”
Schumer says Trump blaming Ukraine for Russia’s invasion is ‘disgusting’
Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer says Trump’s comments blaming Ukraine for having been invaded by Russia are “disgusting.”
Rather than acknowledge Putin’s attack that launched the war in 2022, Trump “amazingly blamed Ukraine for Putin’s invasion,” Schumer said.
The senator’s remarks came as the Trump administration is being widely criticized as catering to Russia and excluding Ukraine in early negotiations for an end to the war.
“It’s disgusting to see an American president turn against one of our friends and openly side with a thug like Vladimir Putin,” Schumer said.
Senators grill US labor secretary nominee on her past support of the Protecting the Right to Organize Act
Senators are grilling U.S. labor secretary nominee Lori Chavez-DeRemer on her past support of the Protecting the Right to Organize Act.
During her one term in Congress, Chavez-DeRemer was one of the few Republicans to support the legislation, which was aimed at making it easier for workers to unionize. It passed the House but didn’t gain traction in the Senate.
Chavez-DeRemer said she believes U.S. labor laws need to be updated and modernized to reflect today’s workforce and the nation’s business environment. She said the PRO Act was a way to start doing that when she represented Oregon’s 5th congressional district, but if she’s confirmed as labor secretary, it wouldn’t be up to her to write the laws.
“If confirmed, my job will be to implement President Trump’s policy vision,” Chavez-DeRemer said. “And my guiding principle will be President Trump’s guiding principle: ensuring a level playing field for businesses, unions and most importantly, the American worker.”
A comprehensive look at DOGE’s firings and layoffs so far
Thousands of federal government employees have been shown the door in the first month of Trump’s administration.
While there is no official figure available of the total firings or layoffs, the AP tracked how agencies are being affected.
Here are just some of the major infrastructure changes:
1. The White House offered a “deferred resignation” proposal in exchange for financial incentives 
2. The Department of Veterans Affairs fired 1,000 employees who had served for less than two years
3. At least 39 people have been fired from the Education Department
4. Hundreds of federal employees tasked with working on the nation’s nuclear weapons programs were laid off, but that was largely rescinded hours later
5. The jobs of more than 5,000 probationary employees are on the line at HHS
6. The IRS will lay off  in the middle of tax season, according to two people familiar
▶ Read more 
Confirmation hearing for Trump’s Labor Department pick opens
The confirmation hearing for President Donald Trump’s nominee to lead the Labor Department has opened.
The Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor & Pensions is set to question former U.S. Rep. Lori Chavez-DeRemer on Wednesday.
Unions have described the Republican from Oregon as pro-labor because of her voting record during her one term as a congresswoman.
The committee’s chairman, Sen. Bill Cassidy, a Republican from Louisiana, said there are concerns about Chavez-DeRemer’s support of the PRO Act, legislation that would allow more workers to conduct union organizing campaigns and penalize companies that violate workers’ rights.
Sen. Bernie Sanders, a Vermont independent, asked if she would be “a rubber stamp” for anti-worker policies promoted by billionaires such as Elon Musk and Jeff Bezos.
Rubio will skip a G20 meeting after calling host South Africa’s policies anti-American
U.S. Secretary of State  will skip a  from the  that starts on Thursday after criticizing host  as anti-American.
Instead, Rubio was headed back to the United States on Wednesday from his  as America’s chief diplomat after  in Riyad over the war in Ukraine.
Top European diplomats, as well as Lavrov and  are all expected at the Group of 20 meeting in Johannesburg while the U.S. will be represented by a lower-level delegation.
Putin says he would like to meet Trump but preparations are ongoing
Russian President Vladimir Putin said Wednesday he would like to meet with U.S. President Donald Trump but the meeting needs to be prepared to make it productive.
“I would like to have a meeting, but it needs to be prepared so that it brings results,” Putin said in televised remarks. He added that he would be “pleased” to meet Trump.
He hailed the talks between senior Russian and U.S. officials in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, on Tuesday, noting that the parties agreed to restore the tattered diplomatic relations.
Putin also said that Trump has acknowledged that the Ukrainian settlement could take longer than he had initially hoped.
Rubio visits with UAE leaders after landmark talks with Russia over Ukraine war
U.S. Secretary of State Marco Rubio met Wednesday with the leader of the United Arab Emirates, wrapping up an overseas trip that saw  since Moscow launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022.
Rubio’s talk with Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, also the ruler of Abu Dhabi, comes as the U.S. also tries to continue  between 
The  also has been key in mediating prisoner swaps between Russia and Ukraine.
Rubio offered his thanks in the meeting to the UAE “for the strength and enduring nature of the relationship,” State Department spokesperson Tammy Bruce said in a statement.
The state-run WAM news agency reported Sheikh Mohammed had told Rubio “that the UAE strongly opposes any attempt to displace the Palestinian people from Gaza.”
▶ Read more about 
Ukraine’s Zelenskyy says Trump is living in a Russian-made ‘disinformation space'
Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Wednesday that U.S. President Donald Trump is living in a Russian-made “disinformation space” as a result of his administration’s .
Zelenskyy said he “would like Trump’s team to be more truthful.”
He made the comments shortly before he was expected to meet with  the U.S. special envoy for Ukraine and Russia, who arrived in Kyiv on Wednesday. Kellogg will meet Zelenskyy and military commanders as the U.S. shifts its policy away from years of efforts to isolate Russian President Vladimir Putin.
Trump suggested Tuesday that , which enters its fourth year next week, as talks  in Saudi Arabia sidelined Ukraine and its European supporters.
DOGE is getting lists of the military’s probationary workers from the Pentagon
 staffers were at the Pentagon on Tuesday and receiving lists of the military’s probationary employees, U.S. officials said.
However, it was not clear that all probationary personnel would be let go — instead, some might be exempted due to the critical nature of their work. The military services each had until end of business Tuesday to identify their probationary employees.
The affected personnel would include defense civilians who are still new to their jobs, not uniformed military personnel, who are exempt, according to the four officials who spoke to The Associated Press on the condition of anonymity to discuss sensitive matters.
The potential cuts at the Pentagon, first reported by The Washington Post, follow reductions at other federal agencies, where probationary employees who were conducting critical functions and had high-level clearances, including staff at the National Nuclear Security Administration, were fired despite their role.
▶ Read more 
Judge questions motives for Trump’s order banning transgender troops
A federal judge questioned Trump’s motives for issuing an executive order that calls for  from serving in the U.S. military, describing a portion of the directive as “frankly ridiculous.”
U.S. District Judge Ana Reyes indicated that she won’t rule before early March on whether to temporarily block the Trump administration from enforcing the order, which plaintiffs’ attorneys have said illegally discriminates against transgender troops.
But her questions and remarks during Tuesday’s hearing suggest that she is deeply skeptical of the administration’s reasoning for ordering a policy change. Reyes also lauded the service of several active-duty troops who sued to block the order.
Trump’s Jan. 27 order claims the sexual identity of transgender service members “conflicts with a soldier’s commitment to an honorable, truthful, and disciplined lifestyle, even in one’s personal life” and is harmful to military readiness. It requires  to issue a revised policy.
▶ Read more 
Trump imposes his vision on America in departure from first-term stumbles
Instead of repeating his laissez-faire attitude toward his own administration, the Republican president is asserting control at every opportunity, backed up by loyalists at all levels of government. Despite occasional , there’s a headstrong determination to push through any obstacles.
Trump doesn’t just want to change course from Joe Biden’s presidency, his team is  championed by his predecessor.
This time, Trump seems to be saying, his orders will not be ignored. This time, there will be follow through.
▶ Read more about 

Load-Date: February 19, 2025


End of Document
