




The Guardian (London)
February 3, 2025 Monday 6:25 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved


Section: OPINION; Version:1
Length: 590 words
Byline: Editorial
Highlight: The US president is testing the limits of executive authority, sidelining Congress and enriching allies while destabilising the global economy
Body


Donald Trump is provoking a US   crisis, claiming sweeping powers to override or bypass Congress’s control over spending in a brazen attempt to centralise financial power in the executive branch. If he succeeds, Nobel laureate Paul Krugman  , it would be a 21st-century coup – with power slipping from elected officials’ hands. The real story hidden behind the president’s  , he says, is the hijacking of government. And Mr Krugman’s right.
By usurping the authority to shut down government programmes at will – even those funded by Congress – Mr Trump could slash federal spending and taxes while pretending to balance the books. In reality, he’d be   the poor to enrich the wealthy. In a world where economic jargon has been corrupted to depict exploitation as “wealth creation”, the audacity of Mr Trump – and his lackeys – to   profit is breathtaking. Mr Trump’s philosophy is simple: let the uber-rich do whatever they want, with little or no oversight. The result will be vast wealth for a select few while life grows nastier and shorter for the many.
His plan took shape last weekend when Mr Trump removed a top-ranking Treasury official who had been blocking his billionaire crony,  , from accessing the federal payment system – exposing the sensitive personal data of millions of Americans, as well as details of public contractors who compete directly with Mr Musk’s businesses. The system disburses over $5tn annually, and Mr Musk and his allies, wrote analyst  , are “clearly aiming to redesign” it to serve the Trumpian agenda – opening the door for the US president to seek retribution against his political opponents.
To see the impact, look no further than one of Mr Trump’s first moves:   trillions in federal spending – particularly on foreign aid, nongovernmental organisations, “DEI initiatives”, “woke gender ideology” and the “Green New Deal”. The courts blocked the measure as unconstitutional – but not before it wreaked havoc on government agencies and nonprofits, especially those aiding   groups like homeless veterans. Mr Musk   he will close the US agency for international aid (USAid) – but this remains moot as a federal body is   required to administer aid.
Just like his trade war, Mr Trump’s claim to “   ” authority – the supposed right to unilaterally halt spending – exposes the   of his power grab: he postures like a   because he’s too weak to govern as a president. He wields tariffs at will, bypassing Congress with “national security” claims – yet cut a deal with Mexico that both sides   as victory.
In his first term, Mr Trump’s   crusade – tariffs on China, a Nafta shake-up and attacking allies’ trade policies – was sold as a revolution. Instead, it was a self-inflicted wound. His administration slapped $80bn in new “taxes” on Americans through tariffs, only to see supply chains reroute to Vietnam and Indonesia rather than bring jobs back home. The real cost? A 0.2% hit to GDP and 142,000 jobs lost,   to the Tax Foundation. Without serious investment in domestic industry, the America First trade strategy didn’t rebuild US manufacturing – it just drove up costs. Mr Trump’s chaos isn’t confidence – it’s desperation. He’s trying to conjure power he doesn’t actually have. He is manufacturing a perception of dominance in the hope that Americans will simply accept it. The real danger is letting his illusion of power become reality.

Load-Date: February 3, 2025


End of Document
