




Daily Collegian: Pennsylvania State University
February 13, 2025 Thursday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 1572 words
Byline: Claire Huss
Body


Editor's Note: The Daily Collegian acknowledges there are gaps in its coverage of the Black Caucus over the years. The Collegian is working to improve this coverage.
The Penn State Student Black Caucus was founded in 1971 in response to dissent over the Equal Opportunity Program, replacing the then mostly inactive Black Student Union.
Today, the organization serves as the umbrella organization for all Black student organizations and minority students at University Park, according to its Instagram. Here are some of Black Caucus's initiatives over the years, as told through Collegian reporting.
1971
The Black Student Union, formed in 1968 to petition Penn State to admit more Black students, saw struggles with leadership and went inactive in the summer of 1971.
Black students at Penn State still fought for racial equality in admissions and formed the Black Caucus after the BSU dissolved.
According to the Collegian, Black Caucus "pushed the University to establish an Office of Minority Affairs" to oversee organizations and programs benefiting minority students. The university delayed its proposal.
The BSU and Black Caucus officially merged to create a "united front" in October of 1971.
1979
The Daily Collegian interviewed Takesha Dockery, the first female president of Black Caucus. In the interview, she explained why Black Caucus was important to have on campus.
When asked if the Caucus is representative of Black students on campus, Dockery said, "I don't think that's any of your business or any other person's. (...) I won't even answer that question."
Dockery criticized the university for "providing Black Caucus as a tokenism." By having one organization represent all Black students, Dockery saw the university as saying, "'We're not racist, we have a Black Caucus.'"
"And we're supposed to represent all the interests of Black students. That's hard to do," Dockery said. "It's hard to do especially when you're given a ridiculous budget like $3,000 a year. How are you supposed to function and do a job with that?"
1985
In 1985, the Collegian interviewed the president and vice president candidates for Black Caucus before its election.
Larry Patrick, the presidential candidate, stressed the importance of demonstrating against President Ronald Reagan's financial aid budget cuts and fighting against racism at Penn State.
"To become politically active is great, and to be effective is wonderful," Patrick said.
1990
By 1990, Penn State had 30 African-American student organizations across campus, according to Collegian archives.
Black Caucus petitioned the university for more funding to build a new cultural center and expand their offices. These efforts were successful, with the new Paul Robeson Cultural Center being constructed in the HUB in 1999.
2001
In April 2001, a 10-day sit-in in the HUB known as the Village Protest marked a pivotal moment at Penn State, with students demanding safety and meaningful diversity initiatives, following a series of anonymous anti-Black messages and death threats.
A number of incidents led to this event, including racist emails sent to more than 60 students in 1999 and a misrepresented photo of Black students published by the Collegian in 2000. This prompted then-Black Caucus President LaKeisha Wolf to write a letter to the editor, for which she and other Black students received death threats.
Collegian Archives
After surveying over 300 students from a range of different backgrounds, Black Caucus compiled incidents into a booklet titled, "Racism at Penn State." Members presented it to state representatives in Harrisburg and raised concerns about safety to the administration, as well as Black student enrollment and retention. Students pushed the senate to make Penn State acknowledge its failure to foster diversity and to address the issues immediately, but the senate didn't agree to the conditions.
In response to the growing tension, 40 students ran onto the field in protest during the Blue-White football game, leading to 26 arrests. This finally culminated with the Village Protest, which pressured the administration into agreeing to a university-wide diversity plan and establishing the Africana Research Center.
2005
Black Caucus spoke out against the Collegian's coverage of the Caucus's recent protests against the university's administration.
Then-incoming Black Caucus president Gandarvaka Gray suggested the Collegian call itself "the administrator's newspaper - not the student's newspaper" because it allegedly underreported hate crimes and was a "mouthpiece for the administration."
In a two-hour meeting between the Collegian and Black Caucus, Editor-in-Chief James Young said the Collegian did its best to "show both sides" and didn't plan to change how they covered Black Caucus. He also called the accusations made by Black Caucus "absurd" and said, "It seems to me they only want attention for themselves," according to Collegian archives.
"Maybe if we only give them the information we want (the Collegian) to have, they will start covering us more fairly," Gray said.
2007
Black Caucus protested Penn State's administration for fostering a "discriminatory environment," according to Collegian archives.
Black Caucus protested the senior class gift - a memorial park in front of Rec Hall honoring Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., THON and Penn State Athletics, stating that King's memory should not be honored alongside two organizations it said has a "racist history."
Black Caucus released an open letter to the Penn State community encouraging students to mobilize and get involved in making change in their community and protesting the "insensitive" gift.
2010
In response to stabbings over Homecoming Weekend, Black Caucus called for nonviolent initiatives at Penn State, including a town hall meeting, a new campaign against violence called STOP and a discussion with administration.
In a letter drafted by the group, it calls for the Penn State community to "question the moral standards it holds itself to."
According to Collegian archives, an excerpt of the letter said, "Since when has it become acceptable to compromise our morals and integrity to appease others or handle problems?"
2014
Black Caucus organized a demonstration called "28 Names" in the HUB, honoring the lives and stories of Black people who were killed by police.
Twenty-two students stood in the HUB in black jackets, which they took off to reveal white shirts with stories of individuals. According to the Collegian, the demonstrators screamed the stories of those pictured on their shirts for students to hear.
"Tomorrow you will be married - something old, something new - but the stench of our flesh singes the hairs on the back of their necks," Khalif Dobson said. "No longer strange fruit, just hung juries carry the burden of weightless legal systems who never did away with the noose."
The Black Caucus President at the time, Naeem Holman, started a website called #28Names to feature an individual's story for every day of February. Although the initiative took place in February, Holman said the effort "extends beyond one month of the year."
Danieltta Pantoe, president of the Penn State Black Caucus, speaks at the vigil for Osaze Osagie in front of the Allen Street Gates on Thursday, March 21, 2019.
Lily LaRegina
2019
The Black Caucus, Central PA Showing Up for Racial Justice, Planned Parenthood Generation Action PSU and Standing at the Gates for Justice organized a vigil to grieve and honor the life of Osaze Osagie. Around 100 people attended.
Osagie was a 29-year-old Black man who was shot by a State College police officer serving a mental health warrant on March 20, 2019.
According to the Collegian, protesters passed around candles and held signs that read, "Osagie's life mattered" and "Being Black is not a crime!"
2020
In 2020, Black Caucus, 3/20 Coalition, the Penn State chapter of NAACP, the Black Graduate Student Association and other students organized a protest in response to the deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Osaze Osagie and other Black people who were killed by police.
"Before (Osagie's death), there had never been a police-involved shooting in the history of the State College Police, and the first one ever was a Black man, even though State College is 3% Black," Georganne Rosa, a protester, said.
2025
This year, Black Caucus President Kenisha Brown is concerned that President Donald Trump's executive orders may impact DEI offices at Penn State, as well as funding for programs and scholarships that Black students may depend on, which could impact enrollment.
"I think we're kind of in the question mark space. It's an uncomfortable space to be in," Brown, a fourth-year studying African American studies and communications arts and sciences, said.
As president, Brown meets with administrators regularly. She said plans to combat oppressive executive orders are still up in the air.
"We have to push a little harder to get administration to tell us what is going on behind the scenes," Brown said.
Despite looming concerns about the future of DEI initiatives and funding for minority students, Black Caucus has seen membership growth. This year, Brown said the group intends to focus on political conversation and service projects for people of color in Centre County.
"For this year, our goal is to keep the momentum going," Brown said. "The biggest thing right now is making sure students are feeling seen, celebrated and heard."
MORE CAMPUS CONTENT

Load-Date: February 13, 2025


End of Document
