




USA Today Online
February 26, 2025 1:43 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Length: 366 words
Byline: Daniel de Visé, USA TODAY
Body


Good morning! It’s Daniel de Visé with your Daily Money.
As we have previously reported, consumers are preparing for a 24-hour economic blackout on Friday, Feb. 28. It is one of several boycotts planned by groups of consumers or activists to protest what they term corporate greed, companies that have rolled back their diversity, equity and inclusion efforts, and President Donald Trump's efforts to eliminate federal DEI programs since taking office.
On Friday, consumers are encouraged not to spend any money anywhere for one day. And if you do have to buy something? .
Minivans and minimum payments: Millennials deal with debt
More millennials are entering debt consolidation, new data suggests, a worrisome trend for a generation that has fared comparatively well with its finances in recent years. 
Millennials, born between 1981 and 1996, represent 43% of new counseling clients at Money Management International, or MMI, leading all other generations, the debt-counseling nonprofit reports. The agency’s average millennial client now carries $30,000 in unsecured debt, including credit card debt. 

A bigger tax refund?
Federal income tax refunds are starting to flow from the Internal Revenue Service, and you may be getting back more than you expected, a new analysis suggests. 
An Oxford Economics report released Monday shows total tax refunds closely match those of the past five years. But the total dollars returned to taxpayers could be among the highest in recent years. 
? 
More stories you shouldn't miss
Why the March Social Security check 
DOGE overstates its 
First Social Security Fairness Act 
McDonald's vows: 
Retirement savings advice 
About The Daily Money
Each weekday,  delivers the best consumer and financial news from USA TODAY, breaking down complex events, providing the TLDR version, and explaining how everything from Fed rate changes to bankruptcies impacts you.
Daniel de Visé covers personal finance for USA Today.
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: February 26, 2025


End of Document
