




The Miscellany News: Vassar College
January 29, 2025 Wednesday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINIONS; Pg. 1
Length: 1046 words
Byline: Jacob Cifuentes
Body


After the MAGA victory in November and President Donald Trump's inauguration just last week, ignoring the changing rhetoric and consensus on social issues has been impossible. From Trump's popular vote victory to Mark Zuckerberg's rollback of DEI (Diversity, equity and inclusion) policies, accompanied by his call to "celebrate aggression" in workplaces, to Elon Musk's public Nazi salute, our cultural landscape appears to be shifting toward a more overt and emboldened form of right-wing intolerance. The "Vibe Shift," "Culture War" and "Manosphere" are terms I have seen used to refer to this right-ward shift in the social Overton window. Sadly, it appears that the Progressive Left-the movement made up of those who fall slightly to radically further Left on the political spectrum than the average liberal-has failed to cement a meaningful understanding of gender theory and anti-racism into the public psyche. 
While significant progress has been made in LGBTQ+ acceptance, the MeToo movement, and anti-racism advocacy in the past decade and a half, the forces against such progress have increasingly gained traction among the American public. The Left's efforts to impact sociopolitical culture have not made much of a mark beyond marketing, social media optics and DEI corporate policy. If the Left wants to be taken seriously, and have overt hatred become shameful and unanimously ridiculed again, there must be a new angle of attack.
I firmly believe in the power of cultural exchange, diversity and acceptance. I also firmly believe that these principles-as genuine ends and not practical means-are absent from the American right. Despite how hollow, and at times, ineffective mainstream liberal policies may seem, I applaud their attempt at promoting awareness of the horrors of violent intolerance of the past. The Right wants to erase the history of American racism, subjugation and genocide, deport millions of loved ones, control who has bodily autonomy, and implement elements of theocracy. This is a scary time, and I often feel my heart beating rapidly when I watch or read the news. However, we cannot lose sight of our values and must stay firm even in times of hardship.
I have thought up a few practices you can commit to intellectually resist the vibe shift and help others resist its strategies and tricks. These practices are not meant to be dogmatic or exclusive to the Left but to help alleviate the illness of intolerance and judgment that we have all been infected with.
1. Open your mind: The first step in fighting ignorance is to fight your own. Educate yourself on other countries, foods, religions, philosophies, cultures, histories, etc. Learn how diverse our paths are so that you can become accustomed to the truth that we are all different, and that is ultimately okay.
2. Calm down: The current stereotype of the Left is something along the lines of whiny, loud young people living in ivory towers. If you are going to be more tolerant, that applies to people with differing, and even bigoted viewpoints. Instead of automatically getting offended by acts of bigoted speech or behavior, even if they are directed at you, choose action by explaining to the person that what they did was insensitive and why. I know this restraint in the face of pain is hard and potentially idealistic, but the Left would go a long way in changing the behavior that leads to echo chambers and hostile conversations. The Left needs to focus on the possibilities of rehabilitating bigots instead of calling them out and ending there. We cannot "pearl clutch" at every instance - though, I think examples like the Elon Musk situation are the appropriate times for pearl clutching.
3. Eat your veggies: Read up on right-wing strategies for stoking the flames of racism, transphobia and other bigoted philosophies so you can identify them and know how to help others avoid them. Whether they be absurd headlines about transgender Olympic athletes or anti-white school lessons, there is often some truth that is being obscured by racism or transphobia to increase engagement in the news cycle.
4. See through the lies: Know when the Culture War is being used as a distraction to rile up people towards something stupid. Avoid these "rage bait" discussions on representation in media-think the casting of the live-action "Little Mermaid"-or other points of dead-end public outrage so you can save your energy.
5. Do not die on any hills: I, as a leftist, have found myself too deep in a defense flawed policies like DEI or Affirmative Action when in arguments with the "anti-woke." While these two policies have provided great aid to marginalized people, they are not the end solution to racism. I have experience with boring cultural competency training and ineffective DEI directors. The underlying motives and philosophy of these policies are good, but the societal impacts do not stick in the minds of many people. To save you the trouble, I recommend you only defend an idea or policy if its real effects align with YOUR values, and not because its philosophy vaguely aligns with your political camp. This practice involves deep analysis of what you believe in and what you are arguing. You need to know that such policies are not the ends of our mission but just the pragmatic means.
I hope that if enough leftists, or simply just people who want to see a kinder and less hateful world, adopt these practices, the Progressive Left can reinvent itself into something more effective and disciplined. These practices can help dispel the misinformation surrounding so-called "Wokeism" and resist the impending far-right assault on our culture. I want to see a Left that focuses on providing space and comfort to minorities instead of using their identity for optics or continuing their shame and discomfort. I want to see a Left that is willing and able to keep a level head when more and more terrible news comes out in the next few years. I want to see a Left that has respect in the American collective consciousness and has minds that can dispel the hatred that is infecting more and more people.
I am not trying to invent anything new, I am just adding a course correction to inspire you to aid in the intellectual resistance against the MAGA and Anti-Woke movement.

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
