




USA Today Online
February 6, 2025 2:26 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Length: 354 words
Byline: Daniel de Visé, USA TODAY
Body


Good morning! It’s Daniel de Visé with your Daily Money.  
Homes, the most expensive item most Americans ever buy, are about to get even pricier if the Trump administration’s proposed tariffs take effect.
An analysis from John Burns Research and Consulting, which focuses on the housing industry, estimates the cost of a newly constructed home will increase by nearly 5% if the White House’s proposed tariffs are implemented, Andrea Riquier reports. .
Google joins anti-DEI wave
Google is the latest big firm to retreat from DEI. The company has slashed hiring targets it said were intended to increase the number of employees from historically underrepresented groups.
The move comes as the search giant says it is reassessing some diversity, equity and inclusion programs. Google is the latest major U.S. company to step back from its DEI commitments .
Are younger retirees too dependent on Social Security?
The decline of pensions as a source of retirement income leaves newly minted retirees in a precarious position: They are potentially more dependent on Social Security to make ends meet. 
New research from an employee benefit nonprofit seems to provide a stark illustration of that trend.   
The Employee Benefit Research Institute, or EBRI, surveyed 3,600 retirees in 2024 about their spending. The survey found younger retirees were much more reliant on Social Security than older ones. . 
More stories you shouldn't miss
Honda, Nissan merger 
Tariffs could still impact 
Stock market 
Here are the top 
How to become a 
About The Daily Money
Each weekday,  delivers the best consumer and financial news from USA TODAY, breaking down complex events, providing the TLDR version, and explaining how everything from Fed rate changes to bankruptcies impacts you.
Daniel de Visé covers personal finance for USA Today.
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
