




Fox News FOX HANNITY 9:00 PM EST
February 6, 2025 Thursday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7073 words
Byline: Sean Hannity
Guests: Pam Bondi, Jim Jordan, Mark Meadows, Sean Duffy, Patrick Bet-David
Body


SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS HOST: Welcome to "Hannity".
And the Trump White House is off to a lightning start fast. Don't blink. You probably will miss a massive development.
In fact, no one in the state-run legacy media mob or the Democratic Party, they can't really keep up with the speed of Donald Trump. They just know how to feign outrage every second of every day. That's -- that's all they know.
Now, there have been dozens of critical executive orders, diplomacy all over the globe, confirmations across the board, including Attorney General Pam Bondi who will join us in just a moment for her first interview as attorney general.
We have also witnessed a multi-front effort to demolish woke politics, restore integrity and fairness at every federal institution. But perhaps, President Trump's most consequential action was tapping Elon Musk to lead the brand new Department of Government Efficiency or DOGE for short.
Now, according to Democrats and their friends in the legacy media mob, Elon Musk, he's a dangerous man with bad intentions, an unelected billionaire who's looking out for himself. One Democrat even suggesting he wants your money. Trust me, Elon doesn't want or need your money. He's got plenty.
So, tonight, we're going to set the record straight. Elon Musk is the richest man in the world. And there's a reason, he's brilliant. He's a self-made billionaire, a first generation immigrant from South Africa. He embodies all things that are the American dream.
Whether you realize it or not, your life has been impacted by Elon Musk. He helped to revolutionize electronic bank banking with PayPal. He created a new form of high-speed internet using low orbit satellites, making fast, reliable internet accessible anywhere on Earth. Pretty amazing.
Musk even rush Starlink terminals, you might recall, to North Carolina, Tennessee after Hurricane Helene, providing the only form of communication in that emergency in the aftermath. And he did the same for the people of California after the wildfires.
Musk also reinvented space travel. It's called SpaceX. And soon, probably within the next month or so, Elon Musk will literally be having -- well, be rescuing astronauts, but he's also going to send -- Americans will be landing on Mars.
And in the coming months, SpaceX will rescue those astronauts that Biden and Harris abandoned and stranded at the International Space Station. Musk also spearheaded the development of affordable high performance electric vehicles through Tesla, which you kind of think, you know, green new deal Democrats, they'd love electric vehicles, apparently not because he supports Donald Trump.
But that's not all. Through Tesla, he has also transformed American manufacturing. There's also Musk's life-altering Neuralink. The Boring Company that could one day solve all our traffic problems. He's also provided real freedom of speech on X and so much more.
I mean, the guy is of force of nature. There's no doubt about it, brilliant. We're lucky to have him.
And the truth is Musk doesn't need to work for free for Donald Trump and the federal government and the American people. He doesn't have to work another day in his life. He's worth hundreds of billions of dollars. He doesn't need to lift a finger.
As Donald Trump would say, he could be on a tropical beach somewhere enjoying life. Instead, he's in the Washington swamp, he is serving his country. He's pouring over numbers and data and waiting through our federal bureaucracy. He is rooting out waste, fraud and abuse, and he's not doing it for himself. He's doing it -- it's your money that he's finding that is being abused.
Elon Musk loves the country. He's giving back. He knows that this is the last best place God ever gave man. This is the place where dreams can actually come true.
But Washington's out of control bureaucracy is, of course, standing in the way and regulations and the taxes and the abuse, this is all -- look at that. This is all your hard-earned tax dollars being spent abroad. It's insane. This is madness.
And but for Elon Musk, exposing all of this corruption, you would -- probably never know, you know, look at the corruption, years, unelected federal bureaucrats and elected officials, they have been wasting your hard-earned money in ways that are unimaginable for their power, not even in our country but around the globe, you know, on bizarre far-left pet projects all to advance their radical green new deal agenda, their woke policies, DEI, transgenderism, LGBTQ+ initiatives.
What Musk and his team at DOGE uncovered at USAID alone, and there's going to be a lot more to come, this is the tip of the iceberg, should shock the conscience of every American. This is a waste of your money. They're stealing from your children and grandchildren. They're stealing your money.
And among the billions in these -- these woke projects abroad in DEI seminars and transgender plays, USAID also reported spent $10 million on meals for al-Qaeda link terrorists? This is, by far, and if we had real media and journalism wasn't dead, this is the biggest financial scandal in the history of our country.
Not millions of dollars but tens if not hundreds of billions of dollars for these foreign countries and remember, we have nearly $ trillion in debt.
Instead of being thankful to Elon Musk, Democrats are livid. They are angry. They are furious at him for exposing their corruption. He exposed the Democrats wasting your money, your billions and billions of hard-earned dollars on foreign work radicalism.
And for this, they hate him. They also hate him for liking and working for free, he's not getting paid for Donald Trump.
And meanwhile, Joe Biden spent we have now discovered a whopping $236 billion on improper payments last year alone. That's a quarter of a trillion dollars. We have homeless veterans freezing to death in the cold.
We have Americans living paycheck to paycheck. Fifty-six percent of Americans cannot withstand a $1,000 emergency. They don't have the money to pay for it.
Violent criminal, illegal immigrants are inside our country. They're using your taxpayer money as well. Democrats are mad at Elon Musk for trying to hold our -- our elected and unelected government bureaucrats accountable for -- for this waste, fraud and abuse. You know, that's exactly what President Trump was elected to do and they're doing it. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOE ROGAN, PODCAST HOST: I don't think I really grasped it until Elon's six wizards, they brought in some young wizards to go in there and go over the books and they're just finding crazy (EXPLETIVE DELETED).
It's very strange that the media is ignoring it, especially the leftwing media. It's just too big of a win for the right, and so, they're just ignoring it. There's so much they haven't even tapped into where they think the real motherload of fraud is.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Now, Joe Rogan is dead on right. And by the way, this is not a constitutional crisis. This is a return to constitutional order. This is a return to limited government, greater freedom.
In other words, the principles espoused and envisioned by our founders and our framers. Let me -- let me walk my Democratic friends through all of this in simple terms.
Kamala Harris lost. Donald Trump is president. He's the head of the executive branch. He sets the agenda. He was appointed by the American people and elected by the American people to do it.
He appointed Elon Musk to root out this waste, fraud and abuse and corruption. And now, Trump is parting ways with federal employees who are unwilling or unable to carry out the agenda the American people elected him to -- to perform, along with those that have corrupted our institutions. Our FBI, our DOJ, our intelligence community, bye-bye. You know, he's being a good steward of your hard-earned tax dollars.
Remember, think about this, with all that waste, fraud and abuse, hundreds of -- you know, tens and tens of billions of dollars, the average American -- average America makes $66,000 a year. You work hard, you pay your taxes, you obey the laws, you play by the rules and that's how they spend your money? Excuse me, you deserve a refund.
The Democrats currently throwing a temper tantrum, it only exposes how frankly pathetic and corrupt they truly are. Of course, they're also incompetent and let not your heart be troubled, Musk and his team at DOGE, they will be successful one way or the other. He's not going to be intimidated by the likes of Elizabeth Warren and Chuck Schumer and, you know, radical Democrats screaming a constitutional crisis because they've been exposed.
And Musk is not the only person working hard to hold our government accountable. Newly confirmed Attorney General Pam Bondi, wow, she's hit the ground running with her own shock and awe. In the past 24 hours, she traveled to New Orleans to coordinate security for the Super Bowl. She also filed the lawsuit against Chicago and Illinois over their sanctuary city policies.
Other you know day one directives included an effort to end the weaponization of our legal system. She also reinstated the federal death penalty. She terminated DEI at the DOJ, pause funding for sanctuary cities and vowed to work with the Department of Homeland Security to completely eliminate drug cartels in our country.
Needless to say, Democrats are already, you know, smearing Pam Bondi for doing a great job. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ELIE HONIG, CNN SENIOR LEGAL ANALYST: Essentially, Pam Bondi's first act in office is to order an investigation of the January 6th and the classified documents prosecution of Donald Trump. That is an outrageous thing to do on your first day.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She said, Pam Bondi did, during her confirmation hearing. She would be looking forward, seem to say -- suggest that she would not be targeting any employees, that she was just going to do the work of the justice system. But in her first act as attorney general, promising to investigate the investigators of Donald Trump.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yeah, I mean, that message is pretty clear.
SEN. MAZIE HIRONO (D-HI): If anybody is weaponizing these two agencies, it's the people who are about to take over and I note that the Pam Bondi, she just created a weaponizing task force. What the heck is that? Except once again turning inward and looking at the people -- the brave people who are working in the DOJ and FBI and looking at them saying, are you next? These are crazy times.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Now, after the 2024 election, anger, loathing, rage are the only things the Democrats have left. Of course, Pam Bondi will have a tough road ahead, according to border czar Tom Homan, the violent Venezuelan gang Tren de Aragua was tipped off by someone prior to ICE raids that were to take place in Denver.
Now, Tom Homan is vowing to fight back. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TOM HOMAN, BORDER CZAR: We're not going to tolerate it anymore. This is not a game. When we show these sites, this is a dangerous job for the men and women of ICE and border patrol and all the DOJ agencies.
To have that type of interference puts our officers at great risk, not only the officers, it puts the aliens at great risk because anything can happen when we take our eyes off the goal here.
So we're addressing that immediately today. It's not a joke. This is serious business and they need to stop or we'll prosecute them through the Department of Justice.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: So tonight, the big question, how will Bondi work with the DHS to fix our broken immigration system while also making much needed reforms to the DOJ to stop its weaponization, rooting out those who are actively working against the Trump administration?
Anyway, joining us now, her very first interview after being sworn in by Clarence Thomas, the new attorney general of the United States, longtime friend of the program, Pam Bondi.
Pam, great to have you. Well, you've had your own shock and all -- you know, 30 hours since being in office. Congratulations.
PAM BONDI, ATTORNEY GENERAL: Thank you. Thank you.
Just landed from New Orleans as you said and you know, Kristi Noem, with homeland security, has done a great job working in conjunction with our ATF agents, our DEA agents, our FBI agents, getting ready for the Super Bowl.
Also, Sean, went out today and met with the family of Matthew Tenedorio. I met his mom Kathy. He was killed on January 1st in that horrific, horrific murder in New Orleans, and I got briefed on that today.
So it's been a very busy day, met with over 30 members more of law enforcement in New Orleans and they are prepared for the Super Bowl, Cathy Lanier with the NFL, they are crushing it out there and they are going to keep New Orleans and Louisiana safe, and I'm proud to be part of that.
HANNITY: I'm glad to hear that.
Let me -- let me start with the -- you -- you've cracked down on sanctuary cities. The DOJ has put a pause on all federal funding to sanctuary cities and states. You filed the lawsuit against Chicago and the state of Illinois for being a sanctuary city.
Am I wrong in my interpretation that a sanctuary city is aiding and abetting in lawbreaking?
BONDI: Sean, what they're doing is they are choosing illegal aliens over the safety and security of their own citizens and the men and women of law enforcement who are out there trying to protect their citizens. Not only did we sue today the city of Chicago, we sued the state of Illinois. We sued the mayor. We sued the governor and we sued others.
And let me be very clear, if you don't comply with federal law, you're going to be next.
HANNITY: What about those that we now know apparently tipped off the Tren de Aragua gang in Colorado prior to an ICE raid? Obviously, that would be breaking the law. Will we get to the bottom of that?
BONDI: Yes, Sean, absolutely. And you know that risk the lives of our great men and women in law enforcement. I mean, this is horrific what these people are doing to try to destroy our country truly, and jeopardize the lives of law enforcement and our citizens.
And Tom Homan is absolutely right to be appalled and furious, but we will all get to the bottom of this.
And, you know, Donald Trump has created an incredible team of people who truly we were pre-existing friends. So many of us, we get along great and we work so well together and we truly like each other, and we support everything President Trump is doing, and we are all here to protect our country. And that's what it's all about right now, Sean. Keeping America safe.
HANNITY: My biggest fear -- the thing that would keep me up at night is that we know because of Joe Biden and Kamala Harris and Alejandro Mayorkas, we have known terrorists in the country but we don't know where they are.
You mentioned the order to go after cartels and work with DHS on that. I'm glad you're doing that. I'm worry about them. I worry about gangs in the country, but we also have known murderers, rapists, other violent criminals. How do we find them?
BONDI: Well, Tom Homan, Steven Miller, Kristi Noem, DHS, they're doing a great job, and what we're doing with all of our FBI agents, DEA, ATF, all of the federal agents, U.S. Marshals, everyone is going to work together and they're going to actually prosecute violent crime instead of weaponizing government.
And that's what's been happening, and Mazie Hirono is wrong. It's the end of the weaponization of government and getting back to prosecuting violent crime and giving our great men and women the tools that they need in law enforcement to go after these horrific gangs, the drug dealers, the fentanyl dealers who are killing people on our streets every day and the cartels.
And we will do everything in our power to find them and eradicate them in our country and that's thanks to Donald Trump and the many executive orders that he's issued.
HANNITY: I want to ask you, Judge Aileen Cannon in the -- in the Jack Smith case against President Trump and in the documents case finally kicked the case out of court. It was over because of what she believe was an illegitimate appointment of Jack Smith, and the issue always comes before an attorney general on the is -- appointment of special counsels. What are your thoughts on that?
BONDI: Well, special counsels from here on out in our country will be legally appointed and they won't be done constantly like they've been done in the past.
And yeah, Judge Cannon is a brilliant judge. She followed the law that will be upheld and the weaponization of government will end. No more special counsels out there targeting anyone.
HANNITY: Yeah. Let me -- when we talk about weaponization, I would say we didn't have equal justice or application of our laws with President Trump. I would argue that. Okay, if top secret classified information is something worth raiding Mar-a-Lago about, why didn't they raid the four locations where Joe Biden had top secret classified information? Why didn't they raid Hillary Clinton's home? She deleted 33,000 subpoena emails. She had top secret classified information on it. That to me is not equal justice under the law or equal application of our laws.
What do you make of a justice system that is only targeted somebody because of their political beliefs?
BONDI: Well, it's a two-tiered system of justice, Sean, and it will no longer be in existence in our country. Yeah, what Joe Biden did, of course, was he didn't even have the right to take classified documents and we all know they were sitting in his garage, yet no one chose to prosecute him.
They have targeted Donald Trump from day one. We -- we've known this. We've always known this and that is going to stop. We're going to get back to the core function of what our government, our law enforcement was intended to do, prosecute violent criminals and get them off our streets. Weaponization ends and it ended the day that Donald Trump took office.
And the American people saw that crystal clear, because they elected him by a landslide.
HANNITY: But, you know, we also saw, for example, you know, I know you know the value of Mar-a-Lago. It's worth over a billion dollars. We had a judge in New York, valued it at $18 million which was a joke and didn't care.
You have local prosecutors like Alvin Bragg, the statute of limitations had run out on what was a legal NDA, put together by an attorney and labeled as a legal expense and then come up came up with a novel legal theory to go after Donald Trump. And they got away with that and nobody on the left seemed to care. And I watched during your hearings and the hearings of others.
Now, all of a sudden, the left, who never -- they never uttered a word, their silence was deafening about unequal justice under the law. Now, all of a sudden, they seem to fear that which they did to Donald Trump might be done to them.
Have you noticed the same thing I have?
BONDI: Well, sure I saw it with Adam Schiff in his hearing and in fact he received a pardon from President Biden which I -- is very telling to me. He received a pardon along with Liz Cheney. They were -- they were more worried about Liz Cheney in my confirmation hearing than the crime in California that's skyrocketing.
So it's -- it's truly remarkable this double standard that they have been professing and projecting throughout our country, but it has ended, Sean.
HANNITY: Let me ask a final question, I believe under Merrick Garland and Joe Biden, that DOJ has been weaponized. With that, there are many, many employees at the Justice Department that were a part of that weaponization. Did they have an obligation not to participate in it, speak out against it? And if they didn't do so, would that be disqualifying in your mind?
BONDI: Sean, certainly, you know, you know you have to follow the ethical standards of being a prosecutor and you have to follow the law. And that's why we have signed multiple executive orders taking us back to our core function of prosecuting real crime and violent crime, and that's how this Justice Department will function and that's how President Trump wants this administration to function, even-handedly and fair, and restore integrity.
HANNITY: I've known you for decades. Honestly, that's probably the word that I would use the most to define you. You will bring integrity to the DOJ, return it to its former greatness.
And we wish you all the best. We really appreciate you being on with us and congratulations, Attorney General Pam Bondi.
BONDI: Thank you.
HANNITY: All right. When we come back, DOGE on the move, slashing government waste, fraud, abuse. And for some reason, Democrats aren't happy. Wait until you hear what the left did this time.
We'll check in with Jim Jordan, Mark Meadows, the dynamic duo reunited, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: Elon Musk and DOGE are making quick work at intensifying wasteful woke government spending. But saving your taxpayer dollars has sent Democrats into a complete spiral, actually entertaining at times.
At usual, they appear hell-bent on doing nothing but fighting President Trump every step of the way. Everything he does, they feign, you know, moral outrage, and this is a constitutional crisis.
Last night, Senate Democrats spoke on the floor throughout the entire night, wasting their time protesting Donald Trump's pick to lead the Office of Management and Budget. His name is Russell Vought.
And Connecticut Senator Chris Murphy, well, he brought back the left's campaign talking point, declaring in a post on X that democracy is on the line, constitutional crisis he was screaming the other day.
Now, of course, their efforts went to no avail as Russell Vought was, in fact, confirmed earlier this evening and is set to be sworn in tomorrow.
Here with reaction, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Jim Jordan, and a former White House chief of staff, Mark Meadows.
There's only one way to put this, as the band back together.
(LAUGHTER)
HANNITY: You know, the founders of the Freedom Caucus back together. This is a great moment.
REP. JIM JORDAN (R-OH): It's good to be with you.
MARK MEADOWS, FORMER WHITE HOUSE CHIEF OF STAFF: Without a doubt, without a doubt.
HANNITY: Do I -- do I start with the chief or do I start with the head of the judiciary committee? It's kind of hard to tell.
MEADOWS: Head of the judiciary, head of the judiciary.
HANNITY: Chief, I'm going to start with you. Welcome back. It's been a while since we've had you.
You know, it's very predictable. I think Elon Musk has -- what he has done is a great service to this country. The average American makes 66 grand a year.
I don't know what the average North Carolinian makes where -- where you live. Sixty-six grand a year is not a lot. Those people pay a lot in taxes same with the people in Ohio and the same with people all around the country.
And when you see hundreds of billions of dollars and we're -- this is the tip of the iceberg that are being wasted and Joe Biden we now know wasted a quarter -- over 236, you know, billion dollars last year that we know of.
I mean, why would people be angry at that and this is not money going to America but it's going around the world?
MEADOWS: Well, they should be angry. Russ -- Russ Vought is going to be able to help. You mentioned him getting confirmed, but listen -- the only thing that's faster than a Elon Musk's Tesla is Donald Trump and his team making sure that the American people are back in control and what we're seeing here is that Donald Trump has instilled hope in America and fear in Washington, D.C.
Wouldn't it have been better if those billions of dollars had been sent to western North Carolina to actually rebuild instead of some DEI, woke kind of trans deal in Ireland or across the country in Africa? You know, it is just unbelievable what we've seen, but yet what we are seeing right now is President Trump putting his foot on the gas and going from zero to 60 in two seconds.
HANNITY: You know, it's a great way to put it. I think Elon Musk, you know, first of all, his personal accomplishments have benefited every human being on this Earth, that's number one. He's going to rescue our rest -- our astronauts. He helped the people in North Carolina, the people in Tennessee the people in California, and he did it for free.
He -- he and this is -- this is the thanks that this guy gets for you know transforming American communications, American automobiles, American space travel and now he's trying to transform American government so we save taxpayers money and we can live within our means and this is how he gets treated, Jim?
JORDAN: Yeah, yeah. What's going on here is when you spend money on stupid things, you attack the guy who exposes it. That's exactly what Democrats are doing.
The proponents of big government, the recipients of big government spending, they just assume keep all that secret. But Elon Musk comes along and says, this is ridiculous, as Mark put it out some trans opera in Ireland. They're funding Sesame Street shows in Iraq. I mean, think about it, China is building bridges and roads in certain countries and we're putting Big Bird and Burton Ernie on TV in Baghdad.
Who do you think is going to have more influence? So what Elon Musk is saying this is stupid, let's stop it, let's focus on serving the American people not having these agencies do what they want. Here's another thing, Sean, 10,000 people work at USAID, 1,000 of those 10,000, over 10 percent of those individuals, one month after Hamas attacks our best friend the state of Israel, 1 month later, those 1,00 people did an open letter calling for a ceasefire in Gaza.
Are you kidding me? So, of course, we need to scale this agency back and get rid of some of those people who have that attitude and are saying those kind of things about our dear friend and ally, the state of Israel.
HANNITY: You know, Mark Meadows, I really pride myself in doing a lot of research and we spend a lot of time looking for waste, fraud and abuse. I know Senator Joni Ernst had requested this information repeatedly and they -- they -- they use obscure names to really hide where the money goes and what the money went for.
Well, I grew up in when I grew up in New York and thank God I don't live there anymore. We used to call that fraud. What do you call it?
MEADOWS: Well, I call it fraud and that's even a nice name for it when you look at it, Sean. And you did do the research and yet what we saw was the DOGE team goes in, they're actually looking through -- through the checkbook and say, where is the money going? And you said it in your monologue this is the tip of the iceberg. Wait until they start looking at all the grants that are coming out of HHS and the Education Department. I mean, it will blow the American people's minds.
And why are we getting the big push back from Chuck Schumer and Elizabeth Warren? They're afraid that the American people will finally start to see behind the curtain. And we can thank Donald Trump for that because no one else would have had the courage to make sure that that happened. And thank Elon Musk for actually staying the course and when everybody is out to basically demonize him, know that indeed, it's an attack on the American people and an attack on this president.
HANNITY: You know, Jim Jordan if they want to -- if they want to die -- Democrats -- on this hill, and that is you know, all this -- the billions and tens of billions and hundreds of billions of dollars in money going to other countries for their woke agenda and they think that's going to be helpful politically, if they want to die on the hill of sanctuary cities and states and defend the terrorists the murderers, rapist, cartels and gangs, I'm perfectly fine with their stupidity. How about you?
JORDAN: Yeah. I mean, if they -- if they want to do that, you know, God bless them. I think it's -- I think it's wrong.
I think that's why they lost on November 5th. I think it's why 77 million people voted for President Trump and frankly I think the American people like the intensity and the speed and the focused energy we have seen from President Trump and his team. And they like I think what Elon Musk is showing them.
And by the way, but for Elon Musk stepping forward and purchasing Twitter, I mean, I think he -- he had a great line he said I didn't spend I think it was something. I didn't spend $44 billion to buy Twitter. I spent $44 billion to save the First Amendment.
And that's when we first started our look at the censorship industrial complex, big government telling big tech to censor Americans. That -- I don't know that we uncover all that but for him taking that first step. And now, he's going in digging into government and showing us all the ridiculous things they spend the hard-earned tax dollars of the families of the fourth district of Ohio, the people I get the privilege of representing, I know the people back home are pleased with the effort of President Trump and Elon Musk, and what he's uncovering.
HANNITY: Yeah. I agree. We're all better for it and you know what? I guess, if they weren't critical of him, he wouldn't be doing such a great job but they better buckle up because I predict this is only the beginning. They will be exposed even further and it will shock the soul of this country, and they have a lot of explaining to do.
The dynamic duo is back, Mark Meadows, Congressman Jim Jordan, good to see you both.
When we come back, Hillary Clinton trying to pick a fight with transportation secretary, our friend Sean Duffy, after he announced that DOGE will help upgrade the country's aviation system. Sean Duffy's next with the latest, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: She's back. Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and current secretary of transportation, our friend Sean Duffy, are facing off right now on X. It all started when Duffy announced that DOGE staffers will be brought in to help upgrade the American aviation system. Instead of cheering for new ideas and innovation and eliminating waste, fraud and abuse, and your money, Hillary Clinton called DOGE staff inexperienced kids that might not be able to rent cars. She won't be able to probably drive one.
Anyway, Secretary Duffy very respectfully replied to Clinton, correctly pointed that its so-called experienced D.C. bureaucrats like her that have led America to this point of crisis, which then caused Clinton to try and blame Donald Trump. He's an office a week for the recent tragic airline crashes.
But Secretary Duffy gave her a bit of a history lesson. Joe Biden's Department of Transportation was so focused on damn wokeness and the green new scam that it never found time to update the nation's critical air traffic control system. They were also way short staffed. According to the head of the air-traffic controllers union, we have almost 4,000 fewer air- traffic controllers than we should. And that's on Joe Biden, that's on Kamala Harris. And, by the way, pothole Pete.
And John Solomon at JusttheNews.com discovered that there been record numbers of near-miss incidents at airports all around the country under Biden and Harris before Donald Trump took office and a study during the Biden years warned about understaffing and outdated equipment. And I know Hillary is bitter that she lost in 2016 but Hillary is an irrelevant as a political figure at this point and there are safety issues that need to be dealt in a smart way.
As Secretary Duffy said, Hillary should sit this one out. I agree to say the least.
Transportation Secretary Sean Duffy is with us.
Well, like everybody, I mean, you know, it's all shock and awe, but when you go back to the DEI policies and we didn't really -- the word woke was not a big part of the vernacular, even in Donald Trump's first term. But when they put in DEI policies that would allow the hiring of the FAA, people with intellectual and psychiatric disabilities and I read that, that was shock and awe to me.
What was your reaction?
SEAN DUFFY, UNITED STATES TRANSPORTATION SECRETARY: Well, you know, Sean, I want to look at what was the focus of the department, right? The -- the main focus back to the history was safety.
The problem is they were focusing on as you mentioned the environment, EVs, changing language for social justice. They want to be politically correct.
And when you don't focus on your systems and your safety, bad things happen. And so, I look at this last week. You haven't seen anyone drain the swamp more than Donald Trump has done in the last week, and when you do that, these swamp creatures raise their heads like Hillary Clinton has and they -- and they push back and they lash out even though they're irrelevant.
But it goes to the point that our transportation system, our air traffic control system, we're using World War II technology, and it should have been updated, you know, 10, 20, 30 years ago and so, again, I think Democrats right now, they're upset about Elon Musk, but in my position, I have had conversations with Donald Trump, he says, listen, I want the best system in the world, the most technologically advanced system in the world talk to the best minds.
So I'm going to go to the Hill, talk to the best minds, I'm going to go to industry, talk to the best minds, but the guy who launches rockets into space and catches them when they come back down, I sure as hell I'm going to talk to that guy, too. It'd be malpractice if I didn't.
And these lefties lose their mind when we're going to move at the speed of Trump or Elon Musk, they want us to move at the speed of bureaucrats. And so again, the woke policy, it's gone. It's safety first and reforming air traffic control that's going to make the system not just safer but more efficient, so you're not going to have canceled flights or delayed flights. You're going to have an air traffic control system that works.
Sean, I was talking to Elon, I said what can we do this, Elon, what two and a half three years can we make this happen? And he was like, no, no, two and a half, three years, no. We could do this in one year.
When you have these 23-year-old young people who are smart and can engage and give us good advice, we'll move at the speed of business as opposed to the speed of bureaucracy in government.
HANNITY: You know, to be an air traffic controller, you need really, really critical skills. You need to be able to multitask like nobody else. You need to be able to make fast decisions. You got to be very smart.
And we kept reading -- I kept reading all these stories about people that get -- would get percent on an exam to be an air traffic controller that wouldn't get hired and we find out later why. And that to me is frustrating.
Do you believe that we'd be -- that within a year, we can hire the personnel that is needed and upgrade the avionics, the electronics that are necessary for our air, you know, for the air that we fly in to be safe, airways to be safe.
DUFFY: So we can -- we can walk in -- we can walk in and chew gum at the same time. So we can work on the air traffic control system, as well as in -- we have a plan to get rid of the bottlenecks, get more of the smartest kids into the air traffic control academy.
But, Sean, it -- once they graduate, it takes them a year to three years to get trained up in a tower. So that's going to take time.
But I'm going to make an offer to air traffic controllers, to let them stay longer. That's my authority. I can offer them the chance to stay longer past the mandatory retirement age of 56, pay them more, give them a bonus, keep them on the job, make the system safer, alleviate the pressure on the controllers. They'll make more money.
Hopefully, they'll say yes to that great offer. I'm going to make them in the coming days.
HANNITY: By the way, that's a brilliant idea, mandatory retirement at 56, that's insane. These are the best most experienced people.
DUFFY: (INAUDIBLE)
HANNITY: Yeah, brilliant idea.
Sean, please keep us updated. Congratulations on your new position and I did enjoy the back and forth with Hillary.
All right. Straight ahead tonight, Patrick Bet-David joins us to weigh in on Trump's tax priorities as we continue.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. President Trump, he continues keeping the promises he made during the campaign to you, the American people, on the campaign trail. In a meeting with the House GOP, in their leadership today, Donald Trump -- well, laid out its tax priorities. And Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt spoke on these tax cuts during a press gaggle earlier.
Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: These are the tax priorities of the Trump administration that the president has laid out for members in that meeting today. No tax on tips, which is obviously a very public campaign promise that the president made. No tax on seniors Social Security, no tax on overtime pay, renewing President Trump's 2017 middle class tax cuts. Again, these are the president's priorities, adjusting the SALT cap, eliminate all the special tax breaks for billionaire sports team owners, close the carried interest tax deduction loophole, tax cuts for made in America products.
This will be the largest tax cut in history for middle class, working Americans. The president is committed to working with Congress to get this done.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: All right. Here with the reaction, the founder of Valuetainment Media Group, Patrick Bet-David is with us.
You know, I come from a working class background. I think you do as well. And I'm like, no tax on tips? I would have loved that when I was working for tips, would have loved it. No tax on Social Security for seniors, I love that for them as well. No tax on overtime guess what, Americans that work extra hard, they deserve to keep more of their money, especially in light of how we know government spends it.
I think these -- this is -- this is really now, the Republicans are becoming the party of working men and women. Your take?
PATRICK BET-DAVID, FOUNDER, VALUETAINMENT MEDIA GROUP: You know, it's interesting, Sean. You were showing those numbers that we're looking at, right? No tax on tips, no tax on -- even overtime, all these professional sports owners we want to target little bit upsetting but I understand he's got to do something like that.
Here's what it makes me think about. What do the Democrats have left? Think about if you're low income, middle income, you're seeing these ideas. It's such a great idea of no tax on tips that his opposition, Kamala, said it a week later.
Think about if somebody sitting there that's low income/middle income, they're Democrat. They've been voting Democrat. They're saying, how come this doesn't happen to us? How come I've been voting all this way? What do -- what do I do now?
I feel like I'm -- the Republicans are more for me than the Democrats. This is a very weird thing that's going on in 2024. I truly wonder right now how quiet the Democrats have been on the left, the establishment Democrat.
They're sitting around saying, what do we have left that we can win people over with? Everything that we would like to be known for low and middle income, he's doing for us. This is a beautiful thing that's taking place.
HANNITY: The only disagreement I may have and President Trump eliminated the SALT tax, state and local tax deduction, why should states that that elect high tax and spend politicians be able to deduct those taxes when they're responsible for electing those officials? You know, I was -- I was the beneficiary of the SALT deduction and then Trump took it away. I ended up paying more taxes during his first term than I paid prior to that because I didn't have that deduction.
Should he bring back any of that deduction?
BET-DAVID: I think what we don't yet know that's going on. I would assume -- I'm not in the world, but I would assume there's a lot of negotiation going on back and forth. I think they need one Republican goes against them, they have to kind of give something. There's some kind of negotiation going behind closed doors.
Maybe he's anticipating -- maybe he's putting some stuff out there, ideas for people to be arguing behind closed doors right now that's going to clear the air and then they're going to come and make the phone calls and say, how about we do this? What if we do that and what if we do this, if he needs it?
If he doesn't need it, then he can be a little bit more aggressive and assertive about it. But maybe, Sean, there's something negotiation taking place behind closed doors that we're not aware of.
HANNITY: I think it's a transformation. When Karoline Leavitt said, this will be the largest tax cut in history for middle class working Americans, it tells me the Republican Party is the party of working men and women.
When the president said he will eliminate tax breaks for billionaire, sports team owners, that tells me that the president now is, you know, really committed to the working class in this country and I think the Democrats once had them as a constituency, I don't think any longer.
BET-DAVID: I'll tell this one last story in 2016, when President Trump did the first tax cuts, I came to the office when he won in 2017, and our taxes went lower. I held a meeting with all my employees, I brought him and I said so, how do you feel about the fact that President Trump won? Because a lot of my guys in the office wanted to have Hillary Clinton. They were 60 percent on the left.
They said, well, we're not happy and all this other stuff. I said, well, let me explain to you why this benefits you. They said how? If my taxes go lower, capital gains, I can pay you more. This is a way for us to give you a bonus because this is taking place. So be happy for this.
I hope some small business owners find a way to also reward their employees, since we're going to be paying less taxes.
HANNITY: I -- you know what? Everyone will benefit, a rising tie lifts all boats.
All right. Patrick, great to see you, my friend. Thank you.
When we come back, more "Hannity" straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: Hey, don't forget. We just released my interview with the great champ Mike Tyson. It's airing on foxnation.com. What an amazing life and career. What a great guy, too.
All right. Unfortunately, that's all the time we have left this evening. Please set your DVR, so you never, ever, ever miss an episode of "Hannity". As always, thank you for being with us. Thank you for making the show possible.
In the meantime, let not your heart be troubled. Greg is next to put a smile on your face. Have a great night.

Load-Date: February 7, 2025


End of Document
