




The Gatepost: Framingham State College
February 21, 2025 Friday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 681 words
Body


top of page
Home
About
Articles
Contact
Advertise
More
Use tab to navigate through the menu items.
Log In
THE GATEPOST
Framingham State's award-winning independent student newspaper since 1932
All Posts
News
Opinions
Sports
Arts & Features
Photo & Design
Comics
COVID-19 by the number
Puzzle Solutions
The Gatepost Editorial: Support Black businesses
Editorial Board 2 hours ago3 min read
By The Gatepost Editorial Board
As we approach the end of Black History Month, The Gatepost wants to highlight one special event out of the many FSU and DICE have hosted in its honor.
The Black Excellence Expo, which will take place on Feb. 27, is a key event dedicated to showcasing Black achievement and fostering community engagement. It is important to highlight the significance of supporting Black businesses and the critical role they play in our local economy.
This event is a vibrant reminder of the talent, resilience, and contributions of Black entrepreneurs, but it shouldn't just be a celebration confined to a single day or month.
Supporting these businesses must be a year-round commitment, one that goes beyond short-lived gestures and instead builds lasting connections that uplift the community.
Impacting many different industries, Black businesses are a driving force of innovation and community building. This Expo provides the perfect platform to encourage our community to engage with, invest in, and support these businesses - including some run by BIPOC FSU students.
It's more crucial than ever to stand by Black-owned businesses. College students often have limited funds, so where they choose to spend their money is of great importance.
It's necessary to distinguish between truly Black-owned businesses and those that are simply DEI-supporting, especially when it comes to promoting equality within the corporate world. While DEI initiatives are valuable and necessary, Black-owned businesses face unique challenges that require direct, intentional support.
Politically, progress for racial equity and social justice is under attack.
Corporations such as Target, McDonald's, and Amazon have rolled back their DEI efforts - signaling to their consumers they do not support equity in corporate America. Despite pressure from Trump's White House to curtail DEI efforts, some national businesses, such as Costco, remain steadfast in their commitment to promoting and highlighting DEI values.
Aside from how students choose to spend their money, it is also important to uplift civil rights groups supporting these initiatives, including the NAACP, whose mission is to "eliminate racial hatred and racial discrimination."
Groups such as "Support Black Owned" play a crucial role by curating lists of companies that support Black-owned businesses in Massachusetts. They are leading the charge in giving people the agency to make informed decisions.
Supporting Black-owned businesses means investing in the legacy of Black entrepreneurship and offering solutions to the wealth gap that persists in our society.
Additionally, local organizations such as the Metrowest Economic Research Center help Black entrepreneurs thrive. This council, with an office in Crocker Hall and leadership from Framingham State faculty, provides resources and guidance to businesses that are working toward greater inclusion.
The collaboration among these entities creates a supportive ecosystem where Black business owners have the tools they need to succeed, but the support shouldn't stop there.
This ongoing commitment should not be viewed as a one-off act of recognition, but rather a long-term investment in building equity and providing growth opportunities. As we celebrate Black History Month, let us not forget that Black excellence is not confined to a single month - it's a 365-day celebration that deserves our attention, respect, and dollars.
The Gatepost Editorial Board is not only calling for action today but reminding you that the work of elevating Black businesses is ongoing and deserves our commitment all year long.
Stay engaged, remain aware, and let's push for a more equitable future - together.

Load-Date: February 21, 2025


End of Document
