




telegraph.co.uk
January 20, 2025 Monday 4:07 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: US; Version:13
Length: 1806 words
Byline: By Tony Diver , US Editor in in Washington DC, Susie Coen, US Correspondent in in New York
Highlight: New administration targets illegal migration, ending birthright citizenship and diversity programmes, and Joe Biden’s TikTok ban
Body



Donald Trump has issued a flurry of executive orders and directives as he seeks to put his stamp on his new administration on issues ranging from  , gender and energy, to criminal pardons.
The President signed some orders from the US Capitol, where his swearing-in ceremony took place, and more later at the White House.
Executive orders allow presidents to enact some policies without the consent of Congress and can take effect immediately. Some could later be challenged in court.
Members of Mr Trump’s team have been working on the orders for months, and intend to use them to signal an abrupt change in direction from the Biden administration.
                     Here are some of the key executive orders signed on Mr Trump’s first day back in office:                   
                                                                     Diversity initiatives dismantled                                                                       Only two genders will be recognised                                                                       TikTok ban paused for 90 days                                                                       US Capitol rioters pardoned                                                                       US-Mexico border security beefed up                                                                       End birthright citizenship                                                                       National energy emergency plan                                                                       End working from home                                                                       Restrictions on fossil fuel extraction reversed                                                                       Gulf of Mexico renamed                                                                       Death penalty for police murders                                                                       EV mandate scrapped                                                                       US to leave World Health Organization                                                               
                                            DEI initiatives dismantled                                        
Mr Trump has issued an executive order aimed at ending   in the federal government.
Mr Trump rescinded two orders that Mr Biden signed on his first day in office four years ago, one advancing racial equity for underserved communities and another combating discrimination based on gender identity or sexual orientation.
Mr Trump repealed other orders aimed at helping Black, Hispanic, Native American and Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders.
The President’s policies represent a major departure from Biden’s administration, which prioritised implementing diversity measures across the federal government.
                                            Gender                                        
Mr Trump has signed an executive order declaring the . 
The order instructs the secretaries of State and Homeland Security to ensure the official government documents like passports and visas only reflect two sexes: male and female.
In 2022, the Biden administration allowed citizens to select “X” – a gender neutral marker – on their passport.
                                            TikTok                                        
Mr Trump has   in the US for 90 days, in a major win for the Chinese-owned social media app.
The incoming president said he hopes the platform can be brought under partial US ownership to address concerns about foreign interference.
The ban briefly came into effect over the weekend, but was later reversed on the expectation that Mr Trump would act as soon as he took office.
                                            Pardons                                        
The President pardoned about 1,500 rioters who stormed the US Capitol on Jan. 6, 2021.
“We hope they come out tonight, frankly,” Mr Trump said. “We’re expecting it.”
The far-reaching action also cuts short the sentences of 14 members of the far-right Proud Boys and Oath Keepers organisations, including some who were convicted of seditious conspiracy.
The document also directs the US Attorney-General to drop pending cases related to the riot.
                                            Border                                        
Mr Trump declared illegal migration at the US-Mexico border a “national emergency”.
He signed executive orders to beef up security at the southern border that began taking effect hours after he was inaugurated, making good on his defining political promise to crack down on immigration.
The president-elect has said he will use the US military to  , and can circumvent Congress by designating the issue an emergency.
National emergency orders have previously been used to speed up the federal government’s response to the 9/11 attacks, the Covid-19 pandemic and the war in Ukraine.
                                            End birthright citizenship                                        
Mr Trump issued an executive order to end 
The 14th Amendment states every child born “within the jurisdiction of the United States” is a US citizen, regardless of their parent’s immigration or citizenship status.
But Mr Trump’s impending order will end the government policy of recognising the immediate citizenship of children of illegal immigrants born on US soil.
                                            Energy policy                                        
The President has declared a national energy emergency, promising to fill up strategic oil reserves and export US energy all over the world.
He laid out a sweeping plan to maximise US oil and gas production-including by declaring a national energy emergency, stripping away excess regulation and withdrawing the US from an international pact to fight climate change.
The US also will withdraw from the Paris climate agreement and end leasing to wind farms, according to the White House’s website.
                                            End working from home for civil servants                                        
Trump signed orders freezing government hiring and new federal regulations, as well as an order requiring federal workers to immediately return to full-time in-person work.
“I will implement an immediate regulation freeze, which will stop Biden bureaucrats from continuing to regulate,” Mr Trump said, adding he will also “issue a temporary hiring freeze to ensure that we’re only hiring competent people who are faithful to the American public.”
The move would force large numbers of white-collar government employees to forfeit remote working arrangements, reversing a trend that took off in the early stages of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Some of Mr Trump’s allies have said the return-to-work mandate is intended to help gut the civil service, making it easier for Mr Trump to replace long-serving government workers with loyalists.
Elon Musk and Vivek Ramaswamy, who will co-lead the  , previously said ordering federal staff back into the office would result in “a wave of voluntary terminations that we welcome”.
                                            Drill baby drill                                        
Mr Trump will reverse some Biden-era restrictions on fossil fuel extraction,   from day one of his second administration.
He signed orders aimed at promoting oil and gas development in Alaska, reversing Mr Biden’s efforts to protect vast Arctic lands and waters from drilling.
He has also pledged to increase fracking, and to scale back policies to encourage green energy production.
                                            Renaming Gulf of Mexico                                        
Mr Trump has ordered   and Alaska’s Mount Denali to honour “American greatness”.
The Gulf of Mexico will be renamed the Gulf of America and Mount Denali will return to being called Mount McKinley.
The executive order will reverse former president Barack Obama’s decision to change the name of North America’s tallest peak to Mount Denali in 2015.
                                            Death penalty for police murders                                        
Mr Trump will restore the   who commit capital crimes and those who murder police officers.
During his election campaign, Mr Trump called for a mandatory death sentence for anyone who murders a police officer in the wake of the killing of NYPD detective Jonathan Diller.
It is an issue he has supported since at least 2015, when he vowed to sign an executive order giving “anybody killing a police officer, the death penalty”.
Mr Trump has directed the Attorney-General to pursue federal jurisdiction and seek the death penalty “regardless of other factors” when the case involves the killing of a law enforcement officer or capital crimes “committed by an alien illegally present in this country”.
                                            EV mandate                                        
Mr Trump is expected to issue an executive order to end what he refers to as the. 
Last year Mr Biden implemented emission regulations which included a target for 56 per cent of all new US vehicles sold to be electric by 2032.
Electric vehicles made up less than eight per cent of all new car sales in 2023 and the policy was widely criticised in states such as Michigan which rely on the auto industry.
                                            World Health Organization                                        
Mr Trump signed an order on Monday that will see the United States leave the World Health Organization, accusing it of mishandling the Covid-19 pandemic and other international health crises.
The president said the Who had failed to act independently from the “inappropriate political influence of Who member states” and required “unfairly onerous payments” from the US that were disproportionate to the sums provided by other, larger countries, such as China.
“World Health ripped us off, everybody rips off the United States. It’s not going to happen any more,” Mr Trump said at the signing of an executive order on the withdrawal.
The move means the US will leave the UN health agency in 12 months’ time and stop all financial contributions to its work.
The US is by far the Who’s biggest financial backer, contributing around 18 per cent of its overall funding. Who’s most recent two-year budget, for 2024-2025, was $6.8 billion.

Load-Date: January 21, 2025


End of Document
