




telegraph.co.uk
February 17, 2025 Monday 12:57 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:6
Length: 1551 words
Byline: By Marianka Swain
Highlight: Ashley St Clair has a knack for publicity – and is no stranger to controversy
Body


Elon Musk’s   has hit a very personal hurdle: the West Wing could need a bigger crèche.
Maga influencer  , 26, claims to have given birth to the tech billionaire’s 13th child: a son. The Trumpian star made her bombshell announcement on Valentine’s Day in a post on Musk’s own social media platform, X, headed with the Latin phrase “Alea lacta est” (“The die is cast”).
“Five months ago, I welcomed a new baby into the world. Elon Musk is the father. I have not previously disclosed this to protect our child’s privacy and safety, but in recent days it has become clear that tabloid media intends to do so, regardless of the harm it will cause,” she said, thrusting herself into the global spotlight almost instantaneously.
Speaking to the  over the weekend, St Clair claimed that she had first connected with Musk on X in May 2023, calling him “funny” and “down-to-earth”.
She said the pair (he was then 51; she was 24) subsequently met in person when she travelled to San Francisco to interview Musk at X’s headquarters. Not long into their alleged romance, she became pregnant. “I was told to keep it secret,” St Clair said, adding that her son has never taken a walk outside in five months.
St Clair, who was working for the conservative satirical website The Babylon Bee (a Christian, Right-wing version of The Onion) at the time of the pair’s first encounter, claimed that Musk set her up in a sumptuous Manhattan apartment, with a security detail. She alleged that she and her baby had met his mother Maye and some of his other children, but not their mothers.
Musk, who is alleged to have declined to put his name on the child’s birth certificate, has yet to formally respond to St Clair’s claims. He did, however, react to a post from British commentator Milo Yiannopoulos, who suggested her pregnancy was pre-planned.
“Ashley St Clair plotted for half a decade to ensnare Elon Musk,” Yiannopoulos said on Saturday. The post was accompanied by a screenshot appearing to show St Clair telling Greg Price, a fellow media personality, on X that she needed to attract Musk’s attention for a marriage proposal – years before the pair eventually met. “Whoa,” Musk responded, before saying he would be uncharacteristically “offline” for the weekend to work on his Grok 3 AI project.
If St Clair’s account is verified, it will make her the fourth woman to have children with the entrepreneur, who has previously described falling birth rates as “the biggest danger civilisation faces by far”. Musk had   with his first wife, author Justine Wilson, followed by three with musician Grimes and another three with Shivon Zilis.
But whether he engages with St Clair or not, the firebrand author and influencer appears certain to cement herself as a prized princess among the American Right. She already personifies the Trumpian model of media-savvy conservatism: her glossy Fox News-esque beauty pageant looks juxtaposed with seemingly off-the-cuff, punchy diatribes shared with her 1.1 million followers on X.
Recently she has crowed   (the new cost-cutting US government department run by Musk) planning to slash funding for the National Endowment for Democracy (NED). St Clair posted, using the hyperbolic language typical of Maga, that NED has “been instrumental in the architecture and execution of the Censorship Industrial Complex.”
Her Republican cheerleading also included a passionate response to news that Trump would declassify files relating to the assassination of John F Kennedy; there has long been speculation that more than one shooter was involved. St Clair appeared to support that theory, posting: “Magic bullet theory was always bulls--t.”
In another intervention, she gleefully posted a video by PolitiBrawl News, in which a reporter quizzed people in the street on their views about US foreign aid, writing: “Turns out when you ask American voters if they’d like their money going to DEI [Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion] in Serbia or transgender operas the answer is NO!”.
St Clair, who was born in Florida and raised in Colorado, first made a splash in 2019. She was forced to step aside as a brand ambassador for the conservative youth organisation Turning Point USA after a photo emerged of her at an event with white nationalists such as  , Jacob Wohl and Tim Gionet. But St Clair came out swinging, saying that she had attended the dinner hoping to confront people she disagreed with, and added: “I’m a strong Jewish woman and don’t need to be told where I can and cannot go.”
She then cannily tapped into the culture wars by writing an anti-transgender children’s book in 2021. Entitled Elephants Are Not Birds, and published by the faith-based company Brave Books, the story centres on an elephant who learns he can sing – but, per the synopsis, “he is not a bird, even if Culture insists that he is”.
St Clair’s appeal is perfectly summed up by her book announcement: a smiling, winsome photograph of her wearing a flowery summer dress, accompanied by a pugilistic quote. “I am going to have a little boy in November, and it’s scary to think he could come home [from school] and say, ‘My friends all identify as something else and that’s how I feel’ and have my son crying because he’s not put on hormone replacement therapy.”
Musk may well have taken notice of the post. He became estranged from one of his twins, Vivian, when she came out as transgender.
In December 2023, St Clair went viral on X after posting about her Delta flight from Phoenix, Arizona, to New York – which, she claimed, was carrying migrants from a detention centre alongside regular passengers. She attacked the airline for allegedly being “complicit in shipping illegal migrants from border states” and questioned whether taxpayers were footing the bill. Her posts included breathless videos from the airport.
St Clair’s age has been an asset in her rise: allowing her to act as a bridge between traditional conservatives and the burgeoning Gen Z Maga movement.
As she grew in popularity, St Clair, who has an older child from a previous relationship, became a writer for The Babylon Bee and a regular guest on conservative news outlets. She appeared on Fox News to warn about declining birth rates in prosperous nations – a concern shared by many Republicans, including Musk.
She is also unafraid to play on her looks. St Clair posed provocatively for the 2024 Real Women of America calendar put out by “woke-free” beer company Conservative Dad’s Ultra Right, sporting a black bra and pearl necklace, and lying in a bubble bath. The image was a deliberate riposte to Bud Light’s controversial ad campaign . 
She often shares pictures of herself in alluring outfits with knowing captions such as “The bimbo revolution is beginning” and “Extremism never looked so good.” She is seemingly never seen in public without a full face of make-up and perfectly coiffed hair, and her signature look, astonishingly for a mum with two young children, is a ballgown. In one picture taken last year, accompanying a post on X about the US visa system being “exploited to defraud our immigration system”, she wore a plunging corseted black gown. Last week, she even wore Balenciaga to a New York Knicks game.
All of this attention has translated into political kudos. Before she was out of her teens, St Clair scored an invitation to President Trump’s inauguration party at Mar-a-Lago in 2017 (she reposted the photo last month on Instagram to celebrate his re-election), and she has since been pictured with key Republican figures such as Vivek Ramaswamy and Kash Patel, Trump’s nominee for FBI director.
Now she may have access to the  , who has frequently taken his son, X, to political events since becoming Trump’s “First Buddy”. Might social media darling St Clair, and her new baby, fulfil a similar eye-catching role?
According to St Clair’s representative, the details are still being worked out. “Ashley and Elon have been privately working towards the creation of an agreement about raising their child for some time, Brian Glicklich wrote on X on Saturday.
“We are waiting for Elon to publicly acknowledge his parental role … to end unwarranted speculation, and Ashley trusts that Elon intends to finish their agreement quickly, in the best interests of the wellbeing and security of the child they share,” he added.
St Clair, who hasn’t revealed the names of either of her children, has generally kept her personal life quiet – until now.
She told the New York Post she had been happy to comply with Musk’s alleged preference for privacy, but was forced to break her silence after fans “obsessed” with the billionaire began speculating that she had given birth to his child and harassing her, both online and in real life-prompting media attention.
“I am sad that my hand was forced by the media to do this now. But there is also a sense of relief because I have been forced to live in secrecy for almost a year of my life,” St Clair said in her post on Friday.
That relief may be tinged with a note of optimism too, owing to the sense St Clair’s claims promise to supercharge her nascent career. After all, to be a Maga star means to oppose censorship – on all subjects.

Load-Date: February 17, 2025


End of Document
