




Miami Student: Miami University
February 3, 2025 Monday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 903 words
Byline: Chloe Southard | Culture Editor
Body


The 67th Grammy Awards was a night that the music industry and pop culture itself will not forget.
In the aftermath of the devastating wildfires throughout Los Angeles, the Grammys united artists and viewers alike through music - the universal language. Host Trevor Noah urged companies, artists, CEOs and everyone watching at home to donate to MusiCares to provide relief to musicians affected by the fires.
Perhaps the most talked about moment of the night was when Beyoncé took home Album of the Year for "COWBOY CARTER" after being nominated in the category four times previously. 
"COWBOY CARTER" also took the win for Best Country Album, making Beyoncé the first Black woman in 50 years to do so.
Kendrick Lamar won both Record and Song of the Year for "Not Like Us," a diss track against rapper Drake. "Not Like Us" won every category in which it was nominated for.
In a category full of strong contenders, Chappell Roan took home the gramophone for Best New Artist. The pop star gave a heartfelt speech expressing her concerns about the lack of support for beginner artists in the music industry.
"I told myself if I ever won a Grammy and I got to stand up here in front of the most powerful people in music, I would demand that labels and the industry profiting millions of dollars off of artists would offer a livable wage and health care, especially to developing artists," Roan said.
"Record labels need to treat their artists as valuable employees with a livable wage and health insurance and protection," she continued. "Labels, we got you, but do you got us?"
Other major wins for the night went to Sabrina Carpenter's "Short n' Sweet" for Best Pop Vocal Album and "Espresso" for Best Pop Solo Performance.
Doechii's "Alligator Bites Never Heal" secured the win for Best Rap Album. Doechii is the third woman to score a win in the category, preceded by Cardi B in 2019 and Lauryn Hill in 1997.
"I know that there is some Black girl out there, so many Black women out there, that are watching me right now, and I want to tell you, you can do it," Doechii said in her acceptance speech.
The rapper continued: "Anything is possible. Don't allow anybody to project any stereotypes on you, to tell you that you can't be here, that you're too dark, or that you're not smart enough, or that you're too dramatic, or you're too loud. You are exactly who you need to be to be right where you are."
Enjoy what you're reading? Signup for our newsletter
Email Address
Charli xcx took home three Grammys for Best Dance/Electronic Album, Best Recording Package and Best Dance Pop Recording respectively. These awards were presented before the main show took place.
Lady Gaga and Bruno Mars won the Pop Duo/Group Performance category for "Die With A Smile." Gaga took the opportunity to stand up for transgender rights in the midst of executive orders signed by President Donald Trump during her and Mars' acceptance speech, earning a standing ovation from the audience.
"It's such an honor to sing for all of you. I just want to say tonight that trans people are not invisible," Gaga said. "Trans people deserve love. The queer community deserves to be lifted up. Music is love. Thank you."
Gaga went on to release the music video for her new song "Abracadabra," a single from her upcoming album "Mayhem," during a commercial break. The song's music video has already received over 4 million views on YouTube.
Several artists took to the stage to perform their biggest songs. Eilish, accompanied by her brother and collaborator Finneas, kicked off the show with "BIRDS OF A FEATHER."
Carpenter gave the audience a campy, tap dance rendition of "Espresso" and "Please Please Please," mixing the songs together effortlessly. Roan performed "Pink Pony Club" accompanied by a gaggle of rodeo clown backup dancers and a giant, pink pony in the center of the stage.
Doechii stirred talk all over social media with her riveting performance of "CATFISH" and "DENIAL IS A RIVER." Charli transported the crowd to one of her rave-esque shows with "Von dutch" and "Guess."
Gaga and Mars performed a stripped down version of The Mamas and The Papas' "California Dreamin'" as an ode to L.A. Shakira, who also took home the Grammy for Best Latin Pop Album and dedicated her award to immigrants, hit the Grammys stage for the first time since 2007.
The Weeknd surprised the arena after boycotting the Grammys following a speech given by Harvey Mason Jr., CEO of the Recording Academy.
Two moving tributes were given as well. Will Smith presented a tribute to Quincy Jones, a major figure in the industry. Artists such as Cynthia Erivo, Lainey Wilson, Stevie Wonder, Janelle Monáe and more performed various songs from Jones's repertoire.
Chris Martin of Coldplay serended the crowd with "All My Love" for the In Memoriam segment, honoring those the music industry lost within the past year.
Queen Latifah presented Alicia Keys with the Dr. Dre Global Impact Award. Keys shared similar sentiments to Gaga in her acceptance speech.
"This is not the time to shut down the diversity of voices," Keys said. "DEI is not a threat, it's a gift. And the more voices, the more powerful the sound."
Noah revealed that viewers at home had raised over 7 million dollars for MusiCares before the end of the broadcast - a true display of how music brings us together like no other, and music's biggest night was certainly no exception.
@_chloebowie_

Read More

Load-Date: February 3, 2025


End of Document
