




The Foghorn: University of San Francisco
February 22, 2025 Saturday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 2199 words
Body


Post Views: 10
Screenshot from @usatoday and @usatodaypolitics on Instagram
DEEYA GUPTA
On Jan. 20, Donald Trump was sworn into office as the 47th President of the United States. In the first week, President Trump swiftly issued executive orders on immigration, trade, business, the economy, climate and environment, LGBTQ+ and civil rights, federal workers, healthcare, foreign policy, national security, nationalism, the death penalty, crime and the Capitol riots and 2020 election. Here is everything you need to know about each order. On inauguration day, Trump signed more than 20 executive orders, breaking the record for most executive orders ever signed on a president's first day.
IMMIGRATION
Declaring a National Emergency at the Southern Border of the United States Jan. 20
Declares an "invasion" at the southern border, allows executive powers to remove or deport any undocumented migrants.
Clarifying the military's role in protecting the territorial integrity of the United States Jan. 20
Deploys military for immigration enforcement and allows military personnel to support border enforcement and mass deportation, citing it as national security.
Securing our Borders Jan. 20
Replaces "catch-and-release" policies with mandatory detention and deportation for any undocumented person in the U.S. and ends parole programs, halting family reunification for certain migrants while visa applications are pending. Prioritizes border wall and barriers to continue building a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border. Mandates the collection of DNA and fingerprints from migrant detainees.
Protecting the American People Against Invasion Jan. 20
Empowers state and local law enforcement to act as federal immigration officers, expands resources to detain removable aliens and cuts federal funding to sanctuary cities and NGOs that aid undocumented immigrants. It also requires sanctions on countries who refuse to cooperate with U.S. deportation operations. Creates Homeland Security Task Forces, where state and local law enforcement team up to combat criminal organizations.
Protecting the Meaning and Value of American Citizenship Jan. 20
Redefines birthright citizenship, limiting citizenship to children born in the U.S. to legally residing parents. This portion of the order has been temporarily blocked by a federal judge, It also reviews the Temporary Protected Status program's designations and limits their duration.
Protecting the United States from Foreign Terrorists and Other National Security and Public Safety Threats Jan. 20
Institutes stricter visa vetting. It applies tougher vetting standards for all visa applicants, including refugees and stateless individuals. It also reviews and enhances programs to promote assimilation and American identity.
Realigning the United States Refugee Admissions Program Jan. 20
Suspends the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program for 90 days, pending review. Reverses Biden's climate migration policies.
Designating Cartels and Other Organizations as Foreign Terrorist Organizations and Specially Designated Global Terrorists Jan. 20
Classifies international cartels as Foreign Terrorist Organizations.
TRADE, BUSINESS AND THE ECONOMY
America First Trade Policy: Jan. 20
Reviews the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement for potential renegotiation in 2026. Reviews economic and trade relations between the U.S. and China recommend appropriate actions be taken based on the findings of the review, up to and including the imposition of tariffs or other measures as needed. Instructs the Secretaries of Treasury and Commerce as well as a U.S. Trade Representative to examine U.S. trade deficits and unfair practices, with a report due by April 1 to potentially recommend a global supplemental tariff. Establishes an "External Revenue Service" to collect tariffs and trade-related revenues.
Restoring Freedom of Speech and Ending Federal Censorship: Jan. 20
Bars U.S. officials from pushing social media companies to combat misinformation, citing violations of free speech.
President Donald J. Trump Takes Action to Enhance America's AI Leadership: Jan. 23
Repeals Biden's previous AI executive order that set development guardrails.
The Organization for Economic Development Global Tax Deal (Global Tax Deal) Jan. 20
Suspends U.S. participation in the Global Tax Deal to prevent multinational tax avoidance.
Application of Protecting Americans from Foreign Adversary Controlled Applications Act to TikTok Jan. 20
Pauses the TikTok ban for 75 days to assess national security and explore a potential American buyer.
Delivering Emergency Price Relief for American Families and Defeating the Cost-of-Living Crisis Jan. 20
Directs executive agencies to reduce consumer prices, with a progress report from a top economic adviser every 30 days
CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENT
Putting America First in International Environmental Agreements: Jan. 20
Withdraws the U.S. from the Paris Climate Agreement and halt U.S. funding for international climate finance.
Unleashing Alaska's Extraordinary Resource Potential: Jan. 20
Rolls back Biden-era restrictions on fossil fuel extraction on federal lands and boosts fossil fuel extraction in Alaska. Restrictions on fossil fuel leases and activities in Alaska's Arctic National Wildlife Refuge will be rescinded. The order also restores hunting and trapping rules in Alaska.
Putting People Over Fish: Stopping Radical Environmentalism to Provide Water to Southern California: Jan. 20
Overrides California's fish and wildlife protections to redirect water to the Central Valley and Southern California.
Declaring A National Energy Emergency: Jan 20
Declares a national energy emergency, symbolically expands energy production, using eminent domain and the Defense Production Act to control resources.
Unleashing American Energy: Jan 20
Requires agencies to submit plans to reduce regulations on oil, gas, coal, hydropower, biofuels, critical minerals, and nuclear energy. Reverses Biden policies promoting electric vehicles and limiting non-fossil fuel energy sectors.
Initial Rescissions of Harmful Executive Orders and Actions: Jan 20
Repeals Biden's climate orders, rolls back Biden-era climate actions, including those related to the Inflation Reduction Act and the President's Science and Technology Council.
LGBTQ+ AND CIVIL RIGHTS
Ending Radical and Wasteful Government DEI Programs and Preferencing: Jan. 20
Revokes the Equal Employment Opportunity Act of 1972. Additionally, agencies will be given 60 days to cut diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives, including DEI officers, equity plans and environmental justice roles, and report previous DEI efforts to the Office of Management and Budget.
Defending Women From Gender Ideology Extremism and Restoring Biological Truth to the Federal Government: Jan. 20
The U.S. government will only recognize two genders and limit federal documents and programs to recognize only male and female genders. Additionally, clarifies Civil Rights Law to define "sex" in federal law to exclude "gender identity." Dissolves the White House Gender Policy Council and reverses Title IX guidance on transgender rights. Bans funding for gender ideology, prevents federal funds from supporting "gender ideology" and ensures that males are not housed in women's prisons or detention centers.
FEDERAL WORKERS
Establishing and Implementing the President's "Department of Government Efficiency": Jan. 20
Establishes Department of Government Efficiency led by tech billionaire Elon Musk. Its purpose is to "modernize federal technology" and "maximize government efficiency." Additionally, requires each agency head to form a DOGE team of at least four members to collaborate with Musk's operation.
Return to In-Person Work: Jan. 20
Requires all federal workers to return to full time, in-person work.
Restoring Accountability for Career Senior Executives: Jan. 20
Increases reviewing of senior executive service officials and makes it easier to fire, demote or reassign them at the president's discretion.
Reforming the Federal Hiring Process and Restoring Merit to Government Service: Jan. 20
Enacts a Federal Hiring Plan, prioritizing recruitment based on loyalty to the American republic and excluding hires based on race, sex or religion. It also blocks those unwilling to defend the Constitution from employment.
Hiring Freeze: Jan. 20
Feezes the hiring of federal employees with exceptions for immigration, border enforcement, military jobs and essential services. It excludes top presidential appointees and bars contracting to bypass the freeze.
Regulatory Freeze Pending Review: Jan 20
Blocks new federal rules and regulations unless approved by Trump-appointed agency heads; White House Office of Budget and Management can override in emergencies.
Restoring Accountability to Policy-Influencing Positions Within the Federal Workforce: Jan 20
Reinstate easier firing of federal workers from the first Trump administration, requiring employees to implement policies faithfully or face dismissal.
President Trump Announces Sub-Cabinet Appointments: Jan 20
Nominates Cabinet and sub-Cabinet officers, including acting officials awaiting Senate confirmation.
HEALTHCARE
Withdrawing The United States From The World Health Organization: Jan. 20
The U.S. will withdraw from the World Health Organization and will revoke Executive Order of 13987 from Jan. 25, 2021, the U.S. government's plan to combat COVID-19. Additionally, directs the secretary of state and OMB to find alternative partners to replace the U.S. relationship with WHO.
Initial Rescissions of Harmful Executive Orders and Actions: Jan. 20
Repeals Biden's directives on Medicaid, Affordable Care Act enrollment, and lowering prescription drug costs for Americans. Additionally, repeal Biden-era COVID-19 orders and directives.
FOREIGN POLICY AND NATIONAL SECURITY
Protecting The United States From Foreign Terrorists And Other National Security And Public Safety Threats: Jan. 20
Will establish a more thorough search of non-citizens during the visa issuance process.
Organization of the National Security Council and Subcommittees: Jan. 20
Establishes the roles and responsibilities of the National Security Council.
Reevaluating And Realigning United States Foreign Aid: Jan. 20
Aims to align United States foreign assistance and aid with American interests and that of the foreign policy of the President of the United States
Reevaluating And Realigning United States Foreign Aid: Jan 20
Pauses U.S. foreign development aid for 90 days to review efficiency and alignment with administration goals.
Memorandum to Resolve the Backlog of Security Clearances for Executive Office of the President Personnel: Jan 20
Grants six-month temporary security clearances to certain officials pending background checks.
Fact Sheet: President Donald J. Trump Re-designates the Houthis as a Foreign Terrorist Organization: Jan 22
Redesignates Yemen's Houthis as a terrorist organization, reversing Biden's decision.
NATIONALISM
Restoring Names That Honor American Greatness: Jan. 20
Reinstates the name of North America's tallest peak to Mount McKinley, honoring President William McKinley, reversing the Obama Administration's 2015 decision to name it Mount Denali.
Promoting Beautiful Federal Civic Architecture: Jan 20
Trump to personally approve new federal building standards to ensure they reflect traditional and classical architectural styles.
THE DEATH PENALTY AND CRIME
Restoring the Death Penalty and Protecting Public Safety: Jan. 20
Directs the attorney general to ensure states have sufficient lethal injection drugs and seeks reversals of Supreme Court rulings limiting the death penalty. Additionally, directs the attorney general to encourage state and district attorneys to pursue the death penalty in all applicable cases. Furthermore, directs the attorney general to explore charging 37 federal prisoners with capital crimes in state courts after Biden commuted their sentences.
THE CAPITOL RIOTS AND 2020 ELECTION
Offenses Relating to the Events at or Near the United States Capitol on January 6, 2021: Jan. 20
Grants pardons to individuals convicted or still being prosecuted for their involvement in the January 6 Capitol riot. As well as reviewing federal agencies' actions under Biden to identify any "weaponization" of government against Trump supporters, with a report and remedial recommendations.
Restoring Freedom of Speech and Ending Federal Censorship: Jan 20
Investigates U.S. government interactions with social media platforms during Biden's tenure, with recommendations on addressing perceived censorship.
Holding Former Government Officials Accountable for Election Interference and Improper Disclosure Of Sensitive Governmental Information: Jan 20
Revokes security clearances for 50 people, including former intelligence officials, accused of aiding Biden's campaign through a public statement on Hunter Biden's laptop. Additionally, directs intelligence leaders to submit a report within 90 days on preventing election interference within the Intelligence Community and potential disciplinary actions.
Editor-in-Chief: Jordan Premmer, Chief Copy Editor: Sophia McCrackin, Managing Editor: Jordan DelFiugo, Opinion Editor: Dakota Duran, Scene Editor: Elina Graham
Author
San Francisco Foghorn View all posts

Load-Date: February 22, 2025


End of Document
