




FSView & Florida Flambeau: Florida State University
February 27, 2025 Thursday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: VIEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 956 words
Byline: Clara Celedon
Body


In compliance with an executive order issued by President Donald Trump following his inauguration, the Department of Education's Office for Civil Rights recently issued a nationwide mandate that gives schools and universities two weeks to dismantle all race-based programs and preferences regarding admissions, hiring, scholarships and more, or they risk losing federal funding.
The order hinges on the recent precedent set by the Supreme Court in its ruling against "the use of racial preferences in college admissions" in the Students for Fair Admissions v Harvard case, which effectively ended affirmative action in 2023. Under this interpretation, the Trump Administration argues that all institutional recognitions of race in operations must also cease. 
Florida's Department of Education supported this order in a statement released on Feb. 17 in which the department and the Florida Commissioner for Education, Manny Diaz Jr., "applaud the Trump Administration for taking a stand against racial discrimination and stereotyping in education."
Most of us agree that racial stereotyping and discrimination have no place in society, regardless of your stance on diversity, equity and inclusion practices. Yet the goals, guidelines and actions outlined in the nationwide letter reflect a broader attempt to censor and stifle discourse on how different communities experience discrimination.
The letter asserts that DEI initiatives implemented by academic institutions in recent years have "indoctrinated students with the false premise that the United States is built on 'systemic and structural racism.'" 
As DEI has its roots in the Civil Rights Movement of the 1960s when former President Lyndon B. Johnson signed Executive Order 11246 that forbade employment discrimination and outlined measures for affirmative action, critiquing it with intentions to suppress dissent proves dangerous. 
In a time, not long ago, when marginalized communities did experience "systemic and structural racism", the Civil Rights Movement stood as one of the most revolutionary movements for human rights in human history, radically shifting society towards recognition of this reality and demanding change. The changes that followed, including DEI initiatives, aimed to address the cultural and economic differences felt by these communities and resulted from actions taken by the United States government that remain its responsibility to rectify. 
Taking steps to relieve this responsibility, devaluing this history and insisting that what it speaks to is false suggests an attempt to censor and shape discussions of the past, and its significance in the present, in asserting that educational emphasis on alternative perspectives is indoctrinating.
Such censorship mirrors the attack on "indoctrinating" education already felt in Florida following the state-mandated removal of DEI programs and curriculums through the Stop WOKE Act and Senate Bill 266 signed in 2022 and 2023, respectively. On Feb. 12, all FSU students received an email informing them of changes made to the general education course inventory that removed 432 courses, including "Theories of African American Studies" and "LGBTQ History," from the list.
While these courses may still be offered as electives or within related major curriculums, their removal from the general education course list under the claim that they "violate Florida law regarding prohibited discrimination" and are "based on theories that systemic racism, sexism, oppression and privilege are inherent in the institutions of the United States" suggests that critiquing U.S. history has become discriminatory.
"In history, when certain subjects are trying to be silenced, it's usually not a good sign about what we're trying to do with our future," Isabel Urquiza-Stubbs, a freshman studying animation, said. "Education should be education. It shouldn't be political and everybody should be informed on everything."
Other students disagree with the ways in which DEI sets certain communities apart in society, but believe that its removal is not the answer. 
"I think coming into this saying 'We are others' and trying to include us through that is bad, but trying to erase the attempt to put us into this sphere is even more harmful," Leah Sauceda, a sophomore studying history and international affairs said.
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion programs are not a perfect solution, and it's true that they often enforce racial consciousness and solidify distinctions between different groups. Yet in eliminating the room to even have the conversation without claims of discrimination, the United States risks losing the revolutionary social progress that DEI initially aimed to continue.
The world in which I grew up, and expected to grow into, was one of acceptance, tolerance and change. I remember finding it funny how society and its messages seemed to simultaneously advocate for sameness and diversity, with statements like "let's celebrate our differences," and "everyone is the same on the inside," pushed everywhere with the end goal of ensuring peaceful coexistence for the diverse perspectives that contribute to and characterize America. 
The pendulum swung back somewhere along the way, and it's disheartening to see efforts become demonized for being inclusive in name. While dissent for DEI and its efficiency should be considered, a discussion is a two-way street and attempts to stifle one side of the narrative are dangerous when they involve the realities of millions of Americans. 
If the United States seeks to adequately address the social tension spurred in recent years as a result of DEI, it must create a space for discourse on history, lived experiences and all perspectives free from censorship.

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
