



MailOnline
February 18, 2025 Tuesday 4:20 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 1309 words
Byline: James Reinl Reuters
Body


READ MORE: The public college that blows $13M on DEI and fighting 'whiteness'
Former President Joe Biden's controversial diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) policies delivered some gains for black businesspeople, but often failed to land them federal government contracts, executives and experts have said.
President Donald Trump in January signed two executive orders against equal opportunities in the workplace, after framing DEI as harmful to white men in his election campaign.
Casey Cooper, a black woman who runs a long-haul trucking business, a male-dominated field, says Biden's DEI efforts didn't level the playing field for black entrepreneurs.
'DEI isn't for us,' she said.
'It looks good on paper, but that money doesn't go to us anyway.'
Cooper grew her business for 11 years, long-hauling products from her home state of Virginia to Florida before landing her first federal contract in 2017.
She has since secured nearly $6 million in federal contracts.
Now, the Trump rollback of DEI initiatives threatens to erode even the modest progress made under Biden in granting contracts to black-owned businesses. 
Wendell Stemleysays a 'good old boy network' keeps black businesses out of federal contracts
President Donald Trump nixed federal DEI efforts in a flurry of executive orders upon taking office 
That's according to 10 experts in DEI, government contracts and public policy and advocacy group leaders interviewed by Reuters.
Trump signed two executive orders in January that directed agencies and staff to repeal prior executive orders designed to ensure equal opportunity in the workplace.
The exact implications of the orders are unclear, experts, contractors and trade association leaders say.
'Many of these business owners feel disillusioned, betrayed, and deeply concerned about the future of their enterprises,' said Ken Harris, president and chief executive of the National Business League, a trade association for black-owned businesses.
'DEI policies, while far from perfect, provided a semblance of opportunity in an otherwise exclusionary system.'
In December 2021, the Biden White House bolstered DEI efforts by asking federal agencies to direct at least 11 percent of federal contract dollars to small disadvantaged businesses, with the goal of reaching 15 percent by 2025.
That category includes black, Latino and other minority-owned ventures.
For the previous five years, small disadvantaged businesses had received an average of 9.8 percent of contract dollars.
The results have been mixed.
Although small disadvantaged businesses overall received slightly more than 12 percent of contract dollars in 2023, black-owned businesses accounted for only 1.61 percent of those contracts, government data show.
Students calling for diversity efforts protest outside the US Supreme Court in Washington
Drexel Johnson, a black general engineering contractor with the state of California, says future opportunities look slim 
Black-owned firms received an even smaller slice of the pie last year, 1.54 percent of $637 billion in small business-eligible federal contracting, according to the data.
In both years, the vast majority of federal contracts went to large companies.
Nine black business owners and trade association representatives blamed structural barriers including challenges raising capital to secure big jobs and the growing size of federal contracts, which tends to favor large companies.
'Over more than a decade, contracts have been getting larger and larger, and fewer and fewer,' said Isabel Guzman, who headed the Small Business Administration under Biden and oversaw federal contracting programs for minority-owned businesses.
'It gets more difficult for small firms to get in and get the experience they need to become federal prime contractors.'
The Trump White House did not respond to requests for clarification about its new policies.
DEI advocates say programs advancing minority-owned businesses are critical to remedy decades-long discrimination.
Trump and his supporters say DEI programs unfairly discriminate against other Americans - including white people and men - and weaken the importance of candidates' merit in job hiring or promotion.
Trump also rescinded a 1965 executive order signed by President Lyndon B. Johnson that prohibited employment discrimination based on race, color, religion and national origin by federal contractors.
The new policy requires federal contractors to certify that they don't operate any DEI programs deemed 'illegal' by the administration.
Rev. Al Sharpton, a veteran civil rights campaigner, showing support for Costco's DEI policies at a branch in East Harlem, New York 
That is likely to end government pressure on companies to diversify their ranks, said David Glasgow, a DEI expert at NYU School of Law.
It also creates uncertainty for contracting firms, he said.
'I think part of the intention behind this executive order is to be deliberately opaque about that, in order to sow confusion and panic among contractors,' Glasgow said.
When asked to comment, White House Principal Deputy Press Secretary Harrison Fields said there should be no confusion around Trump's orders.
'He received a resounding mandate from 77 million voters who overwhelmingly chose him to restore common-sense policies, reestablish America's dominance on the world stage, and strengthen the economy,' said Fields.
Patricia Sigers, a black woman who owns a five-person construction firm that has done work for Maxwell Air Force Base in Alabama, said she'd struggled to get the 'performance bond' typically required for construction jobs.
Performance bonds are issued by insurance companies and provide assurance to a client that a construction firm will complete its job.
The larger the job, the larger the performance bond, and as contracts balloon in size, small business owners like Sigers get shut out of the bidding process, she said.
'White men can get a bond quicker than we can get a bond because they have been in business long enough to accumulate the wealth that is needed to get it,' Sigers said.
Wendell Stemley, the owner of Black IPO Construction Management in San Diego and president of the National Association of Minority Contractors said a 'good old boy network' was keeping minority contractors away from government projects.
Stemley also described a false narrative about the effectiveness of initiatives designed to help black and other minority contractors.
'People want you to believe that, oh, the government got this big minority business program to give blacks these multitude of contracts,' he said.
Pennsylvania State Senator Art Haywood, center, and others hold a news conference to condemn the Trump administration's rollback of DEI
'That's just not the way it works.'
Stemley has requested a meeting with Secretary of Transportation Sean Duffy, whose department hires contractors for infrastructure projects, and plans to inquire about meeting with Trump.
He described the lack of contracting opportunities for black and other minority business owners as a 'bipartisan failure,' citing the need for more minority workforce training and better compliance by prime contractors.
Other leaders of minority-focused trade associations are considering legal challenges to the Trump orders and bringing in legal advisers to speak with members.
They also plan to meet with lawmakers to make the case for maintaining DEI efforts, Harris of the National Business League, said.
Drexel Johnson, a black general engineering contractor with the state of California, expressed frustration with previous administrations over the limited prospects for black contractors and the possible risk to future opportunities.
'If you take away the little bit of progress that we've gotten over the years, that's not fair.'
In 2023, 14.4 percent of the US population identified as black, according to Pew Research Center data.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Web Publication

Journal Code: WEBDM

Subject: MINORITY BUSINESSES (93%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (92%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (91%); DIVERSITY & INCLUSION (90%); DIVERSITY & INCLUSION REGULATION & POLICY (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); COMPANY ACTIVITIES & MANAGEMENT (89%); COMPANY STRUCTURES & OWNERSHIP (89%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (89%); GOVERNMENT BODIES & OFFICES (89%); MINORITY BUSINESS CONTRACTING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); GOVERNMENT & PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (78%); MINORITY GROUPS (78%); NEGATIVE MISC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS & AUTHORITIES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); MEN (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (69%); ENGINEERING (68%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (50%)

Industry: PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); TRUCKING (75%); ENGINEERING (68%)

Person: DONALD TRUMP (89%); JOE BIDEN (79%)

Geographic: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); UNITED STATES (92%)

Load-Date: February 18, 2025


End of Document
