



The Guardian (London)
February 1, 2025 Saturday 2:00 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved


Section: OPINION; Version:2
Length: 1370 words
Byline: Arwa Mahdawi
Highlight: When asked about his plans to visit the crash site, Trump made a joke: ‘The water ? You want me to go swimming?’
Body


                   Maga is blaming ‘dwarves’ and trans people for the Washington crash                   
Every day, the world seems to get stupider and stupider and our leaders seem to get nastier and nastier. Nobody expects empathy or accuracy from Donald Trump but, even by the extremely low standards to which he is held, his reaction to the   that killed 67 people on Wednesday night was shocking.
The collision between an American Airlines passenger jet and a US army Black Hawk helicopter was the first fatal commercial airline crash in the US since 2009 and the first national tragedy to occur since Trump’s inauguration. It should have been a moment of national unity, a moment of national mourning. (And, Trump, let us remember, promised during his inauguration speech that he was going be a “peacemaker and unifier”.) The president’s reaction to this horrible loss of life wasn’t to do any unifying, however. It was to engage in divisive finger-pointing. We won’t know the complete details about what caused the crash for a while, but that didn’t stop Trump from speculating wildly.
“We do not know what led to this crash, but we have some very strong opinions and ideas,” Trump said at a news conference on Thursday. He then went on to dish out blame to everyone except himself. It was Joe Biden’s fault, he said. It was Obama’s fault! It was Pete Buttigieg’s fault! It was the fault of diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) programs! Trump spent a lot of time discussing the Federal Aviation Administration’s DEI initiatives and, when asked if he thought the collision was the result of diversity hiring, said: “   ”
Trump isn’t the only one using a tragedy to attack DEI programs. Fox’s Jesse Watters said on Wednesday that the crash may have been the result of the Obama-Biden administration trying to give jobs to “   ” and “people with transgender issues”.
JD Vance has similarly insinuated that even if they can’t find any minorities or women to directly blame for the crash, it was still somehow the fault of DEI. “When you don’t have the best standards in who you’re hiring, it means on the one hand, you’re not getting the best people in government,” the vice-president .  “But on the other hand, it puts stresses on the people who are already there.”
This sort of rhetoric isn’t just disgusting; it puts people at risk. Viral posts have been circulating online falsely identifying Jo Ellis, a transgender pilot with the Virginia national guard, as one of the pilots of the Black Hawk helicopter. One account spreading the lies   : “So now that the pilot of the Blackhawk has been identified as Jo Ellis, a transgender woman, can we admit Trump was right about the entire thing, or is it too soon?” Poor Ellis has had to   as “proof of life” in response to these posts.
The fact that the Maga crowd immediately blamed DEI for this tragedy is depressingly predictable. It’s been a longstanding talking point among Trumpers that DEI is to blame for all the ills of the world. When there was a safety incident on a Boeing plane last year, for example, Elon Musk   about how the aviation industry had “prioritized DEI hiring over safety”. He also seemed to endorse a racist tweet suggesting students at historically Black colleges and universities (HBCUs) have lower IQs and therefore shouldn’t become pilots.
To be clear, this is what the Trump crowd’s obsession with DEI is really about: plain old bigotry. Elon Musk has called DEI “   ”, and he is right, just not in the way he thinks. DEI has become a slur; a nasty euphemism for Black people, brown people, LGBTQ+ people and everyone else Trumpers hate. What the Maga crowd seem to be saying every time they talk about DEI and meritocracy is that they think white people, particularly white men, are innately superior to everyone else. What they are saying is that they think the least qualified white man is still more qualified than the most qualified woman of colour.
This sort of attitude didn’t originate with Trump, to be fair. Almost 20 years ago, I remember one of my peers calling me a “diversity hire” to my face when he found out I’d got a job at a law firm he had been rejected from. He simply couldn’t believe there was a scenario in which I might have beaten him on merit. Still, while this attitude may not be new, what’s different now is the extent to which DEI is being used as a slur by influential figures. What’s different now is the glee with which large corporations are axing their DEI programs, relieved not to have to pretend to care about inclusivity or equity any more.
Then again, the likes of Trump don’t care about anything other than themselves, do they? Trump certainly doesn’t seem to care about the 67 people who died in the plane crash.  , he made a sarcastic joke: “The water ? You want me to go swimming?” Honestly, yes. Please go for a very long swim. As the Brits   : get in the sea!
                   Astronomer Vera Rubin’s federal bio altered to omit DEI references                   
The Trump administration’s war against DEI is so wide-ranging that the federal webpage for an observatory named for the late astronomer Vera Rubin   about how she’d advocated for more women in science and how science is still a male-dominated field.
                   Elon Musk’s mummy thinks her precious child should sue the Guardian                   
Maye Musk   that people are still talking about  , which he insists was completely innocent.
                   Marianne Faithfull, icon of British pop, dies aged 78                   
Faithfull lived an extraordinary life but her reputation took a hit after she was discovered wrapped in a fur rug during a 1967 police search of Keith Richards’ house. “It destroyed me,” .  “To be a male drug addict and to act like that is always enhancing and glamorising. A woman in that situation becomes a slut and a bad mother.”
                   Two-year-old girl shot in the head by Israeli forces during a raid on the West Bank                   
There has been very little coverage of   in the western media.
Haaretz’s editorial board, however,   with the headline: “The IDF Will Shoot Children in the West Bank, So Long as There’s a Sham Investigation.”
                   Hind Rajab was brutally killed a year ago and there has still been no justice                   
Not only has Hind’s death  , Trump has made it harder to talk about her death with an executive order that would seem to punish virtually all speech . 
                   Is Facebook censoring posts about abortion pills?                   
It certainly  , although Meta has denied any change in policy.
                   ‘Epidemic’ of violence against women and girls in UK is getting worse                   
A   that government attempts to tackle misogynistic violence are hampered by poor coordination. It called violence against women and girls a “significant and growing problem” affecting . 
                   Afghanistan women’s cricket team offer hope for future                   
The players are refugees who now live in Australia and just   under the Afghanistan banner since the Taliban seized power in 2021. You don’t have to know anything about cricket to appreciate this   about how this match came about.
                   The week in pawtriarchy                   
Justice for Fuzai! China’s first-ever corgi police dog   after he was caught sleeping on the job and .  Fuzai, an explosive-detection dog, was also reprimanded for looking fed up at work. Still, he’s probably looking a little happier now. After pressure from his many fans, it seems Fuzai may have got his bonus in the end. Paws well that ends well.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Journal Code: WEBGNS

Subject: AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (92%); MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN MOVEMENT (90%); GENDER IDENTITY (89%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (89%); DIVERSITY & INCLUSION (86%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); US ARMY (78%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY & INCLUSION (78%); MINORITY GROUPS (75%); REPORTS, REVIEWS & SECTIONS (74%); ARMIES (72%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

Company:  AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%)

Industry: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (92%); AIRLINES (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (89%); US ARMY (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (77%); HELICOPTERS (77%); ARMIES (72%)

Person: BARACK OBAMA (79%); DONALD TRUMP (79%); JOE BIDEN (79%); J D VANCE (74%)

Geographic: WASHINGTON DC, USA (92%); UNITED STATES (94%)

Load-Date: February 3, 2025


End of Document
