




The New York Times
January 25, 2025 Saturday
Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2025 The New York Times Company
Section: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2
Length: 455 words
Byline: By Associated Press and Reuters
Body


AVIATION
Boeing Took $3 Billion Hit After Strike and Job Cuts 
  Boeing Co. said it incurred nearly $3 billion worth of charges in the fourth quarter of 2024 due to a lengthy labor stoppage, job cuts and problems with a number of government programs.
  As a result, the Chicago-based aerospace giant said Thursday that it will report a loss of $5.46 per share next week when it issues its full financial results. Wall Street had been expecting a fourth-quarter loss of $1.80 per share.
  The sizable loss caps a rough year for Boeing. A strike by the machinists who assemble the 737 Max, along with the 777 jet and the 767 cargo plane at factories in Washington halted production at those sites and hampered Boeing's delivery capability.
  The walkout ended after more than seven weeks when the company agreed to pay raises and improved benefits.
  The aerospace giant also announced previously it would reduce its work force by 10 percent. ASSOCIATED PRESS
  ECONOMY
  Consumer Sentiment Dips Amid Higher Price Fears
  U.S. consumer sentiment weakened in January for the first time in six months amid worries about the labor market and potential higher prices for goods if President Donald Trump's new administration presses ahead with planned tariffs on imports.
  The University of Michigan said on Friday that its Consumer Sentiment Index fell to 71.1 this month from a preliminary reading of 73.2 and 74.0 in December. Economists polled by Reuters had expected an unchanged reading. The final survey was closed on Monday, the day when Trump was inaugurated.
  The decline in sentiment was broad-based and seen across income, wealth and age groups.
  Consumers' one-year inflation expectations were at 3.3 percent, up from 2.8 percent in December. The 12-month inflation expectations are now above the 2.3 percent to 3.0 percent range. REUTERS
  INTERNATIONAL
  Italian Bank Launches Bid To Take Over Larger Peer
  Italian bank Monte dei Paschi di Siena announced Friday it was launching a 13.3 billion euro ($13.9 billion) takeover bid for larger peer Mediobanca in a surprise move that could reshape the country's banking sector.
  The offer values shares in investment bank Mediobanca at 15.99 euros each, a 5 percent premium on their closing price Thursday.
  Monte Paschi, Italy's oldest bank, has a market capitalization of about 9 billion euros, while Mediobanca's market value is about 12.7 billion euros.
  Under the terms of the offer, Mediobanca investors would receive 23 shares in Monte Paschi for every 10 Mediobanca shares they hold.
  The buyout offer comes after the Italian government moved to re-privatize the once-troubled bank whose largest shareholder has been the Treasury since an expensive bailout in 2017. ASSOCIATED PRESS



Graphic

 
PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALLISON DINNER/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK) This article appeared in print on page B2.               

Load-Date: January 25, 2025


End of Document
