




Fox News JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME 8:00 PM EST
February 21, 2025 Friday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6839 words
Byline: Jesse Watters, Joe Concha, Adam Klotz
Guests: Markwayne Mullin, Thomas Homan, Lydia Moynihan
Body


LAURA INGRAHAM, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST, "THE INGRAHAM ANGLE": What a week, another week, another flurry of events in Washington and beyond, and we were there to cover all of it for you.
That's it for us tonight. Make sure to follow me on social media all weekend long. There'll be a lot posted tonight and tomorrow night.
Thank you for watching.
Remember, it is America now and forever, and Jesse Watters takes it all from here.
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST, "JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME": Welcome to JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME.
Tonight --
REP. ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ (D-NY): He's running around because he thinks he's got a bank account with a lot of zeros in it that it makes him some kind of super citizen. I don't think so. This is America.
WATTERS: The DOGE war is heating up.
SEAN DUFFY, U.S. DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION SECRETARY: They have every right to be angry, just not at us.
JOHN ROBERTS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL ANCHOR: The DOJ may be releasing the list of Jeffrey Epstein's clients. Will that really happen?
PAM BONDI, U.S. ATTORNEY GENERAL: It's sitting on my desk right now to review, that's been a directive.
WATTERS: Who's on the Epstein client list? Dunt-dunt-dunt.
STEPHEN A. SMITH, HOST, "THE STEPHEN A. SMITH SHOW": Do you realize, James Carville that that means they shouldn't have listened to you either? I saw you on Fox News. I saw you on CNN. I saw you on your podcast. Where the hell you think I got some of the stuff from?
WATTERS: Trump dividing and conquering the Democrats.
SMITH: You thought I was finished? I've got more. I've got more.
WATTERS: Plus --
DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: They're extraordinary with computers. They make love to their computer. I said, I don't want to hear about that.
WATTERS: Elon's nerd army is having fun, maybe a little too much fun.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: I said, what trait do they really have? And the trait that they really have was that they're extraordinary with computers. They can take them. He said they make love to their computer. I said, I don't want to hear about that. It doesn't sound too --
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: I don't care what Big Balls does to his computer, whatever he's doing is working.
AOC, on the other hand, not satisfied. She wants to know who Big Balls thinks he is.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
OCASIO-CORTEZ: Every day, our job is to wake up and say, what can I do today? There is no act too small that that does not matter. Every single action matters.
And so when they try to come in, make them. Make them show a warrant, make them show a document, make them assert their authority.
Ask them, who are you? Who are you? Because at the end of the day, they're no one.
And he is running around because he thinks he's got a bank account with a lot of zeros in it, that it makes him some kind of super citizen. I don't think so.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Who do you trust with your money? A guy with a bank account full of zeros, or a lady who rents an apartment with her fiance and earmarks $500,000.00 for an anti-racist oyster reef in Queens. Don't eat oysters off the coast of Queens. It's just commonsense.
Like, why have we spent $16 billion for California's high speed rail, and there's still no rail? They're over a decade behind schedule, and they keep asking for more money.
So this California Republican said, enough is enough, and liberals response was rational. They hit her with a tomato.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KTTV REPORTER: Activists at LA's Union Station chant, "Build that rail."
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Democracy is almost dead.
KTTV REPORTER: One dressed as a dinosaur. Another appears to throw a tomato at a Republican assembly member.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Who is going to pick our tomatoes? -- we heard when Trump shut down the border, apparently, anti-DOGErs dressed as dinosaurs are.
Secretary of Transportation Sean Duffy showed up with a message for them. Listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DUFFY: I want to address the protesters for a moment if I could. I think they were chanting, "Build the rail." It's been 17 years and $16 billion and no rail has been built.
So if you want to go protest somewhere, if you want to shout at someone, go to the Governor's Mansion. Go talk to Democrats in the Legislature who have brought us this crappy project.
We're done with it. And you know what? You're going to have people who love fraud, who love waste, who love trains to nowhere.
This is a boondoggle. They should ask the question, who didn't build my rail? Who got rich? What consultants? What politicians? What politicians' Husbands got rich off of this money?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: California handed a bunch of politically collected contractors $16 billion almost 20 years ago, and there's no train, but Biden just kept sending checks with no questions asked. He's a train guy.
But you can't just keep pumping money into a boondoggle, you've got to pull the plug, and that's what Duffy did. California is on their own.
Trump is forcing the left to be pro-fraud, waste and abuse and boondoggle. Listen to the media.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REPORTER: Americans voted for you on immigration and the economy, but the voters say they're angry and frustrated by these firings, they don't like the work of Elon Musk and these other actions.
What do you say?
TRUMP: Who do you work for?
REPORTER: I work for ABC News, sir.
TRUMP: Who?
REPORTER: ABC News.
TRUMP: No wonder.
Let me just tell you, let me just tell you that I have today the highest poll numbers I've ever had. They like the job that we're doing. They like the job that Elon is doing. He's doing something that a lot of people wouldn't have the courage to do.
We want to streamline our country. We want to streamline because you know why? Because we want our country to survive and thrive, and we're finding billions and billions of dollars of waste, fraud and abuse -- billions, and I mean numbers like you wouldn't believe, and we haven't even started yet.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: For so many years, Republicans have been scared to cut spending and fire bureaucrats because of the blowback.
Trump's been shot, and if he lost the last election, he'd be in jail. He's not worried about political blowback. He's doing it because it's the right thing to do.
He is invincible to the hurricane of negativity from the legacy press. This should be the playbook going forward, and Republicans don't have to get shot to do it.
You campaign on something, you win, and you do it. That's what Thomas Jefferson had in mind, and if the press doesn't like it, sorry guys, elections have consequences.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: I love how the media takes a few critics when the overwhelming response from the American people is support for what this administration is doing.
I think all Americans would agree that funding mastectomies in Mozambique is not something that the American people should be funding, or DEI programs.
I think it's fraudulent that the American government has been ripping off taxpayers in this way.
Why is the media so against cutting waste, fraud and abuse from the government? I don't get it. We won't be deterred. We will not be deterred from people like you in the press who are clearly adamantly opposed to cutting waste, fraud and abuse.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: We shut down the entire country for two years, three, and the Democrats loved it. They wanted to keep it shut down longer. No one worked. The schools closed.
Whole government agencies stopped functioning, and now we're shutting down, what -- less than one percent of the government, only the government, not the U.S. economy, and Democrats are calling it a Civil War.
Entire agencies for the whole pandemic, they weren't issuing any new regulations. They weren't approving new permits. The Durham investigation just stopped for a year. No one was even going to federal court.
The only people who worked in the government were essential employees. Everybody else stayed home. Ninety percent of the government wasn't essential. Now, all of a sudden, everyone's essential? Everyone? How'd that happen? They're still not going into the office.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KELLY LOEFFLER, U.S. SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION ADMINISTRATOR: Hi, everyone. Kelly Loeffler. It's my second day here at the SBA. I could not be more excited to be here, so I thought I'd take a walk, and what I found is that exactly what's been said is true, about 90 percent of our employees are working from home.
Well, that ends Monday with President Trump's order to return to work.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Trump has a mandate to modernize American government, and in the course of that process, we're finding a sickening level of corruption and kickbacks.
American voters didn't vote for pork. The politicians took our money, and that's what they turned it into.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. RAND PAUL (R-KY): President Trump came to town, a new way of thinking. They're shuttering agencies. They're shutting people down. They're finding things like $2 million spent in Guatemala for sex changes. $3 million spent in Brazil for a girl-centric climate change. $4.8 million spent in Ukraine for social media influencers.
While you're at it, we spent, not we, but the people who vote for this, I voted against all of this, but the members of the Senate who voted for this spent several thousand dollars sending designers in Ukraine to the fashion show in Paris.
It goes on and on.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Why are we handing Ukrainians five million bucks to make TikToks? Is that what? For war propaganda? Because you can do it for a lot less than $5 million. Kamala doesn't even pay influencers that much money.
We're sending Ukrainian designers to Paris Fashion Week? Is that like a sex trafficking operation? Because it sounds pretty Jeffrey Epstein.
Overnight, Elon's team DOGE'd 95 bad contracts, saving you $115 million, but Democrats say, eh, fraud, it's not a big deal.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
CHARLAMAGNE THA GOD, "THE BREAKFAST CLUB" HOST: There is a lot of waste, fraud and abuse in the federal government.
REP. JASMINE CROCKETT (D-TX): I'm not going to say that there's a lot. I'm going to say that it does exist. I'm going to say that it exists. I don't think that there's a lot.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: No? Crockett should ask folks on the street about spending $20 million for Iraqi Sesame Street. We did.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOHNNY BELISARIO, ASSOCIATE PRODUCER, FOX NEWS MEDIA: He found that we're spending $20 million on Sesame Street in Iraq.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Sesame Street in Iraq? Where's Sesame Street supposed to -- I think all the kids know their one, two, three, and A, B, Cs.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What? That's nuts.
UNIDENTIFIED MALES: Twenty million dollars on Elmo?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Hell no.
BELISARIO: Do you want to spend your tax paying dollars on Sesame Street in Iraq?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Sesame Street in Iraq?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: The way this works is we vote for politicians, and politicians vote to spend money. The politicians will say, yes, we'll give $40 billion to foreign aid, but they're not itemizing everything. Like, oh, yes, I want $16 million for a Climate Change Institute for transsexuals in Transylvania. No. Some unelected bureaucrat is deciding that.
And if your house just burnt down in Pacific Palisades, and you hear we're throwing money out the window like this, you're going to have a heart attack.
DOGE is just doing what families all do, tightening their belts when the credit card is maxed out. These layoffs aren't personal. They're not even really political. It's basic arithmetic.
We're sorry if some federal employees might lose their job, we are, but they work for us. And clearly, $36 trillion later, it's not working.
One DOGE'd government scientists complained saying, they're presenting us as trophies. No, that's what Soros, Jr. does with politicians he owns. A bought and sold politician, now that's a trophy. Look at that.
No one is holding you up to the cameras like a big mouth bass. Everyone got offered buyouts. Everyone from the government has been working from home for four years. It's time to move on like the rest of the country did a long time ago.
Next stop, the Post Office.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: We want to have a Post Office that works well and doesn't lose massive amounts of money, and we're thinking about doing that, and it will be a form of a merger, but it will remain the Postal Service, and I think it will operate a lot better than it has been over the years.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Commerce is going to swallow up the Post Office, just like State swallowed up USAID. All of these agencies freelancing are out-of-control. It is costing us billions. They're operating like foreign countries within our own government.
Trump is licking his chops over Fort Knox.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: All my life, I've heard about Fort Knox, that's where the gold is kept, right? I heard Fort Knox, but, you know, we're getting a little bit shaky. We're getting the yips on this stuff, like I want to find out.
So we're going to open up the doors. I'm going to see if we have gold there. We want to find out.
Did anybody steal the gold in Fort Knox? It's a pretty amazing place, but I'm going to actually go. We're going to open the doors, we're going to inspect Fort Knox. We want to make sure that we actually have, you know, 400 tons of gold, or whatever the hell it is. It's a lot of gold.
I don't want to open it and the cupboards are bare.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: There better be gold in that vault, or else there's no Golden Age. My wife used to work in the gold business, and they used to do annual vault checks in person to verify the physical gold was in the vault. It's basic due diligence. But somehow Fort Knox goes years without a spot check.
All of these directives that Trump is putting in place can be wiped out by the next president. So Congress is going to set it into concrete.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. MIKE JOHNSON (R-LA): The President is over 300 executive actions already, and we're going to codify so much of what he's doing so that the next team can't unwind it.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Republicans control Washington, so now it's time to get serious. So when the Republicans lay out this year's budget, everything DOGE is doing is going to be worthless if they don't get it together.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PAUL: If we were fiscally conservative, why wouldn't we take the savings from Elon Musk and DOGE and move it over here and help with the border? Why would we be doing a brand new bill to increase spending by $340 billion?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Republicans have a golden opportunity to use Chainsaw Musk. We've been given a gift.
Musk even gave himself a deadline, a year-and-a-half and then he's going to go back to colonizing Mars.
Trump is not running again, so there shouldn't be any fear. So let these young men make love to their computers for the good of the country.
Senator Markwayne Mullin is here.
Now, all right, Senator, let's start with Fort Knox. Why are people suspicious that there's no gold?
SEN. MARKWAYNE MULLIN (R-OK): Well, when you haven't checked it in so long, why wouldn't you? Now, I'm pretty confident it's going to be there, but that's how low the faith of the American people has in the government right now, and that what you're seeing is President Trump's approval ratings through the roof. Even CBS, which is awfully obviously pretty liberal, even CBS says that 70 percent of American people think that President Trump is doing exactly what he said.
And by going and inspecting it and saying, hey, yes, it's there, or exposing that it's not, I think the American people want to know, and I'm actually one of them as well.
WATTERS: So do you know how this works? I know you're new in the Senate, but is this how it works? You guys vote for funding for a big agency, but you don't actually go in there and write in little handheld things like, I want $16 million for sex changes in Guatemala. You don't do that. Some rando bureaucrat decides that, right?
MULLIN: Well, we can dive in deep into this, Jesse, because before when we had what they called "earmarks," they were actually line item appropriations, which is what every state in the Union actually does, line item appropriations.
When we took away line item appropriations, which lot of people call earmarks, which they did get really abused, they actually took out line item appropriations as well.
So what Congress has been doing since the late 90s is we bundle money, we give to the agency, and we say, spend it however you want. But by the way, we're going to ask you to spend it a certain way, and it doesn't work.
WATTERS: All right, so they're just abusing their power these agencies, and they're running amuck.
MULLIN: Yes. Well, you see it, that's what DOGE is doing, it is exposing them absolutely abusing the taxpayer dollars.
WATTERS: Are you hearing from constituents? Oh, I've been DOGEd or this is just like, you know, he's taking a chainsaw. This is not elegant. This is destroying Oklahoma.
MULLIN: No, we've heard from some, especially in the Fish and Wildlife Department, but the ones we hear from, they understand what's happening and why it's taking place. What is very upsetting to me is that you've got the left media and you've got the Democrats that are screaming, the world is on fire, that's stroking a fear into the American people, and they don't actually understand what's happening.
And what you need to understand is that what Doge is doing is exactly what most large companies do, is they hire consultants to come out and just simply look at the numbers from an unbiased perspective and say, this makes sense, or this doesn't make sense, rather than depending on some career politician trying to protect his pet project, like what Duffy is doing in California by cutting the rail system that we spent $16 billion of taxpayer dollars, and have not one single rail down.
WATTERS: All right, it is like at ABC, the guy asking the question, or the woman, Disney just laid off a bunch of people. It's like it happens at their own company, but it can't happen to our country. It makes no sense.
All right, Senator, great to see you. Have a great weekend.
MULLIN: Thanks, Jesse.
WATTERS: Democrats are turning the guns on each other. Wait until you see this.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: Fox News Alert: The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Charles C.Q. Brown just got fired. President Trump announcing it on Truth Social: "He is a fine gentleman and an outstanding leader, and I wish a great future for him and his family." And his replacement has already been named. 47 nominating Air Force Lieutenant General Dan "Razin" Caine, who Trump says was instrumental in the complete annihilation of the ISIS Caliphate, and we expect many more firings at The Pentagon. We'll keep you updated.
We're only one month into Trump's presidency, and Democrats are ripping out their hair. Clooney plays cool guys in the movies, but Trump has got him all stressed out.
"The Times" says, "George Clooney has been sneaking outside to smoke. 'I had to get better at inhaling,' he said. 'I got outside so the kids don't see and smoke a little bit,' and he plans to switch to herbal cigarettes."
George was the face of the Biden coup, but he insists there is blood on the media's hands, "Biden advocated his responsibility by hiding his incapacities, and the media, in many ways, dropped the ball."
The media covered for Biden and ushered in The Return of the King, and they're very mad.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SUNNY HOSTIN, CO-HOST, "THE VIEW": Trump has never really wanted to be president. He actually has always wanted to be King.
Right now, what we're seeing is he's waving his scepter, his King scepter.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Sunny better get it together. "The Post" says the ABC bosses fired nine staffers on "The View" and told the ladies to dial back the Trump hate.
There's a real us versus the world vibe going on right now, and congressional Democrats aren't siding with us.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. JASMINE CROCKETT (D-TX): The fact that I'm rooting for Canada and I'm rooting for Mexico a lot is really wild, but they are really the ones that are speaking truth to power right now,
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Okay, well, Jasmine is doubling down on crazy. The other half of the party is trying to get it back on track.
This week, Mayor Pete told a panel that DEI is dumb and it's turning people off. Sunny Hostin heard that and blew a gasket.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOY BEHAR, CO-HOST, "THE VIEW": So do you agree with him that DEI initiatives drove voters to Trump. And what else can be done to make sure everyone is represented on an even playing field?
HOSTIN: You know what I think? And I like --
BEHAR: Please.
HOSTIN: I like -- I like Pete, of course, but I think he got that so wrong, and I think it was so tone deaf --
BEHAR: Which one?
HOSTIN: -- considering what's going on -- all of it. I thought all of it was tone deaf, because what happens is when from 1776 to 1965 you have basically White men in charge of everything, right? Women, people of color, we're left out of just equality, equality of opportunity, that sort of thing.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: It's been months since the election, and the Democrats are still clawing each other's eyes out. This fracture runs deep. It's not healing anytime soon.
Half the party is plotting a new way forward, and the other half is doubling down on woke. They're not even fighting for important policies that Democrat voters care about. It's all superficial DEI and trans stuff that's basically irrelevant and it's practically illegal now.
And when the party is too busy fighting each other, they can't fight for voters and they can't fight Trump.
The left needs new leadership. Stephen A. Smith said the party is in such bad shape even he is being talked about as a candidate, but James Carville told him to stick to sports.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JAMES CARVILLE, DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST: Stephen A., are you (bleep) me? Before you start running your (bleep) mouth off about politics, a topic of which you really don't know anything about. So Stephen A., keep up your (bleep) sports. I enjoy it. I like it, but don't make a fool of yourself anymore and talk about politics.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Ooh. Attacking Stephen A. is crazy. He's like one of the hottest talents in America and probably one of our top trash talkers.
Stephen A. heard the Raging Cajun's message loud and clear. Fired right back.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SMITH: But if you really, really think James Carville about what I said, you've been saying the exact same things.
I saw you on Fox News, I saw you on CNN. I saw you on your podcast. Where the hell you think I got some of the stuff from?
Is what I said really the problem? Or is it the fact that some novice who doesn't know his ass from a hole in the wall when it comes to politics is resonating in the political stratosphere more than you?
And if you're going to mention my name, can we cut out the profanity?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Fox News contributor, Joe Concha joins us now. So Carville versus Stephen A., how's it going so far?
JOE CONCHA, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: Kind of like the way Michael Tyson and Mike Spinks when they fought each other, about 91 seconds in, pretty much over.
WATTERS: It is over.
CONCHA: Stephen A., is Mike Tyson in this scenario.
James Carville predicted that Hillary Clinton would win in 2016 in a landslide, said that Kamala Harris would win the last election.
So as far as his advice, I'm not sure that it's been relevant since 1992 when he ran Bill Clinton's campaign.
WATTERS: What about Mayor Pete versus "The View"? I didn't see that coming.
CONCHA: No, look.. Mayor Pete, he has his eye on 2028.
WATTERS: Yes.
CONCHA: He realizes that DEI is where politicians go to DIE, so now he is pivoting towards the center because he's basically the ChatGPT candidate. You could program him to say whatever you want, as long as it's polling well, so that's what Pete is thinking about at this point. I have to go to the center if I'm going to beat JD Vance, or whoever the Republican nominee may be, it could be Donald Trump --
WATTERS: How would you advise these Democrats? They still don't understand why they lost. I mean, you heard the lady from Maine, the Governor, say she's going to sue Trump in court to keep boys playing sports against girls?
WATTERS: Yes. Great strategy. That is an 80/20 issue at this point, 80 support biological men not competing against women in sports. She says, I'll see you in court. So she's taking the 20 side at this point.
You cannot underestimate just how dire the situation is in the Democratic Party right now, as in, like, oh crap, I'm on the Epstein client list as a reward clubs member, kind of dire.
Quinnipiac poll out today, Jesse, 22 percent approve of the Democratic Party, 68 percent disapprove. They are 46 points underwater. So that's like, say hi to Jack Dawson next to the "Titanic" kind of underwater at this point.
And the problem is they're trying to attack the "Terminator" to bureaucracy in terms of Donald Trump with the rhetorical version of a BB gun. And the reason is that the stage before crazy is helplessness, and they feel helpless right now because they don't have the White House, they don't have the Senate, they don't have the House, don't have the Supreme Court, ideologically that's six-three in theory at this point, more Republicans are governors of states right now than Democrats.
So James Carville at this point, when he says the party has no power, he is right about that. But look at the top polling candidates. Another poll out today, the top three are now Kamala Harris, Pete Buttigieg and Tim Walz. All right, that's not exactly, Jalen Hurts, Saquon Barkley and A.J. Brown.
WATTERS: I see what you did there.
CONCHA: That's the problem.
WATTERS: Thank you. I mean, so much has happened. You forget the Eagles won the Super Bowl.
CONCHA: Exactly.
WATTERS: Wow.
CONCHA: Two weeks ago. It is good to remember.
WATTERS: Thank you for bringing that up. I really appreciate it.
CONCHA: Of course.
WATTERS: Have a great weekend.
CONCHA: You, too.
WATTERS: Pam Bondi and the Epstein list. Right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: Today, Kash Patel was sworn in as FBI Director.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KASH PATEL, U.S. FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION DIRECTOR: Oh man, this is effing crazy.
(LAUGHTER)
PATEL: I am living the American Dream, and anyone that thinks the American Dream is dead, just look right here. You're talking to a first generation Indian kid who is about to lead the law enforcement community, the greatest nation on God's green earth. That can't happen anywhere else.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Kash's boss, Pam Bondi has got the right priorities. She's not going to drag her feet delivering justice. Watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ROBERTS: The DOJ may be releasing the list of Jeffrey Epstein's clients? Will that really happen?
BONDI: It's sitting on my desk right now to review, that's been a directive by President Trump. I'm reviewing that. I'm reviewing JFK files, MLK files, that's all in the process of being reviewed because that was done at the directive of the President from all of these agencies.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: We'll have full analysis of those documents once they drop, and we expect full transparency from this administration.
The media doesn't seem interested in the Epstein files. I wonder why? Well, we're about to find out.
Secretary Hegseth over at The Pentagon is taking on the press head on.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PETE HEGSETH, U.S. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SECRETARY: Time after time, the media distorts good news stories or often just gets them flat wrong. In many cases, in most cases, they have an agenda.
So when we make decisions that are misreported in the media, we're going to try to get to you as quickly as possible, and not just me, it will be other people as well, so you understand the real thought process behind them, and then how they relate to our core mission of fighting and winning a war, hopefully deterring them, but fighting and winning wars, and then how we spend your taxpayer dollars wisely to accomplish that mission.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Hegseth's first order of business, kicking CNN out of The Pentagon press room. He is replacing them with some fresh blood from fair and balanced outlets.
This administration likes to deal with problems face-to-face. Here is what happened when all 50 governors came to have lunch at the White House today, they thought it was just going to be a friendly lunch, until the Governor of Maine almost choked on her chicken.
Trump heard Maine is still letting boys in the girls' locker room. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: NCAA has complied immediately, by the way, that's good, but I understand Maine -- is Maine here? The Governor of Maine?
GOV. JANET MILLS (D-ME): Yes, I'm here.
TRUMP: Are you not going to comply with it?
MILLS: I'm complying with state and federal laws.
TRUMP: Well, I am -- we are the federal law. Well, you better do it. You better do it because you're not going to get any federal funding at all if you don't.
And by the way, your population, even though it's somewhat liberal, although I did very well there, your population doesn't want men playing in women's sports, so you better com-- you better comply, because otherwise you're not getting any -- any federal funding.
MILLS: We'll see you in court.
TRUMP: Every state -- good. I'll see you in court. I look forward to that. That should be a real easy one, and enjoy your life after, Governor, because I don't think you'll be in elected politics.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Now, Maine is under investigation as of this afternoon. Should have complied. Boys ruining girls sports shouldn't be the hill Democrats die on. But Maine decided, what the hell? Let's lose face and 250 mil.
Trump knows when he has a winning hand. He had some harsh words for Zelenskyy earlier this week, and now "The Wall Street Journal" is reporting that the Ukrainian President has come around and is going to sign the mineral deal with us.
The Trump team doesn't operate in the shadows. They do their job and then tell you about it.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KRISTI NOEM, US HOMELAND SECURITY SECRETARY: Here we have a guy named Gonzalez who has been convicted of sodomy of children less than 13 years of age. He has been sentenced to prison, but he is out of our country now, thanks to President Trump.
Another guy here who is arrested and has been removed, but he was convicted for possession -- distributing child porn. So this guy was distributing that throughout the country, illegal alien, gone from our country now.
Here we have a Chinese national convicted of murder, now is gone.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Almost 200 migrant criminals just landed in Venezuela after being held in Gitmo. Half were gang affiliated, of course. Good riddance.
And don't expect them to come back. Border crossings are down 94 percent.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MICHAEL BANKS, CHIEF of U.S. BORDER PATROL: We have been able to send a message that if you cross the border, your chances of being apprehended are much greater, and if you are apprehended, you're going to be removed from the country.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: The Golden Age is putting cartels out of business.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
NBC NEWS REPORTER: Marcos is a coyote, a human smuggler in Southern Mexico who is concealing his face and last name. "The troops won't make a difference," he says. "It's foolishness."
But he does concede Trump's stricter border policies have caused his business to plummet about 80 percent since Inauguration Day.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: But the cartels are getting creative. They abandoned the border and bought some boats.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REPORTER: Conditions are unpredictable and dangerous for Customs and Border Protection, Air and Marine agents trying to stop the constant flow of illegal migrants and narcotics from reaching U.S. shores.
Earlier this month, a boat didn't stop, the CBP agents had to chase after human smugglers disabled their engine with a shotgun. Twenty illegal migrants were found on that boat.
Hours after our patrol, CBP agents intercepted another boat carrying 13 illegal migrants. Agents say the smuggling operations are sophisticated and unrelenting, but Florida isn't the only hot spot.
On the West Coast, the boats carrying illegal migrants have been detected as far north as the Bay Area, hundreds of miles from the Mexican border.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: The border is better than ever, but there's still a lot of work to do. Trump just replaced the acting ICE Director.
Border czar Tom Homan is here.
All right, Mr. Homan, what happened to this ICE guy? Did he get DOGE'd?
THOMAS HOMAN, US BORDER CZAR: Look, you know, the ICE numbers have been good. I've been asked the last few weeks, they're good. They're twice as much as Biden arrested a year ago from today, but I want more.
We've got 700,000 illegal aliens walking the streets of this country with criminal convictions. We've got to arrest more. We've got to increase targeting. We've got increased operations.
We've got sanctuary cities. Now, if sanctuary cities don't help, we double the manpower in sanctuary cities.
This is a never-ending effort that we're not going to slow down. We're going to increase. So this is what's happening. We want more arrests. We want more action. And I won't rest. I won't rest until every criminal illegal alien is eradicated from this country, every illegal gang member is eradicated for this country. Well, numbers are high. They're looking good. Not good enough. I'm not satisfied. We're going to keep pushing.
WATTERS: All right, I like to hear those high standards. That's important, and that's what the people expect.
What's going on with Gitmo? We heard you guys basically emptied it.
HOMAN: We've got to make room for more. Gitmo is -- we're building the capacity at Gitmo. We will be up to 2,500 beds, I think by this week, then the President wants 30,000 beds, we are actually building capacity. We are arresting a lot of criminals, moving them to Gitmo. We've got to make space for more.
So again, we're focusing on the criminal threats in this country. We've got to have beds available, because once we arrest them, we want to send them to Gitmo. So we're just making room, Jesse.
WATTERS: All right, well, I don't know where to get beds, but I know where to get pillows. I think Mike could help you out with that. I heard he does good business.
The cartels are getting craftier. They're obviously trying to adapt to what you're throwing at them. You're seeing this video now, they're on boats. How have you seen the coyotes and the cartels kind of reorient their business to handle what you've done?
HOMAN: Look, they are going maritime. We knew they would, that's why we've increased Coast Guard patrols three times, three times more we have in the past. So Coast Guard will answer that call. So we're going to shut them down maritime too.
Look, we're going to put them out of business. President Trump is designating them criminal terrorist organizations, which they should be. They've killed more Americans than every terrorist organizations combined.
President Trump will end up wiping them off the face of the earth. So we're going to put them out of business. You put them out of business, you take their money away, they can't bribe Mexican officials. They can't bribe anybody.
Without money to have no power. We're not just going to attack in Mexico, the Jalisco cartel, we are going to attack them and the 43 countries they have operations currently -- operations in 43 different countries. We're going to attack them worldwide.
WATTERS: That's a bold statement. Hopefully, we get some more cooperation from the Mexican government and we can straighten it out.
Tom Homan, great to talk to you.
HOMAN: Emboldened by my bold president.
WATTERS: Exactly, exactly.
HOMAN: This president keeps his promise to the American people. You can count on it.
WATTERS: All right, we look forward to that, and we're encouraged by what we see so far. Thank you so much.
Wanda the Ballot Stuffer, does it again?
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: Fox News Alert: Wanda the Stuffer is back in hot water. She and two other Bridgeport officials turned themselves into the police today to face charges connected to her stuffing incident back in 2023.
News 12 Connecticut caught her walking into the station this morning.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
NEW 12 CONNECTICUT REPORTER: Wanda any comment on the new charges?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Poor, poor Wanda.
The exact charge is still unclear, but PRIMETIME is working the phones with the local police to get to the bottom of this.
Her rap sheet is getting really long, and we hope she gets it together, because we're just going to have to rent a place for Johnny in Bridgeport.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BELISARIO: Wanda?
WANDA GETER-PATAKY, BRIDGEPORT, CONNECTICUT: Yes.
BELISARIO: Arrested for ballot fraud. What's going on?
GETER-PATAKY: Stop following me.
BELISARIO: Excuse me. Wanda, what's going on? Wanda, you were also caught stuffing. What happened? Wanda? Wanda, don't you want to come clean?
Wanda, what about the person whose ballot you have been having for 10 years? Wanda? Wanda, what happened? Wanda, don't run me over, Wanda.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Sink or Swim tonight. We have Lydia Moynihan taking on Adam Klotz.
All right, ladies and gentlemen, behave yourselves.
ADAM KLOTZ, FOX NEWS CHANNEL METEOROLOGIST: Of course.
WATTERS: Category is man crush. Romance is in the air at the nation's capital, which member of the Trump administration admitted he's in love with Elon Musk this week?
Was it Stephen Miller or Howard Lutnick? All right, let's see the answer.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
HOWARD LUTNICK, U.S. COMMERCE SECRETARY: I'm in love with Elon because he's going to cut a trillion.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Wow, and you're a business lady.
LYDIA MOYNIHAN, FINANCIAL CORRESPONDENT, "THE NEW YORK POST": I even saw him. I didn't make the connection.
ADAM KLOTZ, FOX NEWS CHANNEL METEOROLOGIST: Stephen Miller doesn't love anybody. I don't believe that.
WATTERS: Stephen Miller loves himself.
KLOTZ: That's what I thought. Yes, there you go.
WATTERS: Category is back to bed. The left is having trouble keeping up with the pace of Trump's progress. They find him absolutely exhausting. Which Democrat says it was better when we had Sleepy Joe, because she could sleep at night.
Was it AOC or Jasmine Crockett?
Okay, both going with Jasmine.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
CROCKETT: Maybe sleepy Joe is what we wanted, because we could at least sleep at night.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
KLOTZ: Whew.
WATTERS: That's tough to admit, but she's fine with it.
On thin ice, that's not me. Which liberal Governor filmed themselves taking a polar plunge in a frozen lake. Was it Tampon Tim or Gavin Newsom?
MOYNIHAN: I'm glad you're bringing Tim back. I haven't seen his smiling face.
WATTERS: You missed him
MOYNIHAN: Far too hot.
WATTERS: I know, well, this is the last one.
(VIDEO CLIP PLAYS)
WATTERS: That's obviously not Newsom. Newsom would have had his shirt off.
KLOTZ: Nice try, Lydia.
WATTERS: Last question you need this one, which MSNBC host declared that Trump has two daddies, Elon Musk and Putin. Was it Joy Reid or Rachel Maddow?
No peeking, Klotz.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOY REID, MSNBC HOST: Putin runs -- Trump now has two daddies, Putin and Elon Musk.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Fox Weather.
KLOTZ: That was four and oh. That was every one of them.
MOYNIHAN: You're to fake me out. You were like, I'm going to lose. I'm bad at this.
WATTERS: There you go.
KLOTZ: Oh, this is sharp.
WATTERS: Lydia, you lost on the Lutnick.
KLOTZ: There it is.
WATTERS: All right.
MOYNIHAN: I can't -- I should have gone back --
KLOTZ: I am ready to go out tonight. I am ready to go out tonight.
WATTERS: Beat yourself up with that paddle.
More PRIMETIME straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: I like to cut it close at the airport, like an hour, 40 minutes before takeoff. There's a cutoff for your bags. Like you can't check your bags less than 45 minutes, they won't allow it. They make special allowances for certain people, but it's like really dicey. So 45 minutes is the cutoff for checking bags on flights. Just in case you were wondering.
Texts.
John from Franklin Square, New York: Carville versus Steven A would make a great pay-per-view. Give them each a bucket of tomatoes and let them go at it.
Angie from Long Branch, New Jersey: Did DOGE cut the funding for AOC gloves?
What's up with the fingers? It's like a mitten finger thing. I don't -- it's like a bicurious glove. Pick one.
Lane from Atlanta, Georgia: AOC, the point of wearing gloves is to protect your fingers. I mean, if you're typing, that's one thing. But confession, I have gloves like that, but it doesn't come with the mitten, I wear them under a larger glove.
Keith from Macon, Georgia: Jesse, It's called a largemouth bass. The big mouths are on "The View."
I hate fishing. I hate it.
Mark from Warsaw, Indiana: I love my computer, too, but I'm taking it out to dinner first.
Oh, computer is playing hard to get, huh? But when it orders the lobster, you know you got lucky.
I'm Watters and this is my world.

Load-Date: February 22, 2025


End of Document
