




Business Insider
February 21, 2025 Friday 02:18 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Insider Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 1419 words
Byline: ddefrancesco@businessinsider.com (Dan DeFrancesco)
Highlight: Musk-affiliated assets have really shined since Trump's inauguration, but banking on a figure known for unpredictability comes with risks.
Body


This post originally appeared in the Business Insider Today newsletter.
You can sign up for Business Insider's daily newsletter here.
Happy Friday! Ever wondered what goes on at those massive real-estate conferences for people looking to grow (or start) their real-estate empire? Business Insider's Kathleen Elkins spent a day at one, and the biggest takeaway had nothing to do with the .
In today's big story, forget the Trump trade. The biggest returns .
Markets: PE would like to be a big part of your 401(k), but it might need some .
Tech: As talk of data center regulation ramps up, Big Tech is .
Business: IRS probationary employees are .
But first, Musk is having a moment.
If this was forwarded to you, 
The big story
Musk's market
One of the best investing strategies these days? Trust in Musk.
In the lead-up to the election, investors piled into assets they thought would benefit from Donald Trump's return to the White House in what was known as the Trump trade. But it's Musk-affiliated assets that have , writes Business Insider's Matthew Fox.
From Tesla to X to dogecoin, if Musk is close to it, it's likely been up big since November. (That's also benefited the man himself. His net worth is reportedly up about $135 billion since the election.)
You could argue the Musk trade is just the ultimate Trump trade. (Now we're really getting meta.) After all, one of the main reasons everything Musk touches is skyrocketing is thanks to his proximity to Trump.
But even among executives who have tried to ingratiate themselves with Trump, Musk stands apart.
Take Meta, where Mark Zuckerberg has overhauled the tech giant in what appears to be a bid to align it with the new administration. The company is up more than 20% since Trump's victory, good for second-best among the all-important Magnificent 7.
The top spot? Musk's Tesla, which is up more than 40% during the same time period.
Banking on your relationship with a political figure known for unpredictability comes with risks.
While the Trump relationship has suited Musk well thus far, the president's opinion of people, even those in his administration, can change quickly.
There have been signs of small cracks in the Trump-Musk foundation. Musk essentially killing a government funding bill last December led some Democrats to question whether he was . That chatter elicited a .
A few weeks later Musk clashed with Trump's base . (Trump eventually sided with Musk.)
More recently, Trump said Musk opening a Tesla plant in India, another target of his expansive tariff plans and a key future market for Tesla, .
Musk's businesses will also eventually need to address big questions about their future. Tesla, for example, is seeing increased competition from Chinese EVs .
And for all the wins , some experts have pointed to its relationship with Musk's buzzy AI startup, xAI, as what's reigniting investors' interest in the platform.
In the meantime, Musk's companies might be happy to point out their owner's powerful relationship when it benefits them.
BI's Peter Kafka wrote about a Wall Street Journal report that Linda Yaccarino, the CEO of X, and her lieutenants have been pressing one of the world's biggest ad agencies to get its clients to spend more money on X by .
News brief
Florida takes aim at Target's 2023 Pride collection in a lawsuit over the retailer's DEI initiatives.
Hundreds of EPA employees were fired. Then some were told that it was a mistake.
Legal experts weigh in on Delta's $30,000 'no strings attached' payment to passengers after crash-landing incident.
Trump and Musk say they want to make sure the Fort Knox gold is still there: 'Maybe it's there, maybe it's not.'
Meta takes aim at the black market for Instagram accounts and services in two new lawsuits.
DOGE savings estimates fall by $9 billion in 48 hours.
3 things in markets
1. Your 401(k) could look a lot different if private equity gets its wish. In June 2020, President Trump opened the door for alternative assets in 401(k) investing. Five years later, virtually no one has taken up the opportunity. The reason: litigation risk. BI spoke with multiple industry insiders and experts to understand  - and what it could mean for the average investor's retirement plans.
2. Big-box retail stocks take a tumble. Despite Walmart's earnings beat on Wednesday, the retail giant's full-year outlook disappointed. , triggering concerns about a consumer spending slowdown as other retailers - like Target, Costco, and Kroger - saw shares slip on Thursday.
3. Investors got the DeepSeek stock sell-off wrong. That's according to Jensen Huang, CEO of chipmaker Nvidia, which was hit by the  to DeepSeek's release of a new model built with less advanced chips. Speaking at a virtual event that aired Thursday, Huang said investors misinterpreted DeepSeek's advancements. He said that the AI industry still needs .
3 things in tech
1. Meta approves bonuses of up to 200% of company executives' salaries. The company said the  designed to "motivate its executive officers to focus on company priorities and to reward them for company results and achievements," per a SEC filing.
2. A glimpse inside Elon Musk's new Atlanta data center. xAI is joining forces with X to operate a large data center, its second facility after Musk's Memphis project. BI reviewed an agreement with a local economic development agency and . Earlier agreements indicate the center will hold equipment totaling $700 million. It shows how Musk is pooling resources between his AI startup and X to benefit both companies.
3. Big Tech's latest lobbying push. A PAC tied to The Data Center Coalition - which counts Amazon, Google, and Microsoft as members - . The contributions mark the group's first political donations and came in the months leading up to the state's annual legislative session. The donations might have paid off, as a slate of bipartisan data center regulation failed to get approval.
3 things in business
1. The IRS has begun firing probationary workers. It's the . The firings also come amid tax-filing season and could specifically hit jobs responsible for enforcement and tax evasion.
2. 007 enters a new era. Amazon MGM Studios announced it is  as longtime producers Michael G. Wilson and Barbara Broccoli step back from decision-making. With the franchise in new hands, Amazon founder Jeff Bezos asked the question we're all dying to know: "Who'd you pick as the next Bond?"
3. Charlie Javice is she-who-shall-not-be-named at Quinn Emanuel. In an email viewed by BI, Javice's legal team told lawyers at Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan not to discuss  around the office - lest Javice overhears them. Javice , alongside executive Olivier Amar, after selling her college financial aid startup Frank to JPMorgan.
In other news
Citigroup drops its diversity targets, renames its DEI unit.
MrBeast said if his mental health was a priority he 'wouldn't be as successful,'
How the egg crisis is hitting food banks.
Many federal workers are vets. They're terrified.
11 major US cities where homes and apartments are becoming much more affordable.
Starbucks' CEO wants to change how you pick up your morning coffee.
How to ask for a raise - because finding a better-paid job is rough right now.
What's happening today
Luigi Mangione, charged in fatal shooting of UnitedHealthcare CEO outside of New York hotel, appears in state courtThe Insider Today team: Dan DeFrancesco, deputy editor and anchor, in New York. Grace Lett, editor, in Chicago. Ella Hopkins, associate editor, in London. Hallam Bullock, senior editor, in London. Amanda Yen, associate editor, in New York. Elizabeth Casolo, fellow, in Chicago.
Read the original article on


Load-Date: February 21, 2025


End of Document
