




Fox News LIFE, LIBERTY, LEVIN 8:00 PM EST
January 26, 2025 Sunday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6996 words
Byline: Mark Levin, Katie Pavlich, Molly Line
Guests: Jim Jordan
Body


BRIAN BRENBERG, FOX BUSINESS NETWORK HOST: Good-looking group. Thank you. I appreciate that. I was in that group, actually.
By the way, that does it for us. We'll see you next week, and remember to always DVR, if you can't catch us live.
"LIFE, LIBERTY & LEVIN," that show is up next.
MARK LEVIN, FOX NEWS HOST: Hello, America. I'm Mark Levin and this is LIFE, LIBERTY & LEVIN Sunday. Thank you for being here.
We have two great guests tonight: Representative Jim Jordan, Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee. We want to know if they're going to look into these pardons and our friend Katie, Pavlich, but before we go to them, I want to make a statement as somebody who spent at least half a century in the conservative constitutionalist movement.
The three great conservative constitutionalist presidents in the last century, Calvin Coolidge, Ronald Reagan, and Donald Trump. And Donald Trump has the potential to be the greatest of the three and I want to give you a little bit of my background for those of you who don't know, I don't just come on here because I have a TV show. I come on here, because I have decades of experience in the conservative movement, in the constitutionalist movement, in the liberty movement, and I want you to know that with my background, that when I say that Donald Trump has the potential of being the greatest conservative president in the last century, I mean it.
In 1976 and 1980, I worked In the Reagan primaries; 1980, I worked in the Reagan general campaign. I spent eight years in top executive positions in the Reagan administration, including chief-of-staff for the Department of Justice and Deputy Solicitor at the Department of Interior, as well as a stint at the White House.
And from the Reagan Revolution to the Tea Party movement in 2010, I was involved in the Tea Party movement, one of the outspoken leaders of the Tea Party movement. I wrote the most widely read conservative book since Barry Goldwater's "Conscience of a Conservative" and Milton Friedman's "Free to Choose." This one here, "Liberty and Tyranny." Millions and millions of you read this book, a primer on conservatism and liberalism.
I've been involved as one of the leaders in the Convention of States Movement with our friend, Mark Meckler, over five million members. I have one of the largest syndicated radio shows that I've had for nearly 25 years on the planet, with millions and millions of listeners on AM and FM terrestrial radio, through podcasts, through YouTube, through Sirius satellite and so forth and so on. That's thanks to you.
And of course, on Fox when we're not dealing with football like tonight, and this will be the end of it, we have the number one primetime evening weekend program. We're very proud of it, very proud to be here.
Now as president of Landmark Legal Foundation, it is the most consequential constitutional conservative legal foundation in half a century, and thanks to our litigation and the help of others, school choice is now a possibility, and you're thinking, well, Mark, aren't you lovely, good man, pat yourself on the head. That's not what I'm doing. I'm trying to provide you with some of my credentials.
So when I tell you that Donald Trump is one of the most conservative and has the potential to be the most conservative president this entire century, I know what I'm talking about. He's consequential. He's historic. He's iconic.
The things he did in his first term and the things he's doing now, right out of the chute, we've never seen anything like this.
Now, some of you might be saying, well, what about all of these tariffs? I'm a free market conservative. Well, I'm as free market as you can get. But I went back and I looked, I looked at President Reagan. You see Lighthizer, who is the head basically of trade and tariffs for President Trump, was the deputy under Ronald Reagan.
And so, as our friends at Cato in 1988 pointed out, and they were very angry about it, Reagan was more into, say quotas. He was more into limitations on what other countries can ship into our country.
Let me give you some examples as Cato pointed out. He forced Japan to accept restraints on auto exports. The agreement set total Japanese auto exports at 1.68 million vehicles in 1981-1982, eight percent below 1980 exports. He tightened up considerably the quotas on imported sugar, imports fell from an annual average of 4.85 million tons in 1979 to 1981 to an annual average of 2.86 million tons from 1982 to 1986, that's a massive drop.
He negotiated, did Reagan, to increase restrictions of the multi-fiber arrangement and extended restrictions to previously unrestricted textiles. The administration unilaterally changed the rule of origin in order to restrict textile and apparel imports further, and imposed a special ceiling of textiles from Communist China.
And finally, it pressured Hong Kong, Taiwan and South Korea, the largest exporters of textiles and apparel to the United States, into highly restrictive bilateral agreements.
Reagan required 18 countries, including Brazil, Spain, South Korea, Japan, Mexico, South Africa, Finland and Australia, as well as the European community, to accept what he called Voluntary Restraint Agreements, which weren't voluntary, to reduce steel imports, guaranteeing domestic producers a share the American market.
When three countries not included in the 18, Canada, Sweden and Taiwan increased steel exports to the US, the administration demanded talks to check the increase. The administration then slapped tariffs and quotas on so-called specialty steel.
Reagan imposed a five-year duty, beginning at 45 percent on Japanese motorcycles for the benefit of Harley Davidson.
He raised tariffs on Canadian lumber and cedar shingles. He forced the Japanese into an agreement to control the price of computer memory chip exports, and he increased Japanese purchases of American made chips.
When the agreement was allegedly broken, the administration slapped a 100 percent tariff on $300 million worth of Japanese electronics and goods. Reagan pressed Japan to force its automakers to buy more American made parts. He demanded that Taiwan, West Germany, at the time, Japan and Switzerland, restrain their exports of machine tools with some market shares rolled back to 1981 levels.
Other countries were warned, you better not increase your shares in our American market. He accused the Japanese of dumping roller bearings because the price did not rise to cover a fall in the value of the yen. The US Customs Service was ordered to collect duties equal to the so-called dumping margins.
He accused the Japanese of dumping forklift trucks and color picture tubes in the United States. He redefined dumping in order to make it easier to bring charges of unfair trade practices against certain competitors.
I had not known all this until I started to really dig in.
Coolidge was a big tariff guy. Reagan, more quotas than tariffs. And of course, Trump is a big tariff guy. Everybody knows McKinley was a tariff guy. You know who else was? Hamilton, Jefferson, Lincoln -- I'm not saying you should support them or oppose them. I'm saying that this is actually rather typical, until, really after World War Two, of the positions of many Republicans and many of our founders took and really more Reagan than we may have realized.
Japan agreed to suspend its 28 percent tariff on cigarette imports. Taiwan agreed to open its markets to beer, wine and cigarettes if the president threatened retaliation. Japan agreed to buy American semiconductors. The European community agreed to give US citrus producers easier access. Japan eliminated tariffs on 137 leather items and reduced tariffs on aluminum products. South Korea reduced its barriers to US motion pictures and television programs and so on and so on and so on.
Mr. Conservative, Ronald Reagan.
What else has Donald Trump done? Look at this. He's taken the most extensive steps right out of the box to deal with the border, as he did in his first term. The establishment of a physical law and other barriers at the US borders, he is going to complete it; deterring and preventing the entry of undocumented individuals into the United States.
This is what he's announced and implementing within literally 24 hours of taking the oath; detaining aliens apprehended on suspension of violating federal or state law that is undocumented migrants and removing them promptly; pursuing criminal charges against undocumented migrants, of those who facilitated their unlawful presence in the US, notably ending the practice of catch-and-release.
Enacting federal-state partnerships to enforce these immigration policies, obtaining complete operational control of the borders of the United States. This is what he's directed the United States government to do, that includes deploying sufficient personnel to the borders. He's just ordered active duty military to the border.
Terminating parole programs for Cubans, Haitians, Nicaraguans and Venezuelans. Why? Well, communists and terrorists and revolutions. That's why.
Utilizing advanced vetting techniques to determine familial relationships and biometric scanning for all individuals encountered or apprehended by the US Department of Homeland Security. He has declared a National Emergency at the southern border of the United States in order to put military personnel there.
Now, what else has he done?
He is involved in the biggest deportation of illegal aliens since Dwight Eisenhower. Dwight Eisenhower? Oh yes, the great Dwight Eisenhower, who everybody praises. They praise him as sort of a moderate, centrist Republican president. The left points to him all the time. Can't we have an Eisenhower type? Such a -- you know, a united. Okay, not so much in the 1950s.
As many as three million illegal migrants had walked and waited northward over a period of several years for jobs in California, Arizona, Texas and points beyond, writes "The Christian Science Monitor."
Well, Ike was obsessed with removing them. He said: The rise in illegal border crossings by Mexican, his word, wetbacks, not my word, to a current rate of more than one million cases a year has been accompanied by a curious relaxation and ethical standards extending all the way from the farmer exploiters of this contraband labor to the highest levels of the federal government.
Years later, the late Herbert Brownell, Jr. who was Eisenhower's first attorney general, said in an interview with this writer, the writer of this piece, that the president had a sense of urgency about illegal immigrants when he took office. America "was faced with a breakdown of law enforcement on a very large scale," said the former attorney general, when I say large scale, I mean, hundreds of thousands were coming in from Mexico every year, without restraint.
The orders came straight from the top, from Eisenhower, the new president. He had put a former West Point classmate, General Joseph Swing, in charge of immigration enforcement. General Swing's fast-moving campaign soon secured America's borders, an accomplishment no other president has equaled. Illegal migration had dropped 95 percent by the late 1950s.
So what Trump is proposing is not radical. It's common sense, as he puts it. And when he says common sense, for many of us, it means conservative, because conservative is common sense.
What about the federal bureaucracy? Trump is doing things now no president has ever done, right out of the box. This is "The Hill": The President signed orders mostly aimed at the federal government workforce, targeting some of former President Biden's executive orders in an effort to undo them. He signed an order to implement a regulatory freeze that aims to prevent bureaucrats from issuing any more regulations until the Trump administration has full control of the government.
He then signed a federal government hiring freeze, with an exception for military hiring until full control of the government is achieved. Trump signed a separate order directing federal workers to get back into their damn offices and leave their basements.
He also signed an order withdrawing immediately from the Paris Agreement, you know, where the Communist Chinese can build a hundred coal power plants every week or every month, which stymies us. In other words, he's not going to export sovereignty in our governmental decision making to some international bunch of leftists and Marxists.
Additionally, he signed orders to address the cost of living, prevent government censorship of free speech. He's actually one of the great civil libertarians. He signed an order to prevent government censorship of speech, which has been on the rise in a very aggressive way, not just since Woodrow Wilson, but in modern times, since Barack Obama and certainly Joe Biden. He said, enough of that.
He's a free speech, Bill of Rights president. This is very, very important to understand. What else makes him one of the great conservative presidents? Right now, taxes.
President Trump, in the past, his tax cuts, the biggest gross tax cuts in American history, over $5.5 trillion over 10 years. He cut the corporate tax rate from 35 to 21 percent, the largest percentage point reduction of the top marginal rate in history. And now he wants to cut 21 to 15 percent for companies in America and locating in America.
Why? To massively increase economic growth, prosperity, jobs, jobs. The child tax credit was increased by $573.4 billion over 10 years, larger than any previous change to credit specifically targeting families.
Trump's tax cuts included some of the most substantial reforms to the Tax Code in American history. For example, the tax cuts and Jobs Act nearly doubles the standard deduction to simplify state filing. And now, of course, in a new Trump presidency, he has got several policies, including extending the expiring 2017 tax cuts and Job Act changes.
He needs Democrats to do this. If he doesn't get them, you're going to have a 45 percent taxing tax increase.
Bring back the deduction for state and local taxes, SALT. He wants to increase that, reducing the corporate tax rate for domestic production, as I explained, exempting various types of income from income tax, like overtime, tips, other things that he had mentioned; repealing the green energy tax credits, which, of course, are a big sum of money given to the left-wing groups primarily.
Look at energy. Have we ever had a president like this? Ronald Reagan came into the presidency, the first two things he did is he eliminated the regulations on the production of natural gas and then oil.
So what did Trump do, ending Biden's policies of climate extremism, streamlining permitting, reviewing for rescission all regulations that impose undue burdens on energy production and use, including mining and processing of non-fuel materials, energy actions and power consumer choice in vehicles he pointed out, shower heads, toilets, washing machines, light bulbs and dishwashers -- no more of the government meddling in your bathroom, your bedroom, your home, and your cars.
He declared an emergency, use all necessary resources to build critical infrastructure, whether it's the electrical grid, whether it's pipelines, whatever it is, and leasing to massive wind farms that degrade our national landscapes and fail to serve American energy consumers.
These are, like, you know, these old time tombs and other things that these past ancient people built. I mean, we have these things sticking out of the ocean. They're killing birds. They're killing whales. They make noise and they do not a damn thing.
And of course, the withdrawing from the Paris, so-called Climate Accord. What else?
Donald Trump is the most prolife president in American history, and he's the most pro-American culture president in American history, I would argue.
Now, "National Review" a few years ago, pointed out that in 2017 during his presidency, he issued an executive order that blocked federal funds for family planning abroad, for going to groups that advocate and perform abortion.
Later, he issued another one blocking domestic family planning money from going to such groups, which cut off a funding stream for Planned Parenthood.
Other executive orders have imposed restrictions on funding for fetal tissue research and attempted to protect the rights of pro-lifers in the medical field.
His Appeals Court nominees and Supreme Court nominees have been well- credentialed conservatives and more uniformly conservative than any of its Republican predecessor's nominees. He got Gorsuch on the bench, he got Kavanaugh on the bench and, of course, Barrett, who unfortunately is going to be an embarrassment, not due to Trump, due to herself.
What else? Donald Trump issued pardons the other day for 23 pro-life activists fulfilling a promise he made during the presidential campaign, including an old lady, including a mother of a two-year-old baby. They gave them years in prison for daring, for daring to protest nonviolently, peacefully in front of abortion clinics or in front of Planned Parenthood, and the Biden administration threw the book at them. Several of those convicted in prison, again, were elderly and in poor health.
What else has he done? He has eliminated DEI throughout the federal bureaucracy, which is a radical leftist attack on a colorblind, merit-based society.
He has eliminated the transgender agenda that was enshrined by Biden and the bureaucracy. He was protecting women's sports under the Civil Rights Act, Title IX, and he's made it clear that you follow science, men are men and women are women, and no amount of legislation, no amount of complaining, no amount of bumper stickers can change that fact.
And there's a hell of a lot more, we've just gotten started.
He is pro cop. He is pro military. He is pro American sovereignty. He is pro family. He is pro parents. He is pro school choice.
I'm telling you, which is why I burdened you with some of my background, some of my history, I'm telling you that Donald Trump is not only one of the most consequential, historic, and iconic figures already to serve as president of the United States. You may well be looking at the most conservative, constitutionalist president. It's just a matter of time, I feel, just a matter of time.
We'll be right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
LEVIN: Welcome back, America.
Another long-time activist conservative is our friend, Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Congressman Jim Jordan.
Congressman Jordan, now Joe Biden on the way out demonstrated what a complete crook he is with these preemptive pardons of his immediate family following the pardon of his son, all of which I argue, were done to cover up his own corruption over the decades.
He pardons these January 6 Committee members, these Pelosi members, all of whom could have been subject to obstruction or witness tampering, given the fact that they made criminal referrals to the Department of Justice outside the Speech and Debate Clause Protection. He's protected them.
So here's my question to you. As chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, you'll also have the Trump Department of Justice. From the legislative and the executive branch perspective, don't we need to get to the bottom of these pardons with the family members and, quite frankly, the January 6 members, and find out who destroyed what and who ordered what?
REP. JIM JORDAN (R-OH): Well, Mark. Good to be with you.
Speaker Johnson, to set up a Select Subcommittee that will be part of the Judiciary Committees. Barry Loudermilk is going to chair that where we're going to look at some of the things you talked about.
But speaking of January 6, I want to know this, we just got a report from the inspector general, like a month-and-a-half ago, where we learned 26 confidential human sources were at the Capitol on January 6, 2021, seventeen of those individuals got into restricted space, which they were not permitted to do; four entered the Capitol. Two of the four who entered the Capitol were actually told to be here that day by our FBI.
So I think there are all kinds of questions the American people deserve answers to, like, how long have these sources been working with the FBI? How much have we paid them over the time they worked for the FBI? Were they paid for activities and information they gave about that particular day?
Were they the first ones to go into the Capitol? Did they go in through the door? Did they go in through broken windows? What did they do? Because they weren't permitted to be there. None of them were charged, by the way.
So I think that's one place we start, and then we go from there. But the nice thing is, as you pointed out, Mark, we're going to have Kash Patel, Pam Bondi, Todd Blanche -- all great people who I think are going to be more than willing to give us the information, the documents, the stuff that we couldn't get from the Biden administration and the Garland Justice Department, we will be able to get that information, put together the type of investigation and get the answers for the American people.
LEVIN: As you recite what you did, I think to myself, how did the FBI know to send informants into that crowd on January 6? How the hell did they notice the informants there? Did they inform the president of the United States that there was an issue that he should be concerned about? He knew instinctively, he offered 10,000 National Guardsmen.
JORDAN: Yes, he did.
LEVIN: I don't know what else he could have done.
But I think we really need to know the extent of the FBI's role in this, and that's your point that you want to look into this, correct?
JORDAN: Of course, of course. And I think Kash Patel, I think Pam, I think Todd, I think they're going to be willing to give us the information that, again, we need to get.
Here's another link that I think is important. Remember Fani Willis and Alvin Bragg, this whole lawfare operation the Democrats ran and Garland and the Biden Justice Department ran against President Trump and against We, the People.
Remember Nathan Wade billed all kinds of hours for meetings he had with people in DC. We think he met with the Justice Department. We think he met with the White House, and we think he met with January 6 people. He certainly billed the taxpayers of Georgia for those meetings. We want to know what took place in those meetings, too, and the coordination that this whole lawfare attack against President Trump, where they tried to keep him off the ballot, we want to know those answers as well.
LEVIN: We know a senior Justice Department official worked for Bragg. You know, they act like he voluntarily went there. I think he was planted there quite frankly.
We know that the attorney general the United States abused the special counsel appointment process. You appoint a special counsel to investigate, say, Joe Biden, when you're the attorney general, so there's no conflict of interest. We've never had a special prosecutor appointed to investigate your political opponent for God's sake. We've never had anything like that, which brings me to my next question, Mr. Chairman.
We need to get to the bottom of this lawfare issue. This is a legislative issue in terms of authorizing legislation, in terms of budgetary issues, we need to know the full extent of the involvement of the Department of Justice, with the White House, the full extent with the Archives, the full extent of all this activity taking place, because right at the end, right at the end, Jack Smith was still there trying to push out reports, right into Inauguration Day that on any other person they're targeting that would have been absolutely unethical, and you'd be disbarred for something like that.
When we come back, I just want to know, are you making plans to pursue an investigation of that along with our friends at the new Department of Justice as well?
We'll be right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
MOLLY LINE, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Welcome to "Fox News Live." I'm Molly Line.
Southern California is bracing for heavy rainfall in the coming hours. It will be the first significant precipitation the area has seen since deadly wildfires ravaged Los Angeles County. Officials warn the rain could cause mudslides and toxic debris flows where burn scars still remain.
Flood Watches are in effect through tomorrow afternoon. Los Angeles hasn't seen substantial rain since last May.
A group of Senate Democrats will attempt to raise pressure on Republicans tomorrow. They are expected to try and pass a formal resolution condemning President Trump's pardons of rioters convicted of assaulting and injuring police officers on January 6. Trump ally, Republican Senator Lindsey Graham, also speaking out on TV interview today, Graham said pardoning January 6 rioters was a mistake and that it could lead to more violence.
I'm Molly Line. Now back to LIFE, LIBERTY & LEVIN.
LEVIN: Welcome back, America. We're here with Chairman Jim Jordan.
So Jim Jordan, my question is this. You're going to work with the Justice Department to get to the bottom of all of lawfare crap?
JORDAN: We sure are we.
We think the American people saw it for what it was. It was politically driven, whether it was Alvin Bragg in New York, Fani Willis and Nathan Wade in Georgia, or Jack Smith with his ridiculous case here in DC, and the one that Judge Cannon said was baloney, that he wasn't even appointed in a proper way, consistent with our Constitution in that case in Florida.
So we're going to look back at both David Weiss, because there are all kinds of concerns there. Remember David Weiss had the sweetheart deal for Hunter Biden, and then the court said, no, you can't do this, and we had two whistleblowers come forward and tell us all the games they played in the course of that investigation.
So we'll look at that, and then with Jack Smith, I think one issue in particular, Mark. Remember when one of the lawyers for Jack Smith, Jay Bratt asked one of the lawyers representing a defendant.
It was Stanley Woodward, who was the counsel representing defendant, Walt Nauta in the classified documents case. They are having a meeting, and Jay Bratt says to the defendant's lawyer, we didn't know you were a Trump guy.
We thought you were interested in this judge position, as if this sort of veiled, well, not, frankly, not so veiled threat to a guy who is representing a defendant being charged by the special --
This is how ridiculous and political Jack Smith's whole case was, and when you read the letter that Jack Smith sent to Attorney General Garland just a few days ago, before he released this ridiculous report in a four-page letter to the attorney general, Jack Smith uses "I, me and my" 58 times. It's all about how self-centered he is. It's all about Jack Smith and his quest to get President Trump.
Again, I think the country sees through that, but we've got some questions we think still need answered that we're going to pursue.
LEVIN: Good, because Jim Jordan, I'm not comfortable as somebody who was chief-of-staff at the Justice Department, as somebody who is a lawyer and has been for a long time with lawyers like this, still roaming the face of the earth and not being held to account.
We've got to show the whole country that this is not supposed to be what the legal profession is about. This is not supposed to be what the justice system is about. And quite frankly, this Judge Chutkan, in the way that she changed the rules of evidence, the way that she rushed the case, the things that she said in open court and never recused herself.
She is a federal judge, and it seems to me, even though your powers there are somewhat limited, given separation of powers, there needs to be an examination so these judges understand you have all the independence you want.
But if you put your foot on the scales of justice, going after a presidential candidate and/or a rubber stamp for an unconstitutionally appointed special counsel who is backed up by an attorney general who inappropriately appointed him in the first place, we at least need to take a look at something like that, no?
JORDAN: Yes, no, I agree, and never forget Jack Smith's history, he was involved -- he was looking for ways to go after the -- you know, go back 10, 12, 14, years ago, when the whole tax, the IRS was going after Tea Party patriots, he was looking for ways to prosecute those people who were being abused by their government and targeted by their government. That's the history of Jack Smith, then you have this judge.
The other thing we can also do, Mark, is we can look at legislation. One bill that we're going to push, we passed it out of the committee last year, we're going to change a little bit, pass it again, hopefully get it through and into law, but it says, if you're one of these rogue state prosecutors going after federal officials, the federal official can say, I want to move that case to federal court so you're not in a jury in Manhattan who is going after President Trump, and it's all political.
And so we think that should apply for the president, for the vice president, for senators, for congressmen, because we know that this lawfare game can get played in these liberal jurisdictions with some rogue prosecutor. So, we think that's a good legislative remedy to help address this lawfare as well.
LEVIN: Well, it is, because the US Supreme Court should have stepped in. Four justices wanted to step in, but Roberts and Barrett threw it away, and that is a big problem that still needs to be remedied, as far as I'm concerned.
Well, Jim, that sounds like a good agenda. It sounds very important. And by the way, any local or state prosecutor who has stuck their toe in the federal process is subject to your subpoenas and your investigations. They can't claim, excuse me, excuse me, I'm a local DA; excuse me, I'm a state - -
Excuse me. Excuse me, you stuck your big damn foot in the federal system, and if we choose to bring you in under oath to testify about what you knew and when you knew it, you will comply with that subpoena, or we will hold you in criminal contempt, no?
JORDAN: Yes, great point. We brought Nathan Wade in by the way. We deposed him. He didn't answer squat. So we want to get any communications that he may have had with the federal government or we can go from there. So, I couldn't agree more that those kind of things need to be examined as well.
LEVIN: I've got to be honest with you, some days, Jim, I think, let me give all this up and get back into the business, the legal business of chasing people like this.
But then again, I have to pay a mortgage, you know. So --
JORDAN: Yes, well, no, the work you do and what you have to say, and the information you give the American people is so valuable.
Look, I know you're a great lawyer, but you're also great at this, and what you've done over the last several years in defending President Trump, defending the Bill of Rights, the Constitution, standing up for our dearest and closest friend, the state of Israel, the American people appreciate all of that and more that you've done.
LEVIN: Well, you know what, I've got to have you on more often.
Thank you, Jim. God bless you, my friend.
Keep up the great work.
JORDAN: You bet. Thank you. God bless you.
LEVIN: We'll be right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
LEVIN: Welcome back, America.
We're here with our friend, Katie Pavlich, editor at Townhall. Townhall is great. I check it out every day. Fox News contributor, really a brilliant young lady, and that's why we wanted to talk to you this evening, Katie.
KATIE PAVLICH, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: Thanks for having me.
LEVIN: Katie, you've been around Washington for a while. You know a number of the people there. You know the institutions there, you know conservative organizations there. Have you ever seen so much excitement about an election of anybody before?
PAVLICH: No, and I think there's a lot of optimism about the changes that can happen in Washington, DC and I got into politics during the Tea Party Movement, which was a very interesting time for the conservative grassroots, who came here and had that huge wave election under Barack Obama in 2010 and sent a lot of very conservative members to Congress, and now here we are, 15 years later, if you can imagine that, with the second inauguration of President Donald Trump.
And not only did he talk about changing Washington, but just in the past week, we've seen him signing a number of executive orders that will be carried out by his Cabinet once they're confirmed, to actually make some fundamental changes with the way that government functions on behalf of the people.
And I mean, he is going after everything. He's in North Carolina this week talking about redeveloping FEMA, ripping it out from the roots, because it's become such a bureaucratic, non-helpful agency when people really are in need after these natural disasters.
So they're planning on changing a lot, and I'm sure we will see in the future, the bureaucracy fighting back, biting back, but they put a lot out there to try and change the fundamentals of making Washington work for the people, not the other way around.
LEVIN: Well said. You know, I watch this man, and I think to myself, where does he get all this energy from? I watch this man, and you have through all this lawfare; I watch this man with several assassination attempts, attempt to bankrupt him, and he just keep plugging ahead and plugging ahead.
And I think that what the left and the media and the rest of them tried to do to him, only made him more motivated, only made him, frankly, more conservative, only made him more committed to doing as much as he possibly can in the four years that he's going to have now as president. What do you think?
PAVLICH: Well, he has done such a good job of letting the left expose themselves. So when he introduces a policy proposal or says something, the way that the left behaves really shows you what their intentions are.
And you know, the issue of democracy is a perfect one. You know, Barack Obama this week, again, was talking about the issue of democracy. And you look back on the campaign trail, and people were able to look and see what they were doing to keep not just Donald Trump, RFK, Jr. off of ballots while they were claiming to be the protectors of democracy, and so he was able to really expose them by giving them enough rope, essentially, for them to hang themselves and show the American people exactly who they are.
You've seen that happening a lot with these confirmation hearings and the types of questions that Democrats are asking that are unrelated specifically to what the person is going to be doing if they're confirmed.
Adam Schiff, the new senator from California, is a great example of this, asking Pam Bondi, who's going to be coming in as the Attorney General, questions about pardons for Liz Cheney, as if that's what every day Americans are worried about.
They're worried about fentanyl poisoning. They're worried about crime trafficking, and they're really worried about this weaponization of our institutions against political opponents.
And you hear a lot in the media that wasn't a big deal for the election, it was a huge cause for why people turned out in favor of the president. They're very concerned about the institutions being corrupted from one political side versus the other, because if you're doing it on one hand, it can be done to anybody else, and that's not the way that America is supposed to function, that's not the way the system was set up.
The scales of equal justice are there for a reason, and so they've said they're going to reestablish that, and that's something that Americans deeply care about, and people who come here from other countries, legal immigrants, really care about the rule of law, because the whole reason they -- one of the big reasons they come here, is because the country they came from doesn't adhere to any of those principles.
LEVIN: We'll be right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
LEVIN: Welcome back, America.
We're here with Katie Pavlich.
Katie Pavlich, editor at Townhall, Fox News contributor, ubiquitous, you see her, and she should be. She's very, very informative, which is why I want to ask you about this media revolution that seems to be taking place.
First of all, it's collapsing, and then it needs to rebuild. It's got these multinational corporations that subsidize like CNN and MSNBC and so forth. Donald Trump did that. Donald Trump did that. The media talks about, he is attacking the free press. The free press attacked itself, didn't it?
PAVLICH: Well, you would know well, given your book about the press, so everybody should read that. But the number one thing that people want in media is being able to trust them and over the course of the first Trump administration and during the Biden administration, and this is, of course, something that's been going on for a long time. It was very much highlighted over the past eight years, the media could not be trusted.
They would tell false lies, pushing the Russia agenda, for example, not asking questions about that for years with Trump, getting on board with both impeachments of the president without actually diving into details of why Democrats were pursuing him, but it turns out that they were going after him because he was simply asking questions about Biden family corruption in Ukraine, which is very much real because President Biden issued a pardon to his son, Hunter and the rest of his family members for engaging in that type of business venture to make his family rich.
And then if you look at the way that they covered up the Biden decline when you had the Hur report come out, for example, saying Special Counsel Hur would have charged Joe Biden with a series of felonies, but did not, because he had a poor memory, and then burying that and saying that Joe Biden was sharp as a tack.
So they not only attacked the president unfairly, never gave him a shot to actually present his ideas from a fair perspective. You have to get on board with them, but you can at least be honest about what they are.
They also covered up for the last administration, and you have a number of reporters now, including from POLITICO coming out, former POLITICO reporters talking about exactly how these newsrooms worked to promote not the facts or the stories of the day, but to promote the administration in charge.
And, you know, I went to journalism school, and you're supposed to be, you know, a counter to the state, to ask questions of the government, and instead, they were getting on board with everything that the Democrats had to say.
So in terms of the future of the media, I think that they're all very happy that the president is back. You know, Monday night, when the president was supposed to be going to see his supporters at the balls, he was in the Oval Office, until 10:00 PM signing all of these executive orders, and you couldn't even see him because of all the cameras that were there and all the questions he was answering from the media.
Every time he goes out to the helicopter, he's talking to them, there's more access. They're certainly happy he's back. And I think you're going to see them cover him a little bit differently, at least in the first couple months here.
LEVIN: There are efforts by the owners and the managers to clean up this stuff, I am serious about this like Bezos, think of him as you will, but he is saying that we've got to fix this. And then you see the revolts in the newsroom, we're not going to put up with this, or "The Washington Post," they wouldn't endorse Kamala Harris, well, look at this. Or "The LA Times" --
They really expose themselves. Their pants are down, and it's a very, very ugly sight, and so that's why we have platforms like yours, Townhall and others, alternatives where people know where you're coming from, you know, historically, we had a Republican press or a Federalist press. We had a Tory press. We had people identify. That's why you have the Arizona Republic, or you had the Arkansas Democrat.
Here we have phony media that pretends they're objective, but is radical left. Final word.
PAVLICH: Exactly. And you know, you hear a whole lot about diversity and how we need diversity. Well, maybe some diversity of perspective in newsrooms would serve the American people well.
The White House Press Corps is made up of mostly Democrats and people who say that they're "independent," when really they're very far-left leaning.
So there is an opportunity here for alternative sources, for you to come to Townhall and see what we're doing there, covering the news from a conservative perspective and we are excited to see what the next four years is going to be like, and we're going to be covering it all from Washington, DC.
LEVIN: Of course, Fox. What would we do without Fox?
Katie Pavlich, thank you, my friend. God bless and be well.
PAVLICH: Good to see you. Thanks.
LEVIN: We'll be right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
LEVIN: Welcome back, America.
I didn't talk about foreign policy during the course of this program about our superb resident, because I think that is a work in progress, particularly as it comes to the Middle East.
There's a lot of players. We have envoys. We have the Secretary of State, we are going to soon to have an ambassador, and so forth and so on.
I want to watch this carefully. The president of the United States has said over and over again that the Israelis should take out Iran's nuclear sites. I believe him.
The president of the United States said that the Israelis should be able to destroy Hamas as they must. I believe him.
The president of the United States has never been a big supporter of a so- called two-state solution, especially since October 7th. I believe him.
So things are in moving. We'll keep an eye on the Middle East. We'll keep an on Europe and the rest of the world as well, but I do know I trust President Trump, he keeps his word, he keeps his promises, and he is a remarkable president of the United States.
I'll see you next time on LIFE, LIBERTY & LEVIN.

Load-Date: January 27, 2025


End of Document
