




USA Today Online
February 5, 2025 10:07 AM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Section: KANSAS CITY NEWS, KANSAS CITY NEWS & SPORTS: AMERICAN FOOTBALL NEWS
Length: 955 words
Byline: Chris Brennan, USA TODAY
Body


President Donald Trump lives most comfortably in a chaotic state of swirling controversy. And squabbles with even the lowest stakes can properly contextualize just how petty and petulant he can be.
Trump still seems to have beef with my hometown football team, , who trounced the Washington Commanders in the National Football Conference championship game, securing a spot in Sunday's Super Bowl LIX.  fans, who gleefully sing "," know Trump is still peeved about the team's Super Bowl run and snub seven years ago. And, no, we still don't care.
The Eagles will face , who won their Super Bowl trip by edging out the Buffalo Bills in the American Football Conference championship game.
Trump was swift to congratulate the  on the victory Jan. 26, using a post on  that characteristically made the game all about himself.
As for the Eagles, Trump  about their win earlier that day. The likely reason for that is obvious. He can't let any slight, real or perceived, ever be ignored or forgotten. If Trump is breathing, then he's seething about something.
Do you remember when Eagles players snubbed Trump? He remembers. 

Trump’s bilious bluster has always been thin cover for the clear fact that he is one of the most insecure men ever to hold the presidency. Emotionally stable people don't store sore feelings like gold in a safe deposit box.
Snubbing the Eagles shows Trump still has an emotional owie that has been festering for seven years.
The Eagles defeated the New England Patriots in  and then received a customary invitation to the White House. Several players who had been vocal about social justice issues or sympathetic to them .
Opinion: 
Trump had been  who knelt or remained in the locker room during the national anthem before games as a way to draw attention to those concerns. That's why those athletes didn't want to hang out.
But Trump can't roll with that or any affront. Faced with players sitting out his party, the president canceled it for the entire team with  that said he would instead have "a different type of ceremony" for Eagles fans at the White House.
With Trump, reality is always stranger than fiction

Trump controversies are always one stumble away from transmogrifying into farce. Many of the Eagles "fans" he gathered at the White House were really just  ineptly cosplaying Philadelphians after being instructed to show up.
As for Trump's allegiance to patriotic ballads, he was  in a botched  to "God Bless America" during the event.
 As with all things Trump, you can’t make it up. Reality is always weirder than fiction.
Opinion: 
Still, we should be thankful that some of Trump's toddler-like tantrums are so low-stakes. This one doesn't really matter much, given his current fixation on demolishing the government as an improbable approach to saving it.
Nonetheless, it is a continuing lesson about how Trump operates, how easily his ego is bruised and how he can never be the bigger man, the confident leader who knows how to let the small stuff go.
Trump shouldn't knock the Eagles fans who voted for him

Here’s what I know about my hometown of Philadelphia and the team I have cheered for my whole life: Eagles fans come from all over Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware and other states. Given that regional diversity, it’s safe to say that the fan base is chock full of Trump supporters.
The president has support within Philadelphia, too, despite . The vote tallies – which were fair and accurate every time he ran for president, despite his lies – showed that support for Trump grew here from  to  to .
Opinion alerts: Get columns from your favorite columnists + expert analysis on top issues, delivered straight to your device through the USA TODAY app. Don't have the app? .
 included a shout-out to the team's fans "that voted for me (MAGA!) in record numbers." That's why he cares.
Arrowhead Stadium is in Kansas City, Missouri, where Democratic presidential nominee  in November's presidential election. Kansas City is in Jackson County, which Trump .
In other words, politics has nothing to do with the Super Bowl. Politics shouldn't have anything to do with this or any Super Bowl,  the game. And, yes, there will be . Bet on it.
As an Eagles fan, I know that what matters Sunday will happen on a field in New Orleans, 360 feet long and 160 feet wide. The game, a rematch of Super Bowl LVII two years ago , and the result will have nothing to do with Trump, no matter how badly he seeks to be the center of attention.
Go Birds!
Follow USA TODAY columnist Chris Brennan on X, formerly known as Twitter: 
You can read diverse opinions from our  and other writers on the , on X, formerly Twitter,  and in our .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: February 5, 2025


End of Document
