




Indiana Statesman: Indiana State University
January 29, 2025 Wednesday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: INDIANASTATESMAN; Pg. 1
Length: 491 words
Body


As the new administration took charge of the United States this past week, we've seen may new policies and ideals take center stage, but are some of these really our biggest priority right now?
In just his first week of office, Trump signed 37 executive orders, over half of the amount he signed during his entire first term. And although I do not agree with his policies, I can acknowledge that some of them target what many may consider a pressing issue, such as national defense. However, some of them make me wonder if we're really focusing on our most severe issues. For example, I personally think we should be tackling the issues of homelessness and substance abuse within our nation before we focus on renaming a mountain. 
I also think that the current attacks on DEI policies and positions within the federal government can and will set a dangerous precedent for the rest of the nation. I've noticed many don't quite understand exactly what these positions truly do and have also heard a lot of discourse regarding the idea of equality versus equity, both in and out of the context of DEI. 
There's also the many, many attacks on education. For a highly developed nation with only a roughly 79% literacy rate, perhaps we could spend more time working to raise teacher salaries and retention instead of states trying to display the Ten Commandments in public school classrooms? Even just in Indiana, lawmakers are attempting to shut down some of the public schools that serve the most underrepresented and impoverished communities and turn them into charter schools, taking away the power from the people they serve.
Moving on to my personal biggest issue at the moment, Trumps cabinet picks and the fact that many of them lack relevant experience to their positions. However, regardless of my feelings towards the current picks, I am just glad we got rid of Matt Gaetz. Whether any or all of the allegations against him are true or not, the details revealed in the House Ethics Committee report are enough to prove him untrustworthy and unfit for such a position as Attorney General. 
Now on to Elon Musk, when and why did we let billionaires pay their way into governmental power without being elected? And regarding his Inauguration Day actions, in my eyes, he lost any deniability of his 'gesture' not being a Sieg Heil once he began making Nazi jokes on X. For those who don't know what I'm referring to, check his post from 7:33 AM EST on Thursday, January 23. Additionally, even if it was a 'Roman Salute', there is no record of said salute being used in ancient Rome. However, the 'Roman Salute', also known as the Fascist Salute, was popularized under Mussolini. So, regardless of which of the two it was, the values associated with the gesture go directly against American Democratic values. 
While these are just very surface level observations, we are definitely in a very interesting and poorly prioritized period for US politics.

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
