




thetimes.co.uk
February 7, 2025 Friday 9:30 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 982 words
Byline: David Charter, Washington
Highlight: The president is embracing controversy as he ‘floods the zone’ with initiatives that will change the face of the nation
Body


President Trump was in a reflective mood at the National Prayer Breakfast after a week when his tariff wars with allies and “Riviera” plan for Gaza revived comparisons with the chaos of his first term.
“To get gravitas, you have to be controversial and in many cases, a horrible human being,” Trump mused at the Washington Hilton. “But we got rid of woke over the last two weeks. Woke is gonzo, despite the other side stealing hundreds of millions of dollars to ­promote woke.”
The threats to annex Canada, and a disregard for Arab self-esteem with 

, were a reminder that Trump can be his own worst enemy as he brings his no-holds-barred approach to international diplomacy.
On Friday he said he would announce his plan for “reciprocal trade” next week, placing partners on tenterhooks for potential tariffs, including Britain, the EU and Japan, even as Shigeru Ishiba, the Japanese prime minister, met him for talks at the White House.
Trump indicated later at their press conference that he was no longer looking at blanket tariffs and would assess countries individually. “We’re going to have tariffs, mostly reciprocal tariffs … where a country pays so much or charges us so much and we do the same,” he said. “They charge us, we charge them. It’s the same thing, and I seem to be going in that line as opposed to a flat-fee tariff.”
Behind the bluster, his project to reshape the US moved ruthlessly ahead. While the rest of the world saw the same old outrageous Trump, Americans domestically are experiencing a second term that seems different — and, for his critics, terrifyingly effective.
Trump’s administration has “flooded the zone”, to take the words of his former strategist Steve Bannon, making it difficult to respond clearly through a deluge of executive orders, intensive audits of government departments and agencies, left-field cabinet appointments, a publicity barrage led by 

 on X and the distraction of Trump’s own freewheeling rhetoric.
At root, this was the week that “woke” died.
Susie Wiles, Trump’s chief of staff, was caught in a memorable photo bulging her eyes in a state of apparent shock at his Gaza ideas. 
But she has resolved to “let Trump be Trump” and manage what she can control, leading to the enduring image that Wiles wanted to symbolise the week — Trump surrounded by young female athletes as he signed an executive order to end “biological men” competing in women’s sports. 
“The war on women’s sports is over,” Trump declared, adding that his administration would block visas for transgender women attempting to compete at the Los Angeles Olympics in 2028.
Across the government, dozens if not hundreds of staff involved in delivering diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) have been laid off. This began after Trump’s order — Terminating Illegal Discrimination in the Federal Government — rescinded Lyndon Johnson’s 1965 directive forbidding employment discrimination on the basis of race, colour and religion and requiring affirmative action to entrench this. 
Trump’s recalibration extended to the US Agency for International Development (USAid), which had its budget frozen and overseas workers recalled, with an announcement that all but 611 of more than 10,000 staff and contractors would have their jobs terminated.
The crusade against so-called ­wokeism was at the heart of this evisceration of USAid, an agency created by President Kennedy in 1961. This week the senator who shares his name, John Kennedy of Louisiana, defended the examination of USAid spending by Musk’s Department of Government Efficiency (Doge), telling Congress: “He found that we gave $2 million for sex changes in Guatemala. He found that we gave $20 million to produce a new 
                   Sesame Street                   
 show in Iraq … You think most taxpayers would support that?”
Trump’s war on woke is spreading. The NFL replaced the words “End Racism” in the Super Bowl endzone with “Choose Love”; Accenture became the latest company after Meta, Alphabet and Amazon to phase out diversity goals; and legal counsel to the University of North Carolina suspended a DEI course taken by all students, warning that it “jeopardised $1.4 billion in critical federal research funding”.
The politically inspired move to scrap a course requirement overnight was unprecedented, said Steven Greene, professor of political science at North Carolina State University. He added that the overhaul of domestic policy was in line with Project 2025, a blueprint for far-reaching change that Trump “completely disavowed” during last year’s election campaign when it began to receive close attention. 
“What’s somewhat ironic is the degree to which it was all spelt out in Project 2025,” Greene said. “I want to say that the liberal critics, the people who were saying ‘this is going to be really bad’, have largely been proven right.”
This was also the week when Senate committees fell in line by 

: the vaccine sceptic Robert F Kennedy Jr as health secretary and the Nato-sceptic Tulsi Gabbard as director of national intelligence. 
Trump’s scorecard looks very different depending on which constituency is grading him. “When he does stuff and it looks a little chaotic, it’s not. It’s genius,” said Peter ­Navarro, a White House counsellor for trade.
By contrast, Greene said: “The tariffs are a good reminder that this is not the work of a genius and Donald Trump is very much a muddling-through character — although he has empowered Elon Musk and others who have more systematic designs.”
Capping his week of woke-busting initiatives, Trump announced on Friday that he would reverse another of his predecessor’s environmental policies. “I will be signing an executive order next week ending the ridiculous Biden push for paper straws, which don’t work,” he wrote on his Truth Social platform. “BACK TO PLASTIC!”

Load-Date: February 7, 2025


End of Document
