




Arkansas Traveler: University of Arkansas
January 20, 2025 Monday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 468 words
Body


Donald Trump was sworn into office as the 47th President of the United States Monday morning inside the Capitol Rotunda. 
The Inauguration was moved inside due to extreme cold temperatures. The 50th and third-youngest vice president, former Ohio Sen. JD Vance took his oath of office before the president. 
Former President Joe Biden shared a farewell photo on X depicting himself alongside former First Lady Jill Biden, former Vice President Kamala Harris and Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff. 
"It has been the honor of our lifetimes to serve you, the American people," Biden captioned the post. 
President Trump made his inaugural address to the nation shortly after swearing-in. He addressed his new era of presidency and several executive orders that were later signed inside Capital One Arena after the inaugural parade. 
After the executive orders were signed inside the arena, President Trump threw multiple pens used in the signing to attendees in the crowd. Another series of Day 1 executive orders were signed later in the day inside the Oval Office. 
These orders included several that regard immigration, a delay on the TikTok ban and the implementation of the Department of Government Efficiency . 
"The golden age of America begins right now," Trump said in his inaugural address. "During every single day of the Trump administration, I will very simply put America first." 
During the inaugural address, President Trump spoke about the attempt on his life on July 13 of last year. 
"I felt then and believe even more so now, that my life was saved for a reason," Trump said. "I was saved by God to make America great again." 
The wide range of executive orders the president addressed regarded controversial topics at play. These orders address the Mexican border, gender policies, federal DEI programs, efforts to stop government censorship, tariffs and more. 
President Trump declared a national energy emergency, extending a promise to boost the country's oil and gas production, lowering costs for consumers and declaring to fight inflation. 
Various media figures were in attendance at the event: Amazon founder Jeff Bezos, Meta founder Mark Zuckerberg, Apple CEO Tim Cook, Google CEO Sundar Pichai, X CEO Elon Musk and CEO of OpenAI Sam Altman. 
Many gave their own remarks throughout the eventful Inauguration Day, including Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minnesota), Sen. Deb Fischer (R-Nebraska), House Speaker Mike Johnson and Musk. 
Vance also gave a brief speech before giving the floor to President Trump in the Emancipation Hall. 
Country singer Carrie Underwood, country artist Lee Greenwood and classical singer Christopher Macchio all performed separately at the ceremony. 
A few of the celebrities in attendance were Caitlyn Jenner, Connor McGregor, Jake and Logan Paul, Joe Rogan, Dana White and Theo Von. 

Load-Date: January 21, 2025


End of Document
