




Business Insider
February 12, 2025 Wednesday 12:59 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Insider Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 1323 words
Byline: ddefrancesco@businessinsider.com (Dan DeFrancesco)
Highlight: Disney and Goldman Sachs are the latest firms to withdraw from previous DEI pledges, while other companies like JPMorgan are standing firm.
Body


This post originally appeared in the Business Insider Today newsletter.
You can sign up forBusiness Insider's daily newsletter here.
Good morning. Elon Musk appeared alongside President Donald Trump in the Oval Office on Tuesday to . He said the cuts represented "common sense" changes, and that DOGE is what Americans voted for.
In today's newsletter,  and  stepped back from some DEI goals, as the hot-button political issue .
What's on deck
Markets: Citadel's Ken Griffin has some kind words for .
Tech: Your Netflix queue might start filling up .
Business: MrBeast is a blueprint .
But first, DEI decisions.
If this was forwarded to you, 
The big story
Debating DEI
Diversity, equity, and inclusion programs are feeling pretty excluded from Corporate America these days.
 and  are two of the latest firms to pull a U-turn on programs and pledges previously made supporting DEI initiatives in recent years.
Disney's chief human resources officer Sonia Coleman told employees in a memo that its DEI efforts were shifting to support business goals and company values. (.) That includes DEI's less prominent role in evaluating executive compensation and scrapping a digital hub for amplifying underrepresented voices.
The Mouse House is also getting rid of the content advisory disclaimers that run before some of its older movies that haven't aged well.
As for Goldman, the Wall Street powerhouse is ditching its 2021 policy that required IPO clients to have at least two diverse board members.
A bank spokesperson said the decision stems from a . The exchange wanted companies looking to go public on its venue to diversify their boards or explain themselves.
Ann Lipton, a Tulane University law professor, told BI that the Nasdaq ruling  since it's not an exchange under SEC oversight.
Despite the growing number of companies , some are .
JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon recently said the bank had no plans to reassess its DEI and ESG work and . And in late January EY posted a report highlighting how DEI strategies .
However, the Trump administration's strong stance  means continuing to support them .
Take Costco. The warehouse club's shareholders overwhelmingly voted against a proposal from a conservative think tank to examine .
Still, that didn't stop 19 Republican attorneys general from  urging him to "end all unlawful discrimination imposed by the company through diversity, equity, and inclusion" policies.
News brief
Top headlines
Federal agencies can only hire one new employee for every four that leave under Trump's latest executive order.
Trade war game plan: Trump's going bigger this time.
White House bars AP because it wouldn't go along with 'Gulf of America,' editor says.
Marc Lore's Wonder hires executives from Walmart and Wayfair as it aims to become the 'super app for mealtime.'
How to make sense of Elon Musk's $97 billion offer for OpenAI.
Macy's calls Diddy 'an equal opportunity sexual predator' in bid to be dropped from sexual assault lawsuit.
Downtrodden Alibaba stocks have surged over 30% this year on AI hype.
Ford's CEO says Trump's tariffs are causing chaos and could be devastating to the auto industry.3 things in markets1. Chinese EV maker BYD speeds up AI integration. BYD announced it would integrate self-driving features across 21 vehicles, leading its shares to hit a record high. The self-driving feature will be a standard feature, with pricier models even getting a boost from DeepSeek. The move from BYD, which doesn't sell in the US, signals how China is often innovating at lower costs than Western countries.2. Citadel founder thanks Elon Musk "from the bottom of my heart." Billionaire and GOP donor Ken Griffin spoke out in favor of Musk's DOGE efforts at a conference on Tuesday. While Griffin supports the attempt to "take back the reins of government from the bureaucrats who only know how to spend our money," he has doubts about President Trump's tariff plan.3. How to hire a $50 million portfolio manager. As eye-popping as the compensation packages are at some hedge funds, the deals are rarely just about cold, hard cash. Profit accelerators, IP ownership, and a host of other factors also play a role in the anatomy of a deal. More on funds' various bargaining chips.3 things in tech1. xAI is ramping up hiring in 2025. Elon Musk's artificial intelligence company is hiring thousands of data annotators this year to help train its chatbot Grok, three employees told BI. These roles, also known as "AI tutors," are crucial in developing large language models, and xAI currently employs over 900.2. Netflix may be next in the podcast push. Following YouTube's success with video podcasts, Netflix is exploring potential deals with podcast creators, industry insiders told BI. Podcasts could offer the streaming giant a cheaper alternative to producing regular TV shows, a consistent release schedule, and more opportunities for ad revenue.3. AI campus ambassadors. Building a viral app requires buy-in from the youths. So ChatGPT's smaller rivals are enlisting college students to promote their AI-backed search engines and convert them into faithful users. It's a strategy that mirrors the tactics used by Facebook, Snapchat, and Tinder.3 things in business1. MrBeast is forging a media empire. Hollywood should take notes. While his stunt videos may not be for everyone, the 26-year-old influencer has amassed an audience of hundreds of millions by optimizing for YouTube's algorithm. As traditional media companies lose viewership to creator-led platforms like TikTok, Hollywood could learn from MrBeast. Here are three key lessons from the king of YouTube.2. DOGE's takeover formula. Install loyalists? Check. Call out an agency on X? Check. Shutter the DC HQ? Another check. Elon Musk's DOGE seems to have a protocol for shutting down government agencies. The last step: Go to court.3. Kanye West's four days of controversy. Following a slew of posts West made on X where he praised Hitler and called himself a Nazi, the rapper ran a 30-second Super Bowl ad that pointed people to YEEZY.com. The website was later updated to feature only a swastika T-shirt for sale. Following backlash, Shopify removed West's website less than 48 hours after his ad aired - but it's not the first time the company has faced criticism for hosting controversial storefronts.In other newsThe culture wars have arrived at your Google Calendar.
Eggs are expensive - a sports dietitian shares four cheaper high-protein ingredients to buy instead.
Saudi Arabia's Neom has signed a $5 billion deal to build a huge AI data center.
'Hitch' at 20: How Will Smith's first rom-com went from near-disaster to instant classic.
Startups are showering employees with wild perks, from MRIs to 'pawternity leave.'
Over 60 PwC partners in China have stepped down as the Big Four firm handles the fallout from the Evergrande scandal.
What's happening today
Fed Chair Powell presents the Monetary Policy Report to House Financial Services Committee.
CPI data is released.
The Insider Today team: Dan DeFrancesco, deputy editor and anchor, in New York. Grace Lett, editor, in Chicago. Ella Hopkins, associate editor, in London. Hallam Bullock, senior editor, in London. Amanda Yen, associate editor, in New York. Elizabeth Casolo, fellow, in Chicago. Jack Sommers, deputy editor, in London. Lisa Ryan, executive editor, in New York.
Read the original article on


Load-Date: February 12, 2025


End of Document
