




USA Today Online
February 11, 2025 10:29 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Section: US NEWS
Length: 751 words
Byline: Rebecca Morin, USA TODAY
Body


The nation's top dog will be named tonight. New York City's mayor will have his federal indictments dropped, thanks to Donald Trump. Snow bombards the nation’s capital.
Hi all!  here. Snow is falling here in Washington. You know what that means: Time for some hot chocolate and Tuesday’s news.
But first: A star is born.  A new image revealed by the James Webb Space Telescope shows a 
Who will be Best in Show?
Good thing I’m not a judge, because all dogs would be No. 1 in my eyes. The Westminster Dog Show is back at Madison Square Garden in New York after a change in venue over the past several years because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Tuesday night culminates in the biggest prize of the competition: Best in Show. More than 2,500 dogs from every state in the nation are competing in the three-day spectacle.  
Keep track of the group winners who 
Strike a pose! Watch racing pup stop for 
Photos from 

Charges against Eric Adams to be dropped
New York Mayor Eric Adams said Tuesday that the Justice Department has ordered federal prosecutors to dismiss the corruption charges against him. Adams, the Democratic mayor of the nation's largest city, has become increasingly friendly with President Donald Trump in recent months – leading to speculation that the president would seek to end the case against Adams.
Why was he charged? Adams was indicted on federal bribery, fraud and campaign finance charges in September. It’s unclear how quickly his criminal case will be dropped. As of early Tuesday, the federal court docket had not been updated to reflect the change.  
Timeline of Adams’ federal corruption charges 
Adams, like Jan. 6 defendants, 
The New York mayor's 

Real quick
Seth Rogen sidesteps question on 
Luka Dončić feels Lakers 
Nearly half of Magic Kingdom's attractions shut down 
Pete Davidson flaunts 
Watch Canada's Justin Trudeau vow to 
Support the Short List and 
Blockbuster winter storm creates 'mess'
Roadways are clogged. Schools are closing early. And everyone I know is sticking inside today as two powerful weather systems make way across a dozen states from Missouri to Virginia.
How much snow? The first storm targeted a stretch from Kentucky to New Jersey and Delaware – with 3 6 inches of snow expected to accumulate, AccuWeather said. In Washington, D.C., and its northern Virginia suburbs, snow totals could hit 6 to 12 inches. And a second storm will slide across the East, bringing snow, sleet and rain to Washington just hours after the first storm. ❄️ 
Photos: See the winter storms move across the 

Education research on the chopping block
More cuts are happening under the new Trump administration. This time it's the Department of Education, which has moved to terminate nearly $1 billion in research contracts.
What to know: The Department of Government Efficiency, or DOGE, a new quasi-government agency run by billionaire Elon Musk, announced that it terminated 89 contracts worth $881 million as well as 29 “DEI training grants” totaling $101 million.
Why does it matter? The work of the Institute of Education Sciences, which gathers information about students and schools nationwide, was effectively halted. Michael Itzkowitz, who oversaw the creation of the College Scorecard, said cutting crucial research about schools and colleges will have ripple effects that could endanger American global competitiveness.  
5 ways Elon Musk is working to 
Senate Democrat: Trump's FBI nominee 
A break from the news
Don’t break hearts. Last-minute deals from 
✈️ How to know if you're paying a 
First-time filer? Tax credits, deductions 
Rebecca Morin is a senior national news reporter at USA TODAY. Got thoughts or feedback? Reach out to her at .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: February 11, 2025


End of Document
