




The Good 5 Cent Cigar: University of Rhode Island
February 6, 2025 Thursday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: EDITORIALS; Pg. 1
Length: 590 words
Byline: Casey Chan-Smutko
Body


It's only been a couple of weeks into Trump's second term and he's already ruined the country with harmful executive orders. These orders included mass deportation of undocumented immigrants and ending diversity, equity and inclusion programs. Additionally, Trump fired Justice Department members who tried him in the hush money case. Sometimes I ask myself why this is happening and I wonder why people voted for him.
I know Trump hates education, but he should consider watching the musical "Hamilton." In the song "Yorktown (The World Turned Upside Down)," there's a line that says "Immigrants, we get the job done." So, instead of mass deporting undocumented immigrants, they could stay in the U.S. on a work VISA. This way the proclaimed upper class aren't working the jobs they don't want. While putting undocumented immigrants in working class jobs doesn't show equality, at least they would be in a safer situation.
Terminating DEI programs is discrimination against people of color, the LGBTQ+ community and people with disabilities. It's unfair because they should have the same rights as white people. Basically, Trump is trying to rewrite history, going back to the 1960's where segregation and discrimination were more prominent than today.
Firing Justice Department members when they pushed back trials in order to continue campaigning? It's exhausting that people suck up to him just for them to get fired. Within the department, the members fired were 17 inspector generals and 12 of the independent watchdogs.
There are many more executive orders that Trump's made; it's like someone's handing him a stack of folders and he's signing them like vinyl covers for fans.
In an episode of the Daily Show, a video of Sen. Charles Schumer was shown as part of the "Trump 2.0" segment.
"[This is a] glaring sign of the golden age for abuse in government and even corruption," Schumer said in the segment.
To which I respond: dude, the government has been corrupted since Jan. 6, 2021 when Trump fans stormed the Capitol Building, harming security and policemen. Also, it took two years to find almost all of the participants and incarcerate them.
Don't forget that Trump pardoned all participants once he stepped into office. Now they roam free, and who knows what they'll do next. Everything Trump's done so far is aggravating me and I'm not the only one. On social media, I've seen some people stating that they're leaving the Make America Great Again fanbase because of his actions.
Furthermore, he's making dumb decisions. Out of all places to invade, he chose Greenland, renamed the Gulf of Mexico and is trying to make Canada part of the United States. This wouldn't have happened if former Vice President Kamala Harris was elected president. She actually had a plan to help people. If former President Joe Biden resigned sooner, she might've had a chance.
Trump thinks all of his plans will make America great again. Instead, this country has turned to turmoil. As I learned from JOR 415: Perspectives on Reporting on the U.S. and Mexico border, walls don't work to stop immigrants from crossing the border. Instead, they harm animals who rely on the other side for food. If they can't receive it, they may perish.
My suggestion for freedom from Trump's turmoil is to move to Iceland, one of the least problematic countries. Hopefully, it will bring people peace because I predict Trump will continue creating chaos for the U.S.
Whatever happens until the end of the Trump presidency, citizens should remain vigilant for the next four years.

Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
