




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 11, 2025 Tuesday 12:59 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 324 words
Byline: Stef W. KightHans Nichols
Body


February 10th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
The GOP's Hill leaders are signaling their eagerness to back up Elon Musk by turning  
Why it matters: Musk's slash-and-burn cuts may be undone by the courts. But he's given congressional Republicans a blueprint for what's possible to cut.
"I think that anything that DOGE does will be factored into what we do up here," Senate Majority Leader  
"We are going to be codifying a lot of these changes," House Speaker Mike Johnson (R-La.)  
Zoom in: DOGE has gone from a meme to a machine in the last three weeks, sparking lawsuits and injunctions.
Judges have paused  
More court activity is expected as Musk pounces from one agency to the next in search of DEI initiatives, bureaucratic bloat and other opportunities for spending cuts.
Zoom out: Republicans need to do some serious unifying if they want to pass party-line spending cuts. Ten GOP senators and 34 House members voted in December against the government funding stopgap.
But DOGE-inspired cuts might help get the House's rowdy Freedom Caucus and senators like Rand Paul (R-Ky.) to vote yes on some bills - as long as specific cuts don't create new GOP "no" votes.
Reality check: Even if the House can pass anything, outside of budget reconciliation, the Senate GOP will need Democratic votes to overcome the 60-vote filibuster for spending bills.
Democrats are rallying in opposition to President Trump's spending freeze - and are threatening to allow a government shutdown next month.
The bottom line: Musk's appeals to Congress on deep cuts could force Republicans to justify tough cuts to popular programs, and Democrats to defend funding some unpopular ones.


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 10, 2025


End of Document
