




Newsweek.com
February 21, 2025 Friday 1:23 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 462 words
Byline: Julio Cesar Valdera Morales
Highlight: Tiger Woods was chanted at the White House, including by President Donald Trump. But not all fans were pleased with it.
Body


Tiger Woods was received by President  at the White House on Thursday, February 20. , traveled to Washington to discuss negotiations with Saudi Arabia's Public Investment Fund (PIF), after which Trump invited them to a reception in honor of National Black History Month.
The President took the podium, accompanied by Woods, who wore the Presidential Medal of Freedom that Trump himself presented to him during his previous term. The presence of the 15-time major champion prompted the crowd to chant his name to encourage him , which Trump himself joined.
"It's an honor to be here," Woods said. "It's an honor to be here Mr. President and to be honored here with all of you [addressing the crowd]. Thank you so much."
Woods' presence on the podium next to President Trump was not well received by all fans, though. Many took to X, formerly , to express their opinions on the matter, using terms such as "embarrassment".
"That 99 yard wedge isn't ," one fan wrote.
Other fans felt completely differently and took to the same platform to show their approval.
Donald Trump and  hugged after Woods addressed the crowd. Later, the President stated that the 15-time major champion .
"I was with him a week ago, we played. I think he's got some left, Adam (Scott) doesn't he? Couple of Majors maybe. Maybe more than that."
Tiger Woods' presence at the National Black History Month reception, however, was an added bonus to the day. His trip to Washington, along with Monahan and Scott, was for talks involving both President Trump and PIF Governor Yasir Al-Rumayyan.
Shortly thereafter, the PGA Tour issued a press release .
"We have just concluded a constructive working session at the White House with President Trump and H.E. Yasir Al-Rumayyan. Thanks to the leadership of President Trump, we have initiated a discussion about the reunification of golf."
"We are committed to moving as quickly as possible and will share additional details as appropriate. We share a passion for the game and the importance of reunification. Most importantly, we all want the best players in the world playing together more often and are committed to doing all we can to deliver that outcome for our fans."
This is the second time  in the current month of February. Trump has repeatedly expressed an interest in mediating the ongoing negotiations to end the current schism in men's professional golf.
More Golf: 


Graphic

 
tiger woods donald trump
Getty Images/Win McNamee
Golf legend Tiger Woods speaks alongside U.S. President Donald Trump during a reception honoring Black History Month in the East Room of the White House on February 20, 2025 in Washington, DC. The Black History Month celebration comes as Trump has signed a series of executive orders ending federal diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) programs and cutting funding to schools and Universities that do not cut DEI programs.

Load-Date: February 21, 2025


End of Document
