




MailOnline
February 23, 2025 Sunday 6:04 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: REAL ESTATE; Version:1
Length: 734 words
Byline: Rachel Bowman For Dailymail.Com
Body


A small Pennsylvania town has remained deeply divided in the wake of a school board decision on transgender athletes and preferred pronouns.
The Elizabethtown school board voted 8-1 on January 28 to pass two gender policies, reported Fox 43. 
One policy mandates students are only allowed to participate in sports that align with the gender they were born with.
The second policy requires students to get parental consent to use preferred pronouns and names in the classroom.
Additionally, staff members can deny a student's request if it does not align with their personal beliefs.
The policies, which go into effect March 1, have torn the town of 12,000 residents apart, prompting protests from community members, according to The Wall Street Journal.
'This policy is a blatantly political move,' said resident Jessica Hughes, 'something that addresses nonexistent problems.'
Many people took issue with the Independence Law Center (ILC), a religious rights law firm that helped write the policies, reported WGAL.
'These ILC policies are a discriminatory, anti-trans measure that does nothing to protect students and teachers. Instead, they actively harm them,' parent Alisha Runkle told LancasterOnline.
'Real and urgent issues are being ignored. This board is not focused on helping kids. It's focused on furthering a political agenda at any cost.' 
'The ILC is a divisive organization, and I'm saying that to you as a Christian woman from a Republican household,' said resident Vicky Martin.
'Please. Do not divide this community anymore. Bring back topics that bring us together, like the inclusive playground at Bear Creek.' 
Parent and protest organizer Kristy Moore said the school board did not act in the best interest of the students.
'[Board members] consistently make decisions that don't reflect what we think the community as a whole really wants,' Moore said. 
'They continue to push through their own agenda. And we're just not going to give up. We're going to keep showing up.'
The sole dissenting vote, board member James Read, told the local news outlet his decision was informed by discussions with both district administrators and the board's two student representatives.
'They all tell me that these policies are not necessary in this district,' Read said. 'I would choose to side with the professionals who work here and the students who are in the trenches who know this district better than the ILC.'
Some residents supported the measures, claiming they help create a clear understanding for educators.
'Having written policies and procedures makes it very clear what should be done and how things should be handled in a consistent manner. It protects district, staff and students,' one person said. 
Resident Cindy Pennell told the WSJ she supports the school board's decision and said they are following through on their campaign promises.
'Stick to your election promises,' she said. 'If you want to protect girls and boys in their designated spaces, do it.'
This comes just weeks after Donald Trump ordered federal employees to remove their pronounces from the email signatures as he continues his widespread purge of diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives from the government.
Federal employees were sent memos ordering them to remove their pronouns from official government communications.
'Pronouns and any other information not permitted in the policy must be removed from CDC/ATSDR employee signatures by 5.p.m. ET on Friday,' read one message from the Center for Disease Control's Chief Information Officer Jason Bonander, according to a copy of the memo.
The use of pronouns in work emails has expanded in recent years to signal a company's commitment to inclusion of employees who identified as a different gender than the one they were born with.
The Democratic party sought to be as inclusive as possible, allowing potential employees for the Kamala Harris presidential campaign to select from nine different genders on employment applications.
Republicans, however, made a concerted effort to combat the use of specific pronouns in the workplace.
Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene (R-GA) even put up a sign outside her office on Capitol Hill defying the inclusive government effort in regard to gender.
Trump also moved to root out 'gender inclusive' practices after taking office.
His executive orders required government agencies to remove DEI language from all communications and publications.

Load-Date: February 23, 2025


End of Document
