




Fox News FOX HANNITY 9:00 PM EST
February 11, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7129 words
Byline: Sean Hannity, Newt Gingrich, Jason Chaffetz, Brian Brenberg, Miranda Devine, Joe Concha
Guests: Sage Steele, James Comer, Anna Paulina Luna
Body


SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS HOST: And welcome to "Hannity".
And breaking tonight, guess what? President Trump just secured the release of yet another American hostage. This is the seventh U.S. citizen that is freed under Donald Trump, not including hostages that were released in Israel by Hamas.
Now, only hours ago, a teacher named Marc Fogel who was wrongfully imprisoned in Russia during Joe Biden's presidency is now a free man. He is set to appear at the White House in just a matter of minutes. When that happens, we'll bring it to you live.
And thanks to negotiations by Donald Trump and his special Mideast envoy Steve Witkoff, the United States ended up giving up nothing in exchange for Marc Fogel's release. According to national security adviser Mike Waltz, quote, this was a show of good faith from the Russians and a sign that we are moving in the right direction to end the brutal and terrible war in Ukraine.
Now, I'm sure the Democrats, the media, they'll all be praising the president's strength to make this deal happen and thanking him. But seriously, don't expect any accolades from the Democratic Party or the state-run legacy media mob. Democrats learned nothing after the election in November `24, and now seemingly only care about three things. They want biological men playing women's sports, they want to protect criminal, illegal immigrants, who do not respect our borders our law, our sovereignty, even though murderers, rapists, cartel members, gang members, none of that matters, known terrorists in our country, and maybe most of all, they really want to keep spending tens and hundreds of billions of your hard-earned tax dollars on radical extreme left-wing causes around the world, without any audit, no accountability.
And the hysteria over DOGE and Elon Musk has been off the charts. Just to be clear, the left is absolutely outraged that Elon Musk and his team, working for free, are rooting out waste, fraud, abuse and corruption inside your federal government. Your money being wasted, thrown down the drain, instead of being spent on schools, and law and order, and you know, a better country for the American people, lower taxes.
This is what the American people voted for. This is what they're getting. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ELON MUSK, TECH BILLIONAIRE: The public voted, you know, we have a majority of the public vote -- voting for President Trump. We won the House. We won the Senate. The people voted for major government reform. There should be no doubt about that. That was on the campaign. The president spoke about that at every rally the people voted for -- for major government reform, and that's what people are going to get, they're going to get what they voted for.
And a lot of times that, you know, people that don't get what they voted for but in this presidency, they are going to get what they voted for and that's what democracy is all about.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Why do people hate Elon Musk? He's about to -- he's about to save two astronauts that Joe Biden and Kamala abandoned for nearly 300 days in space. He offered the people of North Carolina and Tennessee, you know, Starlink for free because they needed an ability to communicate with others, he did the same thing for people in California after the wildfires.
DOGE has now uncovered tens of billions of dollars worth of improper payments. This includes over $100 million for DEI training grants at the Department of Education, $9 million for Central American, quote, gender assignment services in Latin America from the Department of Agriculture. Figure that one out.
Another $145 million in DEI contract with the Department of Labor Transportation, other institutions. And get this, among all the other crazy far-left expenditures uncovered at USAID, a few years ago this organization also reportedly paid for notorious al-Qaeda terrorist remember Anwar al- Awlaki, remember that guy? Apparently, they paid for him to go to school at Colorado State University, full ride, compliments of you, the American taxpayer.
And that's not all. Just take a look at your screen, today, DOGE discovered that the paperwork for federal employees -- look at this -- who retire is processed by hand 230 feet underground in an old limestone mine in Pennsylvania. Now this, you know, cumbersome operation requires more than 200 employees. By the way, there are something called computers. They may want to use them. Then we now have something called artificial intelligence.
And they're obviously working at a snail's pace. The paperwork operates on a backlog can take multiple months to process and meanwhile four FEMA employees, they were just fired for continuing in spite of the president's order to send taxpayer dollars to hotels in New York City for illegal immigrants.
Remember, FEMA was putting illegal immigrants in four-star hotels in New York City. That is literally hundreds if not thousands of dollars a night. People in North Carolina forced to sleep in tents in the middle of winter months after Hurricane Helene. And as you can see, this is all about accountability, efficiency, but according to the Democrats, the sky is falling. One notorious radical left-wing pastor literally calling for violence.
I hope the Secret Service is paying attention against Elon Musk telling his congregation we are on the verge of bloodshed and sometimes violence is necessary. We'll run that for you later in the show. Other Democrats lashed out at President Trump. For example, Maxine Dexter is now famous for wanting to, quote, bleep Donald Trump. We'll let you figure out the bleep.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. MAXINE DEXTER (D-OR): I just -- I -- I've been told I have 30 seconds so I am going to tell you that we do have to -- I don't swear in public very well, but we have to (EXPLETIVE DELETED) Trump. Please don't tell my children that I just did that.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Okay. Apparently, this is the latest talking point, too, from the Democratic Party. Take note: they all sound the same. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And I'll tell you, I'm from Jersey so I look a little differently. I say (EXPLETIVE DELETED) Trump.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We are going to beat -- I was going to say (EXPLETIVE DELETED) but no, we're not. No, I'm not going to say that.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (EXPLETIVE DELETED) Donald Trump and Elon Musk.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: They're going to bleep Donald Trump. Oh, that's so uplifting, so inspiring, so full of vision for the country. That's really going to help make your life better.
And wait, it gets more dumb. For some reason, Democratic Congresswoman Pressley also announcing her support for censorship. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. AYANNA PRESSLEY (D-MA): Look, let me tell you something. I'll take a bit of umbrage here. I'll speak on behalf of my colleagues. I think I can say we are all willing to work with anyone who's serious about doing the work of censoring the American people and advancing progress. But they are not serious.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: And, of course, what kind of leftwing resistance movement would be complete without a little cringe-worthy, predictable singing. Join in, shall you, at home.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
CROWD (singing): Which side are you on? We'll fight against DOGE. We'll fight Elon Musk. No Elon scab (ph) within our walls, we'll fight from dawn to dusk. Trump's coming for our unions he wants us all to fail. He wants us to bow him but we want him in jail.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: And last but certainly not least here is idiotic senator from Connecticut, Chris Murphy, whining to fake news CNN about the death of democracy, all because Donald Trump, Elon Musk and DOGE are criticizing, you know, waste, fraud, abuse, corruption and criticizing judicial overreach because what they can't do with the ballot box electorally, what they can't do legislatively -- well, what the Democrats always do? They run to far-left activist judges. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN HOST: Senator Murphy, as we look at the developments that have happened in the last 48 hours, what are your concerns about this moment that we're at, with the courts, with the president and with the suggestion from two of his top advisers that that maybe they defy the court's rulings?
SEN. CHRIS MURPHY (D-CT): Yeah, listen, I -- I mean, I -- this isn't hyperbole to say that we are staring the death of democracy in the eyes right now. The centerpiece of our democracy is that we observe court rulings.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: No, it's the death of misappropriating the money of the people that work hard in this country that on average make only $66,000 a year. It is using their money to advance your radical green new deal, your wokeism, your transgenderism, your DEI-ism worldwide and not taking care of the American people first.
When this is all said and done, I want to extrapolate out how much money every American could have gotten off their taxes if they didn't give this money and spend this money on this radical agenda. That's not the death of democracy. That is the return to constitutional order. That is a return to the vision of our Framers and Founders, limited government, greater freedom.
That is -- that is what America needs now more than anything. Finally, they've talked for decades about ending waste, fraud and abuse. Now, we're going to do it.
Now this perpetual state of rage -- well, at times entertaining, it's getting a little hard to watch. The sky has been falling for 10 years since Donald Trump and Melania came down that escalator at Trump Tower and yet, Trump has his highest approval numbers ever.
Look at this, a joint poll, Trafalgar, that's Robert Cahaly, Insider Advantage, Matt Towery, Trump up nine points. Again, the American people voted for government and reform and for good reason. It's been a train wreck in the Washington swamp for decades.
Americans also wanting strong new leadership overseas, once again, promises made, promises kept. And just listen to Jordan's King Abdullah earlier today at the White House. He seems very open to what the president is proposing for the Middle East.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KING ABDULLAH, JORDAN: Mr. President, I truly believe that with all the challenges that we have in the Middle East, that I finally see somebody that can take us across the finish line to bring stability, peace and prosperity to all of us in the region, and it is I think our collective responsibility in the Middle East to continue to work with you, to support you, to achieve those lofty goals.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: The president's proposal, we'll go in, we'll clean out the rubble, we'll rebuild Gaza and we'll create tons of jobs and wealth for the people in the area, so they can have better lives and we'll demilitarize the place. Oh, what a radical idea. We'll have peace in the Middle East.
The king appeared open to the president's plan. America exceptionalism is making a comeback. As a result, the entire world, it will be a better place. And by the way, make sure to check out the Gulf of America. If you look on Google Maps, there it is, the Gulf of America. They're getting it.
Here now with more FOX News contributor, former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, is with us.
Mr. Speaker, great to -- great to see you. I've never seen anything like this in my life. You're the great historian. First, can you explain why would the Democrats double down on hundred -- tens and tens of billions, it'll be hundreds of billions by the time it's over, of reckless spending on the green new deal, woke policies, DEI practices, transgenderism, internationally, taking that money from the American people, double down on men playing women's sports, and double down on protecting people in this country illegally, many of them harden criminals. Why is that their strategy?
NEWT GINGRICH, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Well, I mean, first of all, when I watched the video you showed, I concluded that it was a real commentary on the decay of American education, that you had all these so-called leaders who are utterly totally incapable of speaking in -- in an understandable way. I mean, going around yelling curse words if you're an elected member of Congress is just stupid. And it tells you how much our education system has decayed, that this is the best the Democrats can produce.
Second, there are two different things going on here with the Democrats. The first is they are watching with terror as all the different sources of government money that has propped them up for the last 60 or 70 years, all of it is now being challenged by President Trump and by Elon Musk.
I mean, this cuts at the very base of their coalition, and if they can't bribe people, if they can't act corruptly, if they can't take care of their friends, their entire coalition is going to collapse.
Second, you have a very large part of the Democratic Party for whom the beliefs you were describing, transgenderism for example, are religious beliefs. This is a secular religion. They can't unlock because they believe these things -- they believe in an open border. They believe that there really is no such thing as America. They believe that it's really good to have millions of people flood into this country. It's really good to have people who don't have to work, that work requirements are inherently bad.
All of these things are -- are a semi-religious or religious belief system and that's why they can't unlock. They -- it's not rational. They can't sit down and do a common sense analysis. They're instead trapped into being for things that are profoundly unpopular with most Americans.
HANNITY: There's an untold story behind this money, too, because Congress has a duty called oversight, and there was senators and Congress people that were asking USAID, for example, and other departments for an accounting of their money. They would get back nebulous, obscure, obtuse answers which tells me that the Democrats knew what they were doing. They knew the American people would not want their money spent this way, but they did it anyway, and then they basically lied to the American people and would not disclose the true nature of the spending that was actually going on.
GINGRICH: Look, I mean, you have to accept that there was a lobbyist bureaucratic empire, that that empire took your money, gave it to its friends, even if they were totally incompetent, and then you'll find case after case where your money went out the systems that just don't work. That's crazy.
And at that time, they were taking care of themselves. What makes President Trump potentially the most consequential president since Abraham Lincoln is the fact that he's taking a sledgehammer and he is pounding the establishment in a way that no one has since Franklin Roosevelt created it in the 1930s.
He's the first person and I -- a great fan of Ronald Reagan. Reagan defeated the Soviet Empire, but he didn't try to take on the American establishment. Trump has had the guts to go straight at it, and I think the American people are going to be with him, even -- even more so when they learn how really sickeningly bad it is.
HANNITY: What do you make -- we are expecting sometime very soon, within the next hour, that American Marc Fogel, who was taken American teacher detained by Russia under the Biden years will be in the Trump White House. We expect he's back, and his special Mideast envoy Steve Witkoff went to Russia and is bringing him home. And the president will see him tonight and there are a lot of people that will greet him tonight.
How do you interpret what Vladimir Putin is doing here? And the president also drew a line in the stand and he said that all the hostages have until noon Saturday to be released by Hamas or all hell will break loose. I believe -- if I was Hamas and Iran, I believe Trump. Your thoughts?
GINGRICH: Well, first -- first of all, the people who should most be in the target zone are Qatar. Qatar has the money. Qatar is hosting all the leaders of Hamas in very nice condominiums. Qatar is the place to really put the pressure to break Hamas permanently.
Second, I think what you see happening and I give Steve Witkoff a lot of credit both in the Middle East and now with Russia, he's a very good negotiator. And what you're seeing is Putin is trying to say, you know, I don't want to give up everything, I don't want to surrender but can't we be friends? How -- how many little things can I do to show you that I'm not automatically your enemy?
And I think with Keith Kellogg as the special envoy, they're very methodically trying to work out what is it that allows Ukraine to survive, what is it that gets Russia to stop and do so without a risk of a nuclear war? And I think Trump has a very clear sense of what he wants to get done and inch by inch, you're going to see them move towards some kind of very serious truce.
HANNITY: All right. Mr. Speaker, always good to have you. Thank you for your time.
Here with more, FOX News contributor Jason Chaffetz, and "The Big Money Show" co-host on FOX Business, Brian Brenberg.
Congressman, good to have you.
This is now the seventh U.S. hostage that will be released. We expect him showing up any moment at the White House. Hopefully, we'll be able to show the American people that, and then the deadline, the line in the sand that President Trump drew for Hamas noon on Saturday. Your thoughts on both?
JASON CHAFFETZ, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Glad they're coming home.
Look, this is the focus of President -- President Trump. He -- he -- this is important to him and consequently it gets done in his first term. He bought 55 hostages home and now, we're barely three weeks into his presidency. He's bringing home number six, right, or number seven.
HANNITY: Seven.
CHAFFETZ: And to have his family home -- I read an article -- seven. I read on FOXNews.com where President Trump met with his family and said, if I get back in there, if I get elected again, I'm going to bring him home, and he did it. And it's -- Donald Trump is amazing that way. He's committed to it. He makes it happen and consequently, this American is coming home to American soil. I love it.
HANNITY: You know, I will tell you, if you read the tea leaves, Brian, the seven hostages that Trump got released, Americans back home, that does not include when -- when he was transitioning and he said they better be released the hostages before I become president or all hell will break loose. Now, he's given them until noon Saturday.
BRIAN BRENBERG, FBN HOST: Right.
HANNITY: Now, if I'm Iran and I'm Hamas, if they don't take that threat seriously, you know what? God help them and God won't be able to help them because look at -- if you read the tea leaves, he just gave Prime Minister Netanyahu bunker buster bombs. There might be a message there.
BRENBERG: That's right. And do you know why he gave those bombs to Benjamin Netanyahu? Because he said they paid for them, right? That's how we do business.
Israel is our friend. They bought those bombs. They'll use them if they have to, to keep their people safe and fight terrorism.
President Trump is as serious as a person can be, and guess what? Every leader around the globe knows that. Leaders in Colombia knew that.
Venezuela knew that. Panama knows that. People in Denmark know that. In the European Union, they know that. In China, they know that.
The folks in Iran, the folks running Hamas, everyone in the Middle East is on notice. President Trump is not kidding around and the reason is, he's got right and justice on his side. He is communicating to terrorists who took innocent lives and everyone with a moral sense knows that and in America, they are backing this president and that gives him the strongest hand any president has had in the Middle East.
HANNITY: It looks like between the comments, Zelenskyy is open to a deal, I would say this gesture by Putin shows that, Jason, that he would be open to a deal there and I think it's very obvious that the president is prepared to do whatever is necessary to allow Israel the freedom to win their war against radical Islamic terrorists that attacked them on October 7th, and they will have our full support. You're take?
CHAFFETZ: Yeah. In Ukraine, look, Joe Biden and to a large extent Barack Obama has put is in on perilous position. I think history will show that they helped create the atmosphere that led to Russian making that incursion. And certainly when they recognized that Barack Obama wasn't going to hold the red line in Syria, when he wasn't going to push back on other times when there are incursions. But when Donald Trump showed up, they realized that Donald Trump was going to tell the truth, that he would telegraph in advance exactly what he was going to do and there was no doubt that Donald Trump would do it.
And I think on a world level, Vladimir Putin has that sort of respect for Donald Trump and vice versa. That's good for the world. That's why I think he can actually bring peace because they can come to a tenable conclusion here, and stop the killing, and get back to life and order, where people don't have to live in so much fear, and it won't cost so much money.
So I have no doubt that Donald Trump will get it done. And, by the way, Israel, they're best ally in the middle, everybody knows that we're hand and glove with them. It wasn't just lip service from Joe Biden. Donald Trump really does mean it.
HANNITY: Consequential work in terms of securing our border and deporting illegals, consequential work as it -- as it comes to eliminating waste, fraud, abuse and corruption, consequential, you know, advancement to bring peace in Europe and in the Middle East and it's getting interesting.
Thank you both. Brian, good to see you. Jason, good to see you.
When we come back, Joe Rogan slamming Democrats and the media for doubling down on their insane radical far-left agenda. We've got that tape and more.
And President Trump and freed American hostage Marc Fogel, well, live from the White House just hours after Fogel's release from a Russian prison, something that Harris and Biden could not get done. When that happens, we'll bring it to you live.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. This just in, a FOX News alert. Now, Donald Trump's special envoy for hostage affairs just announced yet another hostage will be coming home tomorrow. We don't know yet who it is, but we will keep you posted.
But now, all eyes right this hour on the White House as we await the return of Marc Fogel, the American teacher held hostage in Russia for years, in the Biden years on false drug trafficking charges. Thanks to President Trump and his special Mideast envoy Steve Witkoff, Fogel was release today, and we expect them any moment to show up at the White House. That's only a matter of minutes away, we are told.
Fogel's return, by the way, is just the latest example of Donald Trump's historic first month and the left the state-run media mob, frankly, they're not handling it too well. After almost a decade with Trump in the national political spotlight, it is pretty spectacularly stunning that the legacy media is still struggling to cope, even though their ratings continue to decline, more and more and more, people don't trust them. Americans are seeking open and honest discussions away from the word police, the smear merchants, the woke mob in the media.
And no one knows that by the way than the current podcast king himself, Joe Rogan. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOE ROGAN, PODCAST HOST: They're not course correcting at all. You know, they're saying stupid (EXPLETIVE DELETED), it's -- it's all nonsense, like their understanding of social media and the dynamics that you set up by having completely state controlled mainstream media where they only said the narratives that you guys wanted. They all said it in step. So you could watch different programs, repeat the exact same words, exact same phrases.
We don't trust "The New York Times". We don't trust "The Washington Post". We don't trust CNN or any of -- MSNBC -- where they're all full with propaganda.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yeah.
ROGAN: And so that's why the Internet rose. It's not because there was some sort of a (EXPLETIVE DELETED) right-wing conspiracy and heavily funded. No, you guys suck. You guys (EXPLETIVE DELETED) suck and you're not real people and you're not like -- nobody wants to hang out with Brian Stelter, you know what I'm saying? None of these (EXPLETIVE DELETED) people are people that people can actually relate to and like.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: I don't think people know who humpty-dumpty is. And, by the way, how's it working out for Norah O'Donnell, and Jim fake news Acosta, and Andrea Mitchell and Chucky Todd, not that well.
Anyway, here with reaction, FOX News contributors Miranda Devine and Joe Concha.
You know, in many ways, I feel really blessed, Miranda, because new media began with the talk radio revolution and then FOX took that on HGH and steroids to the next level and still both remain extraordinarily powerful and relevant today.
And then you've got the Rogans and the podcasters and the social media and X, et cetera, and it's people have too many options and if you -- if you're not a truth teller, you're -- you're not going to survive in my view. Am I wrong on that, in that analysis?
MIRANDA DEVINE, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: I -- no, you're absolutely right, and I think, you know, people who are trustworthy in the media, that part of the media universe is thriving. It's the propaganda merchants that are shriveling on the vine. And you know, Joe Rogan is absolutely right. No one trusts them anymore.
Their latest sort of unison talking point is constitutional crisis that Donald Trump's causing a consti -- that's the old story. They did it in its first term. They're doing it again. It doesn't work.
And they're going nuts because no one is listening to them. They've lost their influence. They've lost the trust of the people. They've lost the room, and they can't handle it.
HANNITY: You know, Joe, all these years I've been doing this, there have been elections that the candidate of my choice didn't win, and you know what? I didn't go out there and start singing I didn't start saying F them, F them.
I didn't go out there and say we're the resistance, a constitutional crisis. No, you know what? I pointed out their flaws and fought for better ideas and in the end, the American people always come back to where -- where the right place is and I believe that happened here. But in the process during this election cycle, I have declared legacy media is done. Am I wrong?
JOE CONCHA, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: It is done, Sean, because the numbers back that up. And look, the place everybody came back to during this election wasn't conservativism necessarily. It wasn't anything in terms of rep Republicanism. It was common sense.
Common sense is what guides so many people in this word and logic, and that's what they want from their media. That's what they want from their leaders. It's quite simple.
And right now, there is literally zero distance between the insanity herd on MSNBC, CNN, shows like Colbert, or the editorial pages of "The New York Times" and "The Washington Post", and the Democratic Party. They seem to be taking their cues from those places and it seems that most of the party has decided that moving harder to the left after the election is the way to win voters back?
I mean, this week alone, the Democratic Party has shown it's currently three things and none of them ain't good. Patently unhinged, hopelessly disorganized, utterly toned deaf when it comes to what people are demanding from their elective leaders.
FOX News voter analysis -- listen to this -- this was after the 2024 election, shows that 83 percent of Americans are demanding wholesale changes to the way government operates, and yet what -- what do we see from Democrats on a daily basis during these rallies when the theme is, what, to protect the status and Washington? They don't realize it, Sean, but they're coming down on the 10 side of almost every 90/10 issue.
I mean, go ask 100 people on the street right now. Do you support a full audit of government agencies in an effort to slash wasteful, stupid and even corrupt spending? Ninety percent will say yes, while the other 10 percent is drunk.
Singing, screaming and yelling, that's what Democrats are doing at these rallies. Volume is not a strategy. Emotion is not a policy. These aren't protest. It's a public therapy session.
And if you're in the Trump administration right now, you want to see these rallies every day. You want more Maxine Waters, more Elizabeth Warren, more Chuck Schumer, and more members of the Squad, many more, because if they just keep doing this, they will drive away every possible last independent swing state voter and will never win a national election again unless they pivot back to the center much like Bill Clinton did before the 1996 election in working with your guest before, Newt Gingrich, and actually doing common sense things.
HANNITY: You know, we pride ourselves on this show of getting everything right -- everything from Russia, Russia, and FISA abuse, and the double standard in our justice system with top secret classified information, or the weaponization. But we also got other cases right starting with Richard Jewell and UVA and Duke lacrosse and Ferguson, Missouri, and Freddy Gray in Baltimore and so many other instances, Miranda.
And all their attacks against Donald Trump -- you just spent a full day with Donald Trump, you were on Air Force One, you went to the White House. What was that like?
DEVINE: It was fantastic and look, just such a whirlwind. I joked to someone --
HANNITY: He never invited me on Air Force One. Joe, did he ever invite you? Didn't invite me.
CONCHA: I got the Trump plane when I was covering the campaign, where they serve Wendy's, which was nice, but I know I never got Air Force One.
DEVINE: Trump Force One, Trump Force One, yes, which is very luxurious as well. Both fantastic planes.
And look, he is so energetic and there's just so much going on with him. It's hard for everyone to keep up and he has got such a young staff around him, people like Karoline Leavitt, 27, the youngest press secretary in history. You just look at Pete Hegseth and J.D. Vance.
I mean, this is a very -- a new generation is in power in Washington. Elon Musk with all his 18 to 25-year-old high IQ whiz kids, and there's Donald Trump with more energy than all of them put together. He's just incredible -- he goes from 6:00 in the morning until midnight, he has five hours sleep and he wakes up, he told me every morning thinking just of business, political business.
HANNITY: Well, we appreciate both of you and keep up the good work.
By the way, Joe has a book coming out pretty soon. We'll tell you about that in an upcoming appearance.
All right. When we come back, Donald Trump is keeping his campaign promise to obliterate woke policies. We have the latest. We'll get reaction from the one and only Sage Steele.
And we are monitoring the White House at this hour where freed American hostage Marc Fogel is expected to meet with president Trump. We'll take you there live as it happens.
And we also have just learned at FOX News, another American hostage is set to be released tomorrow. They've not given us details, but as that develops, we'll bring any -- anything new, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: And breaking tonight, we are monitoring the situation at the White House where any minute, we expect Marc Fogel held hostage in Russia four years just freed by Donald Trump and his administration and his special envoy Steve Witkoff, and this hostage will be meeting with the president celebrating his return home.
Also breaking tonight, we have learned that another hostage will be released tomorrow. We don't have any details on who or from where, as the first few weeks of Donald Trump's presidency have been a resounding victory for the return of common sense and American strength abroad.
In accordance with Donald Trump's executive orders, PBS has announced that it is closing down its DEI office and at the State Department, Secretary of State Marco Rubio has ordered his staff to issue only male and female passports, no more gender X. Meanwhile, after Trump signed his executive order banning biological men from women's sports, the Department of Education launched Title IX investigations into schools that allowed men to compete in women's sports.
And now, "The Daily Caller" is reporting that the administration is asking the NCAA to vacate all titles and records won by biological men in women's competitions, and Trump has also made clear his executive order applies to the upcoming Olympic Games that will be held in Los Angeles.
Real leadership is back. Common sense is back. The Trump administration is working hard to deliver for the American people without distractions at the speed of light.
Here with more, the host of "The Sage Steele Show", Sage Steele.
Sage, how are you? Good to have you back.
SAGE STEELE, HOST OF "THE SAGE STEELE SHOW": Great to see you again, Sean. Thank you.
HANNITY: It reminds me of, you know, the first time I watched you interview Jillian Michaels and her telling you why she left California -- I mean, and now Donald Trump is reversing all of it. The left is going crazy, but to me, the American people -- do they really want all this money spend abroad, tens and tens of billions of dollars? Do they really want woke policies in every aspect of their lives, or do they want limited government, greater freedom and leave people alone and let them make their own decisions, but they don't need a seal of government approval for what they do?
STEELE: Yeah, honestly, I think it's the ladder, and I'm down here in south Florida. I was in New Orleans for the Super Bowl all last week and all people are talking about, Sean, I know that you know this as well is, oh, my gosh, the reporters up there in Washington are busier than they've ever been because every single day, there's breaking news of things Donald Trump is doing.
I was there at the White House last week when he signed the executive order to keep men out of women's sports. That was incredible to be there with Riley Gaines and mothers and daughters who have been fighting this.
I will say this, we've got to get Congress to push this through permanently because we all know that executive orders can be overturned. And right now, the NCAA did do some good. Here's the problem, they haven't fully gone to the level that we need them to go because as much as women -- women are now, men are now not allowed to play in women's sports the issue sean is that they are still able to earn scholarships, and are still allowed in women's spaces. That means locker room.
So the NCAA has kind of half, if you know what I mean, to get there. But they've got a lot more work to do and the way to make that permanent is to push through the Protection of Women and Girls and Sports Act. Congress needs to get that done.
Seventy-nine percent of Americans agree that boys should not be in girl sports. Let's put an end to this permanently. I think that is one huge reason why so many people are happy -- one of many reasons happy that Donald Trump is just putting pen to paper every single day there in the Oval Office.
HANNITY: Did you even know you can get a passport and check another box besides male and female? I guess I should have known that but I didn't.
STEELE: Call me ignorant, I did not know that. I mean, again, I should not be surprised. There's a lot of things I didn't know. I didn't know, Sean, that the military was allowing and paying for however many millions of dollars for transgender operations, transitions, surgeries. So, so many of these things are being put to bed.
By the way, I -- you know me. I'm -- I'm an Army brat, a daughter of a West Point graduate, the granddaughter of a buffalo soldier -- you know, all the stuff in the military as well, all the money going there.
This isn't about feelings. This is about putting money towards the right things, protecting Americans, defending our country. That's what the money and the focus should be. Can I end on this, Sean?
Because I'm so grateful for this breaking news that you've been reporting on tonight with Marc Fogel, the teacher coming back after three plus years in Russia, I'm so grateful for that and hopefully more to come.
Listen, it was awesome to see Britney Griner come back out of that Russian prison, the WNBA star, a couple years ago. Fogel, has been there for almost four years, many others.
So thank you, Donald Trump, for bringing everyone home, trying to, not just a couple of people that fit the agenda. So awesome news tonight here, and I hope that it continues.
HANNITY: And we're expecting more news tomorrow. I feel the same way you do, when I heard that this hostage was being released and Steve Witkoff was flying him home, I just couldn't be happier. I mean, I hate the thought of any American being held captive anywhere around the world.
And what do you make of the reaction to Elon Musk just exposing you know billions and billions of waste, fraud, abuse and corruption? And the left is going insane because it's money not even spent on anything that I would define as worthwhile but spent on their radical agenda? What do you make of the hatred of Elon Musk? I think we owe a debt of gratitude.
STEELE: I do, too. I absolutely love it. At the end of the day, I don't care that he's not elected. He's getting it done. He's fixing it. He's cleaning house.
And by the way, how about the person we had elected as the last president who was there and did nothing but made it worse? So I'll take Elon over the last guy who didn't even do his job.
HANNITY: Well, not one of his cabinet officials was elected either. So let's be real here. He was elected president. It's his agenda that he is en enacting, and Elon Musk is helping him and he's given up a lot to do it, and he's doing it for free and he's going to rescue astronauts in space and help the people of North Carolina, Tennessee and California, and, you know, the left hating on him the way they are is insane to me.
Anyway, Sage great to see you. Great to have you.
STEELE: It's a good thing. It's a compliment.
HANNITY: Yeah, that's true, being -- I've spent a lot of my career being hated. So I guess that's the compliment.
All right. Coming up, brand new task force set to focus on the declassification of federal secrets. That means the assassination of RFK, JFK, MLK. Oversight Committee Chairman James Comer, Congresswoman Anna Paulina Luna are here with the details.
And we are awaiting, we expect moments from now we will take you live to the White House where President Trump will be greeting the freed American hostage Marc Foley released from Russia. We also have the expectation that another hostage, we don't know the details, will be released tomorrow as well.
Stay with us.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. This is a FOX News alert. We have just learned that Marc Fogel has, in fact, landed back on American soil. He is right now on his way to the White House to meet with President Trump. We will take you there live as it happens.
And by the way, we will be doing an extra hour of "Hannity" tonight, so we'll get it in even if it goes past the 9:00 hour.
Also tomorrow, somewhere around the world, we don't know the details as of now, another American hostage is expected to be released.
Meanwhile, back here at home, President Trump's executive order to declassify JFK, RFK, MLK Jr.'s assassination files is making waves. House Oversight Committee Chairman James Comer has appointed Congresswoman Anna Paulina Luna to lead a new task force focused on the declassification of these files along with Jeffrey Epstein's client list, files related to 9/11, the origins of COVID-19, unidentified foreign objects and federal secrets. Maybe they can also release the name of -- the names of congressmen who have non-disclosure agreements that use taxpayer dollars because the relationships they were involved in.
Here with the latest, House Oversight Committee Chair James Comer, along with Congresswoman Anna Paulina Luna.
Anna, start with you. It sounds like you want everything. I hope you'll also consider what I want, too.
REP. ANNA PAULINA LUNA (R-FL): Look, we do. I think that we're in the business of providing transparency to the American people and, Sean, for too long, the American people have doubted government, rightfully so. They held back lots of information that the American people were entitled to, and I'm just thankful for President Trump being in office now.
I just want to put this out there, if we find that the president -- president's executive order is stonewalled, I do not put it past Chairman Comer or Speaker Johnson to hold those people in inherent contempt. And so, do not push back against what the president wants to declassify this, the American people deserve this, and we will be following through on this.
HANNITY: Yeah, I appreciate it.
Congressman Comer, why -- why have they -- have they hidden this information from the American people, all of it? Goes back to the 1960s in three cases?
REP. JAMES COMER (R-KY): I think it's -- it's a sign of arrogance. Look, it's -- it's a sign of government elite thinking that -- that the average person doesn't need to know, that they can't handle the truth or that they don't need to know the truth.
This is their territory. This is the deep state. The deep state's been around a long time, it's just been empowered in the last four years under Joe Biden, and what Donald Trump campaigned on was restoring confidence in the government.
Right now, the average working taxpaying American doesn't have a lot of confidence in the federal government, and Donald Trump's trying to change that. He's trying to eliminate wasteful spending and be transparent with the American people and that's what our goal is with the task force and Congresswoman Luna is the perfect person to lead this task force.
She's persistent. She's all about transparency and I think this is going to be one of the most interesting things Congress does because everyone wants to know these secrets that have been held in our government. Yeah.
HANNITY: I'm almost out of time.
Congresswoman, how long until this will be released? We have to roll.
LUNA: We have a couple of days, but it will be all available to the American people and our first hearing will be noticed publicly in March.
HANNITY: All right. We really appreciate both of you. Thank you for your transparency.
When we come back, stay with us. "Hannity" live for another hour as we prepare, Marc Fogel to meet with President Trump at the White House as our coverage continues right here on the FOX News Channel.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

Load-Date: February 12, 2025


End of Document
