



First of All with Victor Blackwell
February 22, 2025 Saturday 08:00 AM EST


Copyright 2025 Cable News Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 5644 words
Byline: Victor Blackwell
Guests: Jamal Bryant, Derrick Johnson; Tanisha Hartwell-Paris; Tarence Bailey Sr.
Highlight: Target is facing backlash for its DEI pullback from customers, the heirs to one of its founders and civil rights activists. "Beyond the Gates," the first soap opera to debut in over 25 years and the first hour-long soap to center around a Black family. Various organizations filed a lawsuit against the Trump Administration on Wednesday in response to Executive Orders targeting DEI. The USDA has suspended the 1890 Scholars Program, which funds students at historically Black land-grant universities, HBCUs. Tanisha Hartwell- Paris, wife of Iraq veteran detained by ICE says husband was told he would not be deported. A parade celebrating Frederick Douglass is canceled after Maryland National Guard drops out following Trump administration anti-DEI orders.
Body


[08:00:47]
VICTOR BLACKWELL, CNN ANCHOR: Well, first of all, nothing says Happy Black History Month like firing only the second black person to serve as the top general of the United States because you're over that whole diversity thing. Joint Chiefs Chairman Charles Q. Brown was fired on the same day he visited the southern border. Apparently, that was not enough to counter a crusade by Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth to rid the military of so-called WOKE leaders. In the announcement, President Trump did call General Brown an outstanding leader. So that's something.
That tracks though, since Brown was first promoted to chief of the Air Force by Trump. But that was first term. Well, now DEI is being used as a cudgel to end everything from careers to federal funding. There is some pushback in the courts.
Last night, a federal judge put a hold on the Trump administration's ability to freeze or cancel equity-related federal contracts. The Trump administration issued the order on its first day in office. U.S. District Judge Adam Abelson writes that, "they are unlikely constitutional and their content and viewpoint-based restrictions that chill speech as to anyone the government might conceivably choose to accuse of engaging in speech or equity, a speech about equity or diversity or DEI". Also this week, civil rights groups including the NAACP filed their own lawsuit challenging Trump executive orders over DEI.
So let's bring in now the president and CEO of the NAACP, Derrick Johnson. He's joining us from Los Angeles, the site of tonight's Image Awards.
Derrick, thank you for being with me. The NAACP Legal Defense Fund, several other organizations suing the administration. You say the DEI executive orders violate the First and Fifth Amendments and that they intentionally discriminate against black and trans people. What's your reaction to this pause order?
DERRICK JOHNSON, PRESIDENT AND CEO, NAACP: Well, I think it's the right decision. What we are witnessing now is anything that's black, brown, gender, or this administration, they simply don't like. They label it DEI without a clear description of what it is, why they're doing it. For me, it feels as if the very things to prevent discrimination, the very things to ensure that the most talented individuals are part of providing the necessary support, guidance and expertise for agencies being used to root people out. It's almost as if we are in the 1800s and we're looking at, you know, the concept of separate of everybody. It's all unconstitutional and unnecessary.
BLACKWELL: Speaking of the 1800s, this week the Agriculture Department suspended the 1890 scholarship program that provides full tuition, fees, books, room and board to students who attend the 19 historically black universities created by the 1890 land grants. They were created in the early 90s. The George H.W. Bush administration. What do you think here is happening that they are suspending, until further review these scholarships that students are now using to attend these 19 schools?
JOHNSON: The question is why? Why are we, in this juncture in the history of the country. We are targeting programs. They're not discriminated against anyone, in fact, is working to reverse historic discrimination against the various institutions, individuals, communities that prevented those institutions, individuals, communities from fully engaging and participating in our society. If you think about many of the 1890 land grant schools, there's a substantial number of them that were created, never received their federal appropriation, deny the money from the states, although the states receive the money over decades. And they're going to target those very same institutions based on some theory that is harming other students or discriminating against other students.
It is turning the concept of approaching a society that's more inclusive, more equitable, and reflecting the diversity that we have grown to become in a way in which people are trying to force us back into a 1930s or 1800s reality that we simply don't fit in that reality nNo more.
[08:05:13]
BLACKWELL: Should the administration expect a lawsuit from the NAACP about this? You sued on several different fronts. The Trump administration.
JOHNSON: I think the administration is going to find resistance on all fronts. We are hoping that as the distraction of race, religion, and gender continue to be the strategy of this administration as they approach doing budgeting that's going to harm all Americans. If you think about some of the recommendations that we're hearing is going to come forward is reducing Medicaid. Well, that's not a black or white issue. That's an issue of reduce. Ensure that all Americans receive quality health care. The reduction of programs that create not only a social safety net but create safety in this country.
We are concerned not only based on what this administration is doing around diversity, equity, inclusion, we're concerned with the use of race as a distraction to undermine the role of government. Public money should be used for public good, not for profits.
BLACKWELL: The NAACP has long called for more transparency in policing. There was a national law enforcement accountability database. Let me play something from one of its early supporters.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
DONALD TRUMP, USA PRESIDENT: Under this executive order, departments will also need a share of information about credible abuses so that officers with significant issues do not simply move from one police department to the next. That's a problem.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
BLACKWELL: That was Trump in 2020. Now that database has been shut down by Trump in his second term. He actually created it and then got rid of it. What do you see, Derrick, is the difference between first term, second term on this issue that something he called for and created after the killing of the murder of George Floyd. He now his Department of Justice gets rid of all the data.
JOHNSON: Well, having a national database is absolutely critical to ensure bad actors who find themselves as law enforcement officers are not able to jump from agency to agency, something that we have long advocated for. Quite frankly, we are witnessing a redefinition around the world of government. And that's not a race issue.
Race is the tool being used. We have to be careful as all Americans that this redefinition of the role of government isn't used to harm not only our civil liberties but our ability to be a safe nation. And frankly, like most people, we are shocked by this approach, but not surprised by this approach.
BLACKWELL: Derrick Johnson, president of the NAACP, thank you so much for being with us, and enjoy the Image Awards tonight.
JOHNSON: Thank you.
BLACKWELL: All right. When looking at how policies are impacting people, this story stood out to me. It's the case of a man named Marlon Paris. He's originally from Trinidad and Tobago, arrived in the US as a minor in the late 90s.
Marlon went on to join the army and served in Iraq early in the war. He is a legal permanent resident of the United States. His family says he served time in prison for a nonviolent felony drug charge. His wife shared with us a letter they say they got from ICE and the Department of Homeland Security, and it says that Marlon would not be rather he would be. Marlon would be allowed to stay in the country. They got that in 2016.
Well, last month, on January 22nd, Marlon was detained by ICE. He's been in custody since that day. Today makes one month.
Marlon's wife, Tanisha Hartwell-Paris, is with us now, and she's in her car because she's sitting outside of the detention facility where her husband is being held. Today is one of two weekly visiting days.
Tanisha, thank you for being with me. Take me to January 22nd, two days after the inauguration. I'll remind people. Your husband was on his way to an ATM. And what did he tell you happened?
TANISHA HARTWELL-PARIS, WIFE OF U.S. VETERAN DETAINED BY ICE: Yes. So he was actually a normal day, as we thought it would be. He was going to the ATM because we had to pay some bills. And all of a sudden, by the time he got to the stoplight that is right outside of our subdivision, he called me immediately because about five or six cars, unmarked vehicles, SUVs, pulled up and it was ICE.
[08:10:09]
So they were swarming him, telling him to pull over. And at that point, he's like, ICE is about to detain me. I immediately jumped in my car and was there in probably less than three minutes.
BLACKWELL: Again, your husband is a legal, permanent resident. He's a veteran of the United States military, and he has a letter. You have that letter that you shared with us from ICE saying that they would not pursue removing him from the country. It's called the Letter of No Interest. All of that's accurate, correct?
HARTWELL-PARIS: Correct. So he entered, like you stated, as a minor in 1997. So his father was naturalized into the United States. He came over in 1997 and received what they call a LPR, which is Lawful Permanent Resident Green card. He has renewed that every 10 years. And then, yes, the letter of no interest, which I actually have here, and I provide it as well to CNN, is from 2016, and it specifically states that he is not subject to deportation.
BLACKWELL: And so what is the explanation you or he have been given about why he's, a month later, still being detained?
HARTWELL-PARIS: Nothing. They have no reason as to why he is still in custody. I have went in front of senators here in Arizona. We have reached out for support. We voted these people into office. They should, of course, be able to assist us in this matter.
No one is able to give us a definite answer as to why my husband is still in custody a month later, when, of course, all of the facts state that he has every right to be here, specifically from the Department of Homeland Security and ICE, the same people who are detaining him currently.
BLACKWELL: And I'm sure the letter you shared with us, you shared with them.
HARTWELL-PARIS: Yes. We do have immigration attorney.
BLACKWELL: And what did they say? What's the reaction? Do they just thank you for it and keep moving?
HARTWELL-PARIS: Yes. So we tried to give them this rundown. We tried to give them this explanation. And unfortunately, even though this wasn't done in a legal manner of detainment, we have to follow all of the legal processes to try to get him out. So our immigration attorney has to submit motion after motion, try to get a court date.
So we have to take the legal route even though all of this evidence is in their possession. They have everything that we have. We have turned over. Of course, this information is in the system as well when they pull up his information.
BLACKWELL: I also read that despite having this letter of no interest and your husband's service in the military and being a permanent legal resident, there was some suspicion. Some fear that this could happen before it did.
HARTWELL-PARIS: Yes. So we had to actually sit our children down and have a conversation. Once we knew who the elected official was going to be in the White House. We had that hard talk with our children because of everything that he was running off of with his campaign, we did not know how things were going to look. So even though we have, we carry this letter of no interest everywhere that we go, we still did not know how things could turn out since he is not a U.S. Citizen.
So we had to have that conversation with them and let them know, hey, we are not sure how things are going to look come inauguration. We did not expect two days later, but we did prepare our children for what could come. And unfortunately, the worst did come.
BLACKWELL: Is he doing all right?
HARTWELL-PARIS: He is. I talk to him every day, so we are able to at least communicate on a daily basis. Even though I'm only able to see him twice a week. I just tried to keep him motivated. Effortlessly for him to get out. I'm bringing attention and awareness to not only him, but other veterans who are going through this exact same situation. So just knowing that I am fighting for him, that is making him get through the days a little easier.
BLACKWELL: Tanisha Hartwell-Paris, thank you for spending a few minutes with us before your visitation starts. We will certainly follow your story and reach out if there are updates. Thank you for being with us.
And we also reached out to ICE and asked why Marlon Paris was targeted, why he's being detained. They told us they couldn't share info on the case. They cite that no signed privacy waiver was on file, but of course, we'll keep following the story.
[08:15:15]
An annual parade for Frederick Douglass in Maryland called off after the state's National Guard says they cannot attend. The reason why is outraging the Douglas family. I'll speak with a member of Frederick Douglass's family next.
Plus, sexy, scandalous, also historic. I'll take you behind the scenes of a new soap opera that puts the focus on a wealthy suburban black family. (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
[08:20:]
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
TRUMP: I am very proud now that we have a museum in the National Mall where people can learn about Reverend King. So many other things. Frederick Douglass is an example of somebody who's done an amazing job and is being recognized more and more, I notice.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
BLACKWELL: Recognize more and more. Remember that moment. It's from the first Black History Month with Donald Trump as president. This year, different vibes.
First, let's remember that Frederick Douglass is an important part of why we celebrate Black History Month in February because Douglass was born into slavery in February of 1818 in Maryland. And Carter G. Woodson placed the Negro History Week in the second week of February to celebrate both his birthday and the birthday of Abraham Lincoln.
Now, there was supposed to be a parade honoring Douglas in his home state. In years past, it featured Maryland's National Guard. Well, this year the National Guard is not going to attend. The parade is canceled.
Joining us to celebrate, to explain, is Tarence Bailey Sr. He's the five-timed great nephew of Douglass and he's the founder of Operation Frederick Douglass on the Hill. It's a nonprofit organization run by the family of Frederick Douglass to preserve his legacy.
Thank you for being with me. And first, let me just so we know the scope here, was this a Black History Month event, or was it to celebrate the birth and birthday of Frederick Douglass?
TARENCE BAILEY SR., 5X GREAT NEPHEW OF FREDERICK DOUGLASS: The parade was to celebrate the birthday and life of Frederick Douglass and Civil Rights Heroes Day, which is something we celebrate here in Maryland that the Bailey family, Frederick Douglass, and worked with Governor Hogan's office to get started and has been picked up and carried on by the Moore administration.
BLACKWELL: And so you received a letter from the Maryland National Guard. It was very explicit that because it was part of, they say, a Black History Month event and because of the president's order, the guidance from the Secretary of Defense as well, that they couldn't participate. What was your reaction when you read that?
BAILEY SR.: I had to read it a couple times in order for it to really settle in. And I was very angry as a former guardsman and I deployed with the Maryland National Guard to Kandahar, Afghanistan in 2012 to 2013. I was very angry, especially citing the reasons. They're basically calling Uncle Frederick, you know, DEI. I don't know of any people who were born into slavery who were handed or given anything so.
BLACKWELL: Yes. And you said that you talked about your own service, but for you, this is also personal.
BAILEY SR.: Yes, it was. It was very personal because Frederick Douglass is, you know, he's a patriot. He was not just, you know, celebrating him is not just celebrating a black man. It's celebrating a United States patriot who fought for the freedom of African- Americans and the liberation of women.
You know, his own two sons were the first to enter into the Civil war of the 54th Massachusetts, Charles Redmond Douglas and Lewis Henry Douglas, who was the first African American sergeant major. By the way, we just -- my cousin, Nettie Washington Douglas, just got her uncle Lewis his honorable discharge just three years ago.
BLACKWELL: Let me read from you, read to you from the President's Black History Month proclamation. An American hero such as Frederick Douglass represents what is best in America and her citizens. I call upon public officials, educators, librarians, and all people of the United States who observe this month with appropriate program, ceremonies, and activities. So while there is this rhetorical celebration of Frederick Douglass by the President, how do you reconcile that with the refusal to participate in the actual event that he calls for in the proclamation?
BAILEY SR.: That's like sticking a knife in our back and a nine-inch knife and pulling out six inches. You know, you say that, but then you cut off all funding. Like organizations like ours, the Bailey Gross Family Foundation, and our cousins, the Frederick Douglass Family Initiatives. We depend on those non-profit funds, those federal funds to non-profits along with, you know, thousands of other nonprofits in the nation, you know, depend on those funds to carry on initiatives locally to celebrate these heroes like here on Eastern Shore. You know, we have Frederick Douglass, Harriet Tubman, Henry Howland Garnett. This is the birthplace of gospel music. There's a whole lot of celebrations to be had. We depend on those funds.
[08:25:34]
And to say one thing and then to turn around and to cut off the money that makes zero sense. That makes, and his first, the comments that you played earlier that he made during Black History Month on his first administration lets you know the disconnect when it comes to the importance of African-American history and the attack on so-called WOKE ideology when we're just celebrating, you know, American patriots.
BLACKWELL: Well, I know that this is not the only celebration plan. There will be other events today despite the cancellation of the parade. Tarence Bailey Sr., thank you so much for your time today.
Here's a question, is a boycott the best way to get corporate America to commit again to DEI? Coming up on Speak with the pastor leading an effort to fast from one major retailer that recently dropped some of their diversity initiatives. (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
[08:30:51]
VICTOR BLACKWELL, CNN ANCHOR: You know, the name Target may be a little too on the nose lately for the store. Some consumers and shareholders are taking aim at the company over how it's handling DEI programs.
On Thursday, the state of Florida and America First Legal filed suit claim and Target should have told shareholders about the risks of DEI initiatives and selling Pride merchandise back in 2023. Conservative media figures criticized the company over that merchandise. And then supporters of gay and transgender rights criticized Target for removing some of the item.
Quarterly sales dropped after the controversy.
Now the suit was filed just as calls for a boycott ramp up over Target dropping some of its diversity, equity and inclusion programs but their concerns about how that will affect small businesses who have their items in Target.
Joining me now to talk about it, Pastor Jamal Bryant, who is leading a boycott effort. Good to have you in studio.
PASTOR JAMAL BRYANT, CALLING FOR "FAST" OVER TARGET DROPPING DEI: Glad to be with you.
BLACKWELL: So first, you and the National Black Chamber of Commerce, you are teaming up for this fast of Target. Tell me what it is.
BRYANT: It's really a spiritual journey. The black church historically has always been on the front line of civil rights. And so lent is the season that leads from Ash Wednesday to resurrection. So it is not just withholding of dollars, but a pushing forward of prayer. A lot in America is shifting and the church is going to have to be more active and vocal.
BLACKWELL: So let me talk here about four of the demands that you all have for Target. I think we can put them up on the screen. Honor the $2 billion pledge to Black business community which they made in 2021 to spend that through the end of this year.
BRYANT: Let me pause and say to you --
BLACKWELL: OK.
BRYANT: -- the reason why that's significant. They made that pledge after the killing of George Floyd.
BLACKWELL: Yes.
BRYANT: Target is headquartered in Minneapolis where George Floyd was killed. And it wasn't connected to DEI. It was supposed to be honored December of 2025. And so when the president made this move to dismantle DEI, they hid that obligation under it and are not honoring it.
BLACKWELL: I'm going to come back to number two. Three, completely restore the franchise commitment to DEI.
BRYANT: Yes.
BLACKWELL: Four, pipeline community centers at 10 HBCUs to teach retail business at every level. And they made some commitments to HBCUs --
BRYANT: Yes.
BLACKWELL: -- even being honored by some black business organizations because of their commitments to DEI. But number two, explain this one, deposit $250 million against any of 23 black banks. Why is that on the list?
BRYANT: I think it's so significant because our black businesses are really fighting to get access to capital and a lot of our black banks are unable to do so. If Target is receiving $12 million a day from black people, then I think that some small modicum of that should be reinvested directly back into our communities.
BLACKWELL: So Walmart has rolled back their DEI. So has Lowe's and McDonald's and Amazon in some respects. Why Target?
BRYANT: Target because they are a publicly traded company. We were able to find the demographic spending trends of Target. $12 million a day, seeing what that means. And for that 40-day window, we're going to be able to track what was the spending lapse. How did we have an economic impact?
Target is the first. It is not the only. The old axiom is how do you eat an elephant one bite at a time. And so there are other ones who are out there, but Target is the first focus.
BLACKWELL: I'm not sure if this is the point in the process that you might want to have conversations with Target, but has that been approached?
BRYANT: Yes, we are moving swiftly on targetfast.org for 100,000 people to sign up. I want to go when I have 100,000 people behind me so that we're not coming in the posture of beggars, but as partners to know what is the economic impact that we'll make. And we're taking all of this from the Montgomery bus boycott that was led years ago that says when you hit an economic impact, then everything in the structure begins to look up.
[08:35:05]
BLACKWELL: Thursday, I was standing at my desk and I was watching the feed from the White House and I saw this. Let's play some of the video. I saw a placard with your face there. Do you know about this? What's going on here?
BRYANT: Listen, I was out minding my business and my phone just began to blow up that there were pictures of me in the East Room while they were having the Black History Month celebration. It was dizzying for me because one, how did they get three pictures through security? How did they get signed the sticks that they were on through security? And why was I being zeroed in?
Whenever it is that you speak truth to power, it becomes a threat to what is normalcy. And I think that over the last 45 days, what we've seen in America gives us pause. It is really an intense intimidation factor. But there are going to be 100,000 people who are standing tall to say that this is not the way to take America backwards, but we have to move forward.
BLACKWELL: Pastor Jamal Bryant, thanks for coming in.
BRYANT: Thank you. Honored to be with you.
BLACKWELL: For the first time in a quarter century, there's a new soap opera coming to daytime TV and it's the first hour long soap centered around a black family. Coming up, you're going to hear from the creator and the stars behind "Beyond the Gates."
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It's keeping you stuck in a cycle of anger and that isn't healthy, baby.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I'll be healthy again as soon as I make a couple of cheaters pay for blowing up my life.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
[08:41:23]
BLACKWELL: You know, I did not expect that in 2025, the next groundbreaking show to watch would be a soap opera. But on Monday, the first new daytime soap opera in 25 years premieres. And it's the first hour long soap opera ever to be centered around a black family.
And to be specific, "Beyond the Gates" focuses on a wealthy black family, the Duprees. But that's not the only thing unique about it. Helping CBS produce the show is the NAACP. This historic project is filmed out of a massive soundstage here in Atlanta. And I got a chance to visit the set, speak with the stars and the executive producer who brought this show to life. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BLACKWELL: What excites you about "Beyond the Gates"?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Stand by, everyone. So let's get a booba.
TAMARA TUNIE, ACTRESS, PLAYS "ANITA DUPREE": It's historical just by its existence. To have a daytime drama where the central family is African American is the most exciting thing to happen to daytime. CLIFTON DAVIS, ACTOR, PLAYS "VERNON DUPREE": It's just a rich melange, if you will.
BLACKWELL: You like that?
TUNIE: I like that.
DAVIS: Of lifestyle and of success that African American stories have not been told like this. And so this is fresh.
TUNIE: Don't be snarky with your sister. Nicole's just trying to help.
DAPHNEE DUPLAIX, ACTRESS, PLAYS "DR. NICOLE DUPREE RICHARDSON": It's OK. I recognize I've been luckier in love than Danny. Blessed in a way she hasn't. She needs to take potshots at me to feel better. I'm good with it.
KARLA MOSLEY, ACTRESS, PLAYS "DANI DUPREE": Thank you for your permission, Nicole.
SHEILA DUCKSWORTH, EXECUTIVE PRODUCER, "BEYOND THE GATES": It was really important that we show, you know, some of the legacy that really does exist. So we wanted it to be in the DMV area, Washington, D.C. Maryland, Virginia. Because in so many ways it's such the wealth and the affluence and the richness and not just in money.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Mrs. Dupree.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I am part of the Dupree family, a very sort of established and well respected family.
TUNIE: Let Dani have her seat. Anita Dupree is a mama bear. She's the matriarch of the family. In her previous life, she was an entertainer. She met Vernon Dupree at a rally in Washington, D.C. and fell in love with him and they married and had a family.
DAVIS: Vernon Dupree is a politician. You've given that name. A successful politician who has run for United States Senate and won.
DUPLAIX: Don't think all this focus on. I play the role of Dr. Nicole Dupree Richardson. When we first meet Nicole, she seems very perfect. Like, perfect life, perfect marriage, perfect career, perfect kids. Of course, when you know, weave through the shows.
BLACKWELL: The drama sets in.
DUPLAIX: The drama sets in.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We've got a problem.
TUNIE: Protecting the family is our priority.
DAVIS: Agreed.
MOSLEY: See you around the neighborhood.
BLACKWELL: What made this really interesting for a lot of reasons was this collaboration between the NAACP.
DUCKSWORTH: Yes.
BLACKWELL: And CBS. Explain that.
DUCKSWORTH: It was something that started back in 2020. The NAACP that was looking to do more than the Image Awards, they wanted to get into scripted television. And many conversations later, what we're doing is launching one of the biggest TV projects that I think that we're going to see in 2025.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: 4 1e is the echo.
BLACKWELL: There's so many people of color who are working on this set in front.
DUPLAIX: Of the camera, behind the camera. It is absolutely amazing. It's beautiful to see. But even like our hair and makeup team, one of the things I loved talking to our head of hair, she really wanted to make sure that all hair was represented, all of the textures of our hair was represented. And those tiny little nuances throughout really is beautiful. I love it.
[08:45:08]
BLACKWELL: There is a texture and authenticity on this set that's intentional.
DUCKSWORTH: Yes. Yes. What it does is it moves beyond just fictionalized family and a fictionalized setting and all of that. It really is embracing real life. Our country club, Fairmont Crest Country Club, established 1951. There was another country club that preceded it, the first black country club in America, Shady Rest in Scotch Plains, New Jersey in 1921. We have real pictures of pro athletes, so we have golfers and we have tennis players and real life ones of early 20th century.
And we wanted our version of Howard University, which is Banneker University, based on the name Benjamin Banneker. And we want to just have like kernels of history and facts that we've kind of put in various places throughout the show.
DAVIS: We're not trying to proselytize America to black lifestyle or we're not trying to preach, but we are evidencing a life.
TUNIE: Even though the central family is black. You know, everybody's represented in this show.
MOSLEY: We have white folks, we have Latino folks, we have Asian folks, we have queer folks. We're representing the world. And I'm excited for that and not in a way that is heavy handed, but just in a way that is true to life.
TUNIE: And I wanted to take on the world.
BLACKWELL: Does this role come with a degree of responsibility, a higher calling?
DUPLAIX: I think any role for an African American or other comes with a degree of responsibility. Right. And here we are.
BLACKWELL: How do you define success for "Beyond the Gates"?
DUCKSWORTH: You know, the very idea that this is going to be on the air is truly a success for the show. And half up "Beyond the Gates" be something that truly makes its mark in history. I think that's real success.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BLACKWELL: When I tell you I'm about to be in my I'm watching my stories era, I mean, I'm looking forward to that. The team stays busy, working hours, long hours, five days a week to put the show together. So thanks to Sheila, Tamar, Clifton, Daphne, Karla for sharing the time. "Beyond the Gates" premieres on Monday and you can watch it on CBS every weekday, 2:00 p.m. Eastern.
Let me know what you think of the show on socials. You can find me there at Victor Blackwell.
After President Trump installed a board that named him chairman of the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, big names like Shonda Rhimes and Issa Rae, they cut their ties. But this morning you're going to hear from the creator of a group that decided not to cancel their performance and brought their social justice message to the stage.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
[08:52:26]
BLACKWELL: For decades, the Kennedy Center in Washington was seen as the flagship performing arts center for the nation. So there's this deeper impact to the recent move by President Trump to make himself chairman of the cultural institution.
The claim is that the center became too wokey. That's his word, whatever that means. Notable names like Shonda Rhimes. She quit the center's board. Issa Rae canceled her show. She said that there was an infringement on the venue's values.
But one group that did not pull out their performance is Liberated Muse. Last night, they presented their show, the Soundtrack for Social Justice.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DR. KHADIJAH Z ALI-COLEMAN, FOUNDER, "LIBERATED MUSE": The tenor of our work is consistently devoted to messages of resistance and liberation. And we present tonight's show amidst a landscape of news stories reporting many things toward a city that I was born in, toward people who are my community members. And I stand in solidarity.
(END VIDEO CLIP) BLACKWELL: Just before that performance, I spoke to the collective's founder, Dr. Khadijah Ali-Coleman, for our latest edition of Artist Life. She explained the group's mission and why they decided that the show must go on.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ALI-COLEMAN: My name is Dr. Khadijah Ali-Coleman. I am a writer, a scholar, an educator, and I am the founder of Liberated Muse Arts Group.
The precipice where love is struggling to call our name.
A lot of my work is in the black radical tradition. When you think of artists such as Toni Morrison, when you think of artists such as Audre Lorde, James Baldwin, it's titled "Soundtrack of Social Justice." We were booked to perform this piece prior to the November election. The "Soundtrack of Social Justice" is a reminder of what has been where we are and the knowing that we have the power to advocate for ourselves.
As humans, we are resilient, but as black people in particular, we have continuously advocated for ourselves, using every tool available to using our voices in the many varied ways in which we share them, whether through spoken word, speaking, speeches, songs. I have been asked by people, you know, people are withdrawing. Have you thought about not performing and presenting?
[08:55:00]
I will not be cowed by someone who is using their position to bully and to disenfranchise people further at a time like this. And rather than shudder what it is that we are offering or withdraw it now more than ever, it needs to be front and center.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BLACKWELL: Now to learn more about "Liberated Muse" and to check out a future show, visit liberatednews.com. Hey, if you see something or someone I should see, tell me. I'm on Instagram, TikTok, X, Bluesky. You missed a conversation. Check us  and you can listen to our show as a podcast.
Tonight, remember to tune in for an all new episode of "Have I Got News For You." That's tonight at 9:00 right here on CNN. And thank you for joining me today. I will see you back here next Saturday at 8:00 a.m. Eastern. Smerconish is up after a break.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: SHOW

Publication-Type: Transcript

Transcript: 022201CN.V63

Subject: JUDGES (91%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); DIVERSITY & INCLUSION (90%); DIVERSITY & INCLUSION REGULATION & POLICY (90%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (90%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (90%); HISTORY (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); LAW & LEGAL SYSTEM (90%); LITIGATION (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY & FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS & CIVIL LIBERTIES LAW (89%); STUDENT EXPENSES & FINANCING (89%); ACTIVISM (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); NEGATIVE PERSONAL NEWS (78%); NEGATIVE SOCIETAL NEWS (78%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (78%); TRUMP'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); DEPORTATION (75%); AIR FORCES (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); GOVERNMENT ADVISORS & MINISTERS (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); LAND GRANTS (70%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (68%); Target (%); DEI (%); NAACP (%); HBCU (%); Walmart (%); George Floyd (%); Black (%); Trump (%); Brown (%); DEI (%); Schools (%); Discrimination (%); NAACP (%); Veteran (%); ICE (%); Frederick Douglass (%)

Organization: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (82%);  US AIR FORCE (56%)

Industry: HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); AIR FORCES (73%); CABLE TELEVISION (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); LAND GRANTS (70%)

Person: DONALD TRUMP (89%); GEORGE FLOYD (79%); PETE HEGSETH (79%)

Geographic: MARYLAND, USA (79%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

Load-Date: February 22, 2025


End of Document
