




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 11, 2025 Tuesday 10:00 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 1123 words
Byline: Avery LotzSareen Habeshian
Body


February 11th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
Data: Axios research; Chart: Kavya Beheraj/Axios
 
The big picture: The executive actions reflect much of Trump's rhetoric on the campaign trail: reducing  
Trump's executive actions -many of which have direct links to Project 2025 - have already had far-reaching impacts, triggering a rapid shakeup of the  
Last week, his administration froze humanitarian  
The orders Axios has identified and grouped illuminate how the Trump administration is carrying out its agenda, though his actions have raised constitutional questions about the reach of his authority that courts will now weigh in on.
What they're saying: "President Trump has taken bold action to fulfill the promises that earned him a resounding mandate from the American people," spokesperson Harrison Fields told Axios in an emailed statement.
"With every decision, President Trump is putting Americans first - and he's just getting started," he added.
Here are some of the most notable categories:
Foreign policy
Trump's foreign policy approach in his early days in office centered around tariff threats, shirking international agreements and bringing much foreign aid to a halt.
Critics say his foreign policy approach may leave a vacuum for  
Much of his dealmaking diplomacy has been done through threats of tariffs, a favorite tool of Trump's that economists warn could be passed on to U.S. consumers.
What we're watching: Trump has also floated expansionist ideas like making Canada a state, a  
DEI
Trump issued a sweeping  
While   
It mandates that federal agencies identify companies, foundations and schools that have diversity programs, and target them for civil enforcement actions.
Trans rights
Trump has moved to radically  
He declared on Day 1 in office that the federal government would  
Immigration/national security
Trump pledged to   
He instructed the secretaries of Defense and Homeland Security to construct additional border barriers.
Trump reinstated the "Remain in Mexico" policy, which ends a program that released asylum seekers into the U.S. while their cases were considered.
He took aim at ending  
Reshaping federal government
The Trump administration has swept through the federal bureaucracy during his first three weeks in office, eliminating    
In a day one executive order, Trump reinstated a policy that could strip protections from from thousands of civil servants, effectively bringing back his controversial first-term  
He established his Department of Government Efficiency, an unofficial Elon Musk-led body that sought the  
Trump also ordered federal employees to return to   
Energy/climate
Trump on Day 1 declared a national "  
He repealed the Biden administration's Justice 40 Initiative and federal procurement targets for EVs, clean energy and more.
He's  
Finance/technology
Trump revoked former President Biden's  
His early actions, such as his executive order establishing a working group on digital asset markets, have also signaled a friendly approach to crypto.
Declaring holidays/months
On day one, Trump ordered the American flag be flown at full-staff every Inauguration Day. After the death of former President Jimmy Carter in January, House Speaker Mike Johnson (R-La.) and some Republican governors ordered half-staff flags  
He also declared February as   
He also recognized February 9, 2025, as the first ever  
Other
Trump signed an order to declassify files related to the assassinations of John F. Kennedy, Robert F. Kennedy and Martin Luther King Jr. in the name of "transparency and truth."
What we're watching: The Trump administration has flooded the zone with a flurry of sweeping actions, some of which have been blocked by  
He's stretched - and in some cases,  
But Trump does not seem intent on slowing down, with his barrage of executive actions piling up through his first three weeks in office.
Go deeper:





Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 11, 2025


End of Document
