




The Guardian (London)
January 27, 2025 Monday 2:41 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved


Section: US NEWS; Version:30
Length: 15506 words
Byline: Hugo Lowell, Joan E Greve, Joseph Gedeon, David Smith and Robert Tait in Washington and Rachel Leingang, Lauren Gambino and Sam Levine
Highlight: Follow major developments of the second Trump administration’s first 100 days, brought up to date weekly
Body


  has completed an extraordinary return to power as the 47th president, vowing to impose his vision and re-altering the political and cultural landscape of the nation.
To keep up with the dizzying array of executive orders, directives, firings and policy changes, the Guardian will be tracking the major developments of the second   ’s first 100 days, just like we did during the   in 2017.
                     This story will be updated every Monday during Trump’s first 100 days.                   
                   Week 11                   
6 April 2025
Day 77
Senior Trump officials appeared on Sunday’s political TV shows with   on tariffs that were only likely to deepen global uncertainty and confusion.
The US commerce secretary, Howard Lutnick, insisted the tariffs were “definitely going to stay in place for days and weeks” and there was “no postponing”. He emphasized Trump’s intention to “reset global trade” and asserted that the president had made this “crystal, crystal clear”.
But the treasury secretary, Scott Bessent, suggested that the tariffs were a tool to leverage negotiations with other countries. The agriculture secretary, Brooke Rollins, echoed this: “We’ve got 50 countries that are burning the phone lines into the White House.”
                     Also on Sunday:                   
                                                               The Guardian   that Trump’s national security adviser, Mike Waltz, included a journalist in the Signal group chat about plans for US strikes in Yemen after he mistakenly saved his number months earlier under the contact card for a Trump spokesperson.                                                                 Pam Bondi, the attorney general,   on the idea of Trump serving a third term as president. She told Fox News Sunday: “I think he’s going to be finished, probably, after this term. We’d have to look at the constitution, and it would be a heavy lift.”                                                           
5 April 2025
Day 76
The biggest day of protest so far against the second Trump administration. More than   took place across the US over issues including the firing of thousands of federal workers, the shutting down of entire government agencies, deportation of immigrants, the scaling back of protections for transgender people and cutting funding for health programs.
The protests were organized by more than 150 groups, including civil rights organizations, labour unions, LGBTQ+ advocates, military veterans and election activists. Anger with Trump and his billionaire ally Elon Musk was expressed in a sea of placards and banners on the National Mall in Washington.
                     Also on Saturday:                   
                                                               The Trump administration, through the secretary of state, Marco Rubio, announced the revocation of all visas for South Sudanese passport holders and a block on new arrivals due to the country’s failure to repatriate its citizens expelled from the US.                                                                 The Trump administration   for accidentally informing some Ukrainian refugees fleeing their country’s invasion by Russia that they needed to leave the US because their legal status was being revoked.                                                           
4 April 2025
Day 75
  continued in the wake of Trump’s sweeping tariffs. But the president showed no signs of backing down, writing on his Truth Social platform: “TO THE MANY INVESTORS COMING INTO THE UNITED STATES AND INVESTING MASSIVE AMOUNTS OF MONEY, MY POLICIES WILL NEVER CHANGE.”
The Federal Reserve chair, Jerome Powell, said he expected the tariffs to hike prices and slow economic growth while indicating the central bank would wait to make any changes to monetary policy as it seeks more clarity. “We face a highly uncertain outlook with elevated risks of both higher unemployment and higher inflation,”   reporters.
                     Also on Friday:                   
                                                               The US economy  , and the unemployment rate edged higher to 4.2%.                                                                 Trump announced   to the deadline for the ban or sale of TikTok, pushing it back by 75 days. This delay reportedly occurred after China put a potential deal on hold following the announcement of the sweeping tariffs.                                                           
3 April 2025
Day 74
Trump’s latest tariff announcement triggered   in global financial markets. US markets experienced their worst single-day losses in nearly five years, with the Dow, S&P 500 and Nasdaq all closing sharply lower. This marked the most significant drop since the early stages of the Covid-19 pandemic in June 2020.
The financial impact was substantial, with an estimated $2.5trn wiped off Wall Street alone. But Trump told reporters: “I think it’s going very well … We’ve never seen anything like it. The markets are going to boom. The stock is going to boom. The country is going to boom.”
                     Also on Thursday:                   
                                                               Trump fired   after a meeting in the Oval Office in which the far-right activist Laura Loomer presented “opposition research” alleging their disloyalty.                                                                 It emerged the Pentagon’s internal watchdog is launching an investigation into the defense secretary, Pete Hegseth’s use of the encrypted messaging app Signal to discuss sensitive military information regarding operations in Yemen.                                                           
2 April 2025
Day 73
“Liberation day.” Trump announced sweeping new tariffs, upending decades of US economic policy and potentially triggering a global trade war.
At   flanked by US flags, his cabinet and union workers, the president declared that the US would impose a baseline 10% rate on all imports starting 5 April as well as much higher “reciprocal” rates for dozens of countries that would come into effect on 9 April.
Trump called the announcement “our declaration of economic independence”, and claimed that “jobs and factories will come roaring back into our country”. He added: “For years, hardworking American citizens were forced to sit on the sidelines as other nations got rich and powerful, much of it at our expense. But now it’s our turn to prosper.”
                     Also on Wednesday:                   
                                                               Reports suggested that Elon Musk’s time in his government role was nearing its end due to a legal limit on his service. Insiders   that Musk would leave when the 130-day cap on government service expires.                                                                 The national security adviser, Mike Waltz, and his team are using encrypted messaging app Signal extensively, it emerged, with “at least 20 different group chats... to coordinate sensitive national security work”.                                                           
1 April 2025
Day 72
Trump suffered his first major electoral setback as president when the judge Susan Crawford, a liberal candidate,  , defeating the conservative Brad Schimel. This victory maintained a 4-3 liberal ideological majority on the highest court of a crucial swing state.
The election was the most expensive judicial contest in US history. Democrats successfully framed it as a referendum on the popularity and influence of both Trump and his close adviser Musk, who spent $25m to support Schimel.
                     Also on Tuesday:                   
                                                               Republicans retained two House of Representatives seats in Florida vacated by cabinet appointees – but by significantly smaller margins than in the November elections.                                                                 The Democrat Cory Booker   ever by a lone senator, lasting 25 hours and five minutes, staring his intention to “disrupt the normal business of the United States Senate” to draw attention to a “nation in crisis”.                                                                 The Trump administration began implementing a controversial plan to reduce the workforce at the Department of Health and Human Services, with “thousands” of employees dismissed.                                                           
31 March 2025
Day 71
It emerged that members of Musk’s so-called “department of government efficiency” (Doge) had   to the Federal Personnel and Payroll System, raising significant cybersecurity concerns from senior government officials.
The system processes salaries for approximately 276,000 federal employees across various agencies. Senior staff at the interior department reportedly issued a memo warning about the “unusual nature of the request” and the “associated risks” of granting such access.
                     Also on Monday:                   
                                                               The White House   of $9bn in federal contracts and grants at Harvard University over allegations of insufficient action on campus antisemitism.                                                                 It was reported that the US deported 17 more individuals accused of gang membership to El Salvador without providing names or identifying information, continuing a practice of deporting people for imprisonment abroad without due process.                                                           Week 10                   
30 March 2025
Day 70
Trump mused about running for a third term, something that is prohibited by the US constitution. “Well, there are plans,” Trump said during an interview on NBC’s Meet the Press. “There are – not plans. There are methods – there are methods which you could do it, as you know.” Trump declined to give details . 
29 March 2025
Day 69
There   in front of Tesla showrooms around the world targeted at Elon Musk, the world’s richest man, who has led an effort to gut the US federal government. The protests, part of the “   ” movement, took place at 200 of the car company’s showrooms around the worldand organizers sought to encourage people to join the movement, not buy a Tesla car, and sell Tesla stock.
28 March 2025
Day 68
Two major law firms, Jenner & Block and WilmerHale, sued the Trump administration over executive orders that sought to cripple the firms over their employment of Trump’s rivals. Their lawsuits came amid concern that the legal profession wasn’t doing enough to push back against efforts to punish lawyers. By Friday evening, two separate judges had ruled in favor of the firms,   in the executive orders.
 Underscoring how fractures in the legal community, another firm, Skadden, Arps, Meagher & Flom reached an agreement with Trump on Friday to avoid having an executive order issue against the firm.
                                                               Peter Marks, the top vaccine official in the US,  , citing “misinformation and lies” from Robert F Kennedy Jr.                                                                 A federal district judge   blocking efforts to dismantle the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.                                                                  JD Vance visited Greenland in an effort to escalate as part of Donald Trump’s interest in acquiring the country. “I think Greenland understands that the United States should own it,” the vice-president said in a press conference on Friday. “And if Denmark and the EU don’t understand it, we have to explain it to them. We need Greenland. Very importantly, for international security, we have to have Greenland.”                                                           
27 March 2025
Day 67
Trump announced   of Elise Stefanik, a Republican congresswoman from upstate New York, to be his ambassador to the UN. Republicans have a narrow majority in the US House and the decision to pull Stefanik’s nomination reflects that they may be skittish about their prospects of winning a special election in her district, which Trump carried by 20 points in November. 
                     Also on Thursday:                   
                                                               US district judge James Boasberg   the Trump administration to preserve signal messages related to the Yemen exchange.                                                           
26 March 2025
Day 66
The Atlantic   of text messages included in the chat with Goldberg. He had initially withheld them out of concern for national security. Publishing the messages offered the public an unfiltered look at the spectacular detail that advisers had been discussing, and offered a powerful rebuttal to the White House,   the severity of the information that was shared.
 The White House was still defiant that it had done nothing wrong, but the disclosure escalated pressure on the administration, which insisted that the details weren’t classified. 
                     Also on Wednesday:                   
                                                               Footage   of masked Ice agents arresting and detaining a graduate student at Tufts. It was the latest example of the administration targeting students who express support for Palestinian rights. The only public example of Ozturk’s support for Palestinians is a joint op-ed she co-authored in the Tufts student newspaper.                                                                  The Trump administration   seeking to add a proof of citizenship requirement to the federal voter registration form, among other things. Such a chance would likely disenfranchise millions of people. Civil rights groups pledged quick action to challenge the action in court.                                                                 Trump announced   on cars from overseas.                                                           
25 March 2025
Day 65
Democrats on the Senate intelligence committee grilled Waltz; the CIA director, John Ratcliffe; and Tulsi Gabbard, the director of national intelligence, over the Signal chat as the Trump administration sprinted to contain the fallout from the incident. Democrats escalated their calls for Hegseth’s resignation. 
“I think this is one more example of the kind of sloppy, careless, incompetent behavior, particularly towards classified information,” Mark Warner, a Democrat from Virginia, said during the hearing.
The officials said no classified information was shared in the chat. Gabbard dodged questions about whether she would have disclosed the information and whether she was using a personal or work cellphone while in that chat. Ratcliffe defended the use of signal and said it was allowed.
By Tuesday evening, Waltz was claiming responsibility for the debacle. “A staffer wasn’t responsible. I take full responsibility. I built the group. My job is to make sure everything is coordinated,” he said . 
24 March 2025
Day 64
Jeffrey Goldberg, the editor-in-chief of the Atlantic magazine, published   in which he revealed that top administration officials had accidentally included him in a group chat on the encrypted messaging platform Signal in which they discussed and shared details of a US bombing effort in Yemen. The group included top officials in the US government, including the vice-president, JD Vance; the secretary of defense, Pete Hegseth; the secretary of state, Marco Rubio; and the national security adviser, Mike Waltz. 
The story   and became one of the biggest scandals of Trump’s second term. It prompted immediate scrutiny over whether the administration’s top officials had disclosed classified information, a criminal offense. There were also questions about why they were using Signal, which allows users to autodelete messages, to discuss such sensitive matters, and not official systems for sharing sensitive information. 
Hegseth, who shared details of the strike in the chat, remained defiant. “Nobody was texting war plans,” Hegseth told reporters after landing in Hawaii late Monday, “and that’s all I have to say about that.”
                   Week 9                   
23 March 2025
Day 63
The Trump administration defended using the 1798 Alien Enemies Act, a wartime law, to deport 137 Venezuelan immigrants last weekend on the grounds that they were allegedly committing violent crimes and sending money back to Venezuela. The US border czar, Tom Homan, said in an interview with ABC News that the administration would not defy court orders stemming from legal challenges. “I don’t care what the judges think as far as this case,” Homan told ABC.
Meanwhile, the attorney general, Pam Bondi, called the fight against the alleged gang members akin to “modern day warfare” in a Fox News interview.
                     Also on Sunday:                   
                                                               The secretary of state, Marco Rubio, held a call with Benjamin Netanyahu on Sunday “to emphasize US support for Israel”. Among the topics discussed were ongoing military operations in Gaza and a reminder that the US was willing to continue bombing Yemen to target the Houthis over their re-triggered aims at blocking navigation in the Red Sea.                                                            
22 March 2025
Day 62
The defense secretary, Pete Hegseth, joined the Trump administration’s growing criticism of federal judges on Saturday, mocking the US district judge Ana Reyes who had blocked the president’s ban on transgender troops in the military. In a social media post, Hegseth sarcastically referred to the Joe Biden-appointed judge as “Commander Reyes” and suggested she had overstepped her authority by ruling on military matters. 
“Since ‘Judge’ Reyes is now a top military planner, she/they can report to Fort Benning at 0600 to instruct our Army Rangers on how to execute High Value Target Raids,” Hegseth wrote. 
21 March 2025
Day 61
Trump acknowledged on Friday that Elon Musk’s business interests in China created a conflict of interest that would prevent the billionaire from being briefed on potential war plans with the country. “Elon has businesses in China. And he would be susceptible, perhaps, to that,” Trump said, a rare admission considering Musk’s dual role as both a senior presidential adviser and business leader. 
The comment came after reporting from the New York Times and later the Wall Street Journal indicated that Musk was planning to visit the Pentagon that morning to receive a classified briefing on China. The president confirmed that Musk had indeed visited the Pentagon, but said it was to discuss cost reductions through his so-called “department of government efficiency” (Doge), while Hegseth added that Musk was there “to talk about efficiencies, to talk about innovations”.
                     Also on Friday:                   
                                                               Columbia University conceded to a list of demands from the Trump administration as a condition to begin negotiations on restoring $400m in federal funding that was stripped from the university earlier this month. The demands reportedly include banning students from wearing masks at protests, hiring 36 new campus security officers with all-new arrest powers and appointing a new senior vice-provost to oversee the department of Middle East, South Asian and African Studies.                                                                  Trump issued a presidential memo revoking security clearances for Joe Biden, Kamala Harris, and other political opponents who are typically extended intelligence briefings as a courtesy. The revocations also apply to former secretary of state Antony Blinken, former representatives Liz Cheney and Adam Kinzinger, New York attorney general Letitia James, and Biden’s entire family.                                                            
20 March 2025
Day 60
Trump signed an executive order instructing the education secretary, Linda McMahon, to begin dismantling the Department of Education, attempting to bypass the congressional approval typically needed to eliminate a federal agency. At a White House signing ceremony, Trump declared his administration would “take all lawful steps to shut down the department” and expressed hope that McMahon would be the last education secretary. 
The president justified the move by claiming the department’s budget had more than doubled in recent years without corresponding improvements in national test scores, despite the fact that curriculum decisions and 90% of school funding come from state and local governments.
                     Also on Thursday:                   
                                                               The labor department announced it would no longer enforce the $17.75 an hour minimum wage for federal contractors established by a Biden administration executive order. The reversal reinstates the $13.30 hourly wage set during the Obama administration and maintained during Trump’s first term. The change affects employees of federal contractors such as janitors and food service workers, with the most significant impact likely in states that adhere to the federal minimum wage of $7.25 an hour.                                                           
19 March 2025
Day 59
Trump and Volodymyr Zelenskyy had their first conversation since their blow up in the White House three weeks ago, with the US president describing it as a “very good telephone call”. The Ukrainian leader characterized the discussion as “positive, very substantive and frank”, and confirmed he had agreed to a partial ceasefire that Trump had previously negotiated with Vladimir Putin. The White House said that Trump promised to help with Ukraine’s request for additional air defense batteries, suggesting a potential thaw in relations after their previously contentious face-to-face meeting.
                     Also on Wednesday:                   
                                                               Federal Reserve officials cut their US economic growth forecasts from 2.1% to 1.7% and raised inflation projections to 2.7% for the year as they kept interest rates unchanged amid Trump’s sweeping tariffs policy.                                                                 A New York federal judge denied the Trump administration’s bid to dismiss the legal challenge brought by Mahmoud Khalil, the Palestinian activist detained by immigration agents, and ordered the case transferred to New Jersey.                                                           
18 March 2025
Day 58
The Trump administration acknowledged in court filings that it had fired nearly 25,000 recently hired federal workers and said agencies were working to reinstate all of them after a judge ruled their terminations were likely illegal. Documents submitted to Baltimore’s federal courthouse included statements from officials at 18 agencies, who confirmed the reinstated probationary workers were being placed on administrative leave at least temporarily. The treasury department terminated approximately 7,600 people, the Department of Agriculture about 5,700, and the Department of Health and Human Services more than 3,200, marking the first full accounting of the mass firings carried out by Musk’s Doge.
                     Also on Tuesday:                   
                                                               The chief justice, John Roberts, issued a rare public rebuke of Trump after the president demanded the impeachment of the federal judge James Boasberg, who blocked the deportation of Venezuelan alleged gang members.                                                                  A federal judge ruled that Musk and Doge likely violated the constitution by shutting down USAID. The US district judge Theodore Chuang ordered the administration to reverse actions taken to dismantle the agency, including halting terminations and reinstating former employee access to government systems.                                                                 The administration released thousands of pages of files concerning the assassination of John F Kennedy.                                                                 Trump fired the two Democratic commissioners on the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), Alvaro Bedoya and Rebecca Kelly Slaughter. Bedoya confirmed his firing on social media, writing: “The President just illegally fired me,” and claimed Trump “wants the Ftc to be a lap dog for his golfing buddies”.                                                           
17 March 2025
Day 57
Trump claimed on Monday, without providing evidence, that pardons signed by Biden were “void, vacant and of no further force and effect” because they were signed with an autopen rather than by Biden himself. That assertion made on Truth Social targeted pardons given to members of the House January 6 committee, Anthony Fauci, his son Hunter, and others. “In other words, Joe Biden did not sign them but, more importantly, he did not know anything about them!” Trump wrote in the post. 
                     Also on Monday:                   
                                                               The Trump administration removed the former surgeon general Vivek Murthy’s advisory on gun violence as a public health issue from the Department of Health and Human Services website.                                                                  Trump announced the immediate termination of Secret Service protection for Biden’s adult children, Hunter and Ashley Biden. In a Truth Social post, Trump said that Hunter “has had Secret Service protection for an extended period of time, all paid for by the United States Taxpayer” and that both he and Ashley would be “taken off the list”.                                                                 The White House denied violating a judge’s order blocking the deportation of Venezuelan alleged gang members to El Salvador. Despite the denial, Homan, the US border czar, appeared to contradict this stance by saying: “I don’t care what the judges think.”                                                           Week 8                   
16 March 2025
Day 56
The Trump administration appeared to violate a court order by sending hundreds of Venezuelans .  El Salvador’s president, Nayib Bukele, posted on social media that 238 members of the Venezuelan gang Tren de Aragua and 23 members of the Salvadoran gang MS-13 had arrived and were in custody as part of a deal under which the US will pay the Central American country to hold them in its 40,000-person capacity “terrorism confinement centre”. But Bukele’s post came hours after the chief US district judge in Washington, James Boasberg, blocked the deportations and ordered any flights to turn around in an order issued at 7pm ET.
15 March 2025
Day 55
A federal judge ordered the Trump administration to stop using an obscure wartime law to deport hundreds of Venezuelans without a hearing, ruling in an emergency order that any deportation flights that had already departed from the US needed to return. In an emergency hearing, the chief US district judge in Washington, James Boasberg, said he would issue a temporary order blocking the administration from using the Alien Enemies Act of 1798 to target suspected Venezuelan gang members with little or no due process. “This is something you need to make sure is complied with immediately,” Boasberg directed the government.
Also on Saturday:
                                                               The FBI director, Kash Patel, announced a reorganization of the bureau by decentralizing the command structure and dividing field offices over three regions. The change means the top FBI officials in 52 field offices would no longer answer to the deputy director, and instead to three “branch directors” at FBI headquarters who will be in charge of the east, west and central regions. The remaining three FBI offices – the largest in the country – of New York, Washington and Los Angeles will continue to report to the deputy director.                                                           
14 March 2025
Day 54
Cementing his literal and physical takeover of the justice department, Donald Trump swept into its headquarters to rail against the criminal cases he defeated by virtue of returning to the presidency   the department had perhaps never before seen. The event was billed as a policy address for the administration to tout its focus on combating illegal immigration and drug trafficking, but the majority of the president’s freewheeling remarks focused instead on his personal grievances with the department. Trump spoke from a specially constructed stage in the great hall of the main justice building, in front of a velvet blue curtain that notably hid away two art deco statues depicting the “Spirit of Justice” and the “Majesty of Justice”.
Also on Friday:
                                                               Trump attacked a private law firm for the third time since taking office, signing an executive order that suspended its lawyers from holding security clearances and restricted its employees from entering federal buildings, getting government jobs or receiving any money from federal contracts. The aggressive move came two days after a federal judge in Washington issued a temporary injunction that blocked a similar order against the law firm Perkins Coie from taking immediate effect.                                                           
13 March 2025
Day 53
Donald Trump threatened to escalate a trade war with the European Union, saying in a social media post that he could impose 200% tariffs on European wine and champagne. The announcement came a day after the EU unveiled plans to retaliate against a batch of US tariffs that took effect this week on steel aluminum, by imposing 50% tariffs on imports of US whiskey and several other American products. The EU said the retaliatory tariffs would come in two waves: first, with tariffs as high as 50% on US products including Harley-Davidson motorcycles and Kentucky bourbon that took effect on 1 April; and second, tariffs in mid-April that would target farm products and industrial goods that disproportionately affected Republican-leaning districts.
Also on Thursday:
                                                               The Guardian reported that the US defense secretary, Pete Hegseth, had set forth plans to   as part of an effort to make the US military less restricted by the laws of armed conflict. The possible changes, under the leadership of Hegseth’s personal lawyer and former naval commander Tim Parlatore, ranged from a reinterpretation of the US rules of engagement on the battlefield to the way that charges are brought under the military justice system.                                                                 The Trump administration asked the US supreme court to lift a nationwide pause imposed on the president’s executive order ending birthright citizenship for the children of undocumented immigrants and foreign residents. The move marked the first time that Trump’s birthright citizenship order reached the nation’s highest court after three federal courts, in Massachusetts, Maryland and Washington state, had temporarily blocked the order from taking effect.                                                           
12 March 2025
Day 52
Donald Trump’s sweeping tariffs on foreign steel and aluminum went into effect, sparking immediate threats of retaliation from the EU and with a series of trading partners. The tariffs of 25% hit metal imports from every country that sells steel and aluminum to the US. Many domestic steel and aluminum manufacturers supported the move, saying it would protect their industry against foreign competitors, but Canada said it would impose retaliatory tariffs on $20bn worth of American imports, including metals, computers and sporting goods. And the EU announced tariffs on up to $28bn worth of goods including bourbon, boats and motorcycles.
Also on Wednesday:
                                                               A federal judge on Wednesday temporarily blocked a vast portion of Donald Trump’s executive order that threatened to hurt a major law firm from taking effect, ruling the president used national security concerns as a pretext to punish the firm Perkins Coie for once working with Hillary Clinton. The US district judge Beryl Howell rejected Trump’s contentions and entered a temporary restraining order on Wednesday that halted most of the executive order. The restraining order did not apply to the revocation of clearances, since Perkins Coie had not sought that in their request.                                                                 Elon Musk signaled to Donald Trump’s advisers that he wants to put $100m into groups controlled by the Trump political operation, the .  Musk suggested he wanted to make the donations not to his own Super Pac, which is called America Pac and has spent heavily on Trump’s campaign during the 2024 election, but to an entity affiliated with the president.                                                           
11 March 2025
Day 51
Donald Trump climbed into a cherry-red Tesla Model S and vowed to buy it in an extraordinary promotion of Tesla at the White House, as Musk’s companies faced escalating protests in response to his aggressive cost-cutting efforts as the de-facto head of the “department of government efficiency”. Trump said that Musk has been “treated very unfairly by a very small group of people”, in an apparent reference to peaceful protests and violence against Tesla dealerships and charging stations. The event on the South Lawn raised ethics questions of the president rewarding a donor and ally by giving Musk’s company free advertising with the White House as a backdrop.
Also on Tuesday:
                                                               The US education department announced that it was firing more than 1,300 workers, effectively gutting the agency that manages federal loans for colleges and enforces civil rights laws in schools. The cuts could be a harbinger for Trump to essentially shut down the department, as he has said he wants to do, even though it cannot be closed without the approval of Congress.                                                           
10 March 2025
Day 50
The Trump administration invoked an obscure immigration law in an attempt to deport a recent Columbia University graduate and a lawful US permanent resident who helped lead campus protests against Israel last year. Mahmoud Khalil, 30, who graduated in December with a master’s degree from Columbia, was arrested by Ice officers in New York on Saturday and sent to a detention center in Louisiana. Khalil was told by Ice officers that his student visa was being revoked, but when he replied that he actually held a green card, Ice officers told him that was being pulled too. A federal judge in Manhattan ordered the government not to deport Khalil while the legality of his detention was under review in a legal challenge.
Also on Monday:
                                                               The justice department’s pardon attorney was dismissed a day after she refused to recommend that the actor Mel Gibson, a prominent Trump supporter, should have his gun rights restored. Elizabeth Oyer said she had been asked to add Gibson’s name to a list of people who were being vetted to have their rights restored after he lost them following a 2011 domestic violence misdemeanor conviction.                                                           Week 7                   
9 March 2025
Day 49
Trump declined to the rule out the possibility that the US economy could fall into a recession and that inflation could rise as uncertainty continued over his .  “I hate to predict things like that. There is a period of transition, because what we’re doing is very big,” he told Fox News.
Also on Sunday:
                                                               On Ukraine, the president told reporters on board Air Force One that the US had “just about ended” its suspension of intelligence with the country and said he expected good results ahead of forthcoming talks with Ukrainian officials in Saudi Arabia.                                                           
8 March 2025
Day 48
Trump insisted Musk and  , the US secretary of state, had a “great relationship” after the New York Times reported details of the pair facing off in an angry exchange during the cabinet meeting called to clear the air over Doge cuts. “There is no clash,” Trump wrote in a social media post, despite   reportedly   Rubio for firing “nobody” and dismissing him as being “good on TV”, while the secretary of state hit back by voicing his resentment over Doge’s gutting of USAid, the foreign assistance agency over which he is nominally in charge.
Also on Saturday:
                                                               Trump warned Republicans against shutting down the government as a 14 March deadline loomed that would spell that very outcome in the absence of the adoption of a new spending bill. Instead, the president urged GOP members of Congress to maintain unity and vote for a stop gap funding bill stitched together by Republicans in the House of Representatives and the Senate.                                                           
7 March 2025
Day 47
In more troubling remarks on Ukraine, Trump said he found it easier to deal with Russia and appeared to sympathize with   after massive Russian air strikes that followed the decision to stop US intelligence sharing with Kyiv. Putin was “doing what anybody would do”, Trump said – despite have issued, hours earlier, a vague threat to impose sanctions and tariffs on Moscow over the strike.
Also on Friday:
                                                               The administration   of $400m in grants to Columbia University in New York over the institution’s supposed failure to protect students from antisemitic harassment. The university’s New York campus – in common with others throughout the US – has been the site of prolonged protests against Israel’s military bombardment of Gaza.                                                                 Trump said he would sign an executive order barring student loan forgiveness to public servants engaged in “improper activities”.                                                           
6 March 2025
Day 46
Trump performed yet another backflip on tariffs, delaying imposing import duties on goods from Canada and Mexico until April. The move followed nervousness on the stock market, with the S&P 500 index falling by 1.8% in a single day. The president, however, claimed his volte face had “nothing to do” with market developments.
Also on Thursday:
                                                               As controversy raged over the cuts to government agencies imposed by Doge, Musk told congressional Republicans that he was not to blame for the mass firings that had provoked widespread outrage. At a cabinet meeting in the White House apparently called to addressing simmering cabinet discontent, Trump said department heads and not Musk – who was present – had the power to hire and fire federal workers and said they should do so wielding a “scalpel” to preserve the best people. The comment was widely seen as signalling the reining of Musk, who had been widely seen as running amok across government.                                                           
5 March 2025
Day 45
Having already cut off the flow of arms, the Trump administration hit Ukraine with a fresh blow by stopping the sharing of intelligence with its supposed ally. The move in effect left the Ukrainians blind to Russian strategic bombers and ballistic missile launches.
Also on Wednesday:
                                                               A day after ushering in in 25% tariffs on all goods from Canada and Mexico – the US’s two closest trading partners – the president performed a partial U-turn by .  The move followed a call with the heads of the country’s three biggest car manufacturers, General Motors, Ford and Stellantis. Meanwhile, leading US retailers warned that prices were “highly likely” to start rising as a result of the tariffs, a consequence at odds with Trump’s election campaign promise to “make America affordable again”.                                                           
4 March 2025
Day 44
In an extraordinarily rambunctious, one-hour, 40-minute address to a joint session of Congress, Trump declared that his presidency was “just getting started” after his whirlwind return to the White House that has seen a flurry of executive orders and the federal bureaucracy upended in a drastic cost-cutting measures spearheaded by Doge. Democrats registered protests by holding of placards as Trump spoke, while some left the chamber early. and one, Al Green of Texas,   after shouting that Trump had “no mandate”.
Also on Tuesday:
 , the Ukrainian president, issued   aimed at placating Trump, who had proclaimed him unready to make peace with Russia. Faced with a loss of US support, the Ukrainian president said he was ready to work “constructively” under Trump’s “strong leadership”.                                                           
3 March 2025
Day 43
In a dramatic escalation of his rupture with Zelenskyy. Trump paused all military aid to Ukraine in its war with Russia, causing yet more consternation to Washington’s Nato allies. European anxieties were compounded further when Vance appeared to dismiss British and French capacity to guarantee Ukraine’s future security. Pressing the case for a mineral deal with the US as the best guarantor,  , the US vice-president, told Fox News: “That is a way better security guarantee than 20,000 troops from some random country that hasn’t fought a war in 30 or 40 years.” The comment was taken as an insult in Britain – which along with France, has offered to send peacekeeping troops and whose forces fought in US-led military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan.
                   Week 6                   
2 March 2025
Day 42
The fallout continued from Trump and Zelenskyy’s  , as the Ukrainian leader sought to recalibrate and insisted a   was ready to be signed during a diplomatic visit to London. While Europe rallies behind Ukraine, Trump’s Republican allies, including the House speaker, Mike Johnson, said Zelenskyy may have to resign, a suggestion Senator Bernie Sanders   “horrific”. The Democratic senator Chris Murphy said Trump’s White House had in effect become “an arm of the Kremlin”.
Also on Sunday:
                                                               The health and human services secretary, Robert F Kennedy Jr, urged Americans to get the MMR vaccine in response to a growing measles epidemic in Texas, days after Kennedy, who has long sowed skepticism with his endorsement of anti-vaccine conspiracy theories, downplayed the situation as “not unusual”.                                                           
1 March 2025
Day 41
A federal judge in Washington   Trump from ousting the leader of a federal watchdog agency, ruling that the effort to terminate the official without cause was “unlawful”. The decision by US district judge Amy Berman Jackson in Washington allows Hampton Dellinger to remain the head of the office of special counsel, which protects federal whistleblowers. In her ruling, Jackson wrote that upholding the president’s ability to fire Dellinger would give him “a constitutional license to bully officials in the executive branch into doing his will”. The case is likely to be decided by the supreme court. 
Also on Saturday: 
                                                               Musk renewed his demand that every federal employee send an email detailing their recent accomplishments, a week after the original demand sparked chaos and confusion across the government workforce.                                                                 Trump   establishing English as the official language of the US.                                                                 Supporters of Ukraine   against the Trump administration across the US, including a Vermont ski resort where Vance was vacationing with his family.                                                           
28 February 2025
Day 40
In the explosive Oval Office meeting, Trump and Vance assailed and berated Zelenskyy in a storm of accusations and falsehoods about Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. The tense exchange ended with Zelenskyy leaving the White House early, without signing a controversial minerals deal that was seen as key to unlocking US security guarantees for European peacekeepers in Ukraine. During the exchange, which played out publicly on live TV, Trump said Zelenskyy was “gambling with world war three” and told the Ukrainian president to come back “when he is ready for peace”. Hours later, Zelenskyy sought to de-escalate the situation in an interview on Fox News, but Trump appeared unmoved as he departed Washington for his Mar-a-Lago resort. 
Also on Friday: 
                                                               European leaders and Democrats rallied around Zelenskyy, voicing continued support for Ukraine, while Trump’s Republican allies demand the Ukrainian leader apologize.                                                                 The White House said that classified documents seized by the FBI from Mar-a-Lago in 2022 had been returned to Trump.                                                                 The White House press secretary, Karoline Leavitt, said that Trump had “asked Zelenskyy and the Ukrainians to depart the White House” after their contentious exchange in the Oval Office.                                                                  The   sued Trump over a recent executive order it says violates federal election law by giving him too much power over the independent federal election commission.                                                           
27 February 2025
Day 39
Keir Starmer, the British prime minister,   bearing a letter from King Charles as he quietly appealed to Trump not to abandon Ukraine as the US president searches for a speedy end to Russia’s brutal invasion of the country. In remarks, Starmer praised Trump for “changing the conversation” and making peace possible in Ukraine while Trump denied calling Zelenskyy a dictator, despite having done so, and suggested Vladimir Putin could be trusted. En route to Washington, Starmer pledged to raise the country’s defense spending, a commitment seen as a way to persuade Trump to provide a “backstop” for European security in Ukraine. And in a major relief for the British premier, Trump indicated that he would not slap harsh tariffs on the UK. 
Also on Thursday: 
                                                               A federal judge found that the mass firings of probationary employees as part of the Trump administration’s government downsizing effort were likely unlawful.                                                                 The ruling came on the same day that the   moved   at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (Noaa), the US’s pre-eminent climate research agency housed within the Department of Commerce.                                                                 Senate Democrats publicly – and some Republicans privately – raised concerns over the Trump administration’s freeze on foreign aid and cuts to USAid.                                                            
26 February 2025
Day 38
Donald Trump used the first full cabinet meeting of his second term to   on Musk and his billionaire ally’s mission to dramatically reduce the size of the federal government. Though not a member of Trump’s cabinet, Musk attended and took center stage as the secretaries sat mostly silently for the hourlong meeting. The tech mogul defended Doge’s actions, which have stoked confusion and backlash, but conceded that the team would make mistakes, citing a decision to cancel an Ebola prevention effort that was “quickly” reinstated. During the summit, Trump also threatened to slap 25% tariffs on the European Union and announced that the Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelenskyy, would visit the White House to sign a minerals deal with the US.
Also on Wednesday: 
                                                               A   instructed federal agencies to submit plans for “a significant reduction” in their staff by 13 March, potentially setting the stage to shrink the government workforce by tens of thousands more in the coming weeks. A top    that Trump may be pursuing a mineral rights deal with Vladimir Putin and Russia as well as Zelenskyy and Ukraine.                                                                 A Pentagon memo filed in court on Wednesday said transgender service members would   unless they receive an exemption.                                                                 The supreme court handed the president his first victory, granting the Trump administration’s request to pause a lower court’s deadline for the government to resume nearly $2bn in foreign aid payments.                                                           
25 February 2025
Day 37
In a dramatic vote, House Republicans  , taking a major step toward advancing Donald Trump’s “big BEAUTIFUL” tax cut and immigration agenda. But vulnerable Republicans face a brewing backlash over the plan, which would almost certainly require significant reductions to social safety net programs that serve the poor. House Democrats plan to hammer Republicans over their support for the measure and the potential cuts to Medicaid required to pay for it as they plot a return to power in next year’s midterms. But Trump’s fiscal plan is far from guaranteed: Republican negotiators from both the House and Senate must now reconcile their competing budget blueprints to move forward.
Also on Tuesday: 
                                                               The White House said it would pick which media outlets are allowed to participate in the presidential press pool, drawing sharp condemnation from the  , which warned: “In a free country, leaders must not be able to choose their own press corps.”                                                                 The Trump administration   that immigrants in the US without authorization could face fines and prison time if they fail to submit their personal data to a government registry while the president floated the creation of a “gold card” visa that would give wealthy foreigners a pathway to citizenship .                                                            
24 February 2025
Day 36
The US office of personnel management   agency officials that federal workers were not required to respond to billionaire Elon Musk’s demand that they defend their recent accomplishments or risk being fired, even as Donald Trump indicated support for the ultimatum. The email sparked widespread chaos and confusion amid ongoing turmoil Musk’s Doge has inflicted on the federal workforce. After government departments gave their employees differing instructions as to whether they should respond to the message, OPM, which manages the federal workforce, announced that compliance with the email was voluntary and that failing to do so by midnight would not be considered a resignation, as Musk had warned.
Also on Monday: 
                                                               France’s president, Emmanuel Macron,   Trump against a “surrender” of Ukraine during a   to the White House, as the US president said Vladimir Putin   European peacekeepers in Ukraine as part of a potential deal to end the conflict. (The Kremlin has   this.)                                                                 Earlier in the day, the US   Russia, Belarus and North Korea in voting against an EU-Ukrainian resolution condemning Russia on the third anniversary of its full-scale invasion, another sign of Trump’s sharp turn toward Putin.                                                             Week 5                   
23 February 2025
Day 35
Anti-Trump conservatives and centrists held a competing conference this weekend, dubbed Principles First, to counter the Conservative Political Action Conference’s (CPAC) Trump fest. But Principles First attenders, particularly officers who defended the Capitol during the insurrection, saw   from January 6 pardonee and Proud Boys leader Enrique Tarrio, and the conference was subject to   on 23 February signed “Enrique T”. that said it was to honor the “J6 hostages” and “Emperor Trump”.
Also on Sunday:
                                                               Some at CPAC advocated for overriding the constitution to elect Trump for a third term, calling their quest for a Trump reign the Third Term Project. But at least one elected Republican, Oklahoma senator Markwayne Mullin,   he didn’t support the idea.                                                            
22 February 2025
Day 34
Trump   at the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) for an all-out brag session, claiming he had saved the country and actually won the election by more, repeating unspecified lies that Democrats were cheating on elections. His victory lap included boasts of pardoning January 6 rioters, some of whom were in attendance, and killing diversity initiatives. 
                                                               Elon Musk orchestrated emails sent by the Trump administration to all federal workers demanding they outline in five bullet points what they did at their jobs in the past week or risk termination, the latest escalation against the civil service. Kash Patel, the newly confirmed FBI director,   his agency employees they didn’t need to respond, and other agencies told workers to hold off on replies as well.                                                           
21 February 2025
Day 33
The Associated Press   the Trump administration after Trump’s team blocked the news agency from attending press events because the organization has continued using “Gulf of Mexico” in its reporting rather than the Trump-branded “Gulf of America”. 
Also on Friday:
                                                               Trump   the top official at US Immigration and Customs Enforcement in an effort to speed up deportations. The administration also   its   for unaccompanied immigrant children, just three days after it ordered government-funded attorneys across the country to immediately stop their work, a sign of the chaotic nature of the Trump presidency.                                                                                                       Separately, the Proud Boys were back in Washington DC, with key leaders fresh off their Trump pardons for participating in the January 6 insurrection. Enrique Tarrio, a former national leader of the far-right group, was   near the US Capitol on a charge that he assaulted a woman protesting a gathering attended by him and others who received pardons.                                                           
20 February 2025
Day 32
Trump’s acolytes, riding high after one month of slash-and-burn rightwing governance, gathered for the Conservative Political Action Conference.   appeared in sunglasses and a black Maga hat and wielded a chainsaw given to him as a gift by far-right Argentinian president Javier Milei. Steve Bannon, the far-right leader and Trump booster,   a fascist-style salute on stage. 
At the conference, JD Vance   immigration was the “greatest threat” to Europe and the US, at least until 30 days ago here. 
Also on Thursday:
                                                               Trump continued the mass firing of federal workers, axing people at the Internal Revenue Service and in disaster recovery, among others. Some fired were then rehired, including public health workers responsible for responding to the spreading bird flu.                                                            
19 February 2025
Day 31
“LONG LIVE THE KING!” Trump said of himself after moving to block a congestion pricing policy in New York City, inviting a legal battle with his home state. His claim of royalty brought   after his first month in office included various ways he’s attempting to consolidate power and threats to defy the courts if they go against his wishes. 
Also on Wednesday:
                                                               Trump attempted to   the history of Russia’s war against Ukraine, saying Ukraine started it when in reality Russia invaded the country unprovoked.                                                                                                       Trump called Volodymyr Zelenskyy a “dictator” after the Ukrainian president   Trump appeared to be “trapped” in a Russian “disinformation bubble”.                                                           
18 February 2025
Day 30
Trump signed an executive order to   his power over independent agencies such as the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Federal Trade Commission, claiming he requires “presidential supervision and control of the entire executive branch”. These agencies would see presidential control over their policies and budgets, a change from the current process, under the order, which is likely to be challenged in court.
Also on Tuesday:
                                                               Trump   with Musk in a joint interview with Fox host Sean Hannity, where the president and his billionaire backer complimented each other relentlessly: Musk said he loves Trump and called him a “good man” while Trump called Musk “brilliant” and a “very good person”.                                                                                                       Another executive order   on this day calls for a report that would recommend how to reduce the costs associated with in vitro fertilization. Some in the anti-abortion movement oppose IVF and reacted negatively to the order.                                                            
17 February 2025
Day 29
Federal workers who were on their probationary periods were   indiscriminately across various agencies over the holiday weekend, leaving gaps in aviation, nuclear safety, national parks, food safety and a host of other government jobs.  Elon Musk and his so-called “department of government efficiency” team continued their march across agencies to find areas to cut. A top Social Security Administration official   after Musk’s team tried to access people’s personal data. 
Also on Monday:
                                                               Protestors   at state capitols and other major cities across the country to speak out against the Trump administration and Musk, rallying to “stop the coup” of the federal government.                                                                                                       Trump   Edward Martin, a January 6 defender and Stop the Steal activist, to serve as US attorney for the District of Columbia. Martin had served in an interim role and was dismissing any pending cases against the January 6 rioters.                                                            Week 4                   
16 February 2025
Day 28
Trump asked the supreme court to let him   that protects government whistleblowers, marking his first appeal to the justices on America’s highest court since he took office. The justice department’s filing asked the conservative-majority court to lift a judge’s court order temporarily reinstating Hampton Dellinger as the leader of the office of special counsel.
Also on Sunday:
 Trump told reporters that he believes he could meet “very soon” with the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, to discuss ending the war in Ukraine.
 Trump’s limousine, known as “the Beast”, led Daytona 500 drivers on two laps around the Florida racetrack. “This is your favorite president,” he told them. “I’m a big fan. I am a really big fan of you people.”
15 February 2025
Day 27
Trump went on social media to signal continued resistance to limits on his executive authority in the face of multiple legal challenges. “He who saves his Country does not violate any Law,” the president wrote on his Truth Social network. The phrase, attributed to Napoleon, the French military leader who eventually declared himself emperor, drew immediate criticism from Democrats. “Spoken like a true dictator,” Senator Adam Schiff of California, a longtime adversary of Trump, wrote on X.
Also on Saturday:
 The US envoy to Ukraine, Keith Kellogg, told a global security conference in Munich that the US would act as an intermediary in talks with Ukraine and Russia. Asked about the prospects of the Europeans being at the table, Kellogg said: “I’m [from] a school of realism. I think that’s not gonna happen.”
14 February 2025
Day 26
 , the vice-president, stunned the Munich security conference by accusing European leaders of suppressing free speech, failing to halt illegal migration and running in fear from voters’ true beliefs. Vance suggested that Europe was infected by media censorship, cancelled elections and political correctness.
“The threat that I worry the most about vis-à-vis Europe is not Russia, it’s not China, it’s not any other external actor,” .  “And what I worry about is the threat from within, the retreat of Europe from some of its most fundamental values.” The blistering remarks were condemned by the European Union and Germany but drew praise from Russian state television.
Also on Friday:
 Members of Elon Musk’s “department of government efficiency” arrived at the Pentagon in what appeared to be their first meeting with defense department staff.
 Under pressure from Trump’s justice department leadership, prosecutors in Washington asked a federal judge to drop bribery and fraud charges against the New York mayor,  , rather than see the entire public integrity office be fired.
 The White House said it would ban the Associated Press from events in the Oval Office and Air Force One over the news agency’s refusal to obey Trump’s executive order renaming the Gulf of Mexico the . 
13 February 2025
Day 25
Trump unveiled plans for the US to implement “reciprocal” tariffs on all countries with which it conducts trade. “They charge us a tax or tariff and we charge them the exact same,” . 
Signing a memorandum called the “Fair and Reciprocal Plan”, the president admitted the tariffs could cause Americans some “some short-term disturbance”, adding: “Prices could go up somewhat short-term. But prices will also go down.”
Also on Thursday:
 The Senate voted 52–48 to confirm the longtime vaccine sceptic Robert F Kennedy Jr as the next health and human services secretary. Senator Mitch McConnell, a polio survivor, was the only Republican to join all Democrats in opposition, saying he “will not condone the relitigation of proven cures”.
 Trump was equivocal when asked what concessions Russia should be willing to make to secure a peace deal in Ukraine. He told reporters   : “It’s too early to say what’s going to happen. Maybe Russia will give up a lot. Maybe they won’t. It’s all dependent on what is going to happen.”
  Danielle Sassoon, the acting US attorney for the southern district of New York, quit after the justice department ordered her to drop the corruption case against the New York City mayor, Eric Adams. Several other justice department officials also resigned after they were ordered to drop the case.
12 February 2025
Day 24
Trump held separate phone calls with the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, and Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelenskyy, in an effort to end the war that has raged for three years. The White House press secretary, Karoline Leavitt,   : “ They were very good calls. They were very positive.”
Later Trump told reporters he expected to come face to face with Putin soon. “We ultimately expect to meet,” .  “In fact, we expect that he’ll come here, and I’ll go there, and we’re going to meet also, probably in Saudi Arabia. The first time we’ll meet in Saudi Arabia.”
Also on Wednesday:
 The Senate confirmed the former Democratic congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard in a 52–48 vote to serve as director of national intelligence. Senator Mitch McConnell, the former Senate leader, was the lone Republican to join all Democrats in opposition.
 The Senate budget committee voted 11–10 to approve a budget reconciliation bill intended to serve as a blueprint to get Trump’s border, energy and military agenda through Congress.
 Inflation rose to 3% on an annual basis in January, an increase from 2.9% in December,   released by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
11 February 2025
Day 23
Joined by his four-year-old son X in the Oval Office, Elon Musk claimed the ”department of government efficiency’s” (Doge) goal was to “restore democracy”, contending that the federal bureaucracy had amassed too much power.
The world’s richest man denied conflicts of interest. “You can see whether I’m doing something that’s benefiting one of my companies or not,” he told reporters. “I’ll be scrutinised nonstop.” Trump signed   that seeks to “significantly reduce the size of government” by instructing agencies to undertake plans for “large-scale reductions in force”.
Also on Tuesday:
 Trump stood by his plan for the US to take control of Gaza and redevelop it as a tourist destination while relocating 2 million Palestinians. During a meeting with Jordan’s King Abdullah II,   : “We’re going to take it. We’re going to hold it. We’re going to cherish it.”
 The White House   of Marc Fogel, an American teacher who had been imprisoned in Russia. The US released  Alexander Vinnik, a Russian cybercriminal who pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit money laundering, in exchange.
 Trump claimed that he would abide by court decisions curbing his administration’s actions amid growing fears of a constitutional crisis following Vance’s   that “judges aren’t allowed to control the executive’s legitimate power.”
10 February 2025
Day 22
Trump   to impose 25% tariffs on all steel and aluminum imports to the US while eliminating all country exceptions. He said: “It’s a big deal. This is the beginning of making America rich again.”
The chief executive of Ford, Jim Farley, said while he believed the president aimed to strengthen the US car industry overall, the tariff plans had “a lot of cost and a lot of chaos”. The move was also criticised by Canada, Mexico and other trading partners.
Also on Monday:
 The justice department ordered federal prosecutors to drop corruption charges against the  , arguing that the case was interfering with the mayor’s ability to aid the president’s crackdown on illegal immigration.
 Asked whether he saw Vice-President JD Vance as his automatic successor in 2028, Trump   : “No, but he’s very capable. I mean, I don’t think that it, you know – I think you have a lot of very capable people. So far, I think he’s doing a fantastic job. It’s too early. We’re just starting.”
                   Week 3                   
9 February 2025
Day 21
Donald Trump defended Elon Musk, head of the “department of government efficiency”, amid criticism of the billionaire’s slash-and-burn tactics at agencies such as USAid. “He’s not gaining anything. In fact, I wonder how he can devote the time to it,” Trump told Fox News in an interview taped ahead of the Super Bowl.
Trump also   Musk would find “billions” of dollars of abuse and fraud in the federal government. “I’m going to tell him very soon, like maybe in 24 hours, to go check the Department of Education... Then I’m going to go, go to the military. Let’s check the military,” Trump said. “We’re going to find billions, hundreds of millions of dollars of fraud and abuse.”
Also on Sunday:
                                                               Speaking to reporters on Air Force One as he   to New Orleans for the Super Bowl, Trump   he would impose new 25% tariffs on all steel and aluminum imports into the US.                                                                 Trump also declared Sunday to be “Gulf of America Day”, the latest step in his effort to rename the Gulf of Mexico.                                                           
8 February 2025
Day 20
In   with the New York Post, Donald Trump announced he would revoke the security clearances of more top Democrats, including Joe Biden’s former secretary of state, Antony Blinken, and the New York attorney general, Letitia James. “Bad guy. Take away his passes,” Trump said of Blinken. He added: “This is to take away every right they have [revoking security clearances] including they can’t go into [federal] buildings.”
Also on Saturday:
                                                               Russ Vought, Trump’s new director of the office of management and budget,   he had cut off the budget of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.                                                           
7 February 2025
Day 19
Donald Trump   to revoke Joe Biden’s security clearance and end the former president’s daily intelligence briefings as retaliation for Biden doing the same to him in 2021. Biden indicated he would end his predecessor’s intelligence briefings after the House impeached Trump for inciting the January 6 attack on the US Capitol.
Also on Friday:
                                                               Trump   a key piece of his proposed tariffs against China.                                                                 A federal judge   Trump from placing thousands of USAid employees on leave, dealing a blow to the president’s efforts to dismantle the agency.                                                                 Trump   he would appoint himself chair of the John F Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts and fire multiple members of its board of trustees. A spokesperson for the Kennedy Center said it had “received no official communications from the White House regarding changes to our board of trustees”.                                                                 Trump   an executive order to cut financial assistance to South Africa due to “unjust racial discrimination” against white Afrikaners, as he offered them asylum in the US.                                                           
6 February 2025
Day 18
A federal judge   a deadline for government employees to decide whether to take a buyout offer as legal challenges play out. The deadline, which was initially set at 6 February at 11.59pm ET, was extended to at least Monday to allow parties to file legal briefings in a lawsuit over the policy.
Also on Thursday:
                                                               The US Senate   along party lines to confirm Russell Vought, a key architect of Project 2025, as the new director of the office of management and budget.                                                                 Trump   for the “termination” of 60 Minutes in the latest escalation of his fight against the US media, writing in a Truth Social post: “CBS should lose its license, and the cheaters at 60 Minutes should all be thrown out, and this disreputable ‘NEWS’ show should be immediately terminated.”                                                           
5 February 2025
Day 17
Donald Trump’s suggestion that the US would “take over” Gaza sparked outrage among Democrats, who   the “insane proposal” as a “dangerous” threat to 2 million Palestinians. Congressman Al Green, a Democrat of Texas, even   plans to bring articles of impeachment against Trump over the proposal.
Meanwhile, Republicans reacted to the intense backlash with .  The Republican speaker of the House, Mike Johnson, told CNN: “We have to back Israel 100%. So whatever form that takes, we’re interested in having that discussion. It’s a surprising development, but I think it’s one that we’ll applaud.”
Also on Wednesday:
                                                               Trump   tariffs on China, sparking intense retaliation from Beijing.                                                                 A US military plane carrying 104 deported people   in India, marking the latest development in Trump’s efforts to use the armed forces to help advance his immigration agenda.                                                           
4 February 2025
Day 16
Donald Trump sent shockwaves around the world when he   the US would “take over” Gaza and “own it”, a pronouncement that was interpreted as a potential endorsement of the ethnic cleansing of Palestinians. “If it’s necessary, we’ll do that,” Trump said at a press conference alongside the Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu. “We’re going to take over that piece; we’re going to develop it, create thousands and thousands of jobs, and it’ll be something that the entire Middle East can be very proud of.”
Also on Tuesday:
                                                               The Senate   Pam Bondi as the next US attorney general in a vote of 54 to 46.                                                                 The Senate finance committee   Robert F Kennedy’s nomination to serve as the next secretary of health and human services, despite concerns over his past anti-vaccine comments and his flip-flopping on abortion access.                                                           
3 February 2025
Day 15
Donald Trump   a one-month delay in his proposed tariffs against Canada and Mexico after phone calls with the Canadian prime minister, Justin Trudeau, and the Mexican president, Claudia Sheinbaum. Trump’s threat had rattled global financial markets, as the EU braced for tariffs as well.
Meanwhile, the clash over the future of USAid intensified, as the White House confirmed plans to merge the foreign aid agency with the state department. The secretary of state, Rubio, declared himself the acting administrator of USAid as Elon Musk declared his wish to shutter the agency.
Also on Monday:
                                                               Trump   an executive order aimed at creating a sovereign wealth fund, suggesting the fund may be used to purchase the social media platform TikTok.                                                            Week 2                   
2 February 2025
Day 14
Two senior security officials at the US Agency for International Development (USAid) were reportedly   after a confrontation with personnel from Elon Musk’s newly created “department of government efficiency” (Doge). The incident occurred when Doge officials demanded access to USAid security systems and personnel files at the agency’s Washington headquarters, eventually gaining entry despite initial resistance from security staff.
Musk publicly declared USAid “   ” following reports of the confrontation.
Also on Sunday:
                                                               The administration terminated temporary protected status for more than 300,000 Venezuelans, giving recipients just 60 days to leave the country after the official notice is published.                                                           
1 February 2025
Day 13
In what has been the most far-reaching move of his presidency thus far, Trump imposed sweeping tariffs on Mexico, Canada and China in a series of executive orders that threaten to set global trade on fire.
The orders set 25% tariffs on most Mexican and Canadian imports and 10% on Chinese goods, with energy products from Canada facing a reduced 10% duty. The move prompted retaliation from Mexico and Canada, with Justin Trudeau, Canada’s prime minister, announcing reciprocal tariffs on C$155bn (US$107bn) worth of US products and Mexico’s president, Claudia Sheinbaum, preparing similar countermeasures ranging from 5% to 20% on select US imports.
China said it will be challenging the new US tariffs at the World Trade Organization and would take unspecified countermeasures. Also on Saturday:
                                                               Trump   against Isis targets in Somalia via Truth Social, claiming the operation eliminated a senior attack planner.                                                                 Six Americans previously detained in Venezuela   following a meeting between Trump’s envoy Richard Grenell and President Nicolás Maduro.                                                           
31 January 2025
Day 12
The Trump administration initiated a sweeping round of cuts at the justice department   and others who worked on cases related to the January 6 Capitol attack. According to an internal memo, the acting FBI director, Brian Driscoll, instructed bureau leaders to provide the justice department with information about all current and former employees who “at any time” worked on January 6 investigations.
FBI leadership was given until noon on Tuesday to provide information about all current and former employees involved in Capitol riot cases.
Also on Friday:
                                                               While the White House announced it would be celebrating Black History Month, the Defense Intelligence Agency ordered an immediate halt to all activities and events related to historical and cultural observances, including Martin Luther King Jr Day, Black History Month and Holocaust Remembrance Day, according to an internal memo obtained by NBC News.                                                            
30 January 2025
Day 11
Trump linked Wednesday night’s   just outside of Washington DC to diversity and equity initiatives at the Federal Aviation Administration implemented under previous administrations, making the claims during a White House briefing room appearance even as investigations into the crash were just beginning.
The incident marked the first major commercial airline crash in the United States since 2009. Following his remarks, Trump signed executive orders appointing Christopher Rocheleau, a 22-year veteran of the FAA, as acting commissioner and directing the removal of what he termed “DEI and woke policies” from the agency.
Also on Thursday:
                                                               Trump   dubbed “additional measures to combat anti-semitism” citing increased discrimination since 7 October 2023. The order directs federal agencies to identify additional legal tools for prosecuting what could be deemed as antisemitic acts and requires higher education institutions to monitor and report certain activities by foreign students that could constitute grounds for removal.                                                           
29 January 2025
Day 10
The office of management and budget rescinded its controversial memo freezing federal spending on loans and grants, less than 48 hours after its issuance sparked widespread confusion and legal challenges nationwide. The rapid reversal came after states, schools, and organizations dependent on federal funding expressed serious concerns about the freeze’s impacts.
Also on Wednesday:
                                                               Trump ordered the expansion of the migrant operations center at Guantánamo Bay to accommodate what the administration termed “high-priority criminal aliens”.                                                                                                       An executive order targeting K-12 education sought to eliminate what it described as “radical indoctrination”, re-establishing the 1776 Commission and mandating federal review of school funding.                                                           
28 January 2025
Day 9
The administration issued a directive requiring all federal employees to return to in-person work by 6 February, ending remote work arrangements with an option for buyouts for those unwilling to comply. 
The memo offered federal workers a choice: return to offices or submit pre-written “deferred resignation letters” with a buyout worth seven months’ salary. The document warned of impending “restructurings, realignments, and reductions in force” across federal agencies, suggesting widespread changes that could include furloughs and the reclassification of many federal employees to at-will status.
Also on Tuesday:
                                                               A federal judge temporarily blocked the administration’s freeze on federal financial assistance.                                                                 The White House announced new media access rules welcoming independent journalists and content creators to briefings.                                                                 Trump fired two Democratic officials at the National Labor Relations Board, potentially stalling hundreds of labor practice cases.                                                           
27 January 2025
Day 8
Trump   prohibiting people who are transgender from serving in the military, reversing Obama-era policies that had allowed their service and Biden-era policies that allowed for serving openly. The order was accompanied by a broader directive to eliminate diversity, equity and inclusion programs within the military.
Also on Monday:
                                                               A separate EO looked to reinstate and offer potential back pay for service members discharged under the military’s previous Covid-19 vaccine mandate, though implementation faces various legal and logistical hurdles.                                                           Week 1                   
26 January 2025
Day 7
Trump announced retaliatory sanctions on Colombia after its president, Gustavo Petro, said his country would not accept deportation flights from the United States unless the Trump administration ensured the repatriated migrants were treated with “dignity that a human being deserves” and not “like criminals”.
In a Truth Social post, Trump said he was imposing 25% tariffs on all Colombian goods, a travel ban and immediate visa revocations for Colombian government officials, their allies and their supporters, as well as visa sanctions on all party members, family members and supporters of the Colombian government.
Also on Sunday:
                                                               JD Vance endorsed immigration raids on schools, telling CBS’s Face the Nation in his first interview since taking office that he hoped they would have a “chilling effect on illegal immigrants coming to our country”.                                                                 Republican senators Tom Cotton, the chair of the intelligence committee, and Lindsey Graham urged Trump to reconsider his decision to strip security details from three members of his first administration who are under threat.                                                           
25 January 2025
Day 6
Trump defended his   of nearly every cabinet-level agency in a Friday night purge as lawmakers in both parties raised concerns about the legality of firings that first require a notice to Congress. “It’s a very common thing to do,” Trump claimed to reporters on Air Force One while traveling to Florida, although he added that he would not be firing the justice department inspector general Michael Horowitz, because he had been by impressed by Horowitz’s report that criticized the former FBI director James Comey for releasing memos that described Trump’s attempts to get him to end the criminal investigation into his then national security adviser Mike Flynn.
Also on Saturday:
                                                               Trump told reporters onboard Air Force One that he wanted Jordan and Egypt to house Palestinians from Gaza, adding he mentioned it during his call with the king of Jordan.                                                           
24 January 2025
Day 5
Trump proposed   , saying that the states could do a better job at responding to disasters, even though he lacks the power to unilaterally dissolve the agency and would need congressional action. “I think we’re going to recommend that Fema go away and we pay directly – we pay a percentage to the state,” Trump said, while he toured Asheville, North Carolina, which was devastated by the remnants of   last year. “The state should fix it.” Trump also inaccurately characterized Fema’s role, which intervenes only if a state governor requests it.
Also on Friday:
                                                               The Trump administration summarily fired 15 inspectors general in a late-night purge that could clear the way for Trump to install loyalists in the crucial roles on identifying fraud and working on whistleblower allegations in the government.                                                                 Pete Hegseth was confirmed by the US Senate as Trump’s defense secretary in the narrowest vote for the role in the modern era. Hegseth was confirmed 51-50 with JD Vance acting as the tiebreaker after the Republican senators Mitch McConnell, Susan Collins and Lisa Murkowski voted against his nomination.                                                           
23 January 2025
Day 4
A federal judge   Trump’s executive order trying to end automatic citizenship for babies born on US soil, calling the attempt “blatantly unconstitutional”. The US district judge John Coughenour issued a 14-day restraining order, after siding with the states of Washington, Arizona, Illinois and Oregon, which brought the lawsuit. Trump later said he would appeal the decision as he pushes ahead with his executive order to end birthright citizenship.
Also on Thursday:
                                                               John Ratcliffe was confirmed by the US Senate to be the next CIA director.                                                           
22 January 2025
Day 3
The Trump administration threatened tens of thousands of federal workers with “adverse consequences” if they failed to report on colleagues who defy directives to cease diversity, equity and inclusion efforts from their agencies. The directives gave employees 10 days to report instances of efforts to continue the programs under alternative guises to a special email account to avoid disciplinary action. The warnings, based on an email template from the office of personnel management, marked a dramatic escalation of Trump’s   that were introduced to reverse decades of systemic inequities.
Also on Wednesday:
                                                               Trump said in an interview with Fox News’s Sean Hannity in the Oval Office that he might withhold federal funding from cities that do not cooperate with his deportation plans.                                                                 Trump’s political appointees ordered US attorneys to investigate and prosecute state and city law enforcement officials if they refused to carry out the administration’s immigration crackdown.                                                           
21 January 2025
Day 2
Attorneys general from 22 states sued the Trump administration in two federal district courts to block Trump’s executive order seeking to stop children born to unauthorized immigrants on US soil from automatically becoming citizens, decrying the order as unconstitutional. The lawsuits argued that the 14th amendment is “automatic” and neither the president nor Congress has the authority to revise it. Trump’s executive order flew in the face of more than 100 years of legal precedent, the lawsuits added, and babies born in the US have long been guaranteed citizenship regardless of their parents’ immigration status.
Also on Tuesday:
                                                               The   implored him to “have mercy” on gay, lesbian and transgender children, as well as undocumented immigrants – which Trump told reporters he did not appreciate.                                                                 Pete Hegseth, Trump’s nominee for defense secretary, faced new allegations that he denied from his ex-sister-in-law that his second wife once hid from him in a closet and had a safe word to call for help if she needed to get away from him.                                                           
20 January 2025
Day 1
Trump was   as the 47th commander in chief under the dome of the US Capitol in a made-for-television ceremony that saw him stick to the script in his official speech but unleash his true feelings in his second speech that attacked the January 6 committee as “political thugs” and the pardons Joe Biden granted the members on the panel. Meanwhile at the Capital One Arena, where Trump had his inaugural parade, the world’s richest man, Elon Musk, briefly shocked the news cycle by twice doing what resembled a Hitler salute. Trump wasted no time starting his agenda to dramatically reshape the political and cultural landscape of the nation, signing executive orders at the arena and then at the White House while he gave a freewheeling commentary to reporters. 
The executive orders included:
                                                               Pardoning more than 1,500 people convicted on   charges.                                                                 Withdrawing the US from the Paris climate accords.                                                                 Withdrawing from the World Health Organization.                                                                 Renaming the Gulf of Mexico as the Gulf of America.                                                                 Attempting to end birthright citizenship.                                                                 Preparing to investigate prosecutors who charged him.                                                                 Directing the justice department to not enforce the TikTok ban for 75 days.                                                         

Load-Date: April 7, 2025


End of Document
