




telegraph.co.uk
February 4, 2025 Tuesday 1:49 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: BUSINESS; Version:2
Length: 567 words
Byline: By Lucy Burton, Employment Editor
Highlight: LGB Alliance accuses lobby groups of turning workplaces into ‘battlegrounds in the culture war’
Body


Corporate diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) policies have been corrupted by “misogynistic” and “homophobic” trans extremists, a gay rights group has claimed.
The Lesbians, Gay men and Bisexuals (LGB) Alliance has called for bosses to “re-establish robust protections for freedom of speech and conscience” within the workplace, amid concerns that pro-trans elements are seeking to silence gender critical views.
The organisation said the replacement of women’s lavatories with gender neutral facilities, enforced pronoun usage and the bullying of employees who state a belief in biological sex were all areas of concern.
Simon White, who is involved with the LGB Alliance, said some DEI initiatives had “been corrupted by powerful lobby groups that present the law as they’d like it to be rather than how it actually is” and turned “workplaces into battlegrounds in the culture war”.
“Worst of all, the internal staff networks which should stand up for LGB people have been co-opted by extremists focused on advancing a narrow, misogynistic and homophobic interpretation of ‘trans rights’.”
Examples of aggressive DEI policies excluding people have made headlines around the world.
Fran Itkoff, a 90-year-old woman from California, was   at a multiple sclerosis charity she had volunteered at for more than 60 years. Her dismissal came after she told a colleague that she didn’t understand why she needed to add the pronouns “she/her” to her email signature.
The National MS Society confirmed at the time that she “was asked to step away from her role because of statements that were viewed as not aligning with our policy of inclusion”. The subsequent backlash prompted the charity to apologise for what it called a “mistake”.
LGB Alliance itself was targeted last year by trans rights protesters who   into a packed auditorium for its annual conference.
The charity is establishing a new forum aimed at “re-establishing fair workplace policies”. LGB Alliance, which was set up in 2019, wants executives in its new business forum to work with HR departments to redraw policies.
  for celebrating topping an equality leader board run by Stonewall, amid growing concern about the controversial charity’s influence over corporate HR policies.
Stonewall has previously come under fire for some of the advice it has given to organisations eager for a spot on its equality index, such as to replace the word mother with “parent who has given birth” to help boost their ranking.
The Welsh government, which appeared high on the list in 2020, deleted the term mother from its maternity policy in 2019.
The pushback comes as Donald Trump launches a   in America. One of his first executive orders ended what he called “radical and wasteful government DEI programmes”.
In the City of London, banks and investment firms have ramped up pressure on the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to soften planned diversity rules, amid concerns strict DEI guidelines could slow growth.
A poll of 500 City executives carried out by research firm JLP found one in three bosses now believe DEI has gone too far.
The Institute & Faculty of Actuaries (IFoA) also last week abandoned plans to introduce its own strict diversity rules after a revolt by some members.

Load-Date: February 4, 2025


End of Document
