




The Daily Telegraph (London)
February 5, 2025 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Pg. 21
Length: 344 words
Byline: Lucy Burton
Body


CORPORATE diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) policies have been corrupted by "misogynistic" and "homophobic" trans extremists, a gay rights group has claimed.
The Lesbians, Gay men and Bisexuals (LGB) Alliance has called for bosses to "re-establish robust protections for freedom of speech and conscience" within the workplace, amid concerns that pro-trans elements are seeking to silence gender critical views.
The charity said replacing women's lavatories with gender neutral facilities, enforced pronoun usage and the bullying of employees who advocater for biological sex were all concerns.
Simon White, of the LGB Alliance, said some DEI initiatives had "been corrupted by powerful lobby groups that present the law as they'd like it to be rather than how it actually is" and turned "workplaces into battlegrounds in the culture war".
"Worst of all, the internal staff networks which should stand up for LGB people have been co-opted by extremists focused on advancing a narrow, misogynistic and homophobic interpretation of 'trans rights'."
Examples of aggressive DEI policies excluding people have made headlines around the world. Fran Itkoff, a 90-yearold woman from California, was told last year that her services were no longer required at a multiple sclerosis charity she had volunteered at for more than 60 years. Her dismissal came after she told a colleague that she didn't understand why she needed to add the pronouns "she/her" to her email signature.
A backlash forced the National MS Society to apologise for what it called a "mistake".
LGB Alliance own annual conference was targeted last year by trans rights protesters who released hundreds of live crickets. The charity is setting up a new forum where executives can work with HR departments to "re-establishing fair workplace policies".
The pushback comes as Donald Trump is attacking the DEI movement in the US. Meanwhile in the City, firms are ramping up pressure on regulators to soften diversity rules, as a JLP survey found one in three of 500 City executives polled said DEI has gone too far.

Load-Date: February 5, 2025


End of Document
