




 
FT.com
February 26, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.


Length: 1652 words
Byline: Marc Filippino talks to Hannah Murphy and Madeleine Speed
Body


This is an audio transcript of the  podcast episode: 
Marc Filippino Good morning from the Financial Times. Today is Wednesday, February 26th and this is your FT News Briefing. 
The US and Ukraine have struck a deal on minerals. And Unilever’s chief executive is headed towards the exit. Plus, Silicon Valley used to be a bastion of liberal ideals. Today, not so much. 
Hannah Murphy You’ve certainly seen most, if not all, of those tech titans come out and support Trump in a way that they did not do during his previous term. 
Marc Filippino I’m Marc Filippino and here’s the news you need to start your day. 
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Ukraine has agreed to a minerals deal with the US. The specifics are kind of vague, but a final version says that it would create a fund where Ukraine would contribute earnings from the future development of mineral resources, including oil and gas. The fund would then invest in Ukrainian projects. The US has also committed to backing Ukraine’s economy. The one big thing missing from the agreement, however, is any sort of US security guarantee. Officials in Kyiv hope this deal will be a first step towards that and help smooth over ties with Washington. Now, there are still a few details that need to be ironed out before the deal is signed. US President Donald Trump and his Ukrainian counterpart Volodymyr Zelenskyy plan to meet on Friday. 
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Unilever’s boss, Hein Schumacher, was ousted on Monday. He’d been chief executive for less than two years and will now be replaced by chief financial officer Fernando Fernandez. The consumer goods company is known for brands like Ben & Jerry’s and Marmite, and is in the middle of a high-stakes restructuring plan. To talk all about it, I’m joined by the FT’s Madeleine Speed. Hi, Maddie. 
Madeleine Speed 
Hi, Marc. 
Marc Filippino
All right. So just to start us off, how are folks reacting to the news? 
Madeleine Speed So the reaction to the news was one of shock by investors and by analysts. The share price dropped about 2 per cent in early trading, since recovered a little bit. But one analyst called it a bolt from the blue. The last basically 18 months since Schumacher has been chief executive of Unilever have been pretty successful. The share price is up about 10 per cent since he took helm of the company, so it’s been a massive surprise that this has happened. 
Marc Filippino So, Maddie, can you give some background on the lead-up to this decision? 
Madeleine Speed Yes. So Hein Schumacher was actually brought in himself to turn around the business. So Unilever had suffered from lacklustre performance for probably about a decade, number of mis-step, changes at the top, other chief executives ousted. And he’d come in really with a plan to revive growth and get things back on track. And he had a mandate from the US activist investor Nelson Peltz, who joined the board back in 2022, who had really been agitating for change at the company. 
So in the time that Schumacher has been chief executive, he’s actually moved quite fast. I mean, contrary to what the board seems to think, he’s announced a wide-ranging restructuring plan. He made moves to cut 7,500 jobs from the company. He hived off the ice-cream business, which is known for brands like Ben & Jerry’s. But it’s obviously not been enough for the board. 
Marc Filippino Clearly. Unilever said that Schumacher’s replacement, Fernando Fernandez, is, quote, better suited for the job. Why is that? 
Madeleine Speed So Fernando Fernandez, who has been chief financial officer since January last year, is sort of seen as a go-getter. He’s seen as very results-oriented, a little bit more aggressive. One person described him to us as abrasive sometimes, and he kind of cuts a bit of a contrast to Schumacher, who’s seen as a little bit more conciliatory. One person said, cuddly, in fact. So I think the board, when comparing the two of them, thinks that Fernando Fernandez is really the guy to push for change at pace. 
Marc Filippino All right, so Fernandez is on deck. What can we expect from him and Unilever from here on out? 
Madeleine Speed I think the real question now from investors will be what Fernandez is going to do. Is he going to follow the program that Schumacher set out? Is he gonna continue selling off smaller food brands like Schumacher was and boosting growth with cost savings? Or is he going to do something more drastic? 
There’s always a question mark with Unilever about whether they’re gonna sell off the entire food business, for example, and just be a beauty and personal and homecare business. So it would be really exciting to see what he decides to do. 
Marc Filippino Madeleine Speed is the FT’s consumer industries reporter. Thanks, Maddie. 
Madeleine Speed Thanks for having me, Marc. 
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Marc Filippino The G20 isn’t getting a ton of love from finance ministers these days. They’re supposed to meet in South Africa this week. But sources tell the FT that a lot of them aren’t expected to come. That includes those from major economies like China and the US, but also from Brazil and India and Mexico. The G20 has struggled for relevance recently. The rivalry between the US and China hasn’t helped. And members are split over the response to Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine. US Treasury secretary Scott Bessent is staying close to home. Japan’s finance minister is sticking around Tokyo for state budget talks. And the EU’s economics commissioner will be in Brussels. 
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Silicon Valley used to be a hotbed of liberal activism, but not any more. Following the re-election of US President Donald Trump, Big Tech leaders have shifted to the conservative right, and their left-leaning employees aren’t exactly protesting. So is this the slow death of Silicon Valley activism? The FT’s Hannah Murphy has been looking into it, and she joins me now. Hey, Hannah. 
Hannah Murphy Hey. Hi. 
Marc Filippino One example of this turnaround, Hannah, is Meta’s CEO Mark Zuckerberg. Can you tell me a little bit about his trajectory from liberal ally to Trump supporter? 
Hannah Murphy Sure. As a start-up in the 2010s, Silicon Valley companies, including Facebook, now Meta, would attract workers with this promise of a culture of openness and transparency. Staff were told their views mattered and could sort of help shape the company, and Mark Zuckerberg would hold weekly, very open Q&A sessions with staff. They’re encouraged to speak out. Zuckerberg also embraced the more liberal values quite openly. We saw him marching about a decade ago at San Francisco’s gay pride parade, waving from a float that had a rainbow flag on the top. 
This is a very far cry from the Mark Zuckerberg of 2025, which we saw go on the Joe Rogan podcast and call for more masculine energy in the workplace. And he’s also announced these big policy changes, sort of a weakening and undoing some hate speech policies, as well as doing away with the fact-checking programme. So, all in all, a very dramatic reversal from some of those more liberal pushes that we saw in the past. 
Marc Filippino Yeah, and it was really striking to see him and other tech titans sitting front and centre at Trump’s inauguration a month ago. So to what extent does Zuckerberg reflect a larger change in Silicon Valley? 
Hannah Murphy You’ve certainly seen most, if not all, of those tech titans come out and support Trump in a way that they did not do during his previous term. There’s a couple of reasons for this. One might be simply that from an idealistic point of view, they are more aligned with conservative values, particularly after you’ve seen the Biden administration go after the tech companies for areas like competition and antitrust, and perhaps have more testy relationships with some of those companies. It also can be seen as a sort of good business move if you are Meta and Mark Zuckerberg. Donald Trump has previously said that the company was censoring Americans and even threatened to jail Mark Zuckerberg. So obviously he will do everything to try and protect himself and his company from those threats. And I think as well, you’ve got to consider that perhaps rolling back some of these initiatives like DEI — diversity, equity and inclusion — may be saving the company money. So there’s a possible business element here as well as the ideals side. 
Marc Filippino How are employees at these companies responding? I mean, a lot of them are young and they probably lean left or they leaned left. Are they afraid to speak out? 
Hannah Murphy I would say they’ve been put on notice by the companies essentially. So you’re seeing even sort of minor acts of defiance being stifled. You’ve got this issue of job security now, much more saturated jobs market in tech, given the rounds of lay-offs in recent years and a market downturn. So the possibility that you are let go and cannot find a job is very real and unnerving. And so you’re seeing a much quieter response from most Silicon Valley staff who may have in the past spoken up than previously. 
Marc Filippino Hannah, do you think the cultural pendulum in Silicon Valley will swing back? 
Hannah Murphy I think it’s more than a possibility. Often these companies will be very opportunistic in trying to make the most of whatever government is in power at the time and make sure they’re on the side of power. But I think the swing has been so dramatic this time that companies that do that will risk accusations of deep hypocrisy in a way that they haven’t previously. But I think it’s more than possible. 
Marc Filippino Hannah Murphy covers tech for the Financial Times. Thanks, Hannah. 
Hannah Murphy Thanks, Marc. 
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Marc Filippino You can read more on all of these stories for free when you click the links in our show notes. This has been your daily FT News Briefing. Check back tomorrow for the latest business news. 

Load-Date: February 26, 2025


End of Document
