




The Daily Telegraph (London)
February 5, 2025 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: FEATURES; Pg. 16
Length: 763 words
Byline: ANNABEL DENHAM
Body


Rory Stewart might have a higher tolerance for pain than most - he walked solo across north-central Afghanistan and co-hosts a podcast with Alastair Campbell - but still he must be wondering whether trolling JD Vance on X was worth it. After the US vice president outlined his belief in the hierarchy of love (first family, then neighbour, community, country and, lastly, the rest of the world), Stewart pompously denounced the order as "more pagan tribal" than Christian.
"Does Rory really think his moral duties to his own children are the same as his duties to a stranger who lives thousands of miles away?" Vance fired back. Of course he doesn't.
The problem for Stewart isn't just that he was publicly bested by a supposedly unenlightened "hillbilly". It's that this spat exposed the mental contortions necessary to sustain his topsy-turvy world-view. A father who saved a stranger's child from mortal danger in preference to his own might be hailed as a humanitarian superhero, but he'd also be a very bad parent. Politicians acting in the national interest aren't "populist" or "immoral": they're absolutely right.
But Stewart is the arch-advocate of foreign aid. On the day of Queen Elizabeth's funeral, the former international development secretary was urging us to create a new agency charged with spending 0.7 per cent of GDP on overseas assistance - even though it's widely acknowledged that setting a precise target for giving away money leads to inevitable waste as our uncivil servants scramble to find causes on which to spaff away the dosh.
We sent money to China, one of the world's largest economies, for rice production. Billions have been donated to dictatorships, despite warnings that aid money doesn't just correlate with bad governance, it causes it. All the while, we shifted from a position where the "undeserving poor" were the benefits scroungers, too lazy to work, to one where the only truly "deserving" lived in the developing world.
Forward a couple of years, and Elon
Musk's Department of Government Efficiency is now slashing USAid, with the Trump administration claiming vast sums of money were funnelled into the "ridiculous... pet projects of entrenched bureaucrats" with minimal oversight. Look at the rap sheet - $1.5million to advance DEI in Serbia's workforce, $47,000 for a "transgender opera" in Colombia - and tell them they're wrong.
But there's more to it than waste; governments squander our hardearned cash all the time. The real questions they're asking are: who does the government represent? In a functioning democracy, whose interests should it serve first? We neglect them at our peril.
But Trump gets it. A nation state's responsibility is to its people - those who participate in the economy, civic life, those who vote, form our social fabric and pay taxes. Opponents of this all-too-uncommon common sense remind me of Dickens's Mrs Jellyby. In her own home, chaos prevails, yet she is far too devoted to setting up a mission in Africa, her eyes "seeming to look a long way off ", to notice that her own family desperately needs her.
As it stripped pensioners of their winter fuel payments, which may be pushing up to 100,000 into poverty, Labour renewed our commitment to spending £11.6billion on overseas "climate aid". As it announced a £40billion tax raid, it proposed spending £9billion to give away the Chagos Islands, a deal that would have baffled even the munificent Mrs Jellyby. This week, the Government is producing an immigration Bill which sets out plans to loosen restrictions on illegal migration. At the same time, Labour seems to have no intention of reducing the numbers of low-skilled legal migrants, which we now know could each cost us up to £400,000 over their lifetimes.
Where we can help others, we should. But where there are trade-offs, the needs of our citizens should be prioritised. There are no serious plans to address crime, worklessness, welfare, social care, our mounting debt pile or the crumbling NHS. There are only attempts to further dismantle our nation state - the tool for deciding who we are immediately responsible for - and erode our sovereignty.
But there's a reason the nation state hasn't withered away, to the chagrin of the high-minded. It is vital to improving our economic and social outcomes. Cosmopolitans such as Rory Stewart have spent years insisting we must sacrifice our self-interest for the global "good". They are now on the losing side of an argument they should never have been winning.
FOLLOW Annabel Denham on X @AnnabelDenham1 READ MORE at / opinion

Load-Date: February 5, 2025


End of Document
