




Daily O'Collegian: Oklahoma State University
January 28, 2025 Tuesday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 371 words
Body


The federal Office of Management and Budget has ordered all federal grants, loans and assistance programs be paused.
The office distributed a memorandum Monday, citing President Donald Trump's "policies and requirements" as its reasoning. The pause will take effect 5 p.m. Tuesday. 
The move leaves universities and research institutions, such as OSU, with questions about how the pause will impact ongoing and planned projects. 
"This temporary pause will provide the Administration time to review agency programs and determine the best uses of the funding for those programs consistent with the law and the President's priorities," the memorandum stated. 
The original memo indicated that programs "including, but not limited to, financial assistance for foreign aid, nongovernmental organizations, DEI, woke gender ideology, and the green new deal" would be affected. The White House on Tuesday afternoon issued a new memo, The Washington Post reported, indicating that only programs involving those areas would be impacted. 
The U.S. Department of Education announced Tuesday morning that the funding freeze will not impact federal student loans or Pell grants, according to The New York Times. 
For OSU and its research programs, effects of the order are yet to be seen. In a statement from OSU, the university said it is continuing to follow the situation.
"The university closely monitors and engages on issues related to student success, including the impacts and effects of government actions at all levels," the statement read. "We are closely following the recent announcements from the federal administration regarding pauses in federal aid and grant funding. Financial aid for the Spring 2025 semester has already been issued to OSU students. We continue to analyze and closely monitor the impacts a pause in grant funding may have on the university's educational, research and operational activities."
OSU is a R1 Research University, which the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education classifies as an institution with "very high research activity." 
All agencies are required to submit detailed information on "any programs, project or activities subject to this pause," by Feb. 10.


Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
