




MailOnline
February 9, 2025 Sunday 7:51 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 523 words
Byline: Geoff Earle, Deputy U.S. Political Editor At Mar-a-lago Katelyn Caralle, Senior U.S. Political Reporter In Washington, D.C.
Body


President Donald Trump jetted off to New Orleans for the Super Bowl Sunday afternoon - with several events set to put him front and center before a global audience.
He flew from Palm Beach hours after golfing with Tiger Woods on his Trump International Course.
A bevy of senators jammed onto Air Force One for the flight, with plans to join Trump in a luxury box and the Superdome.
He is the first sitting president to attend the big game, after making big sporting events a part of his career and persona.
The route takes them over the water he said was now called the Gulf of America, he will walk the field of the Caesar's Superdome.
There were reports that Trump was planning a 'stunt' to crow about the name change adopted by the government and Google maps. (Mexico's president and Democratic governors have mocked the change).
He'll meet before the game with first responders on the scene of the New Year's Eve attack on Bourbon street, and is certain to feature in Fox Sports coverage.
'Upon arrival to Caesars Superdome, the President will participate in a meet and greet with the honorary coin toss participants including family members of the victims from the terrorist attack, members of the New Orleans Police Department, and emergency personnel.'
That came after a Fox News interview where he backed up Elon Musk and said slashing cuts loom for the Education Department.
The NIH announced huge cuts to overhead costs that universities and scholars get for cancer and biomedical research, with Musk saying funds were wasted on overhead.
Eric and Lara rump as well as Ivanka Trump and her son joined the President on AF 1.
Also along for the ride are a large group of Republican Senators including South Carolina's Lindsey Graham and Tim Scott, with his fiancé. Sen. Dave McCormick (Penn.) and his wife, Alabama Sens. Katie Britt (Ala.) and Tommy Tuberville, Wyoming Sen. John Barrasso, Sen. Roger Marshall (Kan.) and Missouri Sen. Eric Schmitt and his wife.
Energy Secretary Doug Burgum is aboard with his wife and so is Rep. Tom Emmer and his wife.
Trump also made it to the Alabama-Georgia NCAA game during the presidential campaign. 
He clashed with NFL players - including the Eagles - during his first term, when the White House cancelled a planned event hosting the championship team in 2018 amid a spat of players kneeling during the National Anthem.
But he had been talking up the big game in advance. 'I don't want to say, but there's a certain quarterback that seems to be a pretty good winner.'
'It's always cool to be able to play in front of a sitting president,' said the Chiefs' QB Patrick Mahomes.
After crusading against DEI and issuing new executive orders, Trump announced he would attend after the NFL announced it would remove the 'End Racism' slogan from the end zones during the game. The NFL has denied any connection between Trump's visit and the removal.
Trump's Super Bowl Sunday began just as it did the day before: with a round of golf at his Trump National Golf Course in West Palm Beach.
This time, he had golf pro Tiger Woods along with him. It would be the first of many athletes and A-listers he would mingle with.

Load-Date: February 9, 2025


End of Document
