




Fox News JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME 8:00 PM EST
February 18, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6683 words
Byline: Jesse Watters, Charlie Hurt
Guests: Jordan Belfort, Jason Miller, Dan Turrentine
Body


MAX LUGAVERE, HEALTH AND SCIENCE JOURNALIST: They're one of nature's few multivitamins.
LAURA INGRAHAM, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST, "THE INGRAHAM ANGLE": Max, we have to continue this. Come back soon. This is going to be a big, big issue in this administration. Thank you so much.
That's it for us tonight. Make sure to follow me on social media. Thank you for watching. Remember, it's America now and forever.
Jesse Watters, he takes it from here.
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST, "JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME": Welcome to JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME.
Tonight --
ELON MUSK, DIRECTOR, DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT EFFICIENCY: They call it like Trump Derangement Syndrome. It was like they got shot with a dart in the jugular that contained like methamphetamine and rabies, okay. It was like, "ah."
WATTERS: Why can't we all just get along?
KEVIN O'LEARY, CHAIRMAN, O'LEARY VENTURES: All of these agencies are like big fat chickens dripping over barbecues of fat.
LULU GARCIA-NAVARRO, "THE NEW YORK TIMES": You think Democrats are afraid to talk to Trump voters?
REP. RUBEN GALLEGO (D-AZ): I think Democrats are afraid to talk to Trump voters. I think Democrats are afraid to talk to people that are going to criticize them.
WATTERS: If you can't take the heat, get out of the kitchen.
(VIDEO CLIP PLAYS OF KAMALA HARRIS LAUGHING)
BARACK OBAMA, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We envision this as a place where residents and visitors from all over the world come together and restore the promise of the people's party.
WATTERS: Obama's library is a DEI disaster.
OBAMA: Obama --
WATTERS: Plus --
("ANGER MANAGEMENT" VIDEO CLIP PLAYS)
DR. BUDDY RYDELL, FICTIONAL CHARACTER: I said, over easy.
WATTERS: The Democrats don't believe Trump when he says DOGE is finding fraud, they say he doesn't have any evidence. Well today, the president brought receipts.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: $520 million for a consultant on the environment, $25 million to promote biodiversity, conservation and promote licit livelihoods by developing socially responsible behavior in the country of Colombia. Well, that's nice, $25 million went to Colombia for something that nobody ever heard of.
$40 million to improve the social and economic inclusion of sedentary migrants. $19 million for biodiversity conservation in Nepal.
$1.5 million for voter confidence. We want to give them confidence in Liberia.
$47 million for improving learning outcomes in Asia. Asia is doing very well. They're doing a lot better than we do in the schools, aren't they?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: $500 million for an environmental consultant? I am in the wrong business. We're sending $50 million to schools in Asia while we shut down schools in America. Like W said, is our children learning? Call 911, I'd like to report a murder.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
STEPHEN MILLER, DEPUTY CHIEF-OF-STAFF OR POLICY AND HOMELAND SECURITY ADVISER: I understand that even a temporary interruption in federal employment is a great crisis and catastrophe for you and for CNN.
What the American people see is a government that is finally delivering a promise of accountability under President Trump.
You want to have a conversation about transparency. Let me ask you a question. Do you have any idea where the $22 billion that the Department of Health and Human Services provided to illegal aliens under Joe Biden is right now? $22 billion with the B. That's enough to provide a free house to every homeless veteran in America.
Where's the $22 billion? I don't know. You don't know. Nobody knows. Joe Biden just spent it, and now it's gone.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Once your money hits Washington, it turns into a ghost. Poof. It just disappears.
DOGE says they found almost $5 trillion in payments that are untraceable. The budget line is blank and they're worried about your Bitcoin. $5 trillion -- trillion -- untraceable, no idea where it went and how it was spent. A $5 trillion blank check.
Social Security sent out $72 billion in bad checks. Guess who resigned last night? The head of Social Security, right when Doge asked Michelle King to have a seat because she was about to get canned, she says, you can't fire me because I quit and the press is acting like this isn't suspicious.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MILLER: You may assert there's no waste in the Pentagon. You may assert there is no waste in Treasury.
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN ANCHOR: Well, Stephen, I am not assuming. I don't think anyone would that assert that, Stephen.
MILLER: You may assert there is no waste in HHS.
KEILAR: Stephen, I don't think anything --
MILLER: Then why are you not celebrating these cuts if you agree, there is waste, if you agree, there is abuse, if you agree there is corruption, why are you not celebrating the cuts, the reforms that are being instituted? Every day that no action is taken, the entire salaries of American workers that are taxed disappear forever.
KEILAR: Okay, Stephen, let's calm down. Stephen, let's calm down.
MILLER: This is not this --
KEILAR: We're not having a debate.
MILLER: There's no reason --
KEILAR: -- about whether there are places --
MILLER: Well, you were clearly trying to debate me, and I -- I will be as excited as I want to be about the fact that we are saving Americans billions of dollars --
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: If loving Stephen Miller is a crime, lock me up.
DOGE says they've already saved $55 billion of your money, $55 billion. So instead of putting that money back into the Treasury, Trump should give it back to the taxpayers. We should be getting DOGE dividend checks. He can even sign if he wants to. I know he likes to sign them. If Trump was running for reelection, he would win in a landslide.
And these aren't stimmy checks, like where we printed money and mailed them out. These are savings, costs us nothing. It's a dividend payment that Americans deserve.
We'll take the billions being spent on migrant DEI and sex changes for Cambodian climate psychiatrists and just give the money back to the people. How could anybody be against that? How could Democrats fight that? Giving hard working families rebate checks from DOGE savings?
Mr. Wonderful says whack harder.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
O'LEARY: I think the issue is they're not whacking enough. There's this concept in private equity when you get a bankrupt company and you go in there, you cut 20 percent more than your initial read, and then you find like a pool of mercury, the organization gels back together again.
Always cut deeper, harder when there's fat and waste.
All of these agencies are like big fat chickens dripping over barbecues of fat. This is the best barbecue I've ever seen, but I don't think it's happening fast enough. They're not cutting enough.
Keep slashing, keep hacking, while you have a 24-month mandate before the midterms. Cut, cut, cut, cut, cut more. More cutting.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: If you're running a business and your CFO lost a trillion dollars in the first quarter, you'd fire him. If you ask the guy in accounting, what did you write the million dollar check for and he can't tell you? You fire him.
If a billion dollars went to build something and 10 years later, you drive by the site, it's still a vacant lot, you fire everybody. It's commonsense.
But these bureaucrats and politicians have never run a business. When they need money, they tax it, and when that's not enough, they print it. And when they screw up, they don't fire people, they instead hire people.
The worse they do, the more money they get. It's the opposite of how the real world works.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BILL MAHER, HOST, "REAL TIME WITH BILL MAHER": America is in shock that the guy whose catch phrase was "you're fired" is firing everybody in government.
(LAUGHTER)
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: They're surprised the two billionaires who build things for a living know how to run a business and are applying business principles to running the government.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. EUGENE VINDMAN (D-VA): This DOGE, I call the Department of Government Inefficiencies is causing a reign of terror chaos across the federal government. They have access to the American people's personal information, bank accounts and things like that, that that they're frankly not entitled to, and so I have a major, major concern about them going into Department of Defense and fussing around with, you know, the internal systems there in US National Security.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: The Pentagon lost $6 billion in Ukraine. Maybe the internal systems need a little more fussing around with.
What the fuss, Vindman?
When people are this paranoid, it tells me they're hiding something. It's like when a cop knocks on a drug dealer's den and hears everybody inside running and barricading themselves in and flushing drugs down the toilet. DOGE has a warrant and they're going in.
Staff at the GSA are tweaking so hard they're not taking their work phones home because they think Big Balls is snooping on their calls.
One says this, "There is a persistent feeling that we are being watched." The government is watching you, but they don't like it when you watch the government.
Big Brother is getting Big Brothered.
Congress has the power of the person is supposed to have oversight of the federal government, but Congress spent us into a $36 trillion snake pit and never found an ounce of fraud.
So guess where Congress is now? They're on vacation.
Congress said this was a constitutional crisis, and then took a week off. The politicians tapped out, and they sent in the drag queens.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TARA HOOT, @TARAHOOT/INSTAGRAM: Tara is here. Oh my gosh, here I am at the protest of 5051. It is so exciting to be down here with so many people fighting the good fight and doing the good things done. We have to get to the streets make our voices heard. And don't forget, darlings, while you're doing it, stick oranges.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Drag queens are Democrats first line of defense. They're the first ones off the bench. Get in there, Sparkle.
Up in Boston, there was a lot of singing.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PEOPLE chanting "Ain't no power like the power of the people and the power of the people don't stop."
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: The Boston Tea Party, it was not.
But if you think all they have is drag queens and cow bells, you're wrong. They're planning a protest outside of Tesla dealerships. And if they already own a Tesla, they're slapping on anti-Elon bumper stickers. Look at this one: "I bought this before we knew Elon was crazy."
Elon says they're crazy.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MUSK: They call it like Trump Derangement Syndrome. And I didn't -- you know, you don't realize how real this is until, like, it's -- you can't reason with people.
So, like, I was at a friend's birthday party in LA, just a birthday dinner, and everything looks like a nice, quiet dinner, and everything was -- everyone's behavior normally.
And then I happened to mention -- this was before the election, like a month or two before -- I happened to mention the president's name, and it was like they got shot with a dart in the jugular that contained like the methamphetamine and rabies. Okay. They were like "ah." What is wrong? Guys like, you can't have like normal conversation, and it's like, it's like they've become completely irrational.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: And you can see more of that at nine.
Elon's nerd army is just there to upgrade antiquated computers, audit the books, and save taxpayer cash -- and they're calling it treason.
Big Balls is a threat to bureaucracy, not democracy. DC voted for Kamala, 90 percent and inside all of these agencies, Democrats overwhelm Republicans.
Just at the State Department, 74 percent Democrat, 18 percent Republican; DOJ, 63 percent to 19; Education, 68 Dems, 26 Republicans.
Democrats outnumber Republicans by double digits in every agency and all of these bureaucracies are unionized, and kick over millions in donations to Democrats every cycle.
So Democrats win elections and they grow the government, and the government donates more to Democrats and gives them all of your money. The federal government is one big kickback to Democrats. That's why they're kicking and screaming when DOGE opens the door. They think it's their government.
It doesn't matter if Trump is president, it's their government. It doesn't matter if it belongs to taxpayers, it doesn't. It belongs to them, and the country has had enough.
Here's the CEO of Palantir. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ALEX KARP, CEO, PALANTIR: I just view this as, well, let's watch the Democratic Party commit suicide. And like, I've been a Democrat most of my life, and what I see is most of the country doesn't really at this point, given the fraud, waste and abuse we know is there, 90 percent of the country is like, get rid of that fraud, waste and abuse.
And I just view this as yet another example of the progressive left boxing themselves in into a suicide dance.
There's two revolutions happening. One is transparency and one is AI. Okay, so why is it that we do not know where every penny of our money goes? Like how do you explain that to people?
The right response is, we want this to happen. We want it to happen. We want to be involved in the dialogue. The real response is, it feels like the people criticizing Elon don't want it to happen, and this is going to destroy those people.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: What hurts vampires? Sunlight. DOGE is sunlight, and these Democrat vampires have been sucking taxpayer blood in the dark for decades.
What never lies, besides George Washington? Math.
Math never lies. Math always tells the truth.
DOGE is math, and no matter how much Democrats argue with it and lie about it, math doesn't care. It keeps computing.
How do you solve a crime? Follow the money. That's what DOGE is doing, following the money, and it's leading to the crime scene. And Democrats, like the sickos as they are, have gone back to the scene of the crime and are trying to get into the building.
It's poetic that Silicon Valley pioneers have switched sides, and now they get it. These men and women are risking it all to advance American technology, and are being handicapped by their own countrymen.
These insecure control freaks and ideologues are so fixated on maintaining their own power, they have neglected what this country is about, the power of the people.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KARP: I think the West, as a notion and as a principle upon which it is executed, again, is obviously superior, and not acknowledging that, because by not acknowledging it or denying it, you could pretend you were smarter or better than you were, has led to enormous problems in our society, and also for the sake of humanity, we have been blessed with a resource called talent and talent management and software production that no other country has.
So what does that mean for us? What does it mean for the world? How do you manage that ethically? How do you -- and how do you prevent what we had essentially?
We had a pagan religion that has infiltrated our universities, and that pagan religion basically says everything that's good about America, everything that actually works is ipso facto bad.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: The most innovative minds in America are calling today's Democrat ideology a pagan religion, hell bent on reversing the progress of Western civilization.
It's one thing when I say it, I'm just a cable news host, but when the brightest minds of American capitalism are saying it, that's going to leave a mark.
Trump, Musk, Big Balls took AI and flipped it on Democrats, and it spit out a real simple answer, fraud.
Entrepreneur and the original Wolf of Wall Street, Jordan Belfort joins me now. How are you doing, Jordan?
JORDAN BELFORT, AUTHOR, "THE WOLF OF INVESTING": I'm doing great. Great topic tonight, Jesse. Great.
WATTERS: Well, I wanted to have you on about this, because you're seeing $5 trillion in payments untraceable. What does that tell you?
BELFORT: Not by accident. Listen, that's like the old trick in the book. But back in the day, when I wanted to hide like my spending from my father, who worked for me, he was just like, he was the gatekeeper, right? So what do you do? You just leave everything blank. Where'd the money go? Who knows you've got to -- he can't trace it, right?
So you don't just leave that blank by accident, all right? Someone's got that money. Like, listen, there's -- worse than that, how about the Social Security where all the people that are 130 years old, it's like millions of people. Where is that money? Who's got the money, right?
And then, you know, listen, you've got the very big, right, $4.7 trillion. Then you get the small and the ridiculous. And I actually wrote this down, so I won't get it wrong. There was 875 grand for cocaine induced state dependent learning of sexual conditioning in male Japanese quail, they did the study for a million bucks on that, right?
WATTERS: All right cocaine for Japanese quail.
BELFORT: And what they found, Jesse? You know what they found?
WATTERS: What?
BELFORT: That it causes promiscuous sex.
WATTERS: Oh my gosh.
BELFORT: They could have paid me a quarter million, I could have told them that for a quarter, even a hundred grand. Hunter would tell them for 50 grand, by the way, right?
They did it again with beagles. They paid $2 million to do it to beagles, so you know, listen, you always wonder, like, how could such an amazing -- we have an amazing country, greatest economy in the world, right? Incredible ingenuity. How can we be going broke? Like, how is it possible?
Well, guess what? Now you know, because you can't -- if you run any business, the best business in the world like this, you're going to go broke.
So thank God for Elon Musk because without him, we'd be going broke. We would go broke.
So I think it's an amazing time in America, and the fact that the Democrats are yelling it to stop, no, well, you know, hello, could you look any guiltier? Right? It's just -- it is insane.
WATTERS: And there's two revolutions going on. We have transparency and AI, that's the Palantir CEO. If you turn transparency and AI onto the federal government, what happens next?
BELFORT: Listen, I think you're going to find out that there really shouldn't have been any deficit at all, and you're going to -- I think that this goes much deeper. You haven't even got to the Pentagon yet, right?
WATTERS: I am afraid.
BELFORT: What about the Pentagon? Just looking at the IRS, where -- listen, you said it before, you stole my thunder. But follow the money. That's -- listen, that's the whole thing. You follow the money. You see where it goes. And you know, they went through this in Argentina, you had a really corrupt president of what, for like 10 years, and they say she stole like $10 billion. Well, this is that on steroids.
We are the United States, we were bigger and better than everybody else. So the level of fraud here, I mean, people -- if people to go to jail for this, then you've got to lose all hope in humanity. Because, I mean, there is such massive fraud, waste and abuse. You know, trifecta is fraud, waste and abuse, it is on a scale of biblical proportions.
WATTERS: Yes. Pam Bondi is going to be busy. I want to see a lot of people locked up.
BELFORT: Very busy.
WATTERS: Very busy woman. All right, go back out to studying those coked up horny Japanese sparrows, okay? All because of 1800 grand.
BELFORT: Always a pleasure, Jesse.
WATTERS: So long, Jordan.
Trump sends the CIA behind enemy lines, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: Trump is warming up in the Winter White House, but this isn't a vacation.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I think it's very important to state that incredible things are happening in our country. I think we've made more progress in three weeks than they've made in four years, especially with respect to the reputation of our country.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Even Democrats are basking in the Golden Age. Pollsters talked to Biden and Clinton voters who turned MAGA. Here's how they graded Trump. Listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
FRANK LUNTZ, POLLSTER AND COMMUNICATION STRATEGIST: They loved the pace of change. They were very fed up over the last four years. They wanted action. They wanted results. They looked at prices, they looked at affordability, they looked at immigration, and they didn't see anything happening.
They still don't like what he says, but they like what he does.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Democrat voters have a message for party leaders: Get out of Trump's way.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KEILAR It's a big wake up call for Democrats.
LUNTZ: I'm waiting for them to get a message. I'm waiting for them to unify and to understand that to oppose and to be the resistance, which is what some of them use that phrase, that's not what Democrats in grassroots areas want from them.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: The only ones who aren't happy are the press, Democrat politicians and Mexico. Mexico is upset that Trump renamed the Gulf of America, so they're threatening to sue Google over their maps.
The Associated Press took Mexico's side. They're dead naming the Gulf, so they got kicked out of the White House.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: The Associated Press just refuses to go with what the law is and what is taking place. It's called the Gulf of America now. It's not called the Gulf of Mexico any longer.
I don't know what they're doing, but I just say that we're going to keep them out until such time as they agree that it's the Gulf of America.
We're very proud of this country, and we want it to be the Gulf of America.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Democrats changed the name of sports teams, syrup, genders, military bases, the list goes on and on, but they don't want the president to touch the Gulf of America. Doesn't Mexico have bigger problems?
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: I think Mexico is largely run by the cartels, and that's a sad thing to say, and if they wanted help with that, we'd give them help.
But Mexico, if you look at what's gone on with Mexico for years now, but now especially, it's run by the cartels, and they've allowed millions of people to come into our country from jails and prisons of other countries, from all over the world.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: We're not playing nice anymore. The CIA is deploying Reaper drones to spy on Mexican cartels and fentanyl labs. If Mexico doesn't act on the Intel, we send them. Trump will.
The president sent a list of cartels to Congress. He's about to designate them as terrorists. You don't want to be on Trump's terror list.
He just popped an al-Qaeda leader in Syria with a precision airstrike. This is the lethality that Hegseth promised. He also promised answers.
Hegseth is sending a group of investigators into the Pentagon to find out what happened with Biden's Afghanistan withdrawal. The age of accountability has begun, and the government is being put back to work for you.
Jason Miller, Trump transition team senior adviser.
Miller, tell me a little bit about the AP. They say you're picking on them and you are speech policing them.
JASON MILLER, DONALD TRUMP SENIOR ADVISER: Well, I think the media is freaking out because they have nothing negative about the White House itself to report on and so there's none of the infighting. Everything's running like a very smooth, fine-tuned machine, and President Trump is delivering the greatest first month in presidential history that we've ever seen.
Think about it, the efficiency, the accountability, the action. Every campaign promise, whether it be secure the border; drill, baby, drill; get politics out of law enforcement, let police do their job; restore America's standing in the world; actually start getting peace. We see what the president has done with the Middle East, and now he's going to get it done with Ukraine as well.
And so the media is freaking out because they've never seen anyone come in and do this before.
WATTERS: So if he gets peace deals done in the Middle East and in Europe, what happens if we start unleashing drone strikes against Mexico, our top trading partner?
J. MILLER: Yes, so with regard to the cartels, I think it's time to maybe go and list out your next of kin, put your will together, because President Trump is not messing around. When he said he is going to stop the scourge of fentanyl from coming into the United States, he means serious business. That's why he's demanding that we get cooperation from the Mexican government. That's why he's also demanding we get cooperation from the Canadian government, and also, he is sending the very clear message to the Chinese, do not send any more of that poison into our country.
Just think, Jesse, what -- we could have -- how many lives we could have saved if Joe Biden had done a 10th of this in the four years that he was rotting away in the Oval Office. But now, with President Trump there, and only three-and-a-half weeks, it's not even four full weeks yet, we have seen this amazing action, and I'm excited for what the next four years are going to look like, because I'll tell you, President Trump is not going to slow down one bit.
WATTERS: Yes, I'm sure the CIA drones over Mexico might factor into the negotiations over the trade issue, also just a little bit of leverage, I imagine.
Tell me about these Doge dividends. We're actually hearing from Elon Musk right now. He just put out a -- there it is. "Will check with the president." He's talking about the idea of sending rebate checks back to American working families that come from the savings the DOGE is finding. Do you think that would be a winning issue?
J. MILLER: Well, I think anything that goes to cutting government waste is going to be a winning issue. I mean, the government has become so bloated, we are running such a massive deficit thanks to Biden and the Democrats, the national debt keeps going up. We are over $36 trillion now.
And the waste that they have found so far going through -- getting rid of USAID, these ridiculous programs you were talking about in the previous block, I think most Americans, their heads are spinning knowing that their hard earned tax dollars are going to fund this absolute garbage.
So if Elon and the rest of the administration, along with the president, get in there and get this stuff cleaned up, that is good, and that is why President Trump's poll numbers are the highest they've ever been. The public loves it, Jesse.
WATTERS: They do. They come up to me all the time and say how much they love it, and then they say how much they love me, but they love DOGE more and I'm fine admitting that.
Miller, great to see you.
J. MILLER: Thank you.
WATTERS: Democrats are now jumping into frozen lakes. Right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: Democrats are going through a bit of a crisis. Trump is eating their lunch, and they have no strategy. Maybe their best course of action is to do nothing.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JAMES CARVILLE, DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST: This is happening all around the country. So the question is, how should Democratic politicians respond to this? And what I think they should do is what we call in rural America, play possum.
Just let it go. Don't get in the way of it, or as we like to say, don't just stand there, do nothing. Let it -- let this germinate.
We don't need to be -- we don't need to get in front of it. This freight train is moving. Let's just get out of the way, and then we're going to have time.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Not everybody agrees. Chris Matthews wants Democrats to fight, fight, fight.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
CHRIS MATTHEWS, POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: And I watched the Democrats and the media too. It's very hard to take on a firing squad, a lot of bullets coming your way, all aiming at you, and you've got to shoot back in all directions at the same time.
Nobody in the Democratic Party can say Schumer can't do it. He's a good leader. You know, Pelosi was a fabulous leader, but the ability to take on all his shots at once. Now that's interesting.
Why can't a Democratic leader stand up? I keep waiting, who's going to stand up? Who's going to take a shot back at this guy?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Sorry, Chris. Democrats are busy shooting inside the tent. Right now, New York power brokers are working on couping Eric Adams.
For those keeping track at home, Democrats stood by Adams when he was facing charges, but now that they're dropped, they want him gone.
The left is all over the place. They need a little introspection. First up, stop being so racist.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
CARVILLE: I just want to make a disappointment observation. I think these people -- the most racist thing that I hear is when people say communities of color or people of color, because that assumes that everybody that is not White is the same, which is like, it's horribly -- a horribly -- I think it's racist.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Next, man up and talk to Trump voters.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GARCIA-NAVARRO: You think Democrats are afraid to talk to Trump voters?
GALLEGO: I think Democrats are afraid to talk to Trump voters. I think Democrats are afraid to talk to people that are going to criticize them.
GARCIA-NAVARRO: Why do you think Democrats are afraid to talk to Trump voters?
GALLEGO: Donald Trump goes to Harlem. You know, do we go to the equivalent of Harlem for the -- for the red, you know, voter? No, we don't.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Number three, fix your social media. Democrats are so old and out of touch, they need Instagram classes where highly paid consultants give them tips like post more videos and act natural. Easier said than done.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GOV. TIM WALZ (D-MN): Hey everybody, Governor Walz here, a typical Minnesota Saturday morning I'm on my way to jump through a hole in the ice at Prior Lake.
(GROUP shouting "Three, two, one.")
(CHEERING)
WALZ: Oh, hey everybody, part two. Just got out of Prior Lake. Awesome.
SEN. ELIZABETH WARREN (D-MA): Trump is putting women all around the world at risk by defunding health centers, if they provide, promote, or even talk about abortion.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (I-VT): The revolution of abolitionism started here. The revolution of The Suffragette Movement started here, a revolution.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
SANDERS: Same sex marriage started here. The revolution against Donald Trump and Elon Musk, it starts here.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Holding signs and screaming into the void is not going to get you anywhere. Want to know what will? Showing up when it counts.
Trump goes to a football game, goes to a NASCAR race. Show the American people you're one of them instead of sequestering yourself like it's still the pandemic.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JON LOVETT, "POD SAVE AMERICA": Donald Trump is using sports in a really smart way politically, I think he went to college football games and UFC fights during the campaign.
He went to the Super Bowl. He did a loop around the track of the Daytona 500 in his limo over the weekend. It feels like he's creating a bond with these audiences that Democrats don't have.
How do you think Democrats can be a part of that conversation? I can't think of anyone who would go to a game like, except for Barack Obama going to NBA games because he genuinely loves the sport. But like, who else?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: The pendulum swung back to the right, and like "The New York Times" says, for the first time in a long time, "It's sexy to be a Republican again."
Former Democrat adviser and co-host of "The Morning Meeting." Dan Turrentine joins me now.
Sorry to be so sexy. It's just -- we're hot. It's not easy.
DAN TURRENTINE, FORMER DEMOCRAT ADVISER AND CO-HOST OF "THE MORNING MEETING": It is not easy looking this good, right?
WATTERS: It is not easy.
So Donald Trump goes to NASCAR this weekend, goes to football games. Why is that so difficult to for Democrats to do?
TURRENTINE: It's authentic. He likes sports. As a golfer, the fact that he played golf with Tiger Woods and went to the Super Bowl, that's not a bad little Sunday. But for a lot of Democrats, it's like a consultant tells them, this is what you should do, right? They don't look comfortable.
When they're at a game, they are looking around. It's like, all right, when can I leave?
Donald Trump is sitting there having popcorn, taking photos like he's in his environment. And so for Democrats, the problem is we need people who can connect with the average voter.
WATTERS: You need people who like sports.
TURRENTINE: Yes. And that's not even that.
WATTERS: That's a good start.
TURRENTINE: Whatever you do like, go out and show it.
WATTERS: All right, So if you like Tiddlywinks, go to a Tiddlywinks Competition, whatever it is, if you're authentic.
You keep hearing Democrats running against Elon Musk, is that a good strategy?
TURRENTINE: Terrible. Look, the number one thing in politics is you want to respect people, listen to them and solve their problems. But what have we been doing the last nine years, and certainly the last like month? We talk about who, and we talk about how, right, process.
Elon Musk, Donald Trump, what we're forgetting, what. What they are doing, therefore we're failing the commonsense test.
Rather than saying, hey, some of what they're finding, anybody in their right mind would say we should end it. Instead, we scream about everything. And so when we find stuff that, in our opinion, probably is worthy of a discussion, the average voter says, forget it, all you do is scream no and they're crazy.
WATTERS: Should you play possum?
TURRENTINE: Look, I think as much as I like Chuck Schumer, he's a terrible dancer and an even worse singer. So yes, I would stay out of it.
Look, we had no energy. Now, we have some energy. Some is better than nothing.
WATTERS: All right. Dan, good to see you, and we'll see you with the next Tiddlywinks Competition. I know that's what turns you on.
Obama's presidential library is a DEI disaster.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: Have you been to Obama's presidential library? Of course not. No one has. It's been in the works for eight years, and it's only half done, but it is breaking records.
For the most days between leaving office and the grand opening, nearly 3,000 days and counting. Originally, it was supposed to cost $350 million, but a couple of minor setbacks, some snowy winters, the price tag is now over $800 million.
The Bulls built Jordan the United Center for under $200 million. Is Barack a bigger deal than Michael? We'll leave that debate for Stephen A.
And speaking of Jordan, even he couldn't save Obama's pet project. He donated millions, along with, of course, George Soros, to help dig more dirt. But this library was doomed from the start because it was being built up with DEI.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BARACK OBAMA, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Part of the reason we're here is because today is our big ground breaking for the Presidential Center in Jackson Park. And you know, it's going to be a four-year project, a lot of work being done. And part of Michelle and my commitment was we want to make sure that the workforce on the center is representative of Chicago.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Obama demanded a third of the workforce to be minorities, no exceptions, but work didn't last for long. Three years ago, a worker flagged a rope that looked like a noose, so Obama blew the whistle and sent everyone to anti-bias boot camp.
Since then, the site is in disrepair, cracked concrete as far as the eye can see, and now the DEI contractors are backstabbing Barack, suing him for $40 million for racial discrimination.
Obama stepped on his own shovel. This is what happens when you make racial promises you can't keep. Lawsuits, cost overruns, and slowdowns, but versions of his DEI boondoggle have played out all over America for years. It's why we celebrate DEI Thursdays.
Biden tied up his own projects in woke red tape. You want a new road in Maine? Good luck finding a diverse construction contractor. The state is 90 percent White. This is how you end up spending $8 billion on a half dozen charging stations. You've got to be rational and flexible.
Democrats ripped Trump for not paying contractors to finish jobs. Will they do the same for Barack?
Donald Trump changed city skylines around the world, yet Obama can't even finish a library at a local park. At this rate, Trump will finish his library first, and who knows, maybe Mexico will pay for it.
"Fox & Friends" Weekend co-host, Charlie Hurt joins me now.
Charlie, this is quite a long process. What happened here?
CHARLIE HURT, FOX NEWS CHANNEL "FOX & FRIENDS" WEEKEND CO-HOST: Well, first of all, I just want to take a minute to appreciate how badly masks aged. I mean, looking at this right here with all of them masked up and shields on their faces, I just -- I love that forever we will be explaining to our children and our grandchildren, this psychotic episode that we all went through and that we never want to go through again.
For the library. I love this story. It is the greatest story. It is a perfect encapsulation of Barack Obama's presidency. It was unnecessarily racialized, and then it winds up being years late, massively over budget and then, of course, we find out totally incompetently done, kind of like everything he did throughout his presidency.
And what I think is really remarkable here massively over budget. It's at $800 million right now. It's going to wind up being over a billion dollars. This is going to be the first billion dollar library ever built that's not like part of some university. And here's the crazy thing about it, Jesse, there are going to be billionaires who still want to suck up to this guy, who are going to give him the money to finish building this thing.
WATTERS: It looks so ugly. Can you see the screen?
HURT: And it's so ugly.
WATTERS: It's so ugly. It is so ugly.
And Charlie, we don't care if the contractor is White, Black, a woman, Hispanic -- it doesn't matter. But when you put this has to be this race for this amount of contracts, this is what happens. Everybody just sues each other.
HURT: Yes, yes. Exactly. And it is so ugly. It is so ugly.
WATTERS: It is so ugly.
WATTERS: If you paid me a billion dollars to go into this library, for this to be my library, I would say, no, thanks. Keep your billion dollars. It's so freaking ugly.
Kind of like -- no, but again, a perfect encapsulation of his entire presidency.
WATTERS: All right, I guarantee you Trump's library is going to be finished before Barack's, guarantee it, and he should actually make that --
HURT: And it will be gold and beautiful.
WATTERS: It'll be gold and beautiful.
Charlie, great to see you.
WATTERS: And Mexico will pay for it.
WATTERS: And Mexico will pay for it.
More PRIMETIME, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: Do yourself a favor and buy yourself a fire pit. I bought myself a fire pit this winter, it makes the weekend. Kids get out there. It doesn't even matter what you're doing, just build a fire. Hang out outside of it, let it go out by itself.
Don't build it too close to the house. We learned that the hard way. But buy yourself a fire pit.
Let's do some texts.
Brett from Howell, New Jersey: When Jordan Belfort is concerned about our cocaine budget, you know we have a problem.
Danny from Queen Creek, Arizona: I had quail for dinner the other night, and I haven't slept since.
Pam from Williams, Arizona: I agree, keep on whacking.
Mr. Wonderful loves to whack.
Jeremy from Texas: Pipe down. I'm 153 years old, and I need those checks.
John from Queen Creek, Arizona: Obama should hire Donald Trump to build his library.
Wow. On time and under budget.
Michael from Ware Shoals, South Carolina: Jesse, have you ever had to tell Stephen Miller to calm down?
God, I love Miller.
Dan from Clifton, Texas: Stop telling me how to be a man. I remember when you were in Beaumont, Texas with the alligator man, and you were asked to pick up a nutria from the water, and you squealed like a little girl.
I've told you guys a hundred times, that was a performance. I was doing that for television.
Gary from Tallahassee, Florida: Jesse, I heard you confessed on "The Five" that use straws and you like them wide.
I'm familiar with the wide straw. I used to drink out of them when I ordered McDonald's but I am MAHA now.
I'm Watters and this is my world.

Load-Date: February 19, 2025


End of Document
