




Arkansas Traveler: University of Arkansas
February 5, 2025 Wednesday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION; Pg. 1
Length: 736 words
Byline: Isabella LaRue
Body


February officially marks the start of Black History Month, a period of celebration for the Black community. The month recognizes the rich history of African Americans and seeks to acknowledge atrocities committed at their expense. It is evident that presidents impact their citizens the moment they step into office. But what if people examined the commander-in-chief before their time on the campaign trail? It raises the question of if the political and social climates change when a nominee is selected.
Two-term President Donald Trump is one of the first that comes to mind whose racism and power-hungry practices exemplify the existing systematic white supremacy already ingrained in America's founding. His first term brought an onslaught of this and set the nation back years, but what about the time before his first inauguration?
In 1973, the United States Department of Justice sued the Trump Management Corporation for violating the Fair Housing Act because federal officials found evidence that Trump refused to rent to Black tenants and lied to other Black applicants about places being available, among others. Later on in the 1980s, a former Black employee at Trump's Castle, Kip Brown, accused one of Trump's businesses of racial discrimination, saying the bosses would order all the Black people off the floor when Trump and his former wife, Ivana, would enter the casino.
A notable case in 1989 marked one of the worst displays of his racial prejudice against the Black community when the "Central Park Five" occurred. Four Black teenagers and one Latino teenager were accused of raping and attacking a jogger in New York City. Trump paid to have an ad in a local paper to write his racist tirade, ordering, "BRING BACK THE DEATH PENALTY. BRING BACK OUR POLICE!" The convictions were vacated because of evidence of coercion in their interrogations and lack of DNA evidence after the five young men spent from seven to 13 years in prison.
In 2016, Trump said he still believed they were guilty.
That same year, he became president and took the title of the "law and order" candidate, a typical campaign tactic that plays into fears about "black crime," a claim that lacks evidence. He continued to push this racist rhetoric and narrative throughout his entire presidency. In an attempt to win over the Black voting demographic, Trump said, "You're living in poverty, your schools are no good, you have no jobs, 58 percent of your youth is unemployed. What the hell do you have to lose?"
He defended white supremacists at a rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, and reportedly said people who came from Haiti have AIDS and Nigerians all lived in huts. His ideas are more than just bigotry - they are a twisted method of garnering support from American citizen's deep-seated racism.
His own racism fueled the fire of his supporters to follow his problematic ideologies, with researchers finding that Trump supporters were much more likely to be impacted by the image of a Black man. The supporters had less approval for housing assistance programs and more anger at welfare users. Furthermore, Rachel Pendergraft is a national organizer for the KKK and said that the Trump campaign's success proves that their views resonate with millions of Americans, thus proving that he stokes the flames of America's white supremacy, according to VOX.
During his recent presidential campaign, he repeatedly questioned the racial identity of his running mate, Kamala Harris, calling her dumb and the "DEI" candidate. Trump's strategy has changed, however, not only emphasizing his rhetoric but also his future policy plans. Additionally, the Black community is not the only marginalized group he outwardly speaks of prejudice toward, and it is only getting worse, according to Politico.
Whether it was his past as a corporation owner, simply a prominent figure in New York or president, Donald Trump has made his stances on the Black community very clear, and it is a view filled with harmful stereotypes, discrimination and vulgar hatred. He fundamentally believes these horrible ideas but also uses them to further divide America and garner support from the very people who put these white supremacist systems in the first place: those in power alongside him. February is a month to recognize how the United States can strive for equal opportunity and equity rather than a divided country Trump controls with an iron fist.

Load-Date: February 5, 2025


End of Document
