




telegraph.co.uk
January 30, 2025 Thursday 2:45 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: US; Version:7
Length: 9622 words
Byline: By Susie Coen, US Correspondent and Connor Stringer, Deputy US Editor and Chanel Zagon and Samuel Montgomery and Andrea Hamblin and Josh White
Body


                      .                   
  has blamed a diversity hiring spree for causing the   between a military helicopter and a passenger plane that killed 67 people in Washington DC.
The US president accused Joe Biden, his predecessor, of reducing standards at America’s aviation agency to the “lowest level” while briefing the press on the collision between a US army Black Hawk helicopter and an American Airlines flight near Ronald Reagan National Airport on Wednesday evening.
Mr Trump vowed to “restore faith in American air travel”, revealing that employees with “severe intellectual and psychiatric disabilities” had been hired as air traffic controllers as part of a diversity and inclusion drive.
“I put safety first,” Mr Trump said, adding: “Obama, Biden and the Democrats put policy first, and they put politics at a level that nobody’s ever seen, because this was the lowest level, their policy was horrible, and their politics was even worse.”
The UH-60 Black Hawk struck American Airlines flight 5342 on approach to runway 33 at Reagan National at around 8.47pm local time (1.47am GMT Thursday), sending both aircraft plunging into the icy Potomac River.
The American Airlines flight originated from Wichita, Kansas.
Staffing at the airport tower had not been “normal for the time of day and volume of traffic”, according to an internal preliminary FAA report seen by The New York Times.
Mr Trump was asked why he blamed diversity hiring for the crash to which he responded: “Because I have common sense, OK, and unfortunately a lot of people don’t.”
The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) had been actively recruiting staff with “severe intellectual” disabilities and psychiatric problems as part of a diversity and inclusion drive, according to now-deleted guidelines from the agency’s website.
“Targeted disabilities are those disabilities that the federal government, as a matter of policy, has identified for special emphasis in recruitment and hiring,” the FAA’s website read.
“They include hearing, vision, missing extremities, partial paralysis, complete paralysis, epilepsy, severe intellectual disability, psychiatric disability and dwarfism.”
The guidelines on diversity and hiring were last updated in March 2022, during the Biden administration, according to reports.
Last week, Mr Trump signed an   that   and ordered the FAA to return to non-discriminatory, merit-based hiring.
Mr Trump said a “systematic and comprehensive investigation” into the crash, which became the nation’s deadliest in a decade, would be carried out by the FAA, the National Transportation Safety Board and the . 
Under the Obama administration in 2013, the FAA scrapped a skills-based test and a certification programme, and replaced it with a biographical questionnaire to attract more diverse applicants to become air traffic controllers.
It was later replaced with a biographical assessment which critics say was designed to attract more minorities while penalising other candidates.
During Mr Trump’s first administration, the FAA spent millions of dollars on its civil rights budget to promote diversity.
Analysis of the agency’s budget submission from Mr Trump’s first presidency shows the federal government authorised spending nearly $13 million on the FAA’s office of civil rights in both 2018 and 2019.
The FAA also included a page on its website from 2019 stating that it places “special emphasis” on hiring people with disabilities.
The Republican leader, who was facing the first major test of his presidency, also suggested the pilot of the military helicopter had been at fault.
He said the helicopter had done “the opposite of what it was told” and could have “done a million different manoeuvres” to avoid the crash.
He added that the American Airlines pilot had been “doing everything right”, and questioned why the helicopter and the commercial jet had been flying at the same height.
An extensive mission to recover all the bodies of the 64 people who had been on board the American Eagle Flight 5342 and the three soldiers on the UH-60 Black Hawk was under way on Thursday.
The plane was found broken into three pieces, which were found upside down in waist-deep water.
District of Columbia fire chief John Donnelly said on Thursday morning 28 bodies had been pulled from the water adding that responders would “work to find all the bodies and reunite them with their loved ones”.
Around 300 emergency responders were racing to comb the water for victims of the deadliest plane crash in the US in more than a decade.
Among those killed were US and Russian figure skaters who had been in Wichita for a skating competition.
The pilots of the jet were Captain Jonathan Campos, 34, and First Officer Samuel Lilley, 29, the   reported.
Sam’s father Timothy, also a pilot, said on X that his son was newly-engaged and started his training in 2019, posting a picture of him on the online platform.
There had been no FAA administrator at the time of the crash. Mike Whitaker resigned on Mr Trump’s inauguration day after serving for just over a year.
On Thursday, Mr Trump appointed Chris Rocheleau, a US air force veteran who worked at the FAA for more than 20 years.
During his remarks, Mr Trump attacked Pete Buttigieg, the former transport secretary, claiming he was a “disaster” who ran the FAA “right into the ground with his diversity”.
Mr Buttigieg called Mr Trump’s comments “despicable” and accused him of “lying” to the public.
“President Trump now oversees the military and the FAA. One of his first acts was to fire and suspend some of the key personnel who helped keep our skies safe,” he said.
                     This blog has now closed. Please click                                             to follow our new blog on the crash.                   
                     30 Jan 2025-07:13PM GMT                   
                     Russian embassy thanks US for support after crash                   
The Russian embassy in Washington thanked US authorities for offering their condolences to the families of Russian citizens who died in last night’s devastating crash.
“It is with particular regret that we have learned from the White House that Russian citizens were aboard the aircraft,” the embassy said on Telegram.
“We are grateful to American authorities, with whom we remain in constant contact, for their condolences to families of the dead, for words of support and their readiness to help transfer remains to their homeland.”
                     30 Jan 2025-06:56PM GMT                   
                     Bodies of US servicemen recovered from crash site                   
The bodies of all three soldiers who were on board the army helicopter that crashed into a passenger jet near Washington DC have been recovered, US officials reported.
The remains will be kept at Air Force Mortuary Affairs Operations at Dover Air Force Base in Delaware, an official told AP.
The identities of the military aircraft crew have not yet been released.
                     30 Jan 2025-06:29PM GMT                   
                     Official death toll stands at 67                   
A total of 67 people are believed to have died in the horrific air crash over Washington DC.
This included 64 people aboard passenger jet and three on the US army helicopter.
The crash is the deadliest US air disaster in more than 20 years.
                     30 Jan 2025-06:24PM GMT                   
                     Jet pilot asked to change runway shortly before crash                   
The pilot of the American Airlines jet that collided with an army helicopter near Washington DC was asked to switch runways right before the crash, conversations between air traffic control and the pilots have revealed.
The flight from Kansas to the nation’s capital had originally been cleared by air traffic control to land at Regan National Airport’s primary runway, called Runway 1, a person briefed on the conversation told The New York Times.
However, in the final moments of the flight, the pilot was asked to land on a separate runway-Runway 33-shortly before the crash took place.
                     30 Jan 2025-06:03PM GMT                   
                     Pilot in plane Crash named                   
The pilot of the plane that crashed into a military helicopter over Washington DC has been named as Captain Jonathan Campos.
Mr Campos, 34, was born in New York and grew up in Florida, Mail Online reported.
The pilot was reportedly certified as an instructor in 2017 after attending the Epic Flight Academy. According to the company’s records, he became a commercial airline pilot the following year.
                     30 Jan 2025-05:47PM GMT                   
                     First officer in plane crash had just got engaged                   
The first officer onboard the plane that crashed into a helicopter near Washington DC have been named as Sam Lilley.
Mr Lilley, 29, from Savannah, Georgia, had recently got engaged and was said to be months away from being promoted to the rank of captain.
‘Samuel was in the prime of his life. He was engaged to a beautiful, wonderful girl and we were all excited about her joining the family,’ his father, Timothy Lilley, told Mail Online.
Mr Lilley snr. is a former military pilot who helped his son go into the same profession.
“I saw the crash on the news. I didn’t think there was any way it was my son,” he told the outlet. “But then I watched long enough to figure out it was my son’s airline and then I kind of know his schedule.
“And so I called his fiancee, confirmed, like, ‘hey was Sam in Wichita? Yes, he was, was he going to to DCA? Yes, he was’. So then I had to tell her. It was just an ugly scene.
“You know what, I was okay for five, maybe 10 minutes. And then I bawled for 10 minutes. It’s a bitter, bitter pill to swallow.”
                     30 Jan 2025-05:30PM GMT                   
                     FAA spent millions on diversity hires during Donald Trump’s first term                   
The Federal Aviation Administration spent millions of dollars on its civil rights budget to promote diversity during Donald Trump’s first term.
Analysis of the agency’s budget submission from Mr Trump’s first presidency shows the federal government authorised spending nearly $13 million on the FAA’s office of civil rights in both 2018 and 2019.
The stated mission of the civil rights office is to “aid in the prevention of unlawful discrimination because of race, color, national origin, sex, age, religion, sexual orientation, and individuals with disabilities employed by the FAA”.
The FAA also included a page on its website from 2019 stating that it places “special emphasis” on hiring people with disabilities related to “vision, missing extremities, partial paralysis, complete paralysis, epilepsy, severe intellectual disability, psychiatric disability and dwarfism”.
It comes after Mr Trump suggested that diversity hires under the Obama and Biden administrations have made America’s airspace less safe, after a military helicopter crashed into a plane near Washington DC killing all those on board.
                     30 Jan 2025-05:04PM GMT                   
                     Planes are taking off and landing at Reagan National Airport                   
Flights have started to take off again from Reagan National Airport, flight-tracking data shows.
Several flights departed on Thursday morning, with the first seen just after 11am local time (4pm GMT).
Two flights also arrived just after 11am, according to FlightRadar24.
                     30 Jan 2025-05:01PM GMT                   
                     ‘Our administration has highest standards’                   
Donald Trump was asked to clarify if he is alleging that diversity hires helped cause last night’s crash.
In response, he said: “There are things you have to go by brain power and psychological quality.”
The president claimed his administration has the “highest standards”, while the Biden administration were “the opposite”.
For air controllers, “we want the brightest, smartest, sharpest, psychologically superior” people, he said.
                     30 Jan 2025-04:57PM GMT                   
                     Trump in contact with Moscow over Russian deaths                   
Donald Trump said Washington has been in contact with Moscow regarding the deaths of Russians in the air crash.
“We’ve already been in contact with Russia,” Trump told a news conference. Asked if Washington would facilitate the return of the remains of Russian nationals, he said: “The answer is yes, we will facilitate.”
He added that passengers of other nationalities were also on the passenger jet.
                     30 Jan 2025-04:55PM GMT                   
                     Watch: Trump claims diversity hires made America’s skies unsafe                    
                     30 Jan 2025-04:51PM GMT                   
                     President looks at who is to blame                   
Donald Trump injected politics into the heart of his crash response briefing, faulting Joe Biden and Barack Obama for allegedly lowering air safety standards and pursuing diversity hires that he claimed made America’s skies unsafe.
Looking at who could be to blame, he also questioned the role of the helicopter pilots and air traffic control, despite the investigations into the collision just beginning.
                     30 Jan 2025-04:40PM GMT                   
                     A lack of ‘common sense’ caused crash, fumes Trump                   
Donald Trump has condemned the lack of “common sense” that he said allowed the crash to happen.
The aircraft were at “exactly at the same height and somebody should have been able to point that out,” the president said, adding: “No one realised or nobody said.”
“Some really bad things happened that shouldn’t have happened...It was a confluence of bad decisions that were made,” he said.
Mr Trump added: “There was a lot of vision and people should have been able to see that they were getting to close.”
                     30 Jan 2025-04:35PM GMT                   
                     Trump confirms ‘no survivors’ from air crash                   
Donald Trump, reaffirming what authorities had said earlier, called the rescue effort now a “recovery mission” as no one survived the crash.
“The work has now shifted to a recovery mission. Sadly, there are no survivors,” he said.
                     30 Jan 2025-04:29PM GMT                   
                     ‘We have strong opinions about what caused the crash’, says Trump                   
Donald Trump has pledged to quickly find out what caused the crash between a military helicopter and a passenger jet.
“We do not know what led to this crash, but we have some strong opinions and ideas,” he said, adding that he would not let it take “a year” to uncover what happened.
“We will have more to say on safety of air travel,” Mr Trump added.
                     30 Jan 2025-04:26PM GMT                   
                     Trump: We are a country in mourning                   
Donald Trump said America is in “mourning” as he speaks during a press conference at the White House.
The president called it the mid-air collision a “dark and excruciating night in our nation’s capital” and said that millions of Americans are grieving “for every precious soul”.
“We are a country in mourning,” he said. “Our hearts are shattered alongside yours.”
                     30 Jan 2025-04:18PM GMT                   
                     Melania says her ‘heart goes out’ victims of crash                   
First lady Melania Trump said that her “heart goes out” to those affected by the mid-air collision near the Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport.
“My heart goes out to those impacted by last night’s terrible tragedy. I pray for those who so sadly lost their lives, their families & loved ones, & the first responders who have worked tirelessly through the night. May they find strength and solace in this difficult time,” she wrote in a post on X.
                     30 Jan 2025-04:17PM GMT                   
                     Trump briefing slightly delayed                   
Donald Trump was due to speak at 4pm GMT, however he has not yet appeared.
We will update you shortly.
                     30 Jan 2025-04:09PM GMT                   
                     A pilot’s view on why the helicopter did not avoid the passenger jet                   
Dominic Nicholls, who flew helicopters for the British Army, explains how airspace is usually controlled to avoid accidents.
                       Read the article                     
                     30 Jan 2025-03:53PM GMT                   
                     Trump to speak at 4pm GMT                   
Donald Trump is about to hold a news briefing on the air collision at 11am local time (4pm GMT).
                     30 Jan 2025-03:48PM GMT                   
                     Pictured: Part of the wreckage floats on the Potomac River                   
                     30 Jan 2025-03:40PM GMT                   
                     Skating club says six of its members were onboard                   
A Massachusetts skating club has learnt that six of its members were amongst those onboard the flight that collided with a military helicopter over the Potomac River.
Doug Zeghibe, CEO and executive director of the Skating Club of Boston in Norwood, Massachusetts, told NBC10 Boston they had two teenage skaters, two coaches and two parents on the flight.
The skaters were identified as Spencer Lane and Jinna Han, who were accompanied by their mothers, Molly Lane and Jin Han. 
Former world champions Evgenia Shishkova and Vadim Naumov, who joined the club as staff in 2017 were also on the plane. 
“I don’t know what the word is, is it wrecked? Is it devastated?” said Mr Zeghibe.
                     30 Jan 2025-03:34PM GMT                   
                     Hegseth says helicopter crew were ‘fairly experienced’                   
The US Army helicopter involved in the overnight collision with a passenger jet had a “fairly experienced crew” that was operating with night vision goggles, Pete Hegseth, US defence secretary, said.
The military helicopter was on a training flight, but it is unclear what caused the crash. 
In a video statement on Thursday morning, Hegseth said that the crew of three soldiers was on an annual proficiency training flight.
“We anticipate that the investigation will quickly be able to determine whether the aircraft was in the corridor and at the right altitude at the time of the incident,” he added.
                     30 Jan 2025-03:09PM GMT                   
                     Makeshift morgue set up to receive bodies                   
A small makeshift morgue has been erected near the waters edge of the frigid Potomac River, which is a hive of rescue activity.
Around 28 bodies have been recovered so far with some said to have been pulled from the water and held here temporarily throughout the morning.
It is a hive of rescue activity as dozens of first responders use the area, which is a stone throw from the Audi area and beside the Frederick Douglas Memorial Bridge, as a base.
Residents, who woke to find large stretches of footpath marked off by yellow police tape, were perplexed by the activity.
Commuting to his finance job, Mike Lopresti, 28, was convinced he had a lucky escape after landing at DCA this week.
He said: “It’s horrible, it sucks because it happened so close to where I live, I just landed in DCA this week. I’ve taken three flights out of there this month.
“It’s so crazy to think about, I could have been on one of those flights.”
                     30 Jan 2025-02:44PM GMT                   
                     Reagan National Airport falls quiet                   
On a normal day, the Reagan National Airport on the outskirts of Washington, DC is a thriving international hub where passengers and planes pour in and out.
Because of the short length of its runways, over 90 per cent of flights use its main runway, making it the busiest in the US with over 800 daily take-offs and landings.
Today is not a normal day.
Earlier, families of the victims of Flight 5342 had gathered in one of the terminals awaiting news of their loved ones, but are no longer here.
With flights grounded until 11am, the terminals are deserted with the exception of airport staff who suddenly have nothing to do, state police, and members of the media-some of whom have been here since last night and are making frequent trips to a nearby coffee shop.
                     30 Jan 2025-02:35PM GMT                   
                     Black Hawk helicopter unit temporarily grounded                   
The US Army unit involved in the overnight collision with a passenger jet has been placed on an operational pause, two US officials told Reuters.
One of the officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said helicopters from the 12th Aviation Battalion would be grounded for an undisclosed amount of time.
Other helicopters, such as those from the National Guard, will still be allowed to help in recovery efforts, the official added.
                     30 Jan 2025-02:19PM GMT                   
                     ‘Tragedy will have consequences for years,’ says congressman                   
Congressman Ron Estes said the impact of the air disaster would reverberate around Wichita for years to come. 
“Being a close-knit community like we are, it’s going to have consequences for years to come,” he told the press conference, adding: “This is such a tragic day for our community.”
The Republican representative for Kansas’ 4th district also sought to reassure Americans, saying: “We have the safest skies of any country in the world.”
                     30 Jan 2025-02:11PM GMT                   
                     Wichita mayor: ‘Our hearts are heavy as a city’                   
Lily Wu, the mayor of Wichita, has thanked the first responders and offered support in the wake of the passenger jet crash.
“This is a terrible tragedy that will unite those in Washington DC and those in Wichita Kansas forever,” she told a press conference at the City Hall.
The mayor was overcome with emotion as she confirmed that there were no survivors in the air disaster, saying: “Our hearts are heavy as a city.”
She added that a vigil would be held at noon in the City Hall.
                     30 Jan 2025-01:59PM GMT                   
                     ‘I had been worried about over-congested airspace,’ says senator                   
Virginia senator Tim Kaine said he did not know how the accident had occurred but said he had been “very worried” about the congested airport for some time.
“I have been very concerned about congestion, over-congestion at this airport and in this airspace... It’s a complicated airspace and I’ve been very, very worried about that,” the Virginia senator told The Telegraph.
“Another concern that people have raised is the number of air traffic controllers we have at a national level. We really were at a deficit, we took some measures last year in Congress to bulk up our new training of air traffic controllers.”
                     30 Jan 2025-01:51PM GMT                   
                     Senator dreads seeing familiar names of victims                   
Virginia senator Tim Kaine, who is speaking to media at Washington’s Reagan National Airport, told The Telegraph he had a “sense of dread” and may have known victims on the plane.
“There will be constituents of mine on the plane. Absolutely. Just because of, people were flying into Reagan Nation, flying into Arlington,” he said in the airport terminal, which is deserted except for the media and police.
“I have not yet seen a manifest or a passenger list, but you have a sense of dread about something like this, you’re going to see names you know.”
                     30 Jan 2025-01:45PM GMT                   
                     Crash sounded like a ‘war zone’, says witness                    
A man who lives on the banks of the Potomac River has likened the sound of the passenger jet and helicopter colliding to something from a war zone. 
“I was getting ready to go to bed, laying down, when I hear the ‘bang bang,’ a very unusual sound, something you don’t hear on a daily basis,” said Abadi Ismail, 38.
“It’s more like a war zone, something you hear in action movies. So that caught my attention,” he added.
Mr Ismail looked out of his apartment window and saw smoke rising from Reagan Airport. 
                     30 Jan 2025-01:26PM GMT                   
                     Pictured: Sunrise reveals wreckage                    
                     30 Jan 2025-01:15PM GMT                   
                     Transport secretary: Tragedy was ‘absolutely preventable’                   
Asked about Donald Trump suggesting in an overnight social media post that the collision could have been prevented, Transportation Secretary Sean Duffy said: “Do I think this was preventable? Absolutely.”
He added that people should not “read into” the fact the helicopter was on a “training flight”.
Mr Duffy also said passengers should be “assured” that flying is safe.
“We have early indicators of what happened here and I will tell you with complete confidence we have the safest airspace in the world,” he said.
                     30 Jan 2025-01:01PM GMT                   
                     ‘We were not able to rescue anyone,’ says airports chief                   
“Unfortunately we were not able to rescue anyone,” said Jack Potter, the chief executive of the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority.
He confirmed that the airport would reopen at 11am (4pm GMT).
                     30 Jan 2025-12:56PM GMT                   
                     American Airlines CEO: Crash is ‘devastating’                   
American Airlines CEO Robert Isom has told the news conference that he does not know why the military helicopter came to be in the path of the passenger jet.
“This is devastating,” he said, adding: “Our focus right now is to do everything we can to support everyone involved”.
Mr Isom said “at this time, we don’t know why the military aircraft came into the path” of the passenger jet.
                     30 Jan 2025-12:45PM GMT                   
                     ‘We do not believe there are any survivors,’ says fire chief                   
John Donnelly, the DC Fire and EMS Chief, said the emergency services would be switching from a rescue operation to a recovery operation.
“At this point we do not believe there are any survivors from this accident and we have recovered 27 people from the plane and one from the helicopter,” he said.
He added that debris had drifted as far as the Wilson Bridge.
                     30 Jan 2025-12:43PM GMT                   
                     Both helicopter and airliner were on ‘standard flight patterns’                   
Sean Duffy, secretary of transportation, has said he will not rest until he has “answers for the families and the flying public”.
“This was a clear night. The helicopter was in a standard flight pattern… the American Airlines flight coming in to land was in a standard flight pattern,” he said, adding that it is not unusual for military and civilian aircraft to be in this air space.
Mr Duffy, who was sworn in on Tuesday, said there had not been a “breakdown” in communication between the military helicopter, the plane and the air traffic control tower. “The helicopter was aware there was a plane in the area,” he said, adding: “Everything was standard in the lead up to the crash.”
He added that the plane was now “inverted and in three sections” in “waste deep water”.
                     30 Jan 2025-12:27PM GMT                   
                     News conference set to begin                   
A news conference from Reagan National Airport is expected to begin at 7.30am (12.30pm GMT).
Murielo Bowser, mayor of the district of Columbia, is expected to be joined by senators Mark Warner and Tim Kaine from Virginia, as well as Virginia Rep. Don Beyer.
                     30 Jan 2025-12:20PM GMT                   
                     Mapped: American Eagle Flight 5342                   
The Bombardier passenger plane operated by an American Airlines subsidiary was approaching Reagan National Airport from the south at around 9pm (2am GMT) after flying from Wichita, Kansas, when the collision happened.
US Army officials said the Black Hawk helicopter carrying three soldiers on a “training flight” had been approaching from the north. 
                     30 Jan 2025-11:54AM GMT                   
                     More than 30 bodies recovered, local media reports                   
More than 30 bodies have been recovered from the Potomac River following the air disaster near Reagan National Airport, according to NBC Washington citing two sources familiar with the investigation. 
There were 60 passengers and four crew members on board the passenger jet, while three soldiers were in the helicopter. 
                     30 Jan 2025-11:39AM GMT                   
                     ‘We learn lessons with blood too often,’ says miracle on the Hudson pilot                   
Chesley “Sully” Sullenberger III, the pilot who landed a passenger plane in the Hudson River in 2009 with no fatalities, said he was “devastated” by the crash in the Potomac River on Wednesday.
“We’ve had to learn important lessons literally with blood too often, and we had finally gotten beyond that, to where we could learn from incidents, and not accidents,” Captain Sullenberger told the New York Times, adding that the most recent collision shows just “how vigilant we have to be”. 
In January 2009, Captain Sullenberger landed his Airbus A320 in the Hudson River after a flock of Canada geese disabled the engines shortly after take-off. The manoeuvre saved the lives of all 150 passengers and five crew members. 
“Nighttime always makes things different about seeing other aircraft-basically all you can do is see the lights on them,” the 74-year-old said, adding: “I’m just devastated by this. We have the obligation to learn from every failure and improve.”
                     30 Jan 2025-11:12AM GMT                   
                     ‘We are heartbroken,’ says International Skating Union                   
The International Skating Union has said it is “heartbroken” to learn that members of the figure skating community were on board the American Airlines flight that crashed in Washington D.C..
“We are heartbroken to learn that figure skaters, along with their families, friends and coaches, are understood to be among those on board,” the governing body said. “Our thoughts are with everyone affected by this tragedy. Figure skating is more than a sport-it’s a close-knit family-and we stand together.”
Russian figure skaters including world champion couple Evgenia Shishkova and Vadim Naumov, who won the 1994 pairs title, were among those on board.
                     30 Jan 2025-10:54AM GMT                   
                     Starmer ‘deeply shocked by the tragic scenes’                   
Sir Keir Starmer has sent his condolences for those affected by the plane crash in Washington D.C..
In a post on X, the prime minister wrote: “I am deeply shocked by the tragic scenes coming out of Washington D.C. 
“My thoughts are with all those on board and their families desperately waiting for news. 
 “I pay tribute to the emergency services for their dedicated work in such challenging conditions and I send the UK’s condolences to the United States at this time.”
                     30 Jan 2025-10:29AM GMT                   
                     First fatal commercial plane crash in 16 years                   
Wednesday’s crash was the first fatal commercial plane crash in the United States in nearly 16 years. Here are the most recent five to occur on US soil:
                     Feb. 12, 2009: A Colgan Air plane crashed near Buffalo, New York, killing everyone aboard the Bombardier DHC-8 propeller plane, including 45 passengers, two pilots and two flight attendants. Another person on the ground also died, bringing the total death toll to 50.
                     Aug. 27, 2006: A Comair aircraft crashed when taking off in Lexington, Kentucky, after it left from the wrong runway and ran off the end. Two crew members and 47 passengers were killed.
                     Nov. 12, 2001: Just after take-off, an American Airlines flight crashed into a residential area of Belle Harbor, New York. All 260 people aboard the plane were killed.
                     Sept. 11, 2001: Nearly 3,000 people were killed as 19 al-Qaeda hijackers seized control of four jetliners, sending two of the planes into New York’s World Trade Center, a third into the Pentagon in Arlington, Virginia, and the fourth into a field in western Pennsylvania. It remains the deadliest terror attack in history.
                     Jan. 31, 2000: An Alaska Airlines flight crashed into the Pacific Ocean near Anacapa Island, California. The crash killed 83 passengers and five crew members.
                     30 Jan 2025-09:59AM GMT                   
                     Freezing temperatures expected                   
Temperatures in Washington D.C. are expected to drop below 0C in the early hours of Thursday morning, hampering rescue efforts and reducing chances of survival.
“The conditions out there are extremely rough for the responders,” John Donnelly, the DC Fire Chief, said during a news conference, adding that it was bitterly cold with a strong wind out on the river.
“At these frigid water temperatures, the human body’s core temperature quickly drops. Exhaustion or unconsciousness can occur in as little as 15 to 30 minutes,” said Dan DePodwin, senior director of forecast operations at AccuWeather.
                     30 Jan 2025-09:45AM GMT                   
                     ‘Bad news from Washington,’ says Kremlin                   
The Kremlin has expressed its condolences to the families of Russian citizens who lost their lives in the American Airlines plane crash in Washington on Wednesday night.
“Bad news from Washington today. We regret and offer condolences to the families and friends who lost those of our fellow citizens who died in this plane crash,” spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said, adding that Vladimir Putin had no intention of getting in touch with Donald Trump about the crash. 
                     30 Jan 2025-09:26AM GMT                   
                     Animation demonstrates how crash happened                   
A motion graphic shows the moment an American Airlines passenger jet collided at around 140 miles per hour with a Black Hawk helicopter about 400 feet above Washington D.C..
The commercial airliner, with 64 passengers and crew on board, was en route to Reagan Washington National Airport from Witchita, Kansas, when it was involved in the mid-air crash.
                     30 Jan 2025-08:52AM GMT                   
                     Listen: Air traffic control gasps as plane collides with helicopter                   
Air traffic control audio has revealed the moments before and after the crash.
Audio from LiveATC.net, a respected source for in-flight recording, captured the final communications between the three crew members of the helicopter-call sign PAT25-before it collided with the CRJ700 Bombardier jet carrying 64 passengers and crew.
“PAT25, do you have a CRJ in sight? PAT25, pass behind the CRJ,” an air traffic controller said at 8.47 pm local time on Wednesday (1.47am GMT on Thursday).
Seconds later, another aircraft called in to air traffic control, saying, “Tower, did you see that?”-apparently referring to the crash. An air traffic controller then redirected planes heading to runway 33 at Reagan Washington National Airport to go around.
“Crash, crash, crash, this is an alert three,” one of the air traffic controllers can be heard saying in the audio from around the time of the crash.
”I don’t know if you caught earlier what happened, but there was a collision on the approach into 33. We’re going to be shutting down operations for the indefinite future,” another controller remarked.
“Both the helicopter and the plane crashed in the river,” a third air traffic controller can be heard saying.
“It was probably out in the middle of the river,” the controller said. “I just saw a fireball and then it was just gone. I haven’t seen anything since they hit the river. But it was a CRJ and a helicopter that hit.”
                     30 Jan 2025-08:41AM GMT                   
                     Investigation into crash begins                   
The US army and the defence department have begun an investigation into the crash.
Pete Hegseth, who was sworn in as defence secretary on Jan 25, said the investigation had been started “immediately”.
“Absolutely tragic. Search and rescue efforts still ongoing. Prayers for all impacted souls and their families,” he posted on X.
                     30 Jan 2025-08:11AM GMT                   
                     Watch: Dashcam footage shows jet colliding with helicopter                   
Dashcam footage has captured the moment a Bombardier CRJ700 passenger plane collided with a Black Hawk military helicopter in Washington DC, seen from across the Potomac river.
Ari Schulman was driving home when he saw what he described as “a stream of sparks” overhead.
“Initially I saw the plane and it looked fine, normal. It was right about to head over land,” he told CNN.
“Three seconds later, and at that point it was banked all the way to the right.... I could see the underside of it, it was lit up a very bright yellow, and there was a stream of sparks underneath it,” Mr Schulman added. “It looked like a Roman candle.”
                     30 Jan 2025-08:05AM GMT                   
                     At least 19 bodies recovered after crash                   
First responders have recovered at least 19 bodies from the Potomac River, a law enforcement source familiar with the investigation told CBS News.
A dive team has also recovered one of the two data recorders-the so-called black boxes-from the American Airlines regional passenger’s plane.
                     30 Jan 2025-08:04AM GMT                   
                     US figure skaters on board the flight                   
US Figure Skating, the American governing body for the sport, has confirmed that several members of its skating community were on board the American Airlines flight.
“These athletes, coaches, and family members were returning home from the National Development Camp held in conjunction with the U.S. Figure Skating Championships in Wichita, Kansas,” a statement read.
“We are devastated by this unspeakable tragedy and hold the victims’ families closely in our hearts. We will continue to monitor the situation and will release more information as it becomes available.”
Team USA pair skater Luke Wang, who competed in Wichita last week, described the news as “absolutely heartbreaking” in a social media post, adding that he was “praying for all those on the flight.”
Ethan Peal, a Team USA ice dancer, wrote that he was “in shock” and praying “for families and my skating community.”
                     30 Jan 2025-07:52AM GMT                   
                     Watch: Divers search the Potomac River                   
                     30 Jan 2025-07:50AM GMT                   
                     What aircraft were involved in the crash?                   
                     UH-60 Black Hawk Helicopter                     The Sikorsky UH-60 Black Hawk is one of the most ubiquitous military helicopters, filling multiple roles for the US military, including air assault, general support, med-evac, command and control, and special operations support.
The aircraft involved in the Jan 29 crash was flying with the call sign PAT25 and had three occupants, according to the Aviation Safety Network, a public database of aviation accidents.
More than 5,000 Black Hawks have been built since production began in the mid-1970s.
                     Bombardier CRJ700                     The Bombardier CRJ700, which can seat about 70 people, is a workhorse of regional commercial aviation. There are about 260 of the aircraft in service, according to Cirium, an aviation data company.
The plane in the Jan. 29 crash was registered N530EA and manufactured in 2010, according to the Federal Aviation Administration. There were 60 passengers and four crew members onboard, American Airlines said. The jet was registered to American Airlines but operated by its wholly owned subsidiary, PSA Airlines.
Bombardier sold the CRJ700 program to a Mitsubishi Heavy Industries subsidiary in 2019. Production of new aircraft ceased in 2020.
                     30 Jan 2025-07:29AM GMT                   
                     World champion figure skaters reportedly on board                   
Russian figure skaters and coaches Yevgenia Shishkova, 52, and Vadim Naumov, 55, were aboard the American Airlines plane that crashed, Russian state-run TASS news agency has reported.
The pair, who were married, competed at six world championships between 1991 to 1996, winning gold, silver and bronze medals.
After beginning their professional career in Russia, they moved to the US, where they transitioned into coaching.
Their son Maxim, who competed for the US in singles, was also feared to have been on board the plane, Russia’s TASS and RIA news agencies reported.
The couple were reported to have been returning from the competition and travelling with a group of young skaters. Russia’s Mash news outlet published a list of 13 skaters, many of them the children of Russian emigres to the United States, who it said were believed to have been on the plane.
Inna Volyanskaya, a former skater who competed for the Soviet Union, was also reported to have been on board, TASS said. She was a coach at the Washington figure skating club, according to its website.
                     30 Jan 2025-07:07AM GMT                   
                     ‘We don’t know if there are survivors’, says fire chief                   
John Donnelly, DC Fire and EMS Chief, told a news conference that first responders were quick to find one of the aircraft in the river.
The fire chief says it’s unclear if there are any but that first responders are working to find the victims, saying: “We don’t know if there are survivors.”
He said 300 emergency workers had been mobilised.
The plane broke into two pieces and is beneath 2m of water, while the helicopter is “upside down” and “very unstable”, according to NBC News.
                     30 Jan 2025-06:36AM GMT                   
                     ‘We’re going to work through the night’                   
Relatives waiting in the terminal have been directed to a lounge where they are being assisted by counsellors, said Jack Potter, CEO of Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority.
“We’re in a rescue mode, we will continue in that rescue mode,” Mr Potter said at the press conference.
“We’re going to continue working through the night.”
He said it was “very difficult” for rescuers, who include dive teams, to work in the dark but they were doing “the best they can”.
                     30 Jan 2025-06:32AM GMT                   
                     Search remains a ‘rescue operation’, says Mayor                   
Muriel E. Bowser, the District of Columbia mayor, said the search remained a “rescue operation”, suggesting authorities still held hope that survivors would be found.
“We are going to recover our fellow citizens,” she told a news conference at the airport.
                     30 Jan 2025-06:28AM GMT                   
                     Pictured: Divers search for survivors                   
Divers are searching the Potomac River and the two aircraft for any survivors.
Both aircraft remain in the water.
It has been confirmed that 64 people were on the passenger jet and three soldiers on the Army helicopter.
                     30 Jan 2025-06:22AM GMT                   
                     ‘It’s an unbearable sorrow,’ says senator                   
Also speaking at the press conference, Senator Roger Marshall said “we wrap our arms around” the families of the victims.
“It’s really hard when you lose probably over 60 Kansans simultaneously,” he told a press conference at Reagan airport, adding: “When one person dies, it’s a tragedy, but when many, many, many people die, it’s an unbearable sorrow. It’s a heartbreak beyond measure.”
                     30 Jan 2025-06:20AM GMT                   
                     ‘We’re going to know people on this flight,’ says senator                   
Senator Jerry Moran from Kansas has described the crash as a “serious and sad circumstance”.
“I know that flight, I’ve flown it many times myself,” he said during a press conference.
“That flight has been in existence for about a year.
“We’re going to know people who are on this flight, know their family members.
“We will do everything we can to make certain that we’re supportive of the rescue efforts.”
                     30 Jan 2025-05:54AM GMT                   
                     When was the last plane crash at Reagan airport?                   
The last time a passenger plane crashed at the DC airport-which was then known as the Washington National Airport-was on January 13 in 1982.
In that accident, an Air Florida flight took off and crashed into a bridge over the Potomac River before plunging into ice and water below.
Of the 74 passengers and five crew members on board, six people survived. 
One of the survivors, 46-year-old Arland D. Williams Jr, bravely swam across the river to help other passengers – even though he was afraid of water. He drowned during his attempts to save others. 
Four motorists were also killed as a result of the plane hitting the bridge which connected Arlington and DC. 
                     30 Jan 2025-05:42AM GMT                   
                     ‘I’m praying to God’ : Man shares final texts from his wife                   
A man waiting at the airport has shared the final text messages he received from his wife who is believed to be one of the passengers on the plane.
Hamaad Raza said he was “just praying that someone is pulling her out of the river right now”.
“That’s all I can pray for, I’m just praying to God,” Mr Raza told CNN affiliate WUSA.
He said he last received a text message from his wife who wrote “landing in 20 minutes”.
“The rest of my texts did not get delivered,” Mr Raza said.
“That’s when I knew that something might up.”
                     30 Jan 2025-05:40AM GMT                   
                     American Airlines CEO makes statement                   
American Airlines CEO Robert Isom has expressed his “deep sorrow” for the crash victims and their families in a video statement.
“This is a difficult day for all of us at American Airlines, and our efforts now are focused entirely on the needs of our passengers, crew members, partners, first responders, along with their families and loved ones,” he said. 
“Our co-operation is without pause, and we want to learn everything we can about today’s events. That work will take time, but anything we can do now, we’re doing, and right now that means focusing on taking care of all passengers and crew involved, as well as their families.”
Mr Isom will travel to Washington DC, along with a “go team” to assist authorities with the emergency response.
                     30 Jan 2025-05:28AM GMT                   
                     Collision ‘should have been prevented’, says Trump                   
Donald Trump said the collision between the passenger plane and helicopter “should have been prevented” in a ranting post on Truth Social.
He wrote: “The airplane was on a perfect and routine line of approach to the airport. The helicopter was going straight at the airplane for an extended period of time. It is a CLEAR NIGHT, the lights on the plane were blazing, why didn’t the helicopter go up or down, or turn. 
“Why didn’t the control tower tell the helicopter what to do instead of asking if they saw the plane. This is a bad situation that looks like it should have been prevented. NOT GOOD!!!”
                     30 Jan 2025-05:11AM GMT                   
                     Terminal eerily quiet                   
Erie County Executive Mark Poloncarz was waiting to catch his flight back to Buffalo, New York, when he saw emergency vehicles through the terminal window.
“It didn’t seem anything too strange at that point,” Mr Poloncarz said.
“And then about a minute or so after that, there was an announcement of a full-ground stop, that there would be no flights landing and no flights taking off. And then we started to see a lot of emergency vehicles heading towards the river.”
When Mr Poloncarz and others soon saw reports emerge about the crash, the terminal “grew quiet”.
“When flights get delayed, people get aggravated and upset. But there was no one getting aggravated or upset because I think we all realised pretty quickly the magnitude of what occurred. There was a lot of sadness.”
                     30 Jan 2025-05:03AM GMT                   
                     ‘At least 18 people dead’                   
There are reports that at least 18 bodies have been recovered from the crash.
CBS News first reported the death toll, citing a police official.
                     30 Jan 2025-04:59AM GMT                   
                     Crash occurred in heavily-monitored airspace                   
The crash occurred in airspace that, being above the capital city, is by far the most heavily monitored. 
Data from the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority shows the main runway at Reagan National is the busiest in the country – with an average of more than one take-off and landing every minute.
                     30 Jan 2025-04:49AM GMT                   
                     ‘Every available US Coast Guard resource deployed’                   
Kristi Noem, the country’s new secretary of homeland security, said she was “deploying every available US Coast Guard resource for search and rescue efforts in this horrific incident at DCA”.
                     30 Jan 2025-04:38AM GMT                   
                     Army helicopter was on training flight                   
The Black Hawk helicopter which collided with the passenger plane was taking part in a training flight, Heather Chairez, a spokesperson with the Joint Task Force-National Capital Region, said.
Military aircraft frequently conduct training flights in and around the congested and heavily-restricted airspace around the nation’s capital for familiarisation and continuity of government planning.
                     30 Jan 2025-04:33AM GMT                   
                     Airport closed until Friday morning                   
The Reagan National Airport will be closed until 11am local time on Friday, the Federal Aviation Administration said.
                     30 Jan 2025-04:21AM GMT                   
                     Sixty passengers and four crew on board jet                   
American Airlines has confirmed that 60 passengers and four crew were on board the passenger jet that crashed.
“Our concern is for the passengers and crew on board the aircraft. We are in contact with authorities and assisting with emergency response efforts,” the airline said in a statement.
“If you believe you may have loved ones on board Flight 5342, call American Airlines toll-free at 800-679-8215. Those calling from outside the US can visit   for additional phone numbers. Family members in Canada, Puerto Rico or the U.S. Virgin Islands can call 800-679-8215 directly.”
                     30 Jan 2025-04:19AM GMT                   
                     Kansas senator: ‘Nightmare’ crash ‘devastating’                   
Roger Marshall, a Kansas senator, described the crash as “nothing short of a nightmare” in a post on X.
“I ask the world to join me in praying for Kansas this evening, the first responders, rescue crews, and all those involved in this horrific accident,” he said.
“I have been in contact with local and national authorities asking for answers and will continue to demand more information on how this unfolded.”
                     30 Jan 2025-04:13AM GMT                   
                     Pictured: Emergency crews at Potomac River                   
Rescue efforts are under way along the Potomac River.
                     30 Jan 2025-04:08AM GMT                   
                     Trump briefed on ‘terrible accident’                   
US President said he was “monitoring the situation” and would provide more details in due course.
                     30 Jan 2025-04:03AM GMT                   
                     Kansas Governor ‘in contact with authorities’                   
Laura Kelly, the Kansas Governor, said the plane was travelling inbound from Wichita, which is the most populous city in Kansas. 
“I am actively in contact with authorities,” she wrote on X. “My thoughts go out to those involved.”Roger Marshall, a Kansas senator, said about 60 people were on board.
                     30 Jan 2025-03:59AM GMT                   
                     Department of Defense ‘monitoring’ crash                    
Pete Hegseth, the US Defence Secretary, said the Department of Defense was “actively monitoring” the crash. 
“Poised to assist if needed,” he wrote on X, adding “prayers for all involved”.
                     30 Jan 2025-03:56AM GMT                   
                     ‘At least two bodies’ pulled from river                   
At least two bodies have been recovered from the river, NBC affiliate WBAL reported on Wednesday.
                     30 Jan 2025-03:51AM GMT                   
                     Three US Army soldiers on board helicopter                   
Three US Army soldiers were on board the Black Hawk helicopter that collided with the passenger jet.
The official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said the status of the soldiers was unknown, but added that no senior officials were on the helicopter.
Another official said the Army UH-60 helicopter involved in the crash was based out of Fort Belvoir, Virginia.
                     30 Jan 2025-03:46AM GMT                   
                     Rep. Eric Swalwell landed ‘minutes’ before crash                   
Rep. Eric Swalwell, who was on a flight from Houston, Texas, said he landed at the airport “minutes” before the crash. 
                     30 Jan 2025-03:43AM GMT                   
                     Transportation Secretary at FAA headquarters                   
                     30 Jan 2025-03:41AM GMT                   
                     About 60 people on board crashed jet                   
The passenger jet has crashed into the Potomac River. 
There were roughly 60 passengers on board.
                     30 Jan 2025-03:31AM GMT                   
                     Senator Ted Cruz: ‘There are fatalities’                   
US Senator Ted Cruz said people have died in the crash.
In a statement on X, Mr Cruz said: “ While we don’t yet know how many on board were lost, we know there are fatalities.”
                     30 Jan 2025-03:29AM GMT                   
                     Helicopter involved was US Army Black Hawk                   
The helicopter that collided with the passenger jet was a Black Hawk flown by the US Army, defence sources have confirmed.
                     30 Jan 2025-03:20AM GMT                   
                     Watch: Jet collides mid-air with helicopter                   
Video from an observation camera at the nearby Kennedy Center showed two sets of lights consistent with aircraft appearing to join in a fireball.
                     30 Jan 2025-03:18AM GMT                   
                     JD Vance calls for prayers                   
                     30 Jan 2025-03:15AM GMT                   
                     Trump aware of the crash                   
US President Donald Trump “has been made aware of this situation”, White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt said on Fox News.
“Tragically, it appears that a military helicopter collided with a regional jet,” she said.
                     30 Jan 2025-03:07AM GMT                   
                     FAA confirms jet collided with helicopter                   
The Federal Aviation Administration said a PSA Airlines regional jet collided mid-air with a Sikorsky H-60 helicopter while it approached Reagan Washington National Airport for landing at around 9pm (2am GMT).
PSA was operating Flight 5342 for American Airlines, which had departed from Wichita, Kansas, according to the FAA. According to American Airlines’ website, the jet has a capacity for up to 65 passengers.
                     30 Jan 2025-03:02AM GMT                   
                     ‘Multiple crews responding’                   
Multiple crews are responding to the emergency.
“MPD is responding to an apparent air crash in the Potomac River. Multiple agencies are responding,” Washington’s Metropolitan Police Department posted on X, while the DC Fire and emergency response services said fireboats were responding to “small aircraft down in Potomac River” in the vicinity of the airport.
It is not yet known if there are casualties.
                     30 Jan 2025-02:50AM GMT                   
                     Breaking: Ronald Reagan airport closed after ‘air crash’                   
Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport has been closed following reports of a plane crash.
The airport posted on X confirming it is grounding all flights,

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
