




Newsweek.com
February 7, 2025 Friday 11:03 AM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 540 words
Byline: Monica Sager
Highlight: President Donald Trump posted his distain of paper straws to his social media platform Truth Social
Body


President Donald Trump announced that he will sign an executive order ending the push for paper straws.
"I will be signing an Executive Order next week ending the ridiculous Biden push for Paper Straws, which don't work," Trump posted on Truth Social. "BACK TO PLASTIC!"
Why It Matters
In November 2024, former President  announced a national strategy to prevent plastic pollution. Biden supported efforts to reduce the use of plastic, including plastic straws, as a focus on shifting to more sustainable materials. This was a step toward lowering the country's dependency on single-use plastics.
What To Know
Plastic straws were previously sold during Trump's campaign for his 2020 presidential election race. The red straws labeled with the word Trump were launched as an alternative to "liberal" paper straws.
"Liberal paper straws don't work," Trump's site said in 2019. "Stand with President Trump and buy your recyclable straws today."
Biden's efforts to reduce plastic use were done with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
Trump, on the other hand, has a stance that is more industry-friendly when it comes to plastic. He has vehemently opposed the Green New Deal, which proposed policies to address climate change through legislation. During his first administration, Trump rolled back former President 's regulations around curbing plastic waste and promoting alternatives.
He is expected to place over 160 environmental justice employees on paid leave, as reported by  on Thursday. About 300 federal employees work in the EPA division. This is in conjunction with the Trump administration's offer to the majority of the three million U.S. government employees for resignation with temporary financial compensation.
The directive, known as the "Fork in the Road," requires federal employees to either accept a resignation package—which , per the notice—or stay in their role,  and risk potential layoffs as part of Trump's government restructuring efforts.
A federal district judge had paused Trump's buyout offer on Thursday.
The Trump administration has also considered environmental programs part of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) initiatives.
On January 27, the acting director of the OMB, Matthew Vaeth, issued a memo titled "Temporary Pause of Agency, Grant, Loan and Other Financial Assistance Programs," which required federal agencies to temporarily pause "all activities related to obligation or disbursement of all Federal financial assistance, and other relevant agency activities that may be implicated by [President 's] executive orders, including, but not limited to, financial assistance for foreign aid, nongovernmental organizations, DEI, woke gender ideology, and the green new deal."
What People Are Saying
Breaking911 on X, formerly Twitter: "Plastic straws will soon be back, and the wimpy Biden paper straws will be history - thanks to President Trump."
Newsmax correspondent Caleb Parke, on X: "Politics aside, I always say paper straws are demonic. You can hardly finish your drink and then it changes the taste of your drink."
What's Next
Trump said the executive order will come sometime next week.


Graphic

 
Donald Trump and straws
Naumen Sheikh/JIM WATSON/AFP via Getty Images
A stock image of plastic straws.US President Donald Trump speaks to the press as he signs an executive order to create a US sovereign wealth fund, in the Oval Office of the White House on February 3, 2025, in Washington, DC.

Load-Date: February 7, 2025


End of Document
