




TheHill.com
January 31, 2025 Friday


Copyright 2025 NEXSTAR MEDIA INC.  All Rights Reserved


Length: 365 words
Byline: Brett Samuels
Body


President Trump on Friday asserted the  involved in a near Washington, D.C., was “flying too high.”
“The Blackhawk helicopter was flying too high, by a lot. It was far above the 200 foot limit. That’s not really too complicated to understand, is it???” Trump posted on Truth Social.
More than 60 people died after an American Airlines  with a UH-60 Black Hawk helicopter on its final approach to Reagan Washington National Airport in Arlington, Va., on Wednesday night.
The New York Times  that the helicopter was supposed to be flying lower to the ground at the time of the crash, citing four people briefed on the issue. The Times reported that the helicopter had asked permission to use a route that would have allowed it to fly no higher than 200 feet.
The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) and the Pentagon are investigating the cause of the crash.
Since the collision took place on Wednesday night, Trump has vacillated between arguing the helicopter  in the incident and claiming  in hiring air traffic controllers may have played a role.
“The people in the helicopter should have seen where they were going,” Trump  at the White House. “What was the helicopter doing in that track? Very sad. But visually, somebody should have been able to see and taken that helicopter out of play and the should have been at a different height.”
But Trump has also  without evidence that efforts to hire diverse individuals, including those with disabilities, had weakened federal aviation safety.
“We want the most competent people, no matter what race they are. … If they don’t have a great brain, a great power of the brain, they’re not going to be very good at what they do,” he said.
The president also  to end diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) practices in the aviation sector and to assess airline safety, as well as an executive order to appoint a new head of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), in the wake of the incident.


Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
