




The Independent (United Kingdom)
February 9, 2025 Sunday 4:47 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Independent Print Ltd  All Rights Reserved


Section: NEW ORLEANS NEWS, Sports: American football news, Sports: NFL news & SPORTS: GOLF NEWS
Length: 745 words
Byline: Darlene Superville
Body


As a student,  played high school football. As a business baron, he owned a team in an upstart rival to the  and then sued the established league. As president, he denigrated pros who took a knee during the national anthem as part of a social justice movement.
On Sunday, he adds to that complicated history with the sport when he becomes the first president in office to . Before attending the game in New Orleans, Trump played golf with Tiger Woods in the morning in Florida, where he spent the weekend, the White House said.
Trump's appearance at the Superdome in New Orleans to watch the two-time defending champion Kansas City Chiefs take on the Philadelphia Eagles follows the NFL's decision to remove the "End Racism" slogans that have been stenciled on the end zones since 2021. 
Trump recently ordered the cancelation of programs that encourage diversity, equity and inclusion across the federal government and some critics see the league's decision as a response to the Republican president's action. But NFL Commissioner  said the league's diversity policies are not in conflict with the Trump administration's efforts to end the federal government's DEI programs.
Trump, who attended the Super Bowl in 1992, has avoided choosing sides in Sunday's matchup despite public comments and social media posts that suggest an affinity for Kansas City.
Last week, when asked which team would win, Trump said, "I don't want to say, but there's a certain quarterback that seems to be a pretty good winner." That appeared to be a reference to the Chiefs' Patrick Mahomes. 

Trump also posted congratulations to the Chiefs in January after they won the AFC Championship.
The president played football as a student at the New York Military Academy. As a New York businessman in the early 1980s, he owned the New Jersey Generals of the United States Football League. Trump had sued to force a merger of the USFL and the NFL. The USFL eventually folded. 
Friction existed between Trump and the NFL during his first term as president.
Trump took issue with players kneeling during the national anthem to protest social or racial injustice. That movement began in 2016 with then-49ers quarterback  taking a knee during "The Star-Spangled Banner" during an exhibition game in Denver.
Trump, through social media and other public comments, insisted that players stand for the national anthem and he called on team owners to fire any player who took a knee. 
"Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, you'd say, 'Get that son of a bitch off the field right now. Out! He's fired," Trump said to loud applause at a rally in Hunstville, Alabama, in 2017. 
Trump is expected to watch the game from a box in the company of House Speaker Mike Johnson, R-La., among others. Trump won Missouri and Pennsylvania - the states represented in the game - on his way to a second term in November. 
His interest in sports extends beyond football. Trump is an avid golfer who owns multiple golf courses and has hosted tournaments. He sponsored boxing matches at his former casinos in Atlantic City, New Jersey, and attended a UFC match at Madison Square Garden weeks after winning a second term. 
Some NFL team owners have donated to his campaigns and Trump maintains friendships with  and Doug Flutie, who played for the Generals. Trump endorsed Walker's unsuccessful bid as the Republican candidate for a U.S. Senate seat from Georgia in 2022, and has tapped him to become ambassador to the Bahamas. 
Trump signed an order last week that is intended to block transgender women and girls from competing in women's sports by targeting federal funding for schools that fail to comply.
Alvin Tillery, a politics professor and diversity expert at Northwestern University, said in an interview that the NFL's decision to remove "End Racism" slogans was "shameful" given that the league "makes tens of billions of dollars largely on the bodies of Black men." 
He said the NFL should explain who it was aiming to please. The NFL said it was stenciling "Choose Love" in one of the end zones for the Super Bowl to encourage the country after a series of tragedies so far this year, including a New Year's Day truck attack in the host city of New Orleans that killed 14 people and injured dozens more. 
Tillery wasn't convinced. "I think they removed it because Trump's coming," he said.

Load-Date: February 9, 2025


End of Document
