




The Times (London)
January 28, 2025 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition


Copyright 2025 Times Newspapers Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Pg. 24
Length: 620 words
Byline: Josie Ensor
Body


President Trump is expected to sign an executive order dismantling all diversity and inclusion initiatives in the United States military, ending what he referred to as a "dark period".
He will issue an immediate ban on "discriminatory race or sex-based preferences" by any of the US armed forces, the defence department or the Department of Homeland Security.
Government diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) programmes had aimed to promote participation in workplaces by people from a range of minority and underrepresented backgrounds.
Trump, however, has been critical, claiming that the programmes themselves can be discriminatory, as well as "dangerous, demeaning and immoral".
Last week, the administration put all federal DEI staff on leave pending review and fired the highest-ranking woman in the military over her "excessive focus" on inclusion measures.
It also ordered the office of personnel management to set up an email account so government employees could report colleagues who promote DEI ideology.
Two other executive orders were due to be signed yesterday, including one that lays out military standards on pronouns and gender identity, and directly prohibits thousands of transgender personnel from serving in the military.
Trump's order will direct Pete Hegseth, the newly confirmed secretary of defence, to ban the "use of invented and identification-based pronouns" in the armed forces and prohibit biological males and females from sleeping, changing and using bathing facilities intended for the opposite sex.
A draft of the order said there could be "no accommodation for anything less than resilience, strength, and the ability to withstand extraordinary physical demands", and suggested that those undergoing medical gender reassignment were "not physically capable of meeting military readiness requirements".
There are no accounts of how many transgender people are on active or reserve duty but estimates from 2014 suggest there could be as many as 15,500.
Another executive order will reinstate military personnel discharged for refusing the Covid-19 vaccines. In his inauguration speech, Trump said they were "unjustly expelled". About 8,000 US military personnel were discharged for refusing the vaccines. Only 43 were reinstated before the Republicans' return to the White House.
Hegseth said yesterday, his first day as defence secretary, that the job of the military was "legality and readiness and war fighting". He added: "Military training will be focused on the readiness of what our troops in the field need to deter our enemies."
Trump was expected to sign another executive order that would begin the process of creating an advanced missile defence shield for the US, according to CNN. The order calls for an "Iron Dome", borrowing the name of the Israeli missile defence system that has been used to intercept launches from Gaza and neighbouring territories.
"The executive order directs implementation of a next-generation missile defence shield for the United States against ballistic, hypersonic, advanced cruise missiles, and other next-generation aerial attacks," a fact sheet read.
Defence experts have previously dismissed the idea, pointing out that the US would need to deploy more than 24,700 $100 million Iron Dome batteries to defend its 3.7 million square miles. 6Immigration officials have been ordered to step up raids on migrant communities after President Trump was unimpressed by the early results of his mass deportation scheme. The White House has demanded as many as 1,500 arrests of undocumented migrants a day, up from a few hundred last week. The new quota was issued in a call on Saturday between Trump officials and the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency.

Load-Date: January 28, 2025


End of Document
