




Fox News FOX NEWS @ NIGHT 11:00 PM EST
February 6, 2025 Thursday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Length: 7525 words
Byline: Trace Gallagher, Kevin Corke, Christina Coleman, Chanley Painter, Caitlyn Jenner, Garrett Tenney
Guests: Alexandra Macedo, April Silverman, Gabrielle Cuccia, Xaviaer DuRousseau, Jason Rantz, Katie Zacharia, Jennie Taer, Carl DeMaio
Body


(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Charles Payne, Erin Perrine, Adam Hunter, Kat Timpf, studio audience. "FOX NEWS @ NIGHT" with dreamy Trace Gallagher is next. I'm Greg Gutfeld. I love you, America.
TRACE GALLAGHER, FOX NEWS CHANNEL ANCHOR: Good evening. I'm Trace Gallagher. It's 11:00 p.m. on the East Coast, 8:00 here in Los Angeles, and this is America's late news, FOX NEWS @ NIGHT.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. AL GREEN (D-TX): The movement to impeach the president has begun. I rise to announce that I will bring articles of impeachment against the president.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: And breaking tonight, if you can't beat him, impeach him. 17 days into Donald Trump's second term, and they are already talking impeachment. This time, it's over, President Trump's plan for Gaza.
Meantime, President Trump announcing a new task force to defend the rights of Christians and religious believers nationwide.
Sounds like something everyone would agree on, but then, congressional Democrats walked in.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP: JARED HUFFMAN (D-CA): Our Statuary Hall was hijacked and turned into a church service.
And we'll be burning sage for months because of that.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: "COMMON SENSE" thinks they might have run out of woke bishops to roll out.
Meantime, a federal judge moving the deadline for federal workers to consider Trump's buyout offer if the money is approved by Congress. We'll have more on that in moments.
But we begin in the nation's capital, where the senior national correspondent Kevin Corke is live with more on the sanctuary hall ceremony that has Democrats searching for sage.
Kevin, good evening.
KEVIN CORKE, FOX NEWS CHANNEL SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Unbelievable. Sometimes, you just got to wonder what they are thinking when they make comments like that, Trace.
Now, the president saying today he just wants to root out anti-Christian bias. He said those words, and in fact, he was speaking at a pair of events surrounding the National Prayer Breakfast.
The president announcing the creation of a White House Faith Office and a task force to be led by Attorney General Pam Bondi to investigate the targeting of Christians in the U.S., and especially, in the federal government.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Including at the DOJ, which was absolutely terrible. The IRS, the FBI, terrible -- and other agencies.
In addition, the task force will work to fully prosecute anti-Christian violence and vandalism in our society and to move heaven and earth to defend the rights of Christians and religious believers nationwide.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CORKE: And those not in the Constitution, Democrats are denouncing the president's remarks and actions suggesting he is violating their principle of separation of church and state.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
HUFFMAN: This has been something they have been gunning for, for a long, long time. It enables them to indoctrinate to fuse their particular religion with our government, in ways that would make our founders roll in their graves.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CORKE: Meantime, the president continues to pile up executive orders and actions with 54 already, and the Trump 100-day mark, by the way, doesn't even come until the end of April well on his way to breaking that mark set by FDR.
This, as a judge, Trace, in Boston has paused the deadline for tonight's DOGE buyout offers for federal workers. That deadline now extended, we are told, at least until Monday's 2:00 p.m. hearing, Trace.
GALLAGHER: We'll talk about that. Kevin Corke, live for us in D.C. Kevin, thank you.
Let's bring in California Assemblywoman Alexandra Macedo; political analyst, April Silverman; and former Trump White House staffer, Gabrielle Cuccia. Thank you all for coming on.
It's interesting because Alexandra, you first. Trump wants to get rid of anti-Christian bias, and he was speaking about that today and said this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: In addition, the task force will work to fully prosecute anti- Christian violence and vandalism in our society and to move heaven and earth to defend the rights of Christians and religious believers nationwide.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: It's amazing, because it sounds like something everyone would kind of get on board for, right? But then, you heard the Democrats in the open. Boom, they are coming out against it. They are coming out against everything. It doesn't matter if it's --
You name it, they are going to come out against it. What are your -- what are your thoughts on this?
ALEXANDRA MACEDO, MEMBER, CALIFORNIA STATE ASSEMBLY: If Donald Trump says that they are going to come out against it, Trace, let's be honest here. But to that, I say, God bless America.
And to that, I say, I'm also very excited that Pam Bondi is on the case. It is in our First Amendment. Meaning, it was pretty important. So, I think every American should feel free to express their religion in whatever way that is, and our Christian values, what this country is founded on with Pam Bondi in the case, I'm very sure we'll bring that back.
GALLAGHER: Yes, we're going to talk about Pam Bondi a little bit later, coming on as well.
April, Karoline Leavitt wanted to talk about DOGE. She want to talk about Elon Musk, and she wanted to talk about USAID, and she said the following today. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: It's a common-sense solution to fixing a decades-old problem of bloated bureaucracy, waste fraud, and abuse. And the vast majority of Americans support it.
So, the Democrats can hoot and holler all they want. This White House will stay committed to delivering on President Trump's priorities, and being good stewards of the hard-working American people's tax dollars.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: And on top of that, April, the vast majority of Americans are in favor of cutting government bloat.
APRIL SILVERMAN, POLITICAL ANALYST: Exactly. We just want the money, the federal money, to be scrutinized and made sure that it's properly allocated, where it's supposed to go, and not to benefit foreign entities, and to benefit the American taxpayers. And the people have spoken, this is what they want.
GALLAGHER: Yes, and you talk about people speaking, Gabrielle, because I want to put this up.
This is from our fox voter analysis back in November. But put this on the thing. This is people speaking. How much change would you like to see in how the country is run? No change or small change, 17 percent. Substantial change, complete and total upheaval, 83 percent, Gabrielle.
I mean, we voted for exactly what's happening right now in this country.
GABRIELLE CUCCIA, FORMER TRUMP WHITE HOUSE STAFFER: Trace, you're absolutely right. That 83 percent just reflects the nationwide sentiment that what we were once all called conspiracy theorists, we are now conspiracy realists. Because I can tell you right now, the example of USAID is no different than how our government has been operating when they asked the mainstream media, when you check out how POLITICO got all that money from USAID.
The government utilizes media outlets to do their bidding. It has been in our history, and Americans need to understand their history. You talk about Operation Mockingbird, you can talk about the church committee report. That was about 400 journalists that were CIA journalist.
(CROSSTALK)
GALLAGHER: Yes.
CUCCIA: You talk about NBC, CNN, they have had folks as well under their regime. This is far and wide. And USAID is just as clear example. Right now, if you don't know your history, catch on up, because it's happening right before your eyes. Trace.
GALLAGHER: It is. It is indeed.
Meantime, the saying is, if you can't beat him, join him. But now, the saying, apparently, on Capitol Hill is, if you can't beat them, impeach him.
Here is Texas Representative Al Green.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GREEN: Movement to impeach the president has begun. I rise to announce that I will bring articles of impeachment against the president for dastardly deeds proposed and dastardly deeds done.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: I think Alexandra, the overarching theme here is, when you don't have a play and you're literally -- I mean, they are almost a checkmate, and you don't have a play, you always resort to, let's impeach him. Let's impeach him again. I mean, impeach him again and again and again, right?
MACEDO: Well, they waited 17 days, right?
GALLAGHER: Yes --
MACEDO: Let's give them the benefit of the doubt here.
GALLAGHER: Right.
MACEDO: But -- and it's not, you know, it's really shocking to me that the Democrats just don't seem to learn, right? The American people spoke cloud and clear, they are tired of the partisan politics. And to add insult to injury, President Trump won the Electoral College and the popular vote.
GALLAGHER: Right.
MACEDO: He made campaign promises. He is following through on those promises, and they still want to act surprised. That is exactly why they lost the election in November, but clearly that was not a big enough loss for them, and they are coming back for more.
GALLAGHER: Yes, and they just absolutely do not want to change, April.
The Wall Street Journal editorial board talks about those beach front Gaza condos. Goes on to write the following here. "It's easy to dismiss this as the fantasy of a presidential huckster who imagines Trump condos on a Gaza Gold Coast. But is his idea so much worse than the status quo that the rest of the world is offering?"
And the status quo and what's been happening in Gaza for decades is not working.
SILVERMAN: Well, the definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result.
For decades, billions of dollars were sent in aid to Gaza, and that just funded terror, as opposed to the infrastructure and schools and hospitals.
So, this would be like an out of the box problem solving way to just try something new and maybe bring peace and prosperity for the first time to Gaza.
GALLAGHER: Right.
I mean, it's -- to Alexandra's point, Gabrielle, because, you know, the Democrats keep talking about the fact they've run out of options. Even Democrats are acknowledging that nobody really wants to buy their brand. Listen to this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
HOWARD DEAN, FORMER CHAIRMAN, DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE: Democrats need to have a complete reboot. The name Democrat has been branded really badly, and we don't run enough local candidates to unbranded.
REP. JIM HIMES (D-CT): You win by running left economically and by being centrist culturally. You know that means being patriotic. It means not being obsessed over identity politics.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: So, what they are saying is, Gabrielle, is you have to move away from crazy.
CUCCIA: You absolutely do have to move away from crazy, Trace. And back to April's point, when you talk about insanity, doing the same thing over and over again, I'm sure Democrats are pretty darn tired, considering that Al Green, from Texas, the one leading this impeachment, has already done it three times during Trump's first term.
So, I would just say he is right on schedule, on that insanity train, doing the same thing over and over again on repeat. Trace.
GALLAGHER: Yes, amazing.
Gabrielle, April, Alexandra, thank you all. We appreciate it.
MACEDO: Thank you, Trace.
SILVERMAN: Thank you.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SCOTT JENNINGS, SENIOR POLITICAL COMMENTATOR, CNN: He is describing what is currently the dumbest strategy in politics, which is Democrats taking the 20 percent side of every 80-20 issue in America.
USAID, people want this paired down, they want it streamline. They want to know where the money is going. Democrats have a meltdown.
Today, Donald Trump signs executive order on keeping boys out of girls' sports. Democrats take the 20 side of that issue as well.
All these issues, this is like Trump's superpower, finding a bunch of 80-20 issues, getting on the 80, and everybody who sort of reflexively against him gets on the 20. And now, the Democratic Party has like a 31 percent approval rating. This is why.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: With that, let's bring in PragerU personality, Xaviaer DuRousseau; and the author of "What's Killing America", Seattle talk radio host, Jason Rantz. Thank you both for coming on.
Xaviaer, to you first. Scott Jennings makes a fair point, saying, Democrats are on the wrong side of history. I mean, they really are. They are going toward every -- almost like this masochistic political aspirations, just -- if there is 10 percent of the population is in favor of something. So, were they?
XAVIAER DUROUSSEAU, PRAGERU PERSONALITY: It seems like they are desperate to make us despise them. Like, I don't understand it at this point. They are going out of their way to go against the interests of the average American.
Every single time that there is a popular opinion that seems like common sense, the Democrats go out of their way to do the exact opposite of what we're asking them for.
GALLAGHER: Yes, it's interesting, because back to CNN now, Jason Rantz, the CNN anchor, Pamela Brown, was asking Texas Rep. Brandon Gill about USAID and Elon Musk, and here's kind of where the conversation landed. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PAMELA BROWN, CNN CHIEF INVESTIGATIVE CORRESPONDENT AND ANCHOR: Would you be OK if Democrats did this? If a George Soros came in with his staffers and did the same thing that Elon Musk is doing? Would you accept that?
REP. BRANDON GILL (R-TX): Well, what's unprecedented is spending our taxpayer dollars on left-wing partisan political projects all over the globe. That's what the American people are focused on.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Yes, I think the answer, Jason, maybe you agree or disagree that if George Soros is planning to do some good and cut government waste, I think people would be on board.
JASON RANTZ, TALK SHOW HOST, KTTH RADIO SEATTLE: I would love it. I would totally embrace that. And I think most conservatives would.
Come on over to our site, instead of trying, of course, he would probably try to cut prosecutors', cops.
GALLAGHER: Yes.
RANTZ: He would go over in that world.
But if he wants to cut some of the bloat, if he wants to cut some of the woke nonsense, I think it would be a welcome issue.
The sort of the explosion of this pretend outrage over Elon Musk is really fascinating to me, because no one can tell me the difference between Elon Musk and Steve. A random bureaucrat, who is doing a lot of the work that we have no idea what his day to day is like, and yet, Elon Musk is doing exactly the same thing -- virtually the same thing, and we're aware of it.
(CROSSTALK)
GALLAGHER: Yes.
RANTZ: And by the way, he's got the ear of the president and vice versa. They are working together in concert. That's a good thing.
GALLAGHER: Yes. And he's got the American people behind him, because these polls again and again say, yes, we need to cut government waste.
Meantime, we've been talking about DEI, USAID, there is -- there is examples like musicals in Ireland. We played $20 million. Well, now we have something about Sesame Street in the Middle East. I want to play some of this video here, a little bit of the audio. It's in a different language, so we'll play a little bit of it. But this is Sesame Street in the Middle East that USAID has paid some.
Do we have this video? Katie, can we run this? U.S. -- yes, here it is.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER (voice over): So, is literally paid $20 million Xaviaer to produce this. And the only reason they have stopped producing this now is because CBS says that funding -- is reporting that funding stopped because, in Pakistan, the accusations were that there was corruption with all this money coming in, like, really?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
DUROUSSEAU: To be quite blunt about it, after all the years that we spent unnecessarily in Iraq, I feel like this is insult to injury to make them now have to watch this woke garbage on their televisions.
And then, I look at the funding that's going towards this, we have places here in America, like Flint in Michigan that still does not have clean water. Why are we funding a weird woke Sesame Street when we do not have the resources here in our country that we need?
And as someone in Gen Z, it's particularly disrespectful.
GALLAGHER: Yes.
DUROUSSEAU: Because, as I look at my future, it feels like everything that I should be able to expect to my future becomes increasingly unaffordable, because of inflation in government spending.
GALLAGHER: Yes, and when you see something like this, Xaviaer, do you think this is -- this is -- this is crazy. We are spending so much money, and it has gone unchecked for so long.
DUROUSSEAU: For so long. It almost feels like it's some kind of sick game to see that can just roll the dice and wherever it lands, that's where U.S. taxpayer dollars are going to.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Meantime, Jason Rantz, we talked about -- we talked about the whole idea of, you know, going in and cutting, and if George Soros is going to give us a hand, let him give us a hand.
There is the ladies on "The View", who say this about opposing those who want to cut government waste. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.
ANA NAVARRO, POLITICAL COMMENTATOR, CNN: I mean, what is happening is outrageous. What I want to know is, when are we going to hit the streets?
(CROSSTALK)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes. One thing --
NAVARRO: When are we, in America going to stand up and say enough is enough?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Nothing like ladies on "The View", calling everybody to go and hit the streets and stir things up a little bit. Jason.
RANTZ: Yes. Something tells me, Ana Navarro will not be hitting the streets and doing anything. So, calling on the troops to go out and do this.
What's really fun to watch is, while they are doing this, no one is really following through. No one is, in fact, going to the streets, because no one is really outraged. The outrage is coming from a very, very small group of folks.
You go back into 2020 after George Floyd, they were telling people to go to the streets, and that's precisely what folks did.
GALLAGHER: Yes.
RANTZ: And they rioted, they killed, they assaulted, they vandalized, they actually followed through.
This time, no one is falling for their garbage and they are staying at home cheering on the Trump administration.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Exactly right.
Jason Rantz, Xaviaer DuRousseau, thank you, both.
Meantime, California Governor Gavin Newsom, significantly changing his tone about President Trump, at least, while he was at the White House looking for a bunch of federal money.
Christina Coleman is live with a closer look at the political frenemies. Christina, good evening.
CHRISTINA COLEMAN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Hi. Good evening, Trace. Yes, Governor Gavin Newsom seems to have softened his approach. He is giving some credit to President Donald Trump as they worked out Californians recover from the devastating wildfires that claimed the lives of 29 people and destroyed thousands of homes.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
GOV. GAVIN NEWSOM (D-CA): It's critical that the relationship between the president of the United States and the State of California remain strong and firm in our resolve to fix this.
COLEMAN (voice over): Newsom met with the president in Washington, D.C. and leaders of the House and Senate on both sides of the aisle this week to secure disaster aid for wildfire survivors.
Newsom, also shared his appreciation for EPA Administrator Lee Zeldin. Under the Trump administration, the EPA launched the largest wildfire cleanup in the agency's history to help Californians recover from this tragedy.
NEWSOM: Lee Zeldin is doing an amazing job. He is on the ground today in Los Angeles. They are moving the first phase of the debris removal at record pace. The president wants to do something that's never been done, and that is address this crisis with a degree of sophistication and focus to get the job done and get people's lives back.
COLEMAN (voice over): President Donald Trump visited fire ravaged areas in the Pacific Palisades last month, and signed an executive order, directing the EPA to safely remove all hazardous materials within 30 days.
LEAVITT: The president is willing to work with anybody from blue states or red states to do what's best for the American people.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
COLEMAN (on camera): The EPA is working to clear out hazardous materials from more than 13,000 residential and 250 commercial properties impacted by the wildfires.
GALLAGHER: Christina Coleman. Christina, thank you.
Well, the FOX NEWS @ NIGHT "COMMON SENSE DEPARTMENT" thinks California Governor Gavin Newsom has a genuine problem. The problem is he is not genuine.
Newsom was in D.C. meeting with President Trump yesterday, some would say, bending the knee.
Truth is, he was kissing up to secure federal funding to help pay for the devastating fires in Los Angeles.
Newsom says the meeting was quoting here, "real, substantive, positive." You will notice he didn't say genuine, because genuine, it was not. Unless, genuine hypocrisy is a thing, because Newsom is both asking Trump for help, then, signing legislation in California to sue the Trump administration at every turn. You know, Trump-proof California.
Aside from that, we're told the meeting was friendly. Newsom says they even had a good laugh at Trump calling him, Newscum on the campaign trail. It's funny, right? No.
The governor says he and Trump developed a relationship during COVID. Odd, considering Newsom criticized Trump relentlessly during COVID, while the governor himself followed the science, shut down the schools, and dined indoors, French, laundry, style.
"COMMON SENSE" thinks, it will kind of go like this. Trump will approve California's federal funding, and Newsom will go back west, go back to hating Trump, and go back to being called Newscum, which always gives the governor a good laugh, a genuine good laugh.
Let's bring in Fix California senior adviser, political analyst, and attorney, Katie Zacharia. Katie, great to have you. I mean, you talk to Newsom, and you hear these news conferences, and he goes on CNN, and it's like he has this newfound respect for Trump, but it's all such theater. It's just so phony.
KATIE ZACHARIA, SENIOR ADVISOR, FIX CALIFORNIA: It's so phony. And I think if we were to see true, genuine mea culpa from Gavin Newsom, we would see him on, on CNN, in that last interview, saying, the president has asked for voter ID, we will do that; the president has asked and required us to open our waterways, we will do that without the strong arm of the federal government. We will institute brush clearance and deforestation. We have made a major mistake, and these are the problems. We haven't heard him say one thing that they did incorrectly.
GALLAGHER: Yes, It's amazing to me.
I want to move on and talk about this, because Rick Grenell, who is Trump's envoy to special missions, and we can put up these pictures as we show these, because it's kind of fascinating. He freed six Americans. The story has got no coverage. Freed six Americans who were being held in Venezuela, right? And here they are.
And Grenell said this on the "Megyn Kelly" show yesterday, quoting here, "It is our job to convince the Venezuelan government, to show them the facts. This is what the Biden team didn't do. Biden team didn't even send anyone to the prisons. They didn't even get a wellness check from the Biden administration. They had no idea what was going on."
The Biden administration didn't try. And then, boom, Trump's in office for a few days, and Katie, and they are coming home.
ZACHARIA: Less than two weeks President Trump had hostages coming home. Hostages that people didn't even know were in Venezuela.
GALLAGHER: Right.
ZACHARIA: And his envoy went down there, and he asked Maduro, he said, I want these six hostages. And he said, oh, I don't have them. And Ambassador Grenell said, I need them. I'm going to go back to the plane and you're going to get them to me. And the regime brought them to him, in a very emotional moment where he got to say, I'm an American diplomat, and I'm here to bring you home from President Trump's orders.
GALLAGHER: Yes.
ZACHARIA: It was incredible.
GALLAGHER: Meantime, back in California, the EPA Administrator Lee Zeldin and Grenell went with L.A. Mayor Karen Bass to the fires, the Palisades, and kind of checked all this stuff out.
Zeldin and Grenell, I think, as you look at these pictures, will do more for the State of California than Karen Bass and Gavin Newsom and the rest of them put together, because they are in the process. They are in an administration that wants to get stuff done, Katie.
ZACHARIA: Absolutely. And you could see, Mayor Bass, start turning the wheels very quickly, as demands were being made by the residents that have been disgruntled, that have been relocated, and cannot get back to their homes to remove the debris.
Mayor Bass kept saying, oh, we'll get it done quickly -- we'll get it done quickly. And you could see EPA Administrator Lee Zeldin and Rick Grenell's presence there, really are forcing the mayor, the county, and the state, to actually get things done for them.
GALLAGHER: Yes, they really are. Katie Zacharia, great to have you on the show. Thank you for coming.
Well, coming up, the president's pick to run the oh, DOJ, Pam Bondi, already shaking up the so-called sanctuary cities. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PAM BONDI, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES: Not only did we sue today the city of Chicago, we sued the State of Illinois, we sued the mayor, we sued the governor, and we sued others. And let me be very clear, if you don't comply with federal law, you are going to be next.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: And later in the "NIGHTCAP", a new bill proposed this year, could force movie theaters to list the actual start times of the films, allowing viewers to skip the preview, skip all the commercials. What do you think about this? Do you like it? Do you not like it? And why? Let us know. X and Instagram, @tracegallagher. We'll read your responses coming up in the "NIGHTCAP".
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GALLAGHER: Well, a large multi-agency raid on Tren de Aragua gang members in Colorado came up empty, apparently, after media reports an immigration activists tipped off locals that ICE was on the way.
Chanley Painter is live with the rest of that story.
Chanley, good evening.
CHANLEY PAINTER, FOX NEWS CHANNEL, OVERNIGHT ANCHOR: Hey, Trace.
So, nearly 400 agents from six federal agencies descended on Aurora, Colorado, Wednesday in hopes of deporting more than 100 Tren de Aragua members. But instead, found the targeted apartments empty. The gang members, apparently, tipped off, and Tom Homan is ticked off.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TOM HOMAN, FORMER ACTING DIRECTOR, IMMIGRATION AND CUSTOMS ENFORCEMENT: This isn't a game. When operations get leaked like that, puts our officers at great risk. It's already a dangerous job.
PAINTER (voice over): The borders czar, blaming leaks to the media, as endangering officer lives. Only 30 arrests were ultimately made, one of which was a TDA member.
Some also blaming local activists who were warning people about the operation and taunting officers.
Meanwhile, back in D.C., the newly sworn in attorney general, wasting no time targeting sanctuary city policies.
Pam Bondi now directing a pause on federal grants to such cities. Her office also filing lawsuits challenging local laws, it says are designed to interfere with immigration enforcement.
So far, city mayors are not flinching.
MICHELLE WU, MAYOR OF BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS: Local communities implement local laws, and federal government can implement their laws, and we are not -- we are not forced to participate in in their actions, just as they are not asked to carry out filling potholes and other things like that as well.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BONDI (on camera): So, and now, the House Oversight Committee is launching an investigation of cities refusing to cooperate with immigration enforcement.
And Trace, as far as that leak, Homan says he has identified how did Aurora operation was leaked and is dealing with it.
GALLAGHER: Yes, and I think they will. Chanley Painter live for us in New York. Chanley, thank you.
Let's bring in California State Assembly Member Carl DeMaio and New York Post Reporter Jennie Taer. Thank you both.
Jennie, to you first. The Trump administration suing now Illinois Governor J.B. Pritzker, Brandon Johnson, the Mayor of Chicago, for interfering with ICE's ability to arrest and deport illegals. Tom Homan had this to say about that.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TOM HOMAN, BORDER CZAR: We're going to hold things for cities accountable. We're going to take them on it and we'll take them at the court. Again, it's everybody -- every elected mayor, every elected governor, every elected city councilman you would think they would want their community safe too, and they would work public safety threats removed from their community.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: You would think they would want their community safe. But the bottom line is they were warned, Jennie.
JENNIE TAER, REPORTER, NEW YORK POST: Absolutely, they were warned. And Tom Homan did say on the campaign trail that on day one they would be targeting Chicago with arrests and they were planning on doing that. And again, because of leaks they had to hold off on those operations. From the start of these mass deportation efforts, they have been stymied by not only sanctuary jurisdictions but also the media. And of course, that's put officers at risk for their safety.
But at the end of the day, these jurisdictions have let go some really horrific criminals. One of them Jean Torres Roman, actually was released by Cook County Judge last year. A month later he ended up actually in Colorado, in Denver, and he committed a heinous crime where they robbed a jewelry store, a bunch of the TDA gang members did this. They pistol whipped the female workers there.
And this was all because he was let go by these jurisdictions that the Trump administration is now trying to hold accountable.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Meantime, the AP headline reads, California Assembly approves $50 million to defend immigrants and protect state policies from Trump plans. It goes on to say the legislation sets aside $25 million for the State Department of Justice to fight legal battles against the federal government. Another $25 million for legal groups to defend immigrants facing possible deportation.
I mean we're going to pay for criminals here illegally to defend themselves, Carl?
CARL DEMAIO, CHAIRMAN, REFORM CALIFORNIA: Yes, both of these bills are designed to put the interests of the politicians and the criminals first. The first bill provides money for state and local politicians to get free taxpayer-funded lawyers to defend themselves if they're charged with interfering with federal law enforcement, obstruction of justice. And the $25 million going to illegal immigrants to keep them in this country does not have any prohibition against criminals.
In fact, the Republicans on the assembly floor offered a hostile amendment saying, look, convince us that you're not going to give it to criminals.
GALLAGHER: Right.
DEMAIO: Democrats voted against that amendment. They had an opportunity to ensure that the money would not go to criminals. They're giving your taxpayer money to criminals. Felons with violent records, rapists, burglars, violent criminals are going to be shielded by this action.
GALLAGHER: And you get Newsom in D.C. asking for money to pay for these fires and they're giving money away to people. It's crazy.
The Fox News headline, Jennie, reads, Mexico says it will not allow us to send Mexican migrants to Guantanamo Bay. How in the world would they enforce that, Jennie?
TAER: Right. Absolutely. If your citizens came across our borders, they're in our jurisdiction and therefore are removable under U.S. law. So, this is something that the Trump administration may be able to fight back on. And they already put illegal migrants from Mexico into their custody, many of whom are the ones who are gotaways right now. That's what they're seeing at the border. That's what my sources are saying.
At the same time, it was Mexico that also, let's remember, opened its own Southern Border with countries like Guatemala and they let in the flood of migrants that then came across our border after the Biden Administration opened that itself. So, they need to be held accountable on several different areas. The Trump Administration is already trying to do that with this tariff issue, and now them deploying those troops to the border. So, we're starting to see some of that.
GALLAGHER: Yes. I think the way you fight back is you put them on a plane and you're flying to Gitmo. That's the way you fight back.
Meantime, Fox 5 New York, a memo put out by Bondi -- Pam Bondi talking about the Attorney General and her new push to say OK, we're going to gather these people up. Sanctuary cities and states that do not cooperate and interfere with immigration enforcement operations will not receive any federal funding. I've got 35 seconds for you, Carl.
DEMAIO: Look, the hypocrisy of these local officials saying that they will not cooperate with federal law enforcement to get criminals out of their streets --
GALLAGHER: Right.
DEMAIO: -- and off -- out of their communities and that they're actually going to impede federal law enforcement trying to deport these individuals. Then they come hat and hand asking for federal talks tax dollars. Hells no. Either you cooperate and you stop obstructing justice or you get no federal funds. It's very simple. And so, I hope the Trump Administration drives a hard bargain here, cuts off the funding, and forces these local officials to do what is necessary to protect their own citizens.
GALLAGHER: Listen, two weeks and three days and so far the bargains they have driven are pretty hard all the way across the board.
DEMAIO: They hit the ground running.
GALLAGHER: Carl, Jennie Taer, thank you both.
Coming up, the NCAA already making major changes following President Trump's ban on transgender athletes in women's sports. The one and only Caitlyn Jenner thinks the ban should go worldwide. She joins us live on set next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
LEAVITT: This common sense action from President Trump ends the disgusting betrayal of women and girls by the previous administration who for years catered to radical activists who wanted biological males to be treated as women and workplace showers, competitive sports, prisons, and even rape shelters. Gender ideology insanity is over.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: One day after the President signed his no men in women's sports executive order, the NAACP or the NCAA officially followed suit and ban trans athletes from participating in women's sports. Let's bring in Fox News Contributor and former Olympian, Caitlyn Jenner. It's great to have you on the show.
Riley Gaines took a shot at Lia Thomas on X today posting this. Quoting here. I wish I could have told the girl in this photo what was to come in 2025. She felt cheated, betrayed, and violated. I'm just glad that girl trusted God and took a leap of faith by stating the obvious when it wasn't popular. It was true then, true now. He is a man.
What do you think of the President's executive order, Caitlyn.
CAITLYN JENNER, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: It's about time. See, I started fighting this. I knew it was wrong right from the beginning. I've lived it. I know in the athletic world, on trans, I've lived the whole thing. And it's not fair. It's not -- not only just is not fair, it's not safe for women to have men competing against them.
And so, I've been fighting this since 2021 for many years.
GALLAGHER: Yes.
JENNER: And to be honest with you, with the last administration, it was extraordinarily frustrating. You know, and I tried to use all of social media, X, obviously Fox News has been phenomenal on this issue and really helped me out try to get it out and convincing people that it is wrong. But unfortunately, we were up against an administration that was going in the total opposite direction.
I mean, the previous administration even took Title Nine and put trans women, biological men in Title Nine protection. It was all wrong. Obviously, I voted for Donald Trump for a lot of reasons. And this being one of them because I've been fighting this fight. And he came in very quickly in just, you know, within the fear for two weeks.
GALLAGHER: Right.
JENNER: And put his ban out on trans athletes in sports, an executive order. That is great because -- but it only really affects like the NCAA.
GALLAGHER: And you want this to go wider.
JENNER: It has to --
GALLAGHER: You want this to go worldwide.
JENNER: It has to go worldwide. Trace, we've made some progress Sebastian Coe who's the CEO of World Athletics --
GALLAGHER: Right.
JENNER: He came last year. I talked with him. He got a ban on trans athletes in athletics or track and field. We also right here on this show - - and thank you for helping me -- the LPGA which we had a big problem with Hailey Davidson.
GALLAGHER: Yes, I remember.
JENNER: And -- yes, and they came back and said that it's going to be -- they're going to have to go back to eligibility as female at birth. And so, we've made some progress, you know, and we made big progress now. But the fight is not over with.
GALLAGHER: No.
JENNER: It's just not over with. It's going to -- the NCAA, any federally subsidized organization has to go with the ban. But there are so many other organizations.
GALLAGHER: What about the Olympics in '28 in Los Angeles? Do you think they can -- they can push enough resistance to be able to make sure it doesn't happen there?
JENNER: Trump has already talked about that. And you remember just right year ago, it was the Algerian boxer who was not trans actually. She was intersex.
GALLAGHER: Yes.
JENNER: But her DNA was XY, OK -- biologically male.
GALLAGHER: Right.
JENNER: OK. And they let her compete. The international -- or the International Olympic Committee gave the worst excuse and says, well, on her passport, it's gender marker F.
GALLAGHER: Yes.
JENNER: You know, that's why she was able to compete. That is just wrong. And what does she do? She went out there, beat the hell out of these women, and winds up winning the gold.
In L.A., we can't have that. And I'm sure Donald Trump will fix that. And yes, we'll keep working at it. We got to just keep fighting. What about, you know, International Women's Soccer? They've got to do it. So, there's so many organizations out there. They'll have to change their eligibility requirements. Female at birth is what we want.
GALLAGHER: Speaking of Olympics, I always thought you should try something like that. I think you've been pretty good. I mean, who knows but I think you would have been pretty good.
JENNER: No, I don't know about that. But I -- what I want is -- what I want is a Common Sense mug.
GALLAGHER: You got it. We're going to get --can we get Caitlyn a Common Sense mug? Bring it down there.
JENNER: Yes, I saw that.
GALLAGHER: Ashley, can we get one here.
JENNER: I should -- for my coffee in the morning, common sense.
GALLAGHER: Caitlyn, great to have you on.
JENNER: Because that's what we're talking about.
GALLAGHER: That's right.
JENNER: Common sense.
GALLAGHER: Great to have you on the show.
Well, just about 67 hours now from kickoff to Super Bowl 59 in New Orleans, the Big Easy certainly not taking it easy when it comes to security for the big game. Garrett Tenney is in New Orleans tonight.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I don't like it there here but I'm glad they're here.
GARRETT TENNEY, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: A month after a deadly ISIS-inspired terror attack, official say New Orleans has transformed into the safest place in America this week for the Super Bowl.
ERIC DELAUNE, HOMELAND SECURITY INVESTIGATIONS: We will be foolish if we didn't learn and use what happened on January 1st to inform how we make changes.
TENNEY (voice-over): Those changes include new bollards and barriers on Bourbon Street that weren't used on New Year's, including the archer barriers that are designed to stop a high-speed vehicle attack. More than two dozen federal agencies are helping secure the Big Easy.
DELAUNE: I mean, it's our job to fill in the gaps for our state local partners and help them out as best we can.
TENNEY (voice-over): And special agent in charge Eric DeLaune is coordinating those efforts with state and local police. On Bourbon Street, heavily armored bear cat vehicles with Homeland Security Special Response Teams are on standby. And National Guard troops are manning barricaded checkpoints to enforce a new enhanced security zone in the French Quarter which includes a ban on coolers and ice chests like the terrorists used to hide explosives last month.
In the sky, our cameras went up in one of the Blackhawk helicopters patrolling the city. And on the water, we went out with CBP's Air and Marine operations.
MATTHEW VALZANIA, CBP AIR AND MARINE OPERATIONS: We're predominantly looking for, you know, any sort of acts of terrorism or anything like that.
TENNEY (voice-over): More than 2,000 officers from local state and federal agencies are on hand. And city officials say their goal is to have a visible security presence on every single street downtown for the more than 100,000 fans expected.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: They are everywhere. Their presence is known as well.
TENNEY (voice-over): Special agent DeLaune says with all of the additional federal resources that have been brought in since New Year's, this will be the most secure Super Bowl in history.
DELAUNE: Even talking to our counterparts at the NFL, this is the most organized and most secure Super Bowl that they would.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
TENNEY (on camera): The federal officials say currently there are no specific credible threats on the Super Bowl. And that whoever wins on Sunday they aren't worried about celebrations getting out of hand, at least not here in New Orleans. Trace?
GALLAGHER: Garrett Tenney.
A bill -- a new bill proposed could force movie theaters to list the actual start times of films and skip the previews. What do you think? Do you love it? You hate it? Why? Let us know X and Instagram @TraceGallagher. The nightcap crew and you, next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GALLAGHER: Back with the "NIGHTCAP" crew Kevin Corke, Christina Coleman, Caitlyn Jenner, Carl DeMaio, Alexandra Macedo, and Jason Rantz. Tonight's topic, all the right movie times. A new bill might force movie theaters to list the actual start times of the films allowing viewers to skip the previews and all the commercials. Do you like it or not, Jason Rantz?
RANTZ: Well, I got to admit I wanted to jail Maria Menounos once because of how bad those pre-trailer videos are. However I think this is a ridiculous idea. I love the trailers. They're often better than the movies themselves. And I learned long ago, they're only about 30 minutes, so just show up 30 minutes late.
GALLAGHER: Kevin?
CORKE: I'm the same. I love the previews and it gives me a chance to get a little popcorn if I'm running a little late. Do not change that.
GALLAGHER: I hate those commercials and previews. Carl DeMaio.
DEMAIO: I'm against any of these crazy regulations. Get the government out of it. But I do know that by the time the previews are done, I'm usually done with my soda and my popcorn and I have to race out before the actual movie starts to get a refill.
GALLAGHER: Tell me when the movie starts, Alexander Macedo.
MACEDO: You know, Trace, it's so incredible. Our government is getting more efficient, and now going to the movie theaters is too. It's wonderful. The Trump effect is in full effect in the movie theaters.
GALLAGHER: DOGE, Christina, DOGE.
COLEMAN: I like the previews because it gives me a cushion to be late. Like I know we got like 30 minutes. Yes.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Caitlyn.
JENNER: I'm there just to see the commercials. Sometimes the commercials are better than the movie. But I did get a Common Sense mug.
GALLAGHER: You did get a Commons Sense mug out of the deal.
JENNER: I am very, very pleased.
GALLAGHER: Chan Lee (ph). Oh, she's not here. Is that everybody? Well, thank you.
So, we asked people. Maddie says, sure. Sounds like a good idea. I like previews but not when they're 39 minutes long.
Mark says, no, I don't like it. I love the previews. Sometimes the previews are better than the actual movie.
JENNER: Here we go. See?
GALLAGHER: Ray love it. I go to see specific movie, not half hour commercials.
Lute says I don't like it. Previews are part of the fun. I love the anticipatory feeling of waiting in line for popcorn while you the previews are playing.
John, terrible idea. People will be walking and -- in during the movie.
And Ashley says last time I went to the movies, I showed up 10 minutes past the posted start time expected previews and realize I missed 10 minutes of the movie. Theaters need to be clear about when the movie actually starts.
And Robert says time is money. We pay for the movie and not the commercials.
Thank you for watching America's late news "FOX NEWS @ NIGHT." I'm Trace Gallagher in Los Angeles. We'll see you right back here again tomorrow.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

Load-Date: February 7, 2025


End of Document
