




Daily O'Collegian: Oklahoma State University
January 31, 2025 Friday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 829 words
Body


After nearly two weeks in office, President Trump has signed multiple executive orders covering everything from immigration to education. 
There is a lot to digest between daily headlines, reports, and social media commentary. The Trump administration also rescinded 78 executive orders signed by Biden concerning DEI and racial and gender equality. Here is a list of a few of the executive orders Trump has signed since he took office on Jan. 20.  
Ending birthright citizenship
Trump signed an executive order ending birthright citizenship, a right granted to anyone born on U.S. soil through the 14th Amendment. The order applies to those whose parents are not U.S. citizens or whose mother was 'lawfully' but 'temporarily' present. 
National border emergency 
Among his many orders to curb immigration, Trump declared a national border emergency. The order halted immigration and sent US troops to the border, and it was part of Trump's larger goal to conduct a massive deportation initiative across the country.
The order points out crime rates and 'terror-related activities as reasons for halting immigration.
??"Enforcing our Nation's immigration laws is critically important to the national security and public safety of the United States."
Trump signed another border related order designating all cartels as foreign terrorist groups. 
Pause on refugee admittance 
The refugee resettlement program has been paused and is moving to a case-by-case policy. 
Diversity Equity & Inclusion
Trump signed an order effectively ending support for 'wasteful' and 'radical' federally funded DEI programs.
Leaving international organizations 
Trump signed an order ending our World Health Organization role. The U.S. will leave in 12 months and pull all financial contributions.
Another order withdraws the U.S. from the Paris Climate Agreement.
Gender-affirming care
Trump signed multiple orders concerning gender. One order is an attempt at preventing gender-affirming care for people under 19. 
The order reads, "[I]t is the policy of the United States that it will not fund, sponsor, promote, assist, or support the so-called "transition" of a child from one sex to another."
Two genders 
Trump created a policy that only recognizes two genders, male and female, and removes "gender ideology guidance" from federal policy.
The executive order, which is titled "Defending Women from Gender Ideology Extremism and Restoring Biological Truth to the Federal Government," claims to be in the interest of women's rights.
Federal employees 
Trump signed two orders involving federal employees with one targeting employees believed, by the Trump administration, to be involved in election interference. The second order reforms the hiring process for federal employees. 
Department of Government Efficiency
Trump signed an order establishing the Department Government Efficiency to cut down on government waste and revaluate federal agencies. 
The military
Trump signed multiple orders aiming to end D.E.I within the military, eliminate "gender radicalism," and rehire those fired for refusing the COVID-19 vaccine. 
As of this article's publication, transgender service members have not been banned. 
Iron dome
Trump issued an order to create a missile defense shield, the American Iron Dome.
Declassifying assasination files
Trump signed an order declassifying thousands of files surrounding the assassinations of Martin Luther King Jr. and John F. Kennedy. 
Electric vehicles and AI 
To further AI innovation, Trump ordered a review of several Biden-era AI policies and commissioned a group to develop regulations for cryptocurrency. Trump also walked back Biden's non-binding executive order on electric vehicles.
Unleashing energy
Trump declared a national energy emergency to promote fossil fuels and remove drilling restrictions in Alaska. Trump also introduced a second, more broad order focused on promoting energy production to "encourage energy exploration and production[.]" 
Gulf of America
Trump signed an order renaming the Gulf of Mexico to the Gulf of America and renamed Mt. Denali to Mt. McKinley. The order does not affect how names are used internationally. 
FEMA review
Trump called for a review of the Federal Emergency Management Agency after their handling of the areas devastated by hurricane Helene. His review specifically targets claims that FEMA refused help to Trump supporters. 
The order cites, "There are serious concerns of political bias in FEMA. Indeed, one former FEMA responder stated that FEMA managers directed her to avoid homes of individuals supporting the campaign of Donald J. Trump for President."
Tik Tok Ban
Hours after the TikTok ban went into effect, Trump signed a bill restoring the social media app for at least 75 days.
America first and censorship
The order states that American foreign policy will "champion core American interests," focusing the country's policy on benefiting America. 
Another order aims to end federal censorship and protect free speech.


Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
