




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 31, 2025 Friday 9:30 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 732 words
Byline: Zachary Basu
Body


January 31st, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
In his first national tragedy, President  
Why it matters: The traditional presidential playbook is boring by design - pray for the lost and their families, reassure the public, promise a swift investigation. That has never been Trump's style.
The big picture: Trump has responded to the  
It's vintage Trump: His instincts for bare-knuckle brawling were a huge asset during his four years in the wilderness, helping to fuel a historic political comeback.
But Trump is president now, not a powerless pundit. His words carry the weight of the U.S. government.
Zoom in: As bodies were still being recovered from the Wednesday night   
Moments later, he pivoted sharply to attacking his Democratic predecessors, Presidents Biden and Obama, and accusing the Federal Aviation Administration of prioritizing diversity over air safety.
He acknowledged an investigation was needed to determine the exact causes of the crashes, but cited "common sense" when asked how he knew diversity hiring could have played a role.
"They actually came out with a directive - 'too white,'" Trump claimed of the FAA under Obama. "Their policy was horrible and their politics was even worse."
Trump later   
"This shocking event follows problematic and likely illegal decisions during the Obama and Biden Administrations that minimized merit and competence" in the FAA, the memo alleged.
Reality check: There's no evidence that Obama or Biden's hiring policies at the FAA led to any kind of decline in aviation safety.
The "disabilities" language that Trump now opposes was in FAA regulations during his entire first term and first appeared around 2013, according to the fact-checking website  
The FAA administrator under Biden   
What they're saying: Democrats reacted with outrage at Trump's finger-pointing, with some lawmakers diverting blame to the president's gutting of a  
"Despicable. As families grieve, Trump should be leading, not lying,"  
"We put safety first, drove down close calls, grew Air Traffic Control, and had zero commercial airline crash fatalities out of millions of flights on our watch," Buttigieg wrote.
Zoom out: Trump's knee-jerk politicization of the Potomac River crash fits a familiar pattern - one that was on display not only during his first term, but in the weeks before he took office this time.
After Hurricane Helene ravaged North Carolina, Trump  
When an American-born Army veteran drove through a crowd in New Orleans on New Year's Day, Trump  
And when the worst wildfires in California history unleashed mass devastation in Los Angeles,   
Flashback: In a post-2020 election autopsy, Trump's own pollster  
Trump's  
Four years in opposition have helped Trump rehabilitate his image. But by reflexively blaming Democrats and DEI for the country's problems, Trump risks a repeat of the dynamics that weakened his first presidency.


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
