




The Daily Caller
February 11, 2025 Tuesday 07:59 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: DAILY-CALLER-NEWS-FOUNDATION; us
Length: 717 words
Byline: Jason Hopkins, Immigration Reporter, 
Body



The Trump administration has fired four Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) employees for sending $59 million in taxpayer dollars to New York City hotels to house and care for illegal migrants.
The firings come after Elon Musk, whose mission is weeding out frivolous spending within the U.S. government through his Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) agency, highlighted the price tag in a social media post Monday. The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) confirmed the firings Tuesday and referred to the payments as “egregious”. 
“Effective immediately, FEMA is terminating the employment of four individuals for circumventing leadership to unilaterally make egregious payments for luxury NYC hotels for migrants,” DHS said in a statement shared with the Daily Caller News Foundation. “Firings include FEMA's Chief Financial Officer, two program analysts and a grant specialist.”
“Under President Trump and Secretary Noem's leadership, DHS will not sit idly and allow deep state activists to undermine the will and safety of the American people,” the statement continued.

WASHINGTON, DC - DECEMBER 05: Tesla CEO Elon Musk, Co-Chair of the newly announced Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE), arrives on Capitol Hill on December 05, 2024 in Washington, DC. (Photo by Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images)
President Donald Trump created DOGE through an  he signed on his first day in office. The temporary agency within the administration is expected to carry out its mission of rooting out government inefficiency and frivolous spending until July 4, 2026, when its 18-month lifespan comes to an end.
The agency has  $1 billion in savings through DEI-related contracts and Musk is working to restructure federal agencies through DOGE that could result in  for the American taxpayer.
“The @DOGE team just discovered that FEMA sent $59M LAST WEEK to luxury hotels in New York City to house illegal migrants,” Musk posted Monday on X, bringing attention to the transaction. “Sending this money violated the law and is in gross insubordination to the President's executive order.”
“That money is meant for American disaster relief and instead is being spent on high end hotels for illegals!” he went on. “A clawback demand will be made today to recoup those funds.”
New York City officials have repeatedly placed illegal migrants into four-star hotels as they've struggled to find accommodations for the influx of asylum seekers flocking to the Big Apple.
New York  migrants in the four-star Collective Paper Factory hotel around August 2023 after it was repurposed into a Department of Homeless Services emergency shelter. The five-story Collective Paper Factory itself is equipped with a restaurant, a gym, a bar, communal spaces and meeting rooms for guests.
The “chic” Square Hotel  into housing for asylum seekers. Other “upscale” hotels in the Big Apple have been converted into migrant housing in the past as NYC continues to deal with the migrant crisis, including The Row, which has also been described as a “four-star hotel.”
“A 4-star hotel is considered luxury lodging,” according to Kayak, a hotel booking services website. “Guest rooms are noticeably more spacious, with top-quality linens, pillowtop mattresses, bathrobes, slippers, minibars, and upscale toiletries, plus equipped kitchens.”
New York - a sanctuary jurisdiction with strict laws prohibiting cooperation between local law enforcement and federal immigration authorities - has become a major destination for the massive number of illegal migrants who've flocked into the United States. Around 230,000 migrants have arrived in NYC since the spring of 2022,  data provided by the mayor's office.
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Graphic

 
The logo of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is seen at its headquarters August 27, 2011 in Washington, DC. AFP PHOTO/Mandel NGAN (Photo credit should read MANDEL NGAN/AFP via Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
