




Fox News THE GREG GUTFELD SHOW 10:00 PM EST
January 28, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6063 words
Byline: Sean Hannity, Greg Gutfeld, George "Tyrus" Murdoch, Kat Timpf
Guests: Emily Rose Compagno, Jim Breuer
Body


SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS HOST: For news anytime, every time, all the time, foxnews.com, hannity.com. And in the meantime, let not your heart be troubled, Greg Gutfeld, he's standing by to put a smile on your face. We'll see you tomorrow with J.D. Have a great night.
(AUDIENCE APPLAUDING AND CHEERING)
GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS HOST: Yeah. All right. I suppose that'll do. Happy Tuesday, everyone. So angry news man, Jim Acosta, announced on-air that he's leaving CNN. He now works for the same highly esteemed organization as his former colleague, Don Lemon. The Trump White House has unveiled a new Twitter account to hold fake news accountable, it's called Rapid Response 47, not to be confused with Rapid Response 46, which is how many times they called 911, when they thought Joe was dead.
President Trump has recently floated the idea of sending nearly 90,000 newly hired IRS agents to the border. The drug cartels welcome the news saying, finally, someone less popular than us. Illinois Governor, Jay Pritzker says, he will stand in the way of deportations that he feels break Illinois law. He also says, he will stand in the way of anyone who tries to cut in front of him at Sizzler. He's a big fat guy.
On his first day on the job, Secretary of Defense, Pete Hegseth declared no more DEI at the department. And you're already seeing a big change. Instead of Take Your Daughter to Work Day, you now have Learn To Kill People Month. Trump has signed an executive order banning transgender troops from the military. They will be reassigned to the Bravo channel, such a gay channel, I can tell you, don't watch.
So, with the help from the Taliban, the Biden Administration spent $15 million to hand out contraceptives and condoms in Afghanistan. This, after failing to convince the goats to go on the pill.
GEORGE "TYRUS" MURDOCH, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: I knew that was coming.
GUTFELD: But I guess the Taliban is cool with condoms, I mean, why would they take our advice on how to pull out? Wow, I know, John Fetterman drew outrage from the cast of The View for claiming Trump's New York hush money trial was politically motivated. I guess, The View thought he was one of them, because he also weighs 300 pounds. And finally, the CIA now says a lab leak is the most likely explanation for the COVID 19 pandemic. Great news for lovers of bat soup.
All right. let's do a monolog. So, it seems like the Trump-led Republican Party is kicking ass and taking names. I haven't seen this many changes since puberty. Now, I know this is the part where I'm supposed to say all politics is cyclical, that the Dems are going to come back storming in the midterms, and it could be true of course, but it's also possible that in a game of one-on-one, I could dunk on Baron Trump.
But you know, that's not true. Right now, the Dems are lost, wandering in the political wilderness like Joe Biden in the rain forest. Maybe we could turn that into a reality TV show called, Naked and Afraid Of The Truth. They're like a bunch of California politicians standing around watching the houses burn, no plan, no leadership, nobody to tell them what to do. So, what's left when you're left with the one tool that your elites taught you? Well, you get this cover story from New York Magazine that bashes young righties, titled, The Cruel Kids' Table, because, of course, for the left, it always goes back to the cafeteria in high school.
And it takes the new MAGA generation to task for being happy, hopeful, and so-called normal. But in the piece, the writer paints them as creepy White and racist, especially White as white as Steve Doocy at a nude beach. But the writer, Brock Colyar, couldn't rely on facts for that observation, the rag had to resort to some heavy-handed photo edits in which the magazine reviews Blacks from the cover photo and the party.
The writer even quotes a party goer without mentioning that person's race. He could have, but then, there goes your byline. It's no cover story if it's black and white, but according to young Black conservative, C.J. Pearson, who actually hosted the event, there were Black partiers there that the magazine either cropped out or carefully avoided for its cover photo.
That must have been awkward, you know, asking the Blacks to move out of the photo, because they're ruining your narrative. They're really -- they're like a really specific wedding photographer, just the bridesmaid. Now, just the parents, now just the White people. So, who are the racists now, bitches? Of course, this ain't new, it's just another retread of an old attack. But, it's even more pointless, because no one is buying it anymore.
This beast has been slayed. So, why are they still playing this tune long after the song died? It's too easy to say, because they have nothing else, because this time is different. Sure, you could always pick any issue, and it would be the same, crime, immigration, social events, underneath it, it's always going to be the racism, but now there's a helplessness to it, and the helplessness is due to a total reliance on outside forces telling you what to think.
And now, that outside force has been decapitated. That voice that told them, Trump was Hitler, or men could shower with girls, or Taylor Swift was a six, when you know, she's a five. That voice has vanished. The progressive bat signal has been turned off, and riders like Brock, they're on their own. When no one is giving them marching orders, they run around like non-binary chickens with their (BEEP) cut off.
And so, they pretend to report, but wonder bitterly why everyone else seems so different from them. And by different, I mean free and happy, because they're thinking for themselves. Look at that cover. The people that the left hates, they look awesome, and most of all, fearless. You can bet they aren't looking over their shoulders for canceled cops. Hell, they even invited one to the party, the writer, from New York Magazine.
So, in these happy faces, you see people who weren't waiting for a bat signal. They weren't slaves to the external voice, the fear of social stigma unleashed online by a tiny group of unstable shut-ins who claim to be journalists. All this Trump energy is fueled by that repudiation. Trump freed America from the slavery of paralyzing group think, which was the empty sad life that the elites exploited for status and wealth, that wokeism, the fear of the smear, and now, it's all gone.
And all you have are the pathetic few who wait for their marching orders from somewhere, anywhere, please. Meanwhile, the rest of the world party is on, and you could bet, they aren't thinking of you, dear writer. And that's what hurts most. When you make your life about identity, it hurts that no one cares, as everyone realizes you have nothing else, and you become a party of one.
Let's welcome tonight's guests. She's like a ray of sunshine, bright, warm and loved by nudists; co-host of Outnumbered, Emily Compagno. He's got more faces than a watch factory; actor and comedian, Jim Breuer. Her mood changes are as drastic as her pants are temporarily elastic; New York Times bestselling author and Fox News contributor, Kat Timpf. He's like bingo, because old women love to shout his name; New York Times bestselling author, comedian and former NWA Champion, Tyrus.
Emily, I'm fascinated by the reaction to every issue and problem from the Dems, because they seem headless, and so the reactions seem like they're from a dying world. What say you, Emily?
EMILY ROSE COMPAGNO, CO-HOST OF OUTNUMBERED ON FOX NEWS: Yes, it's almost like when you watch those sci-fi movies and you know that the cyborg in charge, you shoot the arrow and you kill the thing in the middle, and all of a sudden, the millions of robots don't know what to do before they all fall down.
And I see it the most, I think, with the dismantling of the federal government, of the bloat, what I love the most actually is the IRS agent thing going to the border, because to me, that's -- that's sort of emblematic of the entire thing happening, this shift, this freedom from group think that everyone was paralyzed from, it permeated our government. And reminder that the IRS spent your tax dollars to the tune of $35 million on military style weapons and artillery, and military gear.
Why in the (BEEP) do IRS agents coming after your money need to have military style weapons? $10 million of that in the last five years. So the fact that now it's, OK, you want to play Rambo? I've seen firsthand them show up in pairs of two around the country to claw back your income that they thought was theirs. Go ahead, then play Rambo at the border. Play Rambo where it really matters, which is protecting Americans, not from you, but from actual threat.
So, I love the fact that regardless of the Dems actually sort of resurrect themselves and come back in some kind of force, if they find anyone that's actually articulate or intelligent enough to lead them, there's not going to be anything left to mantle. The destruction that Trump is doing, he is totally freeing everyone, and it includes us from the government's bureaucratic hold, top down from every agency, and that is something that they will never recover from, because it means Americans will maintain that freedom.
GUTFELD: Wow. All right, Emily. Ladies and gentlemen. Wow. Yes. You know, Jim, before Trump came in, you had no problem speaking your mind. You had no problem sharing the risk with other people. Do you envision the people that were around you that did do the same thing will suddenly come around? Are you noticing now?
JIM BREUER, AMERICAN COMEDIAN AND ACTOR: Oh, they're all coming out.
GUTFELD: Yes.
BREUER: They're all coming out. They got their skates on. I'm so sorry, got a couple of those. I never meant to insult voters, Trump voters. I don't like him. I have a MAGA hat right here. Still, no, oh yeah, they're all starting to -- they're all starting to come from the groundwork. But on a different note, does your husband ever win any argument? Wow, I mean, I would not. You better be prepared showing up for Emily.
GUTFELD: I bet, she -- she just got married, so the guy probably doesn't realize what he's in for.
BREUER: Oh, boy, really?
TYRUS: Really? You have idea what he's in for? Could you imagine her vows?
GUTFELD: They would be fast, that's for sure. (CROSSTALK).
TYRUS: I am legally winding.
GUTFELD: Kat, do you see what I see this kind of, like, incredible. It's like an opportunity, but it seems like it's hopeless, like, what is over on that other world of the Democrat Party that the -- did you read this article?
KAT TIMPF, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: I did.
GUTFELD: What did you make of it?
TIMPF: So, I think that there's a lot of reasons maybe to dump on the writer. I think that one of the reasons -- I do fall back for the writer, for one thing, which is the writer did not select that photo, just cropped all the Black people out.
GUTFELD: Yeah, true.
TIMPF: But, you know, they went there, I thought it was an interesting read, because it is a very different thing to be around. And apparently, really, what he was just describing was mostly somebody who was around, he was around jokes that were not politically correct, from people who were by and large, I assume, intoxicated.
GUTFELD: Yes, hanging out in the bar where people are being like rude.
TIMPF: They're at the ball, right? So, I'm sure, I mean to me, that's -- you can go to any bar and kind of hear those sorts of things. I would think, in most places, I wouldn't know, I wasn't invited to the ball. Were you invited to any of the balls?
GUTFELD: No, I wasn't. I was ballless.
TIMPF: Were you invited any of the balls?
TYRUS: Yeah.
TIMPF: I was not invited.
TYRUS: I was invited to a bunch of them, but they like had a dress code.
TIMPF: I was not. I was not. Now, I would not have gone, but still.
GUTFELD: You would have liked to have been invited.
TIMPF: Yeah, I got to -- I was in bed eating snacks in the hotel. I'm not allowed to do that at home.
GUTFELD: Yeah, I do that a lot too. You know, Tyrus, it does -- it does feel like, like, there are only a few left, they're still going to push the race card and Nazi card, the Hitler card.
TYRUS: Until they make one.
GUTFELD: Yeah.
TYRUS: And that's, you say, you speak the devil's name enough, eventually he appears. When you hear these people who have these platforms that are unchecked, that can go on TV every night, and say, he's Hitler and he's this, somewhere there's a disturbed individual who's absorbing this, who's seeing the attention, the fame.
I mean, we just had a guy shoot somebody in the back, and he was a hero. So, they continue to feed this fire, because they just need one. And if that one just happens to have a MAGA hat on backwards, then it was all right. It was all for not. So, why they're censoring and they're saying, he's Hitler, you keep saying Hitler enough, you're going to make one.
And that's what -- why these networks see if, why they don't see that? Why the -- if we sat on this network every night and said that Kamala Harris was a vampire, and we just kept doing, well, she had -- she was drinking something red, and we just kept doing that, and we kept -- she was not real. She was not of this earth. She had no soul. We would all be out of jobs, and be like, that's a crazy way of talking about another human being.
GUTFELD: Well, I've said that about Joe.
TYRUS: Well, I believe that. The other thing about the article real quick, what that person saw was what people do who don't go out like this, hey, out with my friends, having drinks, no, they were at the bar being an adult, saying adult things. You will hear all kinds of my (BEEP) mouth with a beer and my buddies that you would not -- and if someone brought a camera out, that individual will be thrown out the bar, because you're trying to have a good time.
TIMPF: Yeah. Also, there's this aspect of, I'm sure, a lot people wanted to show off in front of the reporter, to some extent, I mean, it's like a different variation of Girls Gone Wild.
GUTFELD: Yes, it's like, watch me use the word (CROSSTALK).
TIMPF: Like without the camp, even if it's before the cameras, the girls boobs were in their shirts.
GUTFELD: Yes, yeah. There you go. Up next, he went from the Trump hating mob to looking for a job.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GUTFELD: Why didn't I pose for that? By the way, CNN losta Jim Acosta.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JIM ACOSTA, CNN ANCHOR: You may have seen some reports about me and the show, and after giving all of this some careful consideration and weighing an alternative time slot CNN offered me, I've decided to move on. I've always believed it's the job of the press to hold power to account. I've always tried to do that here at CNN, and I plan on going doing all of that in the future.
One final message, don't give in to the lies. Don't give in to the fear. Hold on to the truth and to hope, even if you have to get out of your phone, record that message, I will not give in to the lies. I will not give in to the fear. Post it on your social media, so people can hear from you too.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: Wow, that was inspiring. Wow. (BEEP) (CROSSTALK). Tyrus, I want to read what Trump said. Wow, this is on Truth Social. Really good news. Acosta, one of the worst and most dishonest reporters in journalist history, a major sleaze bag has been relegated by fake news to the Midnight Hour Death Valley because of extraordinary bad ratings, and no talent, where it is, he wants to quit, and that would be even better, Jim is a major loser, who will fail no matter where he ends up. Good luck, Jim.
TYRUS: You know there's -- there's times, he's such a pro man, third Black president. There's times when you'll read a presidential tweet with President Biden. We knew, man, he didn't write that (BEEP). We 1,000 percent know President Trump wrote that. But again, it's -- if you're good, listen, TV is just like Mother Nature, if you specialize in the rain forest to just eat (BEEP) about the President, and then that tree dies, you go extinct.
GUTFELD: Yes.
TYRUS: And what we watched was the last of a dodo bird, who they -- who they cared. They gave so -- they had zero (BEEP) to give about anything he had to say, they said, look, no one's watching, go ahead, say whatever you want. His own producers didn't have the headsets on, but he literally was like, and I'd just like to say this, the time slot, yeah, you got 4 AM, and forget about a 30.
Like, that's it. You come on, you can come on between Forensic Files and the New Forensic Files, you can come on right there. This is what happens when you specialize and you dig in, and then, he has the balls to sit there and say, don't give in to the lie. Bitch, it was the lie that got you fired.
GUTFELD: Yeah. Jim, what are your thoughts?
BREUER: Well, first of all, along what Tyrus said, he made a living lying. So, he's telling -- the liar is telling you don't believe the lies, only I get to lie, but what I love more is what Trump treated, I miss, people forget he's from New York, and just see, I hear more of like, you're a nobody. You're nothing, you never going to be anything (BEEP). I have a feeling like that's, I want to see that guy come out.
GUTFELD: Yeah, he will. He's -- he's not going up for re-election yet. So, Kat, you know, I think he's -- I think Acosta sees, like, Tucker going big and Megyn Kelly go big, and he's like, you know what? I can do that too. Doesn't he realize that people kind of have to like him first?
TIMPF: Yeah. It's a little difficult in general to do that. But also, it's in -- his ratings also weren't that -- they were good by -- they were good by CNN standards, right, in terms of compared to other things on CNN.
GUTFELD: Yeah.
TIMPF: Who knows -- I don't know what -- what is CNN going to do at this point, because it what -- that was -- what they did. And clearly, that didn't work, and clearly, they've been very wrong, where do they go from here. He's going to have to distinguish himself somehow from the thing that's not working. So, I don't know if he has a plan to do that, and that's what you have to do in order to have that kind of success. But, I don't -- that seems like more of the same, I didn't hear.
GUTFELD: He's heard about these things called podcast,.
TIMPF: Podcast, right.
GUTFELD: Yes.
TIMPF: Nobody has one of those.
GUTFELD: No, no, no, it's like, get there first, Jim.
TYRUS: Just 37 running right now.
TIMPF: Yeah, yeah.
GUTFELD: Exactly. You know, Emily, the common wisdom when you -- was that, you don't fight in industry that buys ink by the barrel, we've heard that. The landscape is littered with successful companies and rich people who were destroyed by a reporter who would make 75 grand a year. To my knowledge, this is the first time I've ever seen one person, Trump, actually take down an entire network. He was patient, started in 2015, and in this fight, Trump goes like this, and CNN just went like this. I've never seen that before.
COMPAGNO: That's why, respectfully, I argue that CNN did it to themselves. It's not that Trump did anything at all to them, other than, CNN destroying themselves, because they were the lie machine, they were the lie maker. Jim Acosta represents a toxic tumor professionally that infected not only the White House briefing room during the first administration, he has done so many things that are, frankly, unforgivable, and now has the balls to stand up there as if he should be the victim, as if we should treat him with sympathy, and then, try to curry some social media followers, like, and then, tweet me at Jim Acosta.
No, you just got eulogized by the President. That's what happened, bye and good riddance. And by the way, today, as we talk, which was the first -- this was the first White House briefing by Karoline Leavitt, and she said during that whole time, she talked about all of the different formats of media. She helped to amplify those non-traditional media formats that Americans are listening to and trusting, because CNN went the way of the dodo bird and like the Crypt Keeper in that scene in Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade where they age, really, they did that a long time ago.
So now, we have a President and administration that's dedicated to, like, we talked about earlier, the dismantling of everything, and that includes toxic tumors like CNN. Bye.
GUTFELD: Fake news. All right. Up next, the CIA ends lying for Fauci and friends.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
(SINGING)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's coming your way, hey, hey. It's Video of the Day.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(APPLAUSE)
GUTFELD: They lied to us about the virus.
(LAUGHTER)
GUTFELD: Our video of the day comes to us from the left's finest talking head who took to the airwaves back in 2020 to bury the lab leak theory. So why are we replaying these lowlights now? This week the CIA is saying it's more likely that a lab leak caused the pandemic. Roll it, Betty.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOE SCARBOROUGH, MSNBC ANCHOR: Tom Cotton a couple of days ago spouting a conspiracy theory that the Chinese made this virus up in a lab.
JIMMY KIMMEL, LATE NIGHT TALK SHOW HOST: That's his new angle to feed the wingnuts, to treat this virus like it was a conspiracy of some kind.
JOY REID, MSNBC HOST: And yet this week Donald Trump is still pushing the debunked bunkum, despite his own intelligence community's findings that that is simply not true.
STEPHEN COLBERT, LATE NIGHT TALK SHOW HOST: I've seen that theory, too, from my source on an Internet who assures, oh, my God, coronavirus came from over there.
DR. ANTHONY FAUCI, FORMER WHITE HOUSE CHIEF MEDICAL ADVISER: If you look at the evolution of the virus in bats and what's out there now, it's very, very strongly leaning towards this could not be artificially or deliberately manipulated.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: All right, Jim. All of those people were mocking people like you. Do you think they are going to actually apologize or admit they were wrong?
BREUER: No.
(LAUGHTER)
BREUER: None of it. They are all paid professionals to lie. They make a living to spew out lies. They destroyed families, they destroyed -- I have so many people so stressed out, heart conditions. I have a friend that has a headache all the time. And forever all I heard, because it caused a million, as I say, cockatoos. They just stood there, and I still listen to them going -- Fauci, he's going to --
(LAUGHTER)
BREUER: I could sleep better at night, I tell you that right now. I did before, but now, I just slept forever going, I knew -- how did you not know this was B.S. from the beginning. How did you not -- mask on, mask off. Oh, it's from over there. No, it's a bat. No, it's a guy. I peed in a puddle and I stepped in it. It was the most ridiculous.
Jon Stewart was on -- I can't say his name.
GUTFELD: Colbert.
BREUER: Col-ler, Colbert, whatever he is. And he put it best. He's like, Wuhan lab. Do you think maybe it might have came from there? And now if you really go back, that was one of the thing they started targeting Trump for, for saying China.
So now what I want to see it, you see how you completely destroyed lives, families and so much more, but what are you going to do about it? Do they apologize? Are they going to start -- what happens now? I know that was a funny --
TYRUS: You get a pardon.
BREUER: Huh?
TYRUS: You get a pardon.
BREUER: Oh, yes. You get a pardon. Thanks, Mr. Fauci.
GUTFELD: You know what I think Kat would be fun, because I like fun things, and you know that, inviting all these schmucks to an event where they're told they're getting a huge award. And you know they'll go because they're thirsty for approval. But you don't tell them what the award is really for, and then you play the clips of everything they said. And you hand them a big back of --
(LAUGHTER)
BREUER: I like that.
(APPLAUSE)
GUTFELD: It all comes back, it all comes back to --
TYRUS: I would do something cool, like give them measles. Whoops, measles broke out. It must of been a canary in here.
(LAUGHTER)
TIMPF: I guess I was with you until the -- part.
(LAUGHTER)
TIMPF: The logistics of that seem difficult more than anything else.
But as I was watching all those clips and thinking about how we opened the show, the fact that the words have consequences, people are not more angry about this, that makes no sense to me. Because, as you brought up, people had their livelihoods destroyed, people had families torn apart, people died alone. There are things you can't get back because of things that people said, and people were lying and they knew they made it up the whole time.
We talked about the stuff in the A block, the stuff that these drunken young people were saying. Again, I think a lot of it is trying to show off in front of a reporter. A lot of it offensive, absolutely. But to get upset about that and not get upset about this and the real serious consequences, some of which can never, ever be solved, like people dying alone, like kids who have learning loss, like businesses that are destroyed that will never -- you walk around New York. What made New York's so special was all those small little restaurants. There's like whole streets that's like Dunkin' Donuts, Starbucks, because little small businesses don' have money to just operate and not stay open for years.
And it just was this whole big bunch of -- the whole time. How can you not be mad about all the words that he created this massive conspiracy, that called everyone else a conspiracy theorist for noticing what was so obvious the whole time.
GUTFELD: Emily?
BREUER: Misinformation.
COMPAGNO: And remember, people were criminally prosecuted for regulatory infractions. So here in New York people who dared to keep their bar, right, they were punished. She went to jail instead of having their liquor license pulled, which they did that to.
GUTFELD: Rules we didn't vote for.
COMPAGNO: That's right.
One of my favorite U.S. Marshals sting operation, by the way, which just popped in my head when you said that, was they gave all of the guys, all of the perps that were on the lam, they told them they had one ticket to the Super Bowl. So all of these dumb -- came into the room, like, oh, my God, awesome, I'm here for the free tickets. And then all they did was just arrest everyone. So that's my dream --
GUTFELD: That's how I organize orgies. Tyrus?
TYRUS: I thought it was by height.
(LAUGHTER)
TYRUS: I said by height. Anyway, real quick. I was always in the front line of this. No bat gets that many chances. Every time we cure the little bastards they're getting sicker. Every time we diddle these bats, they come back with a different disease. You move on to a different animal to diddle. Again, we don't condone that behavior, I'm just saying, it 1,000 percent came from the lab.
GUTFELD: Yes. All right, we must move on. We are running out of time.
Trump puts the skids on giving porn to kids.
(APPLAUSE)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: A story in five words.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(APPLAUSE)
GUTFELD: Trump kills book ban hoax. Emily, you are a lawyer, so I'm coming to you first. Trump's education department throwing out 11 complaints against what the left called book bans, remember those. They're pointing out that they weren't being banned, like people had alleged. And we heard about this constantly, book bans, book bans, book bans. There were just common sense processes by which to evaluate and remove, and this is the key phrase, age appropriate materials. Finally, common sense.
COMPAGNO: And here's the difference between the prior administration and right now. In the prior administration, the unions and the teacher supplanted your role as a parent. This administration believes, rightly so, that it is the parent that should have control, or at least some insight into what is being put in front of their children and what their children are reading. So this is amazing.
And it also represents a nexus of that false narrative that we're seeing peddled, oh, my gosh, the president is now banning transgender stuff and all the things, versus the truth and facts and reality, which we're seeing is rising up over CNN's lies.
GUTFELD: You know, Kat, they're getting rid of the book ban coordinator. That's good.
TIMPF: Book ban --
GUTFELD: Yes.
TIMPF: I guess I just don't think the federal government needs to be involved in sweeping into these local communities and telling them what books the kids there can locally read. I have faith that the parent can figure it out for themselves.
GUTFELD: Parents got -- for this, though. They did. They would show up at these school boards and they'd be called nazis for saying I don't want my son reading about --
TYRUS: About damn time, Greg.
GUTFELD: Yes.
TYRUS: Let me tell you, all those times as a kid when I tried to check out "National Geographic" magazines, and every time the librarian says, does mom, Tyrus, know we're getting this magazine? I'd be like, no, and go put it back and then have to come back with Ranger Rick.
GUTFELD: It's weird, because it was the revers for me.
(LAUGHTER)
COMPAGNO: I love Ranger Rick.
TYRUS: I have three question. Why? And what gives you the right?
GUTFELD: I have no rights. Jim, I love this, because if you were a parent and you said, I don't want this in my curriculum for my third grade kid, they would move to a library, and they would go book ban. Do they not know what a ban is?
BREUER: Not only that, this is another thing that drove me nuts about -- it's an agenda. Why would you put anything sexual for a child in a book, especially in school? I don't know about you, but I saw pornography when I was 14, and I was traumatized.
(LAUGHTER)
BREUER: I went from an innocent boy out in the street to looking at everyone walking down the street, like --
(LAUGHTER)
TYRUS: It does do that to you.
BREUER: You know, I did pillows, I did socks, I did furniture. You can make all the looks you want, Kat, but that's how twisted your mind gets. That's a 14-year-old boy. Now imagine a six-year-old kid seeing this stuff and a nine-year-old or a five-year-old. All I know is --
TIMPF: This is the first time that I've ever hoped I'm having a girl.
(LAUGHTER)
(APPLAUSE)
TYRUS: And listen, just so you're not alone, this ain't a racial thing either. I was about 14-and-a-half, too. The couch got it a few times.
(LAUGHTER)
BREUER: Hands down.
TYRUS: Yes, hands down.
BREUER: But I'd make all the pillows watch.
GUTFELD: I'd make all the pillows watch.
(LAUGHTER)
TYRUS: Don't look at me.
GUTFELD: All right, we've got to move on. This is a good one. Howie Mandel surprised Bill Burr and caused quite a stir.
(APPLAUSE)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Is this even real?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(APPLAUSE)
GUTFELD: It was an awkward affair between three dudes with no hair. During a recent episode of the Howie Mandel's podcast, he surprised comedian Bill Burr with the appearance of Smashing Pumpkins leader Billy Corgan. The rumor that the two Bills might be brothers started last fall when Corgan shared a family story suggesting they might have the same father. But the surprise did not sit well with Burr.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
HOWIE MANDEL, PODCAST HOST: And look who's here.
BILL BURR, COMEDIAN: Oh, hey what's up.
MANDEL: Sit down.
BURR: You're an --
MANDEL: Billy Corgan. Billy Corgan. I thought this would be great to bring the family together.
BILLY CORGAN, SINGER/SONGWRITER: He didn't tell you. He told me you were totally cool with me coming.
BURR: That's what he does. That's what he does.
MANDEL: I thought it would be a good surprise.
BURR: So then, like, can this be, like, edited out, or no?
CORGAN: I can go. You told me Bill was --
BURR: -- it. I'll do it. Did you ever think the fact that I never told that story that maybe you shouldn't. Did you get -- you know I mean? Like emails and crap that I got. I sort of went away from that. You know?
MANDEL: So let me just fill in, let me just fill in --
BURR: Do we talk on a regular basis?
CORGAN: We've never met.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: But wait, there's more.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BURR: It's not that I don't like him. It reminds me of all that -- I just would prefer if you wouldn't go around telling these -- stories. Why did you feel the need to do that?
CORGAN: Can I give you the set up on all this, because it's his fault. I told him privately that story. He said, oh, you've got to say this on their.
BURR: Yes, but he always does that. Because that's the thing. He's bringing you in here not because he's trying to heal the -- that we went through growing up. He here just for the -- ratings.
CORGAN: This is some Dr. Phil -- we've got going on here.
BURR: Yes, thank you.
MANDEL: I think you guys should take a moment --
BURR: I think we're on the same phase thinking that you're kind of a -- right now.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I think you're a -- too.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
TYRUS: Tyrus, Corgan is the victim here, and Mandel is the villain.
TYRUS: Howie is garbage. I come from a broken home. That's the last thing you want to discuss. I've got 17 brothers and sisters, half of them I've never met and never will meet. And if you brought one of them on the chair, it would be the last time you ever saw me on "Gutfeld!" There's certain things you don't do. And while, because of a comedian, we can make -- Burr is bothered, OK. Billy and him have different lives.
Billy is a very close, personal friend of mine, so I'm not going to speak on our stuff, but just imagine that. They had never met before. They had all the power in the world to meet. All the pain from the dad, he was raising two children. He didn't even have the creativity to give them different names. One is bill and one is Billy. And you want a -- guy who used to put -- on top of his head before he got allergic to germs to bring it out to you?
(LAUGHTER)
TYRUS: You're just not famous anymore, man. Go the -- away. Go back to your stupid jokes. Howie is garbage for trying to do this to somebody, and the only thing is, again, Billy is another guy you will never emotionally get a response out of him. He's like playing cards, I make jokes and call him the alien because he won't react. Burr made jokes about it. But shame on Howie, man, shame on him.
GUTFELD: I felt bad for Corgan, Kat. He had no idea. He got set up.
TIMPF: I kind of did, too. But he said that you said I was going to be --
(LAUGHTER)
TIMPF: Is that not one of the most bizarre things you've ever watched? I feel like I'm still processing it, so I can't imagine what it would feel like to actually be involved.
GUTFELD: I don't know. Do you think --
TYRUS: I'm sorry, I've been in traps like that. Someone made a trap one time for me to meet my biological father for the first time at Monday Night Raw, and all I said, does he have a ticket? He said no, and I -- this guy and kept walking. They do things like this for shock and value. And they think it's cool. It's not cool.
GUTFELD: Do you think that they are related, Jim? Bald people look alike.
BREUER: You know, I was watching Burr's reaction, and I felt -- he's a great comedian, and he acts. So his body language when he comes in, and he goes like this and he stays here. So that's what -- but I kept waiting, I kept waiting for him to be like, despite all my rage, I'm still just a rat in the cage, no pun intended. The audience has no clue, that reference.
TIMPF: I do.
BREUER: Put the song on. That's a great song.
GUTFELD: Yes.
BREUER: But I think after watching that, yes, possibly, yes.
GUTFELD: It was pretty dark.
TYRUS: It goes further where they talk about, they ask questions, like what did he -- he didn't even tell him right. He told him he played different instruments. He told one sone he played the piano, he told the other one he played the guitar. The dad was a real.
BREUER: Oh, so Bill could have been --
GUTFELD: Emily, wrap this up in the only way you know how, by talking really fast.
(LAUGHTER)
COMPAGNO: I hate am ushes, and this is why I hate and do not watch reality TV. I find no joy, no interest in other people's pain. And this was hard to watch. So yes, shame on Howie, I don't even know, Mandel.
GUTFELD: Mandel.
COMPAGNO: Trash.
GUTFELD: Trast. All right, I think we've solved that issue.
(LAUGHTER)
GUTFELD: I hope they never force my unknown brother on me. Mel Gibson.
(LAUGHTER)
TYRUS: What if it's Stephen Colbert.
(LAUGHTER)
GUTFELD: We'll be right back.
TYRUS: Colbert and Gutfeld.
(APPLAUSE)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GUTFELD: Emily Compagno, Jim Breuer, Kat Timpf, Tyrus, studio audience. FOX NEWS AT NIGHT is next. I'm Greg Gutfeld. I love you.
(APPLAUSE)

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
