




Fox News FOX NEWS @ NIGHT 11:00 PM EST
February 4, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7375 words
Byline: Greg Gutfeld, Trace Gallagher, Kevin Corke, Ashley Strohmier, Marianne Rafferty
Guests: Rabbi Chaim Mentz, Elizabeth Pipko, Mitch Roschelle, Eric Messersmith, Brianna Lyman, Elex Michaelson, Ryan Walters, Mark Lamb, Bethany Mandel, Julie Hamill
Body


GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Out of time. Jamie Lissow, Julian Epstein, Timpf, Tyrus, studio audience. "FOX NEWS @ NIGHT" is next. I'm Greg Gutfeld. I love you, America.
TRACE GALLAGHER, ANCHOR, FOX NEWS @ NIGHT: Good evening. I'm Trace Gallagher. It's 11:00 p.m. on the East Coast, 8:00 here in Los Angeles and this is America's late news, FOX NEWS @ NIGHT.
And breaking tonight, a figurative bombshell in an area that has seen many literal bombshells over the past 18 months. President Trump standing alongside Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu announcing that he would like the U.S. to take ownership of the Gaza Strip.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP (R) PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: This was not a decision made lightly. Everybody I've spoken to loves the idea of the United States owning that piece of land, developing and creating thousands of jobs. If the United States can help to bring stability and peace in the Middle East, we'll do that.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Meantime, Democrats continue sounding off on DOGE and the department's leader, accusing Elon Musk of operating a shadow government.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): DOGE is not a real government agency. DOGE has no authority to shut programs down or ignore federal law. DOGE's conduct, I said, cannot be allowed to stand.
REP. JAMIE RASKIN (D-MD): Watch Elon Musk, because he's the guy who's trying to centralize all power behind him, and he hasn't been elected to anything.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Plus, President Trump reportedly closing in on a major campaign promise, shutting down the Department of Education. But one Democrat says he's not worried.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. JARED MOSKOWITZ (D-FL): There's not 60 votes to do that in the Senate, so I'm not going to get hysterical about eliminating the Department of Education when the votes of that don't exist.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Much more on that and other breaking news in moments, but first, the senior national correspondent Kevin Corke is live with more on Trump's big plan for the Gaza Strip. Kevin, good evening.
KEVIN CORKE, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: What a night here in the nation's capital. Evening to you, Trace. Now, in a nutshell, what the President really wants to do is redevelop Gaza, describing his vision as a territory that could become an international hub where, you know, the world's people could use it for access to the Mediterranean coast. A place for all faith traditions and all people owned by the U.S. but created, perhaps with the help of regional partners like Saudi Arabia.
Just think of a smaller version of Dubai or Abu Dhabi. Problem is even with the best of intentions, there are still nearly two million Palestinians living there, overwhelmed by years of war and broken promises and still hoping one day to live in a Palestinian state.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: The U.S. will take over the Gaza Strip, and we will do a job with it too. We'll own it and be responsible for dismantling all of the dangerous unexploded bombs and other weapons on the site. Level the site and get rid of the destroyed buildings, level it out create an economic development that will supply unlimited numbers of jobs and housing for the people of the area.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CORKE: Not surprisingly, reviews of the President's plan were mixed on Capitol Hill tonight. Delaware and Democratic Senator Chris Coons called the pitch offensive, insane, dangerous and foolish. South Carolina GOP Senator Lindsey Graham called it an interesting proposal, but also problematic. While Texas Republican Senator John Cornyn said, adroitly, I don't know what to make of it. Check back with me tomorrow.
Now, the President said doing the same thing over and over and over again in the region is the very definition of insanity. Thus, his pitch to do something dramatically different, Trace.
GALLAGHER: Hmm. We're going to talk a lot more about this. Kevin Corke live for us in D.C. Kevin, thank you. Elon Musk, in the Department of Government Efficiency now moving to consolidate control over several agencies of the federal government. Ashley Strohmier is live in New York City with new information about what's next. Ashley, good evening.
ASHLEY STROHMIER, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Hi, Trace. The Department of Government Efficiency with Elon Musk at the helm is continuing to make strides in their goal to get rid of government waste and ruffling a lot of democratic feathers along the way.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. MAXWELL FROST (D-FL): We're here today because an unelected billionaire and his team have been given full and unfettered access to our taxpayer money and our government.
JASMINE CROCKETT (D-TX): There are those that have said that we may face a constitutional crisis. I want you to know that the crisis is here.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
STROHMIER: So just today, Democratic lawmakers called for a government watchdog to look into the Treasury Department's decision to reportedly grant DOGE employees access to sensitive government payment systems. A Treasury Department official explained that a letter published by punch bowl news this evening that anyone allowed to review their systems is only given read only access. Now Musk is also taking heat for his hiring choices.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ (D-NY): This dude is probably one of the most unintelligent billionaires I have ever met or seen or witnessed. They don't do their homework clearly, like they're putting 19 year olds in the treasury. This dude is not smart.
TRUMP: We need smart people. Some are young and some are not young. Some are not young at all. But they found great things.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
STROHMIER: And Trace, in just two short weeks, DOGE says they have eliminated over 100 DEI contracts terminated, nearly $45 million in building leases, and not to mention the controversial overhaul of USAID. We are learning the Department of Education could be next. Back to you.
GALLAGHER: Could indeed. Ashley Strohmier live for us in New York. Ashley, thank you. Let's bring in Rabbi Chaim Mentz from the Chabad of Bel Air here in Los Angeles. Madison Ventures Plus Principal and Chief Strategy Officer Mitch Roschelle, along with former GOP national spokesperson Elizabeth Pipko. Thank you all for coming on. Rabbi, to you first. I mean, what do you think about the U.S. taking over Gaza?
RABBI CHAIM MENTZ, SPIRITUAL LEADER, CHABAD OF BEL AIR: It's a fantastic thing. I'll tell you why. Israel has tried so many times. The United Nations, everybody said to Israel, help the people. Help these people. Have a life. Give them a piece of land. Set up something. Every time Israel tried giving them something, there was another war. Another war. 2010 we gave them Gaza, that's their ancestral land from 2010, we gave it to you.
And all of a sudden, they started shooting missiles at us. Donald Trump, the brilliant move. He says, move out. Go out. You can't get along with Jews. You can't but I'll do you a favor. I will build you a beautiful place that you can set up a beautiful life. And that's your choice. You can stay in the rubble, or you can stay and have a better life somewhere else.
GALLAGHER: Benjamin Netanyahu was standing next to Trump, Elizabeth Pipko when the announcement was made and he had this to say. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, PRIME MINISTER OF ISRAEL: President Trump is taking it to a much higher level. He sees a different -- he sees a different future for that piece of land that has been the focus of so much terrorism, so much -- so many attacks against us. So many and so many trials and so many tribulations.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Elizabeth Pipko, what do you think of this idea?
ELIZABETH PIPKO, FOUNDER, LEST PEOPLE FORGET: You know, I actually want to take the moment right now to draw attention to why President Trump is back in the White House, right? This is a great representation of that. It's not just folks like me who were worried, for example, of the failing relationship between the United States and Israel under the failed leadership of Joe Biden are worried about our national security because of it.
As many people who actually just wanted to change the status quo, right? They were sick of president after president, politician after politician, going out and saying they're going to make the same promise as the last guy, but bringing no solutions. Donald Trump is the opposite. He has no interest in making the same promises as the last guy. He only has an interest in solving the problem the last guy and the one before him and before him and before him promised they would solve.
That's why he brought this to the table. He wants to bring something different and something new, because everything before this hasn't worked.
GALLAGHER: Meantime, Mitch, to you. Here are the Democrats on DOGE and USAID, et cetera, et cetera. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. CHRIS VAN HOLLEN (D-MD): He may try to play dictator here in Washington, D.C. but he doesn't get to shut down the Agency for International Development.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: In the last 10 days, Donald Trump has done more to destabilize things across the planet.
RASKIN: We don't have a fourth branch of government called Elon Musk, and that's going to become real clear.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: They keep shouting. They're losing this battle, Mitch.
MITCH ROSCHELLE, PRINCIPAL AND CHIEF STRATEGY OFFICER, MADISON VENTURES PLUS: Yes. The latter you yell, the more ridiculous you sound. There is a fourth branch of government. It's called the administrative state. And when Elon Musk is trying to do for the American taxpayers, the owners of this country, is unravel that administrative state, because that's where all the tax dollars are going.
And let's be honest, he doesn't have control over anything. He's making recommendations to the White House and to Republicans in Congress on how to basically unravel this administrative state, the bureaucracy. And I think for the most part, that's the mandate that President Trump was given.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Speaking of recommendations, Rabbi. President Trump wants Benjamin Netanyahu to accept a deal to normalize relations with Saudi Arabia. Is that the first step before you go into Gaza, is that one of the first steps?
MENTZ: It would be wonderful to be able to go and have as many friends in the neighborhood. We Jewish people always had a saying, we are one nation surrounded by 70 wolves. But all of a sudden, some of these wolves are saying, You know what? We would love to live with you, play with you and live with you. This would be fantastic. Saudi Arabia is a super power. And imagine all of a sudden, we become friends with them. Iran starts weakening up. Things can happen.
GALLAGHER: Yes. It can happen very quickly. Elizabeth Pipko. to you, suddenly, Vice President J.D. Vance has been pivotal. I mean, you can talk about the list of things that he has accomplished in getting Trump's nominees over the hump. The Washington Examiner writes the following. The Vice President has spoken with several Senate Republicans to convince them not to vote down Trump nominations that are in jeopardy, and it is having some impact, Elizabeth.
PIPKO: No, I'm sure it is. Look, we can look at this moment again and realize how far off very often, the media actually is from our own reality. Right? Think about how many attacks we heard against J.D. Vance. Think about how negatively people responded in the left-wing media to him being the pick and then he ended up being, of course, a part of that winning ticket, and the man who really nailed to that debate like no one I think, ever had before him.
By the way, think about all the attacks we heard on Tulsi Gabbard and RFK Jr., her probably going to be confirmed very, very soon. We heard Pete Hegseth was never going to be confirmed. We know how that ended up. The fact is, there's a lot of scare tactics going on in left-wing media and they very often end up false compared to our actual everyday American reality.
GALLAGHER: Looks like Tulsi Gabbard, looks like RFK are going to get the big vote on the big Senate floor. So that's a -- that's really good news if you're -- if you're the Republicans. Here's what Christian Whiton and said on the tariffs, Mitch. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
CHRISTIAN WHITON, FORMER TRUMP STATE DEPARTMENT OFFICIAL: If you look at Canada and Mexico coming in from the cold, realizing they are in an inferior position, it gives Trump a lot more leeway to deal now strongly with China, which says it's going to rejoin the 2020 phase one trade agreement that they broke and to deal with the E.U.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Yes. I got about 30 seconds. But is it a good play?
ROSCHELLE: I think it -- well, the big trading partner that the planet has to be concerned with is China. Right? There maligned activity, stealing intellectual property, so Mexico and Canada need to get together with the United States, create a trade alliance where North America can compete with China. All three nations prosper. It's not a complicated thing, and it's time for Mexico and Canada get on board.
GALLAGHER: Mitch, Rabbi, Elizabeth, thank you all. Well, the Fox News Common Sense Department prefers to pronounce the U.S. Agency for International Development as USAID, but Common Sense thinks that saying USAID is also commonly accepted. What's not commonly accepted is what the agency is actually funding, like $1.5 million to advance DEI in Serbia. $70,000 for a musical in Ireland to promote DEI.
Two million dollars for gender-affirming care in Guatemala. And 32,000 for an LGBTQ comic book in Peru. Common Sense would not describe this as foreign aid, but rather a domestic boondoggle, a multibillion-dollar boondoggle. Americans think paying six bucks for a dozen of eggs is too high, so 32 grand for a comic book will likely generate some pushback, unless you happen to be far left Congresswoman Ilhan Omar who wants to remind us that these lost billions represent just a small percentage of the U.S. budget.
And CBS News Anchor Margaret Brennan agrees. Maybe that's why 97 percent of USAID employees, political donations went to Democrats. And when Elon showed up to shut things down, the donors their beneficiaries and the media howled. Common Sense does not care how you pronounce it because USAID might as well be USEIEIO or the quack, quacks here, there and everywhere are about to be unfunded and unemployed.
Let's bring in the co-host of the Everybody Settle Down podcast Eric Messersmith and the Federalist Elections correspondent Brianna Lyman. Thank you both for coming on. Eric to you first. Forget the $32,000 for the comic book. The left thinks that this whole thing of going after USAID is a coup. Here's what they said.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What's happening right now is a hostile takeover of the U.S. government.
VAN JONES, CNN ONES, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: I'm going to tell you right now people are going to die in very large numbers around the world who are expecting the United States to live up to our promises, to get them medicine, to get them help. Donald Trump says we don't care. You go die.
JOY REID, MSNBC HOST: If this were happening in any other country right now, I promise you, I'd be on the air calling it a coup.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Give us a $32,000 comic book, or people will die, Eric. I mean, nobody's buying any of this.
ERIC MESSERSMITH, HOST, EVERYBODY SETTLE DOWN PODCAST: The problem is they can't just wait until something comes out that shows funding, not for a comic book, but maybe funding for people who need nutrition assistance, who are starving. Something like that, that they could really latch on to. They're jumping and getting ahead themselves. They just can't help themselves.
They jump at the bait right away, rather than trying to wait until maybe they could latch on to something real. And when you do that, and you attack these things that really, most people would look at and say, well, it's probably common sense that maybe we shouldn't spend $6 million to help Egypt's tourism industry and you attack that and call it a coup, people look at you and you lose credibility.
GALLAGHER: Yes. They have lost credibility. Meantime, Jon Stewart, because everybody's talking about this, right? Brianna, you've got -- you got Schumer talking about guacamole and beer. You've got everybody talking about tequila and guacamole in these tariffs. Jon Stewart who stopped -- has stopped being funny a while ago. He did have something fun to say about Chuck Schumer. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JON STEWART, HOST, THE DAILY SHOW: your response to the trade war is to (BLEEP) tell us guacamole is made of avocados.
Democrats, can you please stop (BLEEP) trotting Schumer out there? Every time Trump traverses into the unreal. He's not good at this.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Yes. I mean, he really is humorous. What do you think, Brianna?
BRIANNA LYMAN, THE FEDERALIST CORRESPONDENT: Democrats want Americans to believe that you have to choose between your sovereignty or cheap avocado prices. And the avocado market has seen a lot of developments recently that was likely going to impact prices regardless. We've seen trucking delays. We've seen a reduction in use SDA inspections because Mexican cartels operate the avocado industry in Mexico.
But you know where you know where you can get good avocados from? California, Florida, Hawaii. And you know why we don't? Because Mexico undercuts our farmers. They control the cartels. You have cartels who are involved in deadly operating, you know, costs and expenses down there. And unfortunately, our avocado farmers cannot compete with them because they are saddled with regulatory burdens.
Some are necessary, some are unnecessary. So, Chuck Schumer is serious about avocado prices in guacamole. He should work with Donald Trump to unleash avocado independence in America.
GALLAGHER: Makes sense. Jim Acosta, by the way, has now got his own YouTube channel or something. He left CNN and he said the following here. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JIM ACOSTA, HOST, JIM ACOSTA SHOW: I think it's important to keep this in mind is remember what we were covering during the 2024 campaign, Project 2025 now what we're seeing being implemented by Elon Musk, by DOGE, this so-called shock and awe campaign that you're seeing right now is you are seeing essentially Project 2025 in action.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Not sure who the set designer was, but it's still the same theme, right? The same theme as you got to just bash Trump.
MESSERSMITH: Well, the problem Democrats, I think, have right now is Trump is doing so many things, flooding the zone, and they're having trouble really grabbing on and coming up with a coherent attack on any one thing. They're jumping from thing to thing, and they're not really getting the details down on some of these things, because a lot of the details aren't really out yet.
And rather than just wait patiently, they're taking debate and it really is not a coherent line of attack.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Meantime, the Daily Mail, the headline is the following here, Brianna. NFL fans call for Super Bowl boycott over black national anthem as Trump's election reignites debate over divisive performance. Apparently, they don't want to just be one country, one national anthem. What do you think?
LYMAN: It's ridiculous. Look, the national anthem that we all use in saying is meant to cover every single American, right? American doesn't have a specific race, religion, color, creed. It's for every single American and that's what our national anthem represents. When you start dividing it into different kinds of national anthems, you create division.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Brianna, Eric, thank you both.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ELEX MICHAELSON, FOX 11 (L.A.) NEWS ANCHOR: You say that the Democrats started their seventh-string quarterback in trying to win in both --
(CROSSTALK)
JAMES CARVILLE, DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST: Yes. We played the seven-string quarterback.
MICHAELSON: Yes.
CARVILLE: Right. And we've had to -- we weren't allowed to have tryouts.
MICHAELSON: So who is the first string quarterback?
CARVILLE: You got to have tryout. Let's get out there and you say, who's the best quarterback? Well, let's throw some, let's have a scrimmage. Let's have a preseason game. And guess what, when you got that kind of competition, it's going to be the --
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: The comment on the seventh string quarterback, Elex Michaelson, by the way, join us James Carville now calling out members of his own party trying to motivate his side of the aisle to accept some major changes. With us now, Fox 11 News Anchor Elex Michaelson who got the chance to speak with the well-known Democratic strategist. The quarterback comment, the seven- string quarterback comment got a lot of play and a lot of attention, because a lot of people, even Democrats, like this is kind of harsh.
MICHAELSON: Well, he's been saying this, though, the entire time. He's one of the few Democrats who was calling out Joe Biden saying, you're too old. Get out of the race. And then he was saying, let's do an open primary. Let's not just anoint Kamala Harris. James Carville believes that the best Democratic Party is one driven by democracy where the voters have the say and somebody isn't just anointed into this race.
He raised concerns about Kamala Harris's ability to win at the time, and then, of course, she didn't.
GALLAGHER: Yes. It's interesting, because he also talked about how people see the Democratic Party and he said this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
CARVILLE: When people see when people look at Democrats, people watching this show, if I was to say, when you think about Democrats? What do you think? They're old and they're urban. As far as you get, we have not had an inspirational candidate since 2012. That -- that's for 12, it's going to be 16 years in 2028.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: What's the -- what's the game here? Is he trying to motivate the Democratic Party? Is he trying to depress the Democratic Party? What's the game here?
MICHAELSON: I think he's trying to motivate the Democratic Party, basically go back to the voters and also, lift up the next generation. I think he feels like even though he's part of that older generation, at that generation has been holding everybody back. And there he says, there's a great bench of talent that hasn't been given a true opportunity to show what they can do.
GALLAGHER: Yes. I think it's fascinating that he also you asked him about California Governor Gavin Newsom and he had this to say. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
CARVILLE: He's been government of the largest state, sixth largest economy in the world, largest market delegates. But I'm not sure. He does things. I don't think anyone cares anymore about where you're from, what race you are, what gender you are or your identity. That is pretty clear.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Sometimes you have to read between the lines with James Carville. Is he saying that Gavin Newsom's California credentials don't have the same power that they used to have in politics?
MICHAELSON: I think he saying that a lot of people the rest of the country don't like California. They actually hurt him, even though it is the biggest state in the country, and that could be held against him. But he thinks Gavin Newsom should have an opportunity to be part of a big, robust primary. And it's interesting, Governor Newsom going to be meeting with President Trump, likely tomorrow at the White House, inserting himself into the national debate once again.
GALLAGHER: Did he give you any kind of a remedy of what he thinks the Democratic Party's next steps need to be, Elex?
MICHAELSON: To get away from the identity politics to focus on pocketbook issues that people care about and to stop putting everybody into groups, make it focused on America, and focus on populism and lifting people up, not a lot of the games, or what he calls incoherent B.S. that the party consultants were throwing out there.
GALLAGHER: Elex Michaelson, we'll see you on the air a little bit. Thank you for coming on. We appreciate.
MICHAELSON: Thanks, Trace.
GALLAGHER: Coming up. Major news breaking just moments ago about migrants heading to Guantanamo Bay and protests over the Trump administration's mass deportations popping up all over the country.
And later in The Nightcap. The NFL announcing that the black National Anthem will again be performed at this year's Super Bowl. What do you think of that decision? Necessary or divisive? Let us know. X, Instagram @tracegallagher. We'll read your responses coming up in the Nightcap.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GALLAGHER: Well, breaking tonight, Hawaii's Mount Kilauea is erupting again. These are now live pictures from inside the volcano's National Park, where the lava fountains from Kilauea reached heights of up to 330 feet overnight, the nearby communities, communities are on the alert for thankfully, what we're being told are minimal impacts from gas emissions and wind-blown volcanic glass. We of course, will keep you posted on the activity in Hawaii on Mount Kilauea.
Also breaking tonight, images from the first flight of criminal illegal aliens moments before their takeoff for Guantanamo Bay. Fox News now learning the first flight of the 10 Tren de Aragua gang members has landed at Gitmo where they will be held by ICE agents in the very same sector of the maximum-security detention facility where Khalid Sheik Mohammed and 14 other post 911 detainees are being held, but those who are deported will remain separate from the 911 prisoners.
Meantime, protesters still out and about pushing back against the Trump administration's immigration and deportation policies as students here in Los Angeles walked out of class. Marianne Rafferty is live with new information on this. Marianne, good evening.
MARIANNE RAFFERTY, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Yes. Good evening, Trace. Protesters taking to the streets again today around the country with several 100 students from schools across la walking out of class and marching through the streets and opposition to Trump's promises of mass deportations and the end of birthright citizenship. Some protesters spray painted L.A. City Hall this evening with expletive laced condemnations of President Trump and ICE.
On Monday night, protesters shut down a major freeway in downtown Los Angeles as marchers waved Mexican flags in what they called A Day Without Immigrants, a number of protesters were briefly detained but released.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ALIA PEREZ, PROTESTER: You can't scare us. You can't push us away. We are here. We are -- we're not going anywhere basically and we're going to show up together. We're going to stand together as one.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
RAFFERTY: And L.A. city leaders joining state officials and vowing to defy Trump's deportation plans.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
HUGO SOTO-MARTINEZ (D) MEMBER OF THE LOS ANGELES CITY COUNCIL: Unfortunately, we have a president who wants to scapegoat and attack our immigrant neighbors, and we are not going to take that likely.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
RAFFERTY: ICE detentions nationwide are ongoing, with Border Czar Tom Homan not backing down.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TOM HOMAN, BORDER CZAR: We're at about 9,000 total arrests in the interior since we started. It's a good number, but we need more. And I'm not satisfied yet. We're going to continue running these operations. We're going to continue doing significant targeting actions.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
RAFFERTY: And those protests will continue tomorrow with one planned at each state capital across the country to protest not just immigration policies, but all of President Trump's actions that have been taken since he took office. Trace.
GALLAGHER: Marianne, thank you. Let's bring in Oklahoma State Superintendent Ryan Walters and former Pinal County, Arizona Sheriff Mark Lamb. Gentlemen, thank you both. Superintendent, to you first. Here's you on CNN with a little back and forth. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Do you think that would be traumatic for students in schools? And I'm talking about all students.
RYAN WALTERS, OKLAHOMA STATE SUPERINTENDENT: Well, what my big concern is, is what illegal immigration has done to our education system. It has caused mass chaos. We aren't able to get the resources --
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Can you answer my question, please, Superintendent?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: I think you actually did answer the question, she just didn't like the answer.
WALTERS: Look, CNN's got a narrative, and the narrative is they're going to attack President Trump, they're going to lie about law enforcement, and they're going to try to gaslight the American people into not understanding that law enforcement is bringing back law and order to this country thanks to President Trump.
Here's the reality, law enforcement wants this information from schools and others, because they want to keep families together, but they got to know where the kids are, they got to know where the families are. And also, the lie is about what is the danger to the schools? Well, look at the average age of an MS-13 member, they're about 19-20 years old.
We have school-age kids in, in that gang. We need to make sure that they're out of schools, we need to make sure that kids are kept with their families as their families are being deported. This is common sense, this is what Americans voted for and President Trump is bringing Americans exactly what they want: America first policies across the board.
GALLAGHER: Meantime, Sheriff Lamb, to you. Jennie Taer at The New York Post writes the following, quoting here: "Mexican drug cartels are ordering their members to attack U.S. Border Patrol agents with kamikaze drones and other explosives in a desperate bid to thwart the crackdown at the border." And this is kind of we've been told how war start, and Tom Homan agrees with that -- here's what he said.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Obviously, I could stand for that, Lawrence. The most powerful military in the world will not be intimidated by anybody let alone cartels.
HOMAN: It's not a question if, it's what -- it's what happened. President Trump (INAUDIBLE), there will be violence.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: I mean, you start shooting at U.S. agents and U.S. officers, there's going to be pushback.
MARK LAMB, PINAL COUNTY SHERIFF: Well, absolutely. But, Trace, they should already fill our raft, because they've killed well over 100,000 Americans a year with fentanyl, and then we've had so many other victims of crime that have been at the hands of people that came into this country illegally. Now you have the cartels actually threatening. That came out of the Rio Grande Valley sector, where they said that they had good intel that said that the cartels have said it's OK.
They've green-lighted the weaponization of these drones against law enforcement and Border Patrol. So, yes, this will escalate it, but we should already be treating them as what they are, which is the terrorists, which is what they've been for the last several years.
GALLAGHER: Yes, and just to clarify, Superintendent Walters, because your last answer, you were talking about students in Oklahoma. They need to provide their immigration status, but they will still be allowed to enroll, is that true?
WALTERS: That's right. What we're doing is we're gathering information, because listen, you don't want kids waiting in a pickup line at the end of the day and their parents are deported. Law enforcement doesn't know where their kids are. Look, it's very common sense. We've got to collect this information so that it's there for law enforcement, so that it's there for our schools to understand how to spread out resources.
It's very common sense, but again, CNN and the left continue to try to undermine these efforts because they're trying to take down President Trump's presidency and his agenda. We've got to continue. Every school should stand with President Trump and law enforcement to bring law and order back to this country.
GALLAGHER: Yes. And lastly to you, Mark, I want to get your take on the breaking news that we've been reporting on tonight. You have these deportees that have arrived, at least 10 of them, at Guantanamo Bay. What do you think about them being sent down to Gitmo?
LAMB: Good. That's where many of them belong. They've been victimizing American citizens. Many of them are gang members. They're hardened criminals. They have not been good visitors here in our country, and they were here illegally in the first place.
And frankly, that's a great place for the overflow. If these countries aren't going to take their people back, that's a great place to put them in the meantime, but the criminals that are going there deserve to be there.
GALLAGHER: Sheriff Lamb, Superintendent Walters, gentlemen, thank you.
And coming up, DOGE taking aim at all sorts of federal agencies. Looks like the Department of Education could be next. We'll talk about that, other breaking news, on the other side of the fairway.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GALLAGHER: A little bit of breaking news. This is happening in New York City in the Diamond District there in Midtown Manhattan, and the FBI is now kind of wrapping up. This is a jewelry store robbery they went to. They're collecting evidence and what happened is they went in the suspects two of them who were arrested apparently according to the FBI may have connections to the robbery that was conducted on Joe Burrow, the quarterback, of the Cincinnati Bengals home about a month and a half ago.
We, we will keep you updated on what that connection is and if those suspects turn out to be connected to the people who robbed Joe Burroughs house and if they happen to be connected to others who have robbed other NFL stars' homes in recent months.
Meantime breaking tonight, Pam Bondi has been confirmed as the next Attorney General of the United States. Senators voted 54-46 to confirm her with Pennsylvania Democrat John Fetterman bucking his party to vote yes with all 53 Republicans.
Bondi promised in her confirmation hearing to lead a DOJ free of politicization. She served as Florida's Attorney General from 2011 to 2019. Another one has now made the cut.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, U.S. PRESIDENT: One other thing I'll be doing very early in the administration is closing up the Department of Education in Washington, D.C., and sending all education and education work and needs back to the states.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Yes, the early returns are in, and if the president's vow to dismantle the Department of Education goes anything like his other campaign promises, the federal agency's days could be numbered.
Let's bring in California Justice Center Attorney Julie Hamill, and the co- author of "Stolen Youth," "The Mom Wars, Substack Writer, Bethany Mandel. I want to play a little bit more sound, Bethany, for you of the president here talking about why he wants to shut down the Department of Education. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: So, we're ranked number 40 out of 40 schools, right? We're ranked number one in cost per pupil, so we spend more per pupil than any other country in the world, and we're ranked at the bottom of the list. We're ranked very badly. And what I want to do is let the states run schools. I believe strongly in school choice, but in addition to that, I want the states to run schools.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: He also ended that statement by saying he wants to put Linda McMahon his Department of Education Secretary out of a job and she'd be she'd be fine with that. Bethany.
BETHANY MANDEL, "STOLEN YOUTH" CO-AUTHOR: Yes, I can't believe we're only two weeks into this administration. How are we all going to survive the rest of it if this is how much is going on in the first two weeks?
I mean, he's a businessman at the end of the day, and he's seeing the ROI on what we're getting from the Department of Education and from these educators, and he's decided, along with the rest of America, that we're not getting a return on our investment.
We are spending so much money to produce more and more children who can't read, and who can't do arithmetic on grade level. The definition of insanity is to continue to do the same thing over and over and over, and expect different results. And that's what he ran on was breaking that cycle of insanity everywhere.
GALLAGHER: Yes, it's exactly right. The president wants the states to handle the schools. Julie, you think the state of California is doing a crappy job of handling the school and I want to play some sound. Here's the Attorney General Rob Bonta and this is why.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ROB BONTA, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF CALIFORNIA: We have one in this matter, thanks to our lawsuit and interventions, California superior court permanently blocked Chino Valley United School District from instituting a forced outing policy at their schools. This isn't just me saying it, this is the court saying it.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: He talks about Chino Valley, he's talking about our friend Sonia Shaw, who has been on the show many times. And what he's saying is that parents have no right to know about their kids. They have no right to know if their child is changing gender so on and so forth. Problem.
JULIE HAMILL, ATTORNEY: One scary thing about that is he's actually wrong. They enjoined the old policy. Chino Valley still has a notification policy in place so he's too stupid or he's misleading people on purpose. When Trump talks about sending education back to the states, it makes me nervous because the people running the Education Department in California are off their rocker nuts.
But dismantling the Department of Education does not mean we lose federal statutes like the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act or Title IX. So, those are still going to be enforced regardless of whether or not a Department of Education exists on the federal level.
GALLAGHER: OK. Meantime, the Associated Press, Bethany Mandel, has the following headline here: "Trump administration opens anti-Semitism inquiries at five colleges, including Columbia and Berkeley." The others not on the list there, University of Minnesota, Portland State, as well as Northwestern. Good thing, good move, right time, Bethany?
MANDEL: Yes, I mean this is exactly why President Trump has gotten more support from Jewish Americans than any other Republican that I think that we know of. It's because he decided that all of this stuff that was happening on campuses was a concern of all of America, not just Jewish- Americans, and it's so long overdue, and it's a relief to, to Jewish- American parents to know that we can send our kids to the schools, and that if our kids are discriminated against or threatened or physically harmed in any way, all of which has been happening on college campuses for the last fifteen months that there is finally someone in the administration who will stand up and say you have recourse, you are able to defend your kids and make sure they get an education.
GALLAGHER: Yes, it's very correct. The Wall Street Journal writes the following, Julie: "President Trump preparing to issue an executive order Wednesday effectively banning transgender girls and women from participating in female sports events in schools and colleges, fulfilling a promise that fueled his campaign for the White House." Lot of people are cheering this. Lot of people are saying it is about time, are you among them?
HAMILL: Absolutely. And I'm watching, as you know, as I on Friday sent a letter to the Department of Education asking them to investigate A.B. 1266 and A.B. 1955. These are laws involving the state of California is forcing schools to allow males to compete on girls' teams.
GALLAGHER: Right.
HAMILL: And lawsuits have been filed. A lawsuit was filed on Friday by Save Girls Sports. And so, I think having Title IX, having an executive order explaining how Trump is going to enforce Title IX, this is all incredibly helpful. This is all fantastic for kids in California, and I hope that the Trump administration follows through on this.
GALLAGHER: We shall see. Julie, Bethany, thank you both.
Well, the NFL announcing that the Black National Anthem will be performed at the Super Bowl this weekend. What do you think of the decision? Is it necessary or is it divisive? Let us know, X and Instagram, @TraceGallagher. We're back with the "NIGHTCAP" crew which includes you next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GALLAGHER: We're back with the "NIGHTCAP" crew: Kevin Corke, Ashley Strohmier, Marianne Rafferty, Rabbi Chaim Mentz, Eric Messersmith, Julie Hamill, and Mark Lamb. That's a full panel.
Tonight's topic, divisive decision. The NFL announcing that the black national anthem will be performed at this year's Super Bowl, and apparently Donald Trump will be there to have to watch.
What do you think of the decision? Is it necessary or is it divisive? Sheriff Mark Lamb.
LAMB: Not necessary, divisive, we have a national anthem for all Americans.
GALLAGHER: Yes, and that's kind of, and I'm going to read the comments here in a second, but Ashley Strohmier, it kind of all go toward that path.
STROHMIER: Yes, but I mean I think this does a lot more harm than it does good, because we already have a national anthem. And you know, in the long run, the country is already divided, we don't need to divide it anymore.
GALLAGHER: Yes, Marianne Rafferty.
RAFFERTY: Yes, I couldn't agree more with what Ashley just said. You know, the country being divided; we need to come together. And we have one national anthem, and it would be a good time to just let everyone know this is our national anthem. We are all Americans.
GALLAGHER: They were, Eric, as you know, they were playing this in a different part of the of the program the past couple of years. They've decided to change this. They're going to play it in the in the prom, they're going to play it in the run up, they're going to play it right before the national anthem where everybody is kind of standing. What do you what do you think about this?
MESSERSMITH: I think it's unnecessarily divisive. We have so few things to bring us together. The super bowl is actually one of those things, Republican Democrat everybody watches the game in the national anthem should be one of those things as well.
Also, the controversy about the national anthem being racist if you look into it, it's really overblown. It's a, it's a third verse that nobody ever even knows the words to, and there's a lot of dispute about whether or not there is even any racial element to it at all.
GALLAGHER: Is this supposed to be a counter to the charges that the national anthem is racist?
MESSERSMITH: Yes.
GALLAGHER: Rabbi, what do you think?
MENTZ: You know, the NFL is a product, they're putting on an entertainment show, they can do whatever they want. My question is, why aren't they playing Fiddler on the Roof?
GALLAGHER: Kevin Corke.
CORKE: Can a brother get tradition? Sorry. Listen, end of the day, it's a beautiful song. You can listen to it any time you want, but it's unnecessary to play at the Super Bowl.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Julie?
HAMILL: It's unnecessarily divisive, and it's also not very inclusive, because why don't other races have their own national anthem, and why don't they get played at the Super Bowl? If we're going to divide it up by race, then we have to play everybody's anthem.
GALLAGHER: Yes, you would think. So, we asked what you thought.
Vicky says, "I quit watching the NFL when people started disrespecting our flag. The U.S. has only one national anthem."
Brenda says, "They just want to continue their divisive behavior. Too bad, they have chosen to do this. Totally unnecessary."
William, "It is not necessary. I am Irish," to Julie's point, "and they don't play the anthem of Ireland. Let's remember, we are Americans."
John, "We only have one national anthem. This is just virtue signaling."
Leanne, "100 percent divisive. People are tired of it."
Robert says, "The NFL is so disconnected from everyday Americans like many, I won't be watching."
Kristen, "I don't think we need anthems to individual groups. Let's identify as Americans."
And Deb says, "Totally divisive. The USA has one anthem for all people."
Thank you for watching America's late news, FOX NEWS @ NIGHT. I'm Trace Gallagher in Los Angeles. We'll see you right back here again tomorrow.

Load-Date: February 5, 2025


End of Document
