




Fox News FOX HANNITY 9:00 PM EST
February 12, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6882 words
Byline: Sean Hannity
Guests: Steve Witkoff, Mike Waltz, Stephen Miller, Marjorie Taylor Greene, Lara Trump
Body


SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS HOST: Welcome to "Hannity".
And tonight big things are once again happening in the D.C. swamp. At the Department of Justice, Attorney General Pam Bondi just announced a major new lawsuit against New York state, and that means New York Governor Kathy Hochul, Letitia James and New York's DMV chief. Why? Because of their efforts to aid and abet in illegal immigration. We'll have a lot more on that straight ahead.
And Stephen Miller will join us.
Also breaking today, another legal win for President Trump. The Florida appeals court blasted the Pulitzer board. Remember the Pulitzer Prizes for the phony Russia hoax? And ruled in favor of Donald Trump's defamation suit. That will now proceed.
This all stems from the Pulitzer Prize gifted to "The New York Times," "Washington Post" for perpetuating the Russia hoax. By the way, just for the record, we got it right on this show. They got it wrong.
Meanwhile, it was another day of public humiliation for Democrats they're losing it the woke residents of liberal Massachusetts and a town there they are now begging to become a sanctuary city for transgender people. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
WORCESTER, MA RESIDENT: The Jesus I know would be dressed in full drag and serving face, or handsome as a trans man, or wrapped in the garb of a non- binary person who knows one gender is way too small to capture their gloriousness.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Okay. We've got the full highlights from that city council meeting. That's all coming up straight ahead.
Plus, more sound yet from another congressional protest in Washington, D.C. This is like a daily occurrence. This time Democratic lawmakers demanding reparations while calling President Trump a white supremacist. The only words missing were Stalin, Hitler, Mussolini, fascist and Nazi, et cetera. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: White supremacy is rampant in this country. Just look at the current administration and our own legislative body. They have contributed to the social and economic harms to racial terror Black folks have experienced in this country.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: All right. A lot more coming up.
So that is the current state of your Democratic Party. This is what they're doing with their time in Washington.
And meanwhile at the White House, Donald Trump, he's making history day after day. One more American hostage was freed to today, this time from Belarus. Late last night, you might remember on this program, we saw the White House arrival of another hostage freed by Vladimir Putin and Russia. Both hostages this week were released on unilateral deals without any conditions, no prisoner swap.
And they marked the 10th and 11th American hostage now freed during Donald Trump's first three weeks in office. This is a monumental diplomatic achievement and it begs the question what the hell was Biden doing the last four years? Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: The young gentleman that I brought home yesterday after two weeks, we worked on it for two weeks. It was a fine man and he was in there for three and a half almost, four years, and they weren't able to do a thing, and I got them out. And as you know, I didn't pay $6 billion. I didn't pay anything.
I -- we did a trade and we did a good job. We' got him out in two weeks. He should have been out years ago.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Now on the campaign trail, President Trump made a promise to bring all Americans home and particularly promised his mother, 95 years old, that he would come home. He came home. Promises made, promises kept.
Today, fake news CNN, a bewildered looking Dana Bash, poor Dana, forced to listen as career diplomats heap praise on President Trump and his peace through strength agenda. Take a listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
AMBASSADOR KARA MCDONALD, UNITED STATES AMBASSADOR TO LITHUNIA: It's important to note here that this is four releases we've had in less than a month of the administration. It's quite extraordinary. It's really a very rare thing. We work sometimes for years to get people out. I've personally worked on one of these cases for a number of years and so to see this person come out of Belarusian prison is quite extraordinary.
DANA BASH, CNN HOST: Maybe color me a skeptic that Lukashenko is somebody who just does something out of the goodness of his heart. There was nothing that he got at all?
CHRIS SMITH, DEPUTY ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE FOR EASTERN EUROPEAN AFFAIRS: As I said, he didn't get anything for this exchange. They are looking to improve their ties with us and they're making smart choices by releasing these Americans and other political prisoners.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Now, President Trump, he is turning his attention to Europe after a productive phone call, long phone call today with Russian President Vladimir Putin. President Trump believes he is ready to begin serious negotiations to end the war in Europe, Ukraine versus Russia. This war has gone on for far too long, the suffering and loss of life is almost unthinkable. What Putin did to Ukraine is unforgivable.
But we are at a stalemate, the killing, it can go on for years and years. No progress on either side, the only real alternative is that both sides come to an agreement a negotiated settlement, end this war, draw lines in the sand and hopefully live in peace. There is no other realistic solution. Democrats certainly don't have a plan at all, but there's no doubt they will be against anything Donald Trump decides to do.
Now, we see it every day with DOGE and cleaning up fraud, waste, abuse, corruption in your federal government. Well, that's a -- that's a 90/10 issue. This is one that the American people agree with. Average American does not want to see their money being spent this way.
Yet, Democrats, they continue to act like the sky is falling. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. EMANUEL CLEAVER (D-MO): Elon, take your musty millions and musty Moscow rights to the moon, because if you don't, we're going to stand up. We're going to speak out. We're going to march. We're going to do anything we need to do to make sure that the people of this country understand that the CFPB is for them.
You get your musty hands off of our money, o got to Moscow, you, you, you, musty, moon, moon, moon.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: He's a little busy. He's going to rescue the astronauts that Biden and Harris abandoned. They lost in space for nearly 300 days. They were only supposed to be there for eight days and we expect that mission hopefully, successfully completed by the end of March.
Remember the money wasted, this is your money. It is tens of billions of dollars spent on foreign countries for the advancement of the Democratic Party, their radical environmentalist agenda, DEI, transgenderism, LGBTQ+ advancement, and often through so-called non-government -- non-governmental organizations, NGOs.
But as Congressman Massie and Elon Musk are pointing out, if cutting government funding shuts down an NGO, it was never really a non- governmental organization. Just this week, DOGE uncovered more funding from FEMA to hotels for illegal immigrants in New York City despite the president's new executive order and ban. The bureaucrats in charge of those payments, they were rightly fired. And Secretary Noem clawed back that money.
But over the past four years, billions were spent and think about it, while the storm ravaged states like North Carolina, Tennessee, South Carolina, my state of Florida, Americans were sleeping in tents in North Carolina during the winter there. FEMA was shelling out millions and millions and tens of millions of dollars for illegal immigrants to stay in four-star hotels in Midtown Manhattan.
Maybe we could have spent that money on our school system that's failing our kids. Maybe we could have deported Harris-Biden unvetted illegals. Maybe we could have hired more police to make our towns and city more -- cities more safe.
In fact, the FEMA-funded Roosevelt Hotel was serving as a base of operations for the violent Latin American gang Tren de Aragua, and was used to house Laken Riley's killer.
Democrats are okay with this? But not okay with Elon Musk uncovering the waste, fraud, abuse corruption of taxpayer money? How does any of that make sense?
Elon was personally helping the people of North Carolina at his own expense, out of his own pocket. He was helping the people of California, free Starlink to open up communications that people had -- when people had none. And he paid and he's now going to go rescue those astronauts lost in space abandoned by Joe and Kamala.
After his first few weeks in office, Trump should be headed for a Nobel Peace Prize, if the Nobel Peace Prize actually went to people that deserved it. Ultimately, Trump's biggest prize in restoring is restoring American greatness and saving lives and a big part of that is hiring the right people for the job.
For example, here's what freed American hostage Marc Fogel had to say about one of Donald Trump's top diplomats Steve Witkoff. Take a listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MARC FOGEL, FREED AMERICAN HOSTAGE: I will forever be indebted to President Trump, to Steve over there, what a dynamic man this guy is.
TRUMP: That's true.
(APPLAUSE)
FOGEL: When I met him, the energy, the can-do attitude just exudes from his body and when he smiled at me and introduced me and I got the feel for what has happened, you know, it's not just me, it's -- it's everybody.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: All right. Here with more, the man himself, Donald Trump's special envoy to the Middle East, he was the one that picked up Marc Fogel in Russia, had a chance to meet with Vladimir Putin, Steve Witkoff.
First of all, thank you, thank Secretary of State Marco Rubio, thank the president everybody involved. I am so glad this man is home. Well done, my friend, a great job.
STEVE WITKOFF, SPECIAL ENVOY: Thank you, Sean, and thanks for having me this evening.
HANNITY: We appreciate you being here.
Okay, let's walk through -- you had the special, by the way, because we're friends personally. I've known you for a long time and, you know, your life has changed rather dramatically in the last eight months and you're involved in a lot of high level negotiations to bring peace around the world.
And then the next thing I know, you're -- you're headed to Russia and you're bringing home an American hostage help for three and a years and meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin. I would say your life has changed quite a bit.
WITKOFF: Well, it's -- it's changed in the sense that the president has given me a gift, a gift of doing something larger than I've ever done before, helping others. It's a blessing for me and I'm so -- I'm just so grateful to him.
HANNITY: Let's talk about how this was all unfolding. How to -- tell me from the beginning what your involvement was and let's talk very specifically about you boarding that airplane, your own airplane is my understanding, and flying over to Russia and what -- what all of that was like and what took place.
WITKOFF: Well, we -- we got a -- we had a reach out from someone who is a go-between between the Russian government and the American government, and I presented it to our national security adviser Mike Waltz, in addition, Marco Rubio, John Ratcliffe, our CIA director, and our vice president, J.D. Vance, as well as Susie Wiles, with the president.
And we all determined that it was credible, that there was an opportunity to get Marc Fogel back, and that I should pursue it. And the president as he -- as he usually does, listens carefully, decided it was actionable and said hop on the plane and let's hope to get a good result. And that's -- that's really how it happened, Sean.
HANNITY: So, when you got on the plane, you did not know the ultimate outcome?
WITKOFF: You know, we thought we had a very, very good chance of Marc coming back. We weren't positive. There were still some things that I'm not at liberty to talk about tonight, but there were still some things that were up in the air.
But we thought -- we thought it was a strong enough opportunity that we had to go and hopefully, we'd have a good result and, of course, we did. So I'm grateful for that and grateful for the Fogel family and I'm -- I'm grateful for the world to see my -- our friend, Sean, greet Marc Fogel last night. He called it the privilege of his life to meet the president.
It was snowing out. He came out in his coat, greeted Marc, spent time with him like they were best buddies from their college years. It was -- it was really beautiful to watch.
HANNITY: I know the president had a very long conversation with Vladimir Putin today and of great significance, including ending war in Europe between -- between Russia and Ukraine. We know President Zelenskyy is now expressed a desire for this war to come to a conclusion and a negotiated settlement. I interviewed him myself.
When you got there, did you get time with Vladimir Putin?
WITKOFF: You know, I can't talk about that, Sean, because -- well --
HANNITY: Fair enough. I'm not going to press.
WITKOFF: I thank you. I thank you. I thank you.
HANNITY: Okay, but you know, the -- to me, if we're going to look at the broader picture and you really want to help negotiate a peace in the Middle East and the president meeting with King Abdullah I thought made a lot of progress.
I heard things come out of Abdullah's mouth that I never thought I'd hear from the king and others in the region seem more open to what is a really innovative new idea, we'll go in, we'll clean up the rubble, we'll get rid of all -- we'll -- we'll demilitarize the area. We'll -- we'll create jobs and a beautiful new city, you know, for the people there. That -- that to me would be innovative and that's the broader context, and I know you're working hard towards that.
What is the broader context here when you have President Zelenskyy on the one hand saying that he is now open to a negotiated settlement and this gesture from Vladimir Putin? I can only interpret that as both sides now seem ready to talk peace and they want the death, the destruction, you know, to come to an end. I would imagine that settlement would probably look something like, okay, Ukraine agrees not to join NATO, they probably would give up some of the -- the areas in Ukraine that have heavy Russian populations, a little bit of land in the process as well, and also have assurances of their security moving forward. Does that sound like the parameters of a deal that might -- might occur?
WITKOFF: It sounds like you should be running the deal yourself, Sean.
HANNITY: I -- I don't have your great negotiating skills, Steve. You're -- you're -- you're far more charming than I am. Lastly, tell -- tell us your take on where we are in the Middle East. The president has drawn a very, very -- a tough line in the sand, Saturday at noon, or all hell breaks loose? What do you think happens?
WITKOFF: Well, well, first of all, Sean, you know, the president in his typical sensible grounded way looks at Gaza and says we've been doing it the same way for 50 years and here's is where we end up in the same place, with a -- with a city that's been destroyed. Maybe it's time to start to think a little bit differently, be more uplifting in our thoughts with regard to Palestinians and what the opportunities should be for them not to live in an area that's decimated but alternatively to have prospects for jobs and economic success and to change their lives.
And that vision also holds true with regard to Hamas. He is just intolerant of terrorist activity as most of us are. I -- he -- I think his sense and certainly my sense, I agree with him completely, is that that whole region has been held hostage to Hamas and we're just not going to have it anymore.
HANNITY: They just have to be demilitarized and Iran could no longer be funding these proxy wars the way they have.
WITKOFF: Correct.
HANNITY: You are on the plane with Marc Fogel, you know, for this trip home from Russia. When he got to the White House last night, he was obviously very emotional but also extraordinarily humbled and grateful and happy to be home, three and a half years is a long time to spend in a Russian prison. Any insight as to how he was on the plane?
WITKOFF: Sean, he was amazing. He talked to his mom. She's 95 years old. He talked to his wife. He called his children. We had a discussion about not playing the victim, being grateful for this opportunity, other people would have -- who were left, who unfortunately we didn't get out and hopefully we will in the future.
They -- they didn't have this opportunity yesterday. He's an exceptional man, and he was wonderful with the president. He came off came -- he got out of the car entering the White House and he had the American flag draped around him and he expressed how grateful he was and the honor that it was for him to have been invited to the White House last night.
The president took him upstairs to the Lincoln room, and he saw the original Gettysburg address and I think he was pinching himself even after three and a half years in prison. I think he considered himself to be fortunate. He's an example of -- of a -- of a very, very courageous person and I'm glad I had the privilege to meet him, to know him, I'll stay in touch with him and to play a small part in getting him his freedom.
HANNITY: All right. Steve, great job. We appreciate it. I think you're pretty humble on all this. We -- we're grateful he's home.
All right. Joining us now, national security adviser Mike Waltz.
Mike, by the way, thank you for the role that you played in all this and Secretary of State Rubio and Steve and everybody else involved. I'm sure I'm going to forget names here.
What are the broader implications to this? Because I see this as a gesture that Vladimir Putin would never show to Joe Biden.
MIKE WALTZ, NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR: Well, first, Sean, let's be clear, you know, there are a number of people involved, but this is President Trump. This is the Trump effect that we were talking about before he was even inaugurated, but even in the week since, we're now up to 11 Americans released.
The ones today as you said CNN just couldn't believe it that Belarus just released them for nothing.
This is the Taliban. This is Venezuela. This is now Russia and, of course, Gaza when he said I'll hell to pay, Hamas said, we're -- we're going to enter into a deal. So President Trump is like just one of the greatest of all time coaches, he's deploying all of us out on the field, including now Ambassador Steve Witkoff.
And what's so amazing about Steve is, you know, he's not burdened by all of the decades of talking points and this can't be done and only that can be done. It's kind of like, you know, that unconventional thinking that that outsider that understands closing deals, has the instinct of when to walk away, and not take, you know, sometimes no deal is better than a bad deal that led to the Abraham Accords in his first term, and is going to get both Europe and the Middle East back into peace, focus on our Western Hemisphere, from the Arctic, to our border, the Panama Canal and all the way down into South America.
So it's, you -- you ask for the broader implications, this is the entire world reacting to President's Trump leadership -- President Trump's leadership, and once again seeing our adversaries and our allies respect the United States of America and its commander-in-chief, and that's these amazing effects that you're seeing, not to mention the great team that he put around them and I have an honor to be a part of.
HANNITY: You know, I didn't like that the war in Ukraine seemed to devolve into a proxy war between Russia and the U.S. because, you know, Joe Biden was paying for all of the weaponry and escalating the war and the -- in the last couple of months he was president, but I really for the first time I think there's -- there's hope and an opportunity that killing and the and the war and the murder in the mayhem end.
What is your take on what's going on in the Middle East? There's a noon Saturday deadline for all of the hostages to be released or all hell will break loose. What do you see happening there?
WALTZ: Well, just very quickly, Sean, today in the Oval Office. I mean, it was literally being a part of history as President Trump spoke with Vladimir Putin and then spoke with Zelenskyy and both of them said they are ready to end this war and they could only do it with President Trump's leadership. I mean, just think about that for a second. This is a war that should have never started, would have been deterred under President Trump's leadership.
Putin invaded a neighbor under Bush, under Obama, and under Biden, but not under President Trump's first term and he's ready to end it in President Trump's second term. That just happened today.
You have Secretary of Treasury Bessent, Scott Bessent in Kyiv, negotiating for equity in Ukraine's resources so that the American people can be recouped the billions of dollars. You have the VP. You have -- you have secretary state immediately getting into negotiations.
And in the Middle East, I think Hamas caves. They -- they will cave by this Saturday because they know President Trump means it when he says there's all hell to pay.
HANNITY: I think Hamas and Iran better take his threat seriously. If they don't, they do -- do so with their own peril. Anyway, great job.
WALTZ: Their leadership needs to wave the white flag. All right. Thank you.
HANNITY: Well -- job well done. Thank you.
When we come back, Democrats are so desperate, they are once again pulling out the race car. They're trying to attack Donald Trump. Attorney General Pam Bondi going after New York for prioritizing illegals over the safety of American citizens. We'll get reaction.
Stephen Miller straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. Consider this for a second. Democrats don't have to oppose everything that Donald Trump does. They could actually work with the president to improve the country. But instead today, they decided to hold a press conference and call `em, oh, whatever names of the day they wanted to call `em. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. AYANNA PRESSLEY (D-MA): Today, with Donald Trump and Republicans waging their coordinated and at times unlawful assault on Black folks and Black history, we will not allow that history to be erased. We will not allow it to be whitewashed.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Black excellence scares Donald Trump. It scares Stephen Miller, and it scares Elon Musk, because you know what? Deep down, they recognize their own mediocrity. And so they're doing everything they can to entrench the racial wealth gap.
PRESSLEY: Donald Trump and his co-president Elon Musk and their enablers in Congress and the courts are working over time to strip away our rights.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: White supremacy is rampant in this country. Just look at the current administration and our own legislative body. They have contributed to the social and economic harms to racial terror Black folks have experienced in this country.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: All right. Old, stale, boring, failed rhetoric. I mean, it just - - it's getting old. As usual, Trump and his team, they are undeterred by the hyperbolic and baseless attacks and accusations.
They just focused on moving ahead with the Trump agenda at the speed of light, which includes a new warning from the Attorney General Pam Bondi to the state of New York. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PAM BONDI, U.S. ATTORNEY GENERAL: We're here today because we have filed charges against the state of New York. We have filed charges against Kathy Hochul. We have filed charges against Letitia James and Mark Schroeder who is with DMV. This is a new DOJ, and we are taking steps to protect Americans, American citizens and Angel Moms like the mom standing right behind me who you're going to hear from in a moment.
New York has chosen to prioritize illegal aliens over American citizens. It stops. It stops today.
As you know, we sued Illinois and New York didn't listen. So now, you're next.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Here with the latest from Washington, White House deputy chief of staff, Stephen Miller is with us.
Let's start with Pam first and the lawsuit against Letitia James and Kathy Hochul, et cetera.
This is a phrase I've been using for a long time. These states have been aiding and abetting in the law breaking the whole time. Now, I will tell you this and I know this to be a fact, California apparently is now making it very clear that in spite of their sanctuary status, they will fully cooperate with ICE. Did you know that?
STEPHEN MILLER, DEPUTY CHIEF FOR POLICY AND HOMELAND SECURITY ADVISOR: Well, we'll see, Sean. That's what I would say to that is that we'll see, because we know that we have seen blue states all across this country, blue states -- blue cities all across America have sheltered criminal aliens, have sheltered violent illegals who commit rape and murder.
And so, the proof will be in the actual cooperation itself. Are they going to turn over these criminal illegal aliens that they have been hiding, that they have been harboring who have caused so much bloodshed all across this country these last four years?
HANNITY: Yeah, I -- well, I mean did they ever hear of the supremacy clause? Do they not know that we have federal laws and it supersedes any state law? And frankly, you know, we've witnessed, Stephen, for the longest time these states and these cities that have sanctuary status, they have been aiding and abetting and frankly, these criminal illegal immigrants, even people that got out of jail, they wouldn't hand them over to ICE.
Those days are done. Now, they're going to be held accountable and I -- I don't think there's any other strategy, don't -- you do have to enforce the laws of the country, don't we?
MILLER: Yeah. So, you -- you hit the core point here. Federal supremacy, the Constitution is the supreme law of the land, the federal government has supremacy in all matters related to immigration and homeland security.
These states like New York, like California, like Illinois, cities like Chicago, cities like New York City, like Los Angeles have engaged in a vast nullification scheme, frustrating, defying and disobeying federal immigration law. They have harbored illegal aliens in violation of federal law. They have concealed from authorities illegal aliens and gang members who are guilty of the most heinous crimes.
And, of course, the previous administration, the Biden administration funded and subsidized all of that criminality. They sent hundreds of millions of dollars to hotels in New York City to house illegal aliens, including criminal aliens, including the illegal alien who murdered Laken Riley.
They sponsored the bloodshed. The Biden administration and these Democrat cities and Americans elected Donald Trump overwhelmingly because they believe that President Trump and they know that President Trump will put them and their families and their communities first, and that is what he has done in the most spectacular fashion for these last three weeks.
Sean, President Trump is already saved thousands of lives just by the people he's kept out of the country these last three weeks. Do you have any idea how many criminals, how many potential terrorists, how many security threats have been blocked and denied and prevented and deterred from even trying to enter the country? A 95 percent reduction in illegal crossings.
There are mothers all over this country who will sleep safely tonight because of what Donald Trump has done. That is what the American people voted for, not the chaos and bloodshed of Gavin Newsom, and Kathy Hochul, and all of these blue state governors and blue state mayors who have forced their people to live in violence and misery.
HANNITY: What do you make of -- you know, here's Elon Musk. He works for free. Everybody at DOGE works for free. They've identified tens and tens of billions of dollars spent abroad not on American schools, not on securing our borders, not on hiring police to make our towns and cities more safe, not to bring down the price of energy and help the economy.
And yet, they -- they end the campaign with a closing argument of Nazi, fascist, racist and now they go back to that failed strategy with calling Donald Trump every name in the book. I'm not sure what they're thinking but what do you make of their strategy which is to stand up for the rights of illegals over the safety of Americans?
You know, what -- what do you make of their fight to keep you know men and women sports? What do you make of their fight to spend, you know, money on radical environmentalism, DEI, wokeism, transgenderism and LGBTQ abroad when we're not taking care of business here at home and we have a $37 trillion debt?
MILLER: My God, Sean. The Democrats have learned nothing from the historic resounding defeat they suffered at the hands of Donald Trump. They are acting like clowns. They're embarrassing themselves. They're humiliating themselves.
They're out there holding protests so that we can send more foreign aid, to foreign nations, to push diversity, equity and inclusion policies, to open our borders to criminal aliens? They look like fools and Donald Trump looks more brilliant and more genius every single day as he's implementing his agenda and it's working and our lives are getting better by the minute. The contrast has never been wider or more clear, Sean.
HANNITY: All right. Stephen Miller, thank you. We appreciate you being with us.
When we come back, the House Subcommittee on DOGE held its first hearing today. There was some pretty tense moments. We're going to show you the highlights. We'll get reaction from Congresswoman Marjorie Taylor Greene, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: And earlier today on Capitol Hill, the House subcommittee on DOGE held its first hearing as you might expect, there were fireworks. Democrats refused to take their job seriously even in the slightest bit. Instead, they chose to attack Donald Trump and Elon Musk in very highly personal terms. Here's a recap.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. MARJORIE TAYLOR GREENE (R-GA): The American people are in debt slavery to everyone who owns our debt. In this subcommittee, we will fight the war on waste shoulder-to-shoulder with President Trump, Elon Musk and the DOGE team.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Now in the last Congress, Chairwoman Greene literally showed a (EXPLETIVE DELETED) in our oversight congressional hearing. So I thought I'd bring one as well. Now, this, of course, we know is president Elon Musk. He's also the world's richest man. He was the biggest political donor in the last election. He has billions of dollars in conflicts of interest and we know that he is leading a power grab.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If you don't want to help write the fiscal ship in this country, get out of the way. Stop filing lawsuit after lawsuit.
REP. JASMINE CROCKETT (D-TX): Because I don't understand, if you are trying to conduct audits and figure out where the waste, fraud and abuse is, I don't know why you would go to some tech guy.
REP. ERIC BURLISON (R-MO): Oh, Elon Musk, right? He's rich. He must be evil, right? That's the -- that's the attacks. Really, you can't do any better than that, right? Let's talk on the policy.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: The Subcommittee Chairwoman Marjorie Taylor Greene, Congresswoman Greene, joins us now with more.
I'm actually very appreciative to Elon Musk, the smarter the guys -- the smartest guy in the world, one of the richest guys in the world. He's volunteering to do this for our country and exposing their reckless spending and abuse of taxpayer dollars. I'm grateful for it.
GREENE: I completely agree with you, Sean. Elon Musk is giving our entire country an inside look at the actual fraud, waste, abuse that's been going on for decades. And Americans are cheering and cheering and cheering.
You know, everyone did vote for this. This is exactly what we voted for. This is what we campaigned for and this is what President Trump promised to the American people.
And, you know, today in our DOGE committee hearing, we were talking about $2.7 trillion that have been basically stolen from the American people through improper payments. This is money that's gone to dead people, criminals -- basically criminal gangs in foreign countries through personal identity theft.
And Democrats acted like that. They acted like complete clowns. So, you know, I think the Democrat Party just hasn't figured out who they are, but they've decided to fight against the very issue that most Americans really care about and that's $36 trillion in debt.
HANNITY: Is there -- we're talking about now tens and tens of billions. It'll be hundreds and hundreds of billions, and I would not be surprised if we get to a trillion. How high do you see this waste, fraud, abuse and corruption going?
GREENE: Oh, it's -- it's unreal. The more and more Elon Musk and his incredibly talented and intelligent DOGE team dig into the payment systems within the departments of the government, they're just finding out more and more information.
One of the things I just learned this week from Elon is that there is -- has been Social Security checks paid out to recipients that don't even have Social Security ID numbers and this is something that they're really starting to investigate and it actually should be terrifying to every single American no matter how you vote. But on our DOGE committee, we are setting up in complete alignment with DOGE because it's not just executive orders and executive action that will save the country, Congress has to engage.
And so, we have to line up with them through a legislature standpoint and help achieve this very important goal.
HANNITY: I would agree, and it's got to be codified into law. And he is -- he's basically building a map so that we can find all the waste, fraud and abuse, stop stealing from our kids and grandkids, and hopefully even eventually get our budget in balance.
Congresswoman, great to see you. Great job, by the way, today, and I saw you didn't take the bait that went after you personally, too.
All right. When we come back straight ahead, that hard-hitting news show "The View", their hosts mocking Elon Musk's 4-year-old son? What a -- really? We're going to show you what they said.
And a Massachusetts town voting to become a sanctuary city for the trans community. You're going to want to see that tape, and we'll get reaction from Lara Trump, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. The co-hosts of that hard-hitting ABC News/Disney show "The View" continue sinking into new lows. Yesterday, Elon Musk, he brought his very cute 4-year-old son X along for a press conference in the Oval Office with President Trump.
And Elon Musk's son quickly went viral, kind of for stealing the show in a fun way.
The liberal hosts at "The View" decided to mock an innocent 4-year-old old child because of his name. This is how low they're sinking. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
WHOOPI GOLDBERG, CO-HOST, THE VIEW: So, yesterday, Elon Musk took his son X to a press conference.
JOY BEHAR, CO-HOST, THE VIEW: X.
GOLDBERG: I did not name the child, and I don't want to hear anyone mess about our names, okay? Okay?
Anywho, he took little X --
BEHAR: Sorry. And a little Instagram.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: He doesn't own Instagram.
GOLDBERG: He doesn't own Instagram.
BEHAR: I know.
GOLDBERG: He just took little X with him.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Here with reaction, host of the upcoming hit show right here on FOX News entitled "My View with Lara Trump", the one and only Lara Trump.
By the way, does Joyless not realize she's sitting next to a woman that has the name Whoopi? Not exactly, you know, the best name.
Why are they picking on a 4-year-old kid? Leave the kids alone. I can't stand when they go after children or wives or spouses. I hate it.
LARA TRUMP, HOST OF THE UPCOMING SHOW "MY VIEW WITH LARA TRUMP": Yeah. Well, my view will be very different from "The View". I'll just go ahead and promise the FOX viewers that right now, Sean.
Look, to have a group of adult women who by the way their core audience is a probably mothers for the most part sitting there going around the table to make fun of a 4-year-old simply because they don't like his dad truly is a new low for even the women of "The View". They decided to bully a child instead of actually listening to what Elon was talking about -- listening to the millions and millions and millions of taxpayer dollars that he's finding that have been wasted, or maybe even worse as we just heard in the last segment from Congresswoman Greene, possibly stolen from the American people.
This is a great thing that we have a man who is working for zero dollars, doesn't want anything except to help the country. And they are so obsessed with hating Donald Trump and anyone with whom he surrounds himself that they have chosen to mock his 4-year-old son. It's really disgusting for these ladies.
HANNITY: Disgusting.
L. TRUMP: And yet you had -- you had "The Wall Street Journal" come out today, Sean, and say that in three and a half weeks, Donald Trump and Elon Musk have done more to reduce the size of government than Ronald Reagan who -- who loved to have a smaller government did in eight years in office. So, kudos to Donald Trump and Elon Musk.
HANNITY: And then, by the way, it's tens of billions and it's going to be hundreds of billions and even higher.
All right. Let me ask you this. So, liberal lunacy is all across the country. They're out of the denial stage and the shock stage and the depression stage. Now, they're just raging and Democrats refused to change course.
Last night, Worcester, Massachusetts, the city council voted in favor of a resolution to become a sanctuary city for transgender people. The vote came after a lengthy city council meeting where residents voiced their support for the resolution and some of these testimonies -- well, you just kind of have to decide for yourself. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
WORCESTER, MA RESIDENT: Hello. My name and drag is Dee Delight.
WORCESTER, MA RESIDENT: The Jesus I know would be dressed in full drag and serving face, or handsome as a trans man, or wrapped in the garb of a non- binary person who knows one gender is way too small to capture their gloriousness.
WORCHESTER, MA RESIDENT: Normally, I would say good evening but through the chair, I will only impart my sour grapes.
WORCESTER, MA RESIDENT: We will not cooperate with a federal government that seeks to erase and minimize and kill you.
WORCESTER, MA RESIDENT: If you say that you're afraid of Trump and that's why you don't want city to be -- the city to be a space -- safe space for trans people, you better prepare for trans people to make this a very unsafe space.
WORCESTER, MA RESIDENT: Council, I have given my testimony for weeks and I want you to know that I do not want to be here. It's my day off.
I do not want to be in your DMs. I do not want to be in your email inboxes. I do not want my creativity writing diss tracks like Kendrick. I don't want to spend an hour applying glitter on my face so that you will hear and see me.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Erase, minimize and kill us. I think I speak for most conservatives. They're adults and they're free to live their life any way that they want and nobody in the federal government -- frankly, nobody really in the country cares that much about what other people do. Do they?
L. TRUMP: That's exactly right, Sean. Let's be very clear, no one is trying to do anything to harm transgender individuals in this country.
I'll tell you who ought to be afraid -- are people who are not following the law right now, criminals, gang members, you know, terrorists. Those are the people who need to be concerned right now.
Transgender individuals have nothing to worry about in the United States of America but what you're seeing is a response to a party -- the Democrat Party -- who has truly hit rock bottom. This is a party that's completely rudderless. They have no idea who they are.
They have no leader. They have no rising stars. They have no real message, and so, they resorted to fearmongering the entire campaign to try and get Kamala Harris through.
And this is the result on the other side. Everyone in this country is able to live their life however they want as long as you're not harming someone. Sad to see we've sunk to this new low, but thanks -- thank a Democrat for that.
HANNITY: When does the new show start?
L. TRUMP: New show airs February 22nd, 9:00 p.m. every Saturday night. You'll see my face for an hour every Saturday, coming to you soon. Thank you, Sean.
HANNITY: I just hope I get invited as a guest. I don't know. I'd like -- you know, a little role reversal would be good.
L. TRUMP: If I think you --
HANNITY: Congratulations.
We're -- we're glad to have you back.
More "Hannity" straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. That's all the time we have left this evening. Thank you for being with us. Thank you for making the show possible. Please set your DVR so you never, ever, ever, ever miss an episode of "Hannity".
Now, let not your heart be troubled. Why? Greg Gutfeld is standing by to put a smile on your face. Have a great evening.

Load-Date: February 13, 2025


End of Document
