




Newsweek.com
February 19, 2025 Wednesday 1:52 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 754 words
Byline: Thomas G. Moukawsher
Highlight: At an Oval Office press conference with senior advisors Elon Musk and his 4-year-old Lil' X, Trump vowed to pursue federal employees which he declared to be very corrupt.
Body


At an Oval Office press conference with senior advisors  and his 4-year-old Lil' X, President  vowed to pursue federal employees which he  without showing any evidence. Indeed, the only thing he mentioned was that a . He offered nothing to .
, suggesting only that some unnamed people were leaving government with more money than they came in with, so they must have been corrupted. In the middle of all this, Lil' X mounted Musk's shoulders, stuck out his tongue, pounded on Musk's head, and stuck his fingers in Musk's ears. Good boy.
Later, White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt pointed to DEI spending she disagreed with and said . If only Lil' X could get a hold of her ears. Under federal law,  is "obtaining something of value through willful misrepresentation." Spending we disagree with is not fraud.
But, let's consider the larger types of actual fraud against—as opposed to by—the government that has been uncovered recently—. For example, according to a 2023 report from the Small Business Administration Office of Inspector General, —two programs signed into law by—you guessed it—Donald Trump.
But, should we give Trump the benefit of the doubt? Maybe now that he knows about the fraud, he is determined to go after it. Nope. Sorry. One of Trump's first acts as president was to fire some of the inspectors general from the very SBA office that uncovered the massive COVID fraud. 
On top of that, Trump fired  and the —all of them corruption fighters. And, shortly after , he  whose jobs included the prosecution of corrupt officials. The Justice Department instead turned its attention to  and  against New York City Mayor Eric Adams while Trump  from his conviction for trying to sell a U.S.  vacancy he had the power to fill. And to add insult to injury, while , Trump has  of the rules against Americans bribing foreign officials.
Trump's corruption witch hunt is like his other dealings. It's a matter of projection. By loudly accusing others of corruption, he is trying to get away with his own brand of corruption—kicking out corruption fighters while taking money from people he might help or hurt as president. Trump has neatly arranged things so that no one will dare investigate the millions of dollars being directed for the benefit of one particular government official—Donald Trump:
A  voluntary payment for Trump from Musk's X to settle a lawsuit of dubious merit.A  voluntary payment for Trump from ABC News to settle a lawsuit of dubious merit.A  voluntary payment for Trump from  owner Meta to settle a lawsuit of dubious merit.Millions or billions that flowed to Trump from his  since his election.Millions or billions that flowed to Trump from his  since his election. since his election from House Republicans, Saudis, and God knows who else to use his resorts and golf courses. from sales of $150,000 watches, gold coins, guitars, sneakers, boots, his books, Melania's books and documentary, and so on.
Do you think there is anyone left with the guts to investigate this? Does it smell like corruption to you, or will you and the rest of the country stick your fingers in your ears—or get someone from the Musk family to do it for you?
Thomas G. Moukawsher is a former Connecticut complex litigation judge and a former co-chair of the American Bar Association Committee on Employee Benefits. He is the author of the new book, .
The views expressed in this article are the writer's own.


Graphic

 
Trump
ROBERTO SCHMIDT/AFP via Getty Images
President Donald Trump speaks during signing of executive orders at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Palm Beach, Florida, on Feb. 18.

Load-Date: February 19, 2025


End of Document
