




Fox News FOX HANNITY 9:00 PM EST
February 3, 2025 Monday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7137 words
Byline: Sean Hannity
Guests: Karoline Leavitt, Ted Cruz, Tom Homan, John Kennedy, Vivek Ramaswamy
Body


SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS HOST: And welcome to "Hannity".
And tonight, we are kicking off the week with the jam-packed show. Coming up, the border czar, Tom Homan, Senator John Kennedy, Senator Ted Cruz, two of our favorite senators, Vivek Ramaswamy, and White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt will join us straight ahead.
It was a big day at the White House. In fact, every day is a big day at the Trump White House. The flurry of activity from the Trump administration is unlike anything we've ever seen, nothing but shock and awe. And the media melting down, Democrats melting down, which makes it fun.
But make no mistake: we are witnessing what is a transformational presidency in the making. According to Donald Trump, border crossing is now down 93 percent and he's only getting started. In just the past 24 hours, Mexico caved in the face off of Trump's tariff threats, agreeing to send 10,000 members of Mexico's National Guard to secure their side of the border, crackdown on fentanyl and smuggling and illegal immigration.
Canada also caving. Little Justin agreeing to list Mexican cartels as terrorist organizations, appointing a fentanyl czar and participating in a joint strike force to combat crime at our northern border, which is becoming bigger and bigger every day.
Keep in mind, along the border in our north, you know, Vermont, New Hampshire, New York, border patrol agents, they apprehended nearly 20,000 illegal immigrants from over 97 different countries last year. Now, that number is higher than the past 17 years combined.
But now that Canada and Mexico have agreed to start being good neighbors, the tariffs have been paused for 30 days, while more permanent security, economic deals will be negotiated. And for the record, we gave Canada, why -- why do we give millions of tax dollars every year? Why don't they pay their fair share with NATO?
And they already charge tariffs on our dairy, our poultry products. They won't allow, you know, U.S. seeds to be imported into their country. Sounds like they already started a tariff war or trade war.
Unfortunately, for many years, free trade seemingly operated one way. So why should the U.S. give Canada tens of millions of dollars in foreign aid, protect them with our military while they contribute a tiny amount to NATO? Sorry, little Justin, but this unfairness on your part, it is coming to an end. The days of taking advantage of the American people and their generosity is now over.
And it's not only Mexico and Canada, the leftwing governments in Colombia and Venezuela even caving to Trump's demands, both countries agreeing to repatriate their own citizens including, you know, violent gang members like the Tren de Aragua gang and criminals that poured across our southern border.
Venezuela also freeing six American hostages -- we -- did we even know they were there -- returning them back to the U.S. By the way, great job, President Trump.
I know the state-run legacy media mob has all but ignored this success. You know, ask yourself, do you think Venezuela would have freed these people if -- if Joe was still in office or Kamala won? Never happened.
Panama also -- now, they're caving to Donald Trump's pressure, offering to end their so-called memorandum of understanding with China and work more closely with the United States. Panama Canal wouldn't exist without us, another massive victory for Donald Trump.
And that's not all, Denmark is still insisting that Greenland is not for sale but the country is now suddenly open to the U.S. expanding our military presence on the island. And by the way, they might be having a referendum there soon and maybe the people get to vote themselves and I'm pretty sure that the U.S. would win that battle.
And the media also ignoring the fact that President Trump killed many ISIS terrorists in Somalia this weekend.
Remember, Kamala never wanted you to be -- she wanted you to be courageous, never say the word radical Islamic terrorist. Well, Donald Trump killed a whole bunch of them without killing a single civilian.
As it turns out, America has a huge amount of leverage. President Trump is not afraid to use it. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We had a great talk with Mexico and we had President Sheinbaum, is a woman, I like her very much, we've had good relationships, but we have to stop fentanyl from coming in, whether I like somebody or not, and we have to stop the illegal aliens from coming in.
Canada is very tough. They're very, very tough to do business with, and we can't let them take advantage of the U.S.
Tariffs are very powerful both economically and in getting everything else you want. Tariffs for us, nobody can compete with us because we're the pot of gold. But if we don't keep winning and keep doing well, we won't be the pot of gold, and then tariffs won't be so good for us. But when you're the pot of gold, the tariffs are -- the tariffs are very good, they're very powerful.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: While President Trump is reasserting America's dominance on the world stage, he is harnessing DOGE right here at home, to drain the swamp, firing politicized bureaucrats, both the DOJ, the FBI, those that weaponized and politicized their institutions is simply being escorted out of the building, as they should be.
He's also in the process of shutting down USAID. Oh, this -- this has freaked out every Democrat, funneling billions of tax dollars to left-wing causes all around the globe. Wait until you see the detailed list we have coming up, a complete waste of your hard-earned tax money.
The president also cutting funding from the dishonest and compromised WHO, the World Health Organization, or better known as the COVID propaganda wing for China during COVID-19. He pulled the U.S. out of the insane globalist Paris climate accords, you know, the ones that designated China and India as developing nations.
He dismantled DEI programs across the entire federal government and at the same time, President Trump used his emergency powers to divert more water desperately needed to southern California.
He's done all of this now in just two weeks, as he begins his third week in office. And while the state-run legacy media mob of the Democrats erupt into a predictable and entertaining fit of hysteria, can't make it up, they can't -- they have learned nothing. They just doubled down on dumb and dumber. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOE SCARBOROUGH, MSNBC HOST: You're gutting the FBI, you're firing all these people across, you know, possibly 1/3, 1/4 of the workforce, and you're most experienced people for political reasons? You're doing that, the winner are our enemies, those people who seek to do harm to America and to kill American citizens.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: So this is really it is self-mutilation. America is hurting itself. We think that it is utterly crazy and we're also really, really angry at you.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Trump has done some fairly popular things in his first few weeks in office. This is not one of them. No, no, no, horrible, horrible, horrible, to quote Charles Barkley.
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): A lot of the things -- a lot of people at the Super Bowl have beer and guac, all of it comes from Mex -- much of it comes from Mexico and the prices of these things are likely to go up.
REP. JASMINE CROCKETT (D-TX): Let me tell you we have a thug in charge of the United States and if we don't wake up, we may not have a United States because right now, he has only been successful in being a divider and chief.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: By the way, Chucky, there's plenty of beer made right here in America and lots of guac and avocados from California. Have they learned nothing in the past 10 years? Do they not understand economic and political leverage?
I mean, they've watched Donald Trump since 2015, they have learned nothing, apparently not. They double down on the same tired hate, hysteria, doomsday predictions, smear, slander about dictatorship and fascism. When Donald Trump says we're slapping a tariff on you, that is the beginning of a negotiation.
Let me educate you into what the president is thinking and how he thinks. It's called the art of the deal.
Meanwhile, the Democratic Party is turning into an absolute joke. Don't take my word for it, if you're a conservative, you're going to love this because the Democratic Party has now elected people to the left of Joe and Kamala.
Here are the highlights from this weekend's DNC forum. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MODERATOR: How many of you believe that racism and misogyny played a role in Vice President Harris's defeat? Okay.
DR. QUINTESSA HATHAWAY, CANDIDATE FOR DNC CHAIR: You fight all, you fight on, you fight on, you fight on, when your government is doing you wrong. You fight on, oh, you fight on.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Will you pledge to appoint more than one transgender person to an at-large seat and will you commit to making sure those appointments reflect the gender and ethnic diversity of the transgender community?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: In order to be gender balance, we must -- we must elect one male, one female and one person of any gender.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Okay. So Kamala lost because of racism and misogyny and are they accusing the American people of that?
The Democratic Party is in desperate need of soul-searching. In the meantime, Donald Trump will continue to drain the swamp, rack up achievement after achievement for the American people to make America great.
And just breaking hours ago, Senator Susan Collins announced that she, in fact, will vote to confirm Tulsi Gabbard as the director of national intelligence, a big win for Tulsi.
Here now with more, White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt.
Karoline, great to have you.
Great job on your first day, I think you brought a little shock and awe into that room yourself. How'd you like it?
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: Well, thanks so much for having me, Sean, and I loved it. You know why? Because I work for a president who is getting things done, who is delivering on the promises he made to the American people and who speaks the truth. So I'm so humbled by the outpouring of support I've heard from people across the country saying, you know, we're doing such a great job at the White House.
Well, it's easy to do a good job when you are acting on common sense and you are speaking the truth and that's exactly what President Trump is doing every single day.
HANNITY: Canada, Mexico, Panama, Denmark, Colombia, Venezuela, all have given in to Donald Trump. They've all caved, and well, also over the weekend, not a small note, he did kill a bunch of ISIS terrorists that did not get a lot of media play.
LEAVITT: Uh-huh, uh-huh. That's right. There is so much good news, so much winning out of the Trump White House right now, that the mainstream legacy media can't keep up with it, because President Trump is signing executive order after executive order delivering on promise after promise and implementing fundamental change of our bloated bureaucracy and our corrupt government here in Washington, D.C.
He was given a once in a generation mandate by the American people to govern and to fundamentally transform Washington and that's exactly what he is doing.
And we finally, after four years of chaos in mayhem, in apologizing for America have a president again in the oval office who is standing up for America, and this is what it looks like when you have a leader of our great nation who uses the leverage of the United States, who understands that since our nation's founding, we have been viewed as that shining light on the hill, we have been viewed rightfully so as the best proudest country in the world.
And President Trump is not afraid to say that or to use that for the American people's benefit, and that's why you have seen so many countries around the world in just the matter of two weeks cave to President Trump's demands.
In the past 24 hours, you have Canada and Mexico agreeing to help secure our southern and northern borders, and these tariffs that President Trump threaten to impose on both Canada and Mexico, and they were sign, seal, deliver, I may add, that those were retaliatory tariffs for the last four years of treatment by Canada and Mexico of our nation. They have allowed an unprecedented wave of illegal deadly drugs and illegal criminals on our territorial borders and president Trump said enough is enough.
He is standing up for the American people, too many lives has have been lost at the hands of illegal migrants in Chinese fentanyl flowing through our nation's borders, and he got Canada and Mexico to step up to the plate to surge resources and personnel to our territorial borders and America and the American people will be safer because of it.
HANNITY: Never mind terrorists and cartels and murderers and rapists and American victims, that I'm shocked Democrats don't seem to care a lot about. Oh, I did fail to mention we had hostages released out of Venezuela.
I don't think most Americans, Karoline, even knew about that.
No, they didn't. It happened on Friday afternoon. The legacy media went home I guess, or they didn't want to report on more good news coming from the Trump administration.
But Ric Grenell went to Venezuela with two very clear directives from the president of the United States, land repatriation flights of illegal Tren de Aragua gang members who have infiltrated our country under the Biden administration, get them back to Venezuela, done. Ric Grenell did it.
And number two return the six U.S. hostages who have been held captive in Venezuela and the previous administration never even talked about. Ric Grenell on the behalf of President Trump using President Trump's negotiating leverage was able to get that done.
And then in that same day, we took out ISIS fighters in Somalia, again, a story that the mainstream media doesn't want to cover.
And then Secretary of State Rubio who's doing a phenomenal job on behalf of President Trump secured concessions from Panama.
[21:15:04]
They are no longer going to charge U.S. naval ships who go through the canal and they also have said they are no longer going to be part of the CCP-led belt and road initiative.
So these small winds are racking up for the United States and the entire world knows that America is back.
And remember, five years ago when Joe Biden took office, that was his slogan and we saw the deterioration of America over the past four years. But now, America is truly back and the world knows it. Just look at their actions.
HANNITY: Great job by the way, welcoming in new media into the White House briefing room. I thought that was warranted. I believe legacy media died.
The biggest freak-out on the left now seems to be about USAID, the Democrats. I'll go through examples. Senator Eric Schmitt put out, $20 million on a Sesame Street show in Iraq, $56 million to boost Egyptian Tunisian tourism, $40 million to build schools in Jordan. We'll tell more people about it more.
Why -- why -- why would we be spending hard-earned American taxpayer dollars on items like that and more?
LEAVITT: Because Washington, D.C. for far too long has been run by corrupt government bureaucrats who do not care about hard-earned tax dollars that the American people are working for every single day. And finally, it took President Trump and Elon Musk who is serving as a great friend and ally to the president to start digging through the books of this bloated bureaucracy here in Washington. And the waste, the fraud, the abuse is alarming.
And that's why we are -- President Trump is making monumental transformative changes. He was elected to do that and the Democrats are in complete disarray because they have become a globalist party who like to spend taxpayer dollars on useless priorities just to cater to the left's demands here at home, when the vast majority of Americans want people in Washington to be good stewards of their tax dollars, don't agree with these radical priorities of the left.
And so that's why the president is going to continue to do this. The Democrats can either get on board or they can prepare to lose another election just like they did on November 5th.
HANNITY: I think we'll call when you're on the show, the Washington briefing with Karoline Leavitt. I think -- I think it's the perfect -- we get an update on everything that's happening right now. A lot of good news.
Karoline, we do appreciate your time, great job and we -- thank you for being with us.
All right. Here now with more reaction, Texas Senator Ted Cruz.
Senator, I don't think I've ever -- in all my years, you know, doing this which is 35 in radio, 29 here at the Fox News Channel, I don't think I've ever seen a force of nature like this or as much dramatic, impactful, transformational change as we're seeing unfold before our eyes.
CRUZ: Well, listen, nobody has. In the first two weeks of the Trump presidency, more has been accomplished, than certainly any time in our lifetimes. Maybe you could go back to FDR in the first 100 days. But, Sean, you and I weren't alive when FDR was president. So -- so I haven't lived through that.
I have lived through these last two weeks and I got to say, this is what winning looks like. This is what delivering on our promises looks like. And President Trump is showing strong and powerful leadership. I got to say, last week, seeing Colombia just -- just cave immediately, Colombia said, no, we will not allow illegal immigrants from the United States to come back from Colombia. They're hardcore leftist, anti-American president, the president immediately responded by threatening tariffs and within eight hours they caved.
You look at Mexico and Canada right now. This weekend, when the president announced those tariffs, 25 percent on Mexico, 25 percent on Canada, 10 percent on Canadian energy and 10 percent on China, I did today, as you know, I do every week a podcast called "Verdict with Ted Cruz". Today's podcast does a deep dive on those tariffs.
And here's what I predicted last night, I said the tariffs with Mexico and Canada, they're both designed to be leveraged to change their behavior. Those tariffs will be lifted and they'll be lifted very quickly. Why? And here's what I predicted last night and came out early this morning, Mexico and Canada will both cave. And I said Mexico will commit thousands of troops to help secure our border, Canada will lead in to secure our border, that is exactly what happened today. That is leverage protecting the national security and the public safety of every -- every American.
HANNITY: You know, when you think back only a couple of weeks ago, Senator, we -- we were being lied to the end by Mayorkas --
CRUZ: Yeah.
HANNITY: -- by Biden, by Harris, that the border was secure and the border was closed.
You kind of in many ways took on a dual role as a part reporter on this program is you'd be down there, you would share videos with us. You -- we see with our own eyes that they're lying and to think they could have easily done this themselves. Why didn't they do it? Why did they lie?
CRUZ: Because -- because they didn't want to, because they didn't care.
Look, I get that question a lot. Why would Joe Biden -- why would Kamala Harris, why would every Democrat in the Senate -- every Democrat in the House support -- support open borders, support 12 million illegal immigrants coming into this country, support rapists and murderers and child molesters and violent gang members?
And the only explanation that makes sense is it was all politics. They view every one of those illegal immigrants as a future Democrat voter and tragically, Sean, and this is really sad and cynical they were willing to look the other way at the children being murdered at the women being raped at the tragedies at the more than 100,000 fentanyl deaths, and we are right now securing our border exactly as I predicted.
You'll recall, Sean, I came on this show repeatedly and said securing this border is not going to take a year, it's not going to take six months. It is going to happen on January 20th with President Trump being willing to enforce the law. We're seeing that right now and I got to say, your kids and my kids, every American family is safer.
And if you are an illegal immigrant, if you're a murderer, if you're a rapist, if you're a gang member, you might as well get the hell out of the country now because ICE is going to show up, apprehend you, and deport you and we're going to keep Americans safe.
HANNITY: Now, you know what? And you in the forefront of warning the American people, you, Governor Abbott, Governor DeSantis and a few others while we were all being lied to.
CRUZ: Yes.
HANNITY: Senator, thank you. We appreciate it.
Speaking of the border, when we come back, Tom Homan has the latest on the Trump administration's immigration crackdown. Oh, apparently, the governor of New Jersey, is he hiding illegal immigrants and then giving their location? Straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: Oh like it or not on the left, President Trump's mass deportation are now fully underway, and the radical left is in complete meltdown mode.
Over the weekend. demonstrators blocking streets in Los Angeles, waving Mexican flags. But President Trump, he's only getting started. Yesterday, Marines arrived at Gitmo as the president's deportation plan continues to move rapidly.
Earlier today, Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth, he visited the southern border with border czar, Tom Homan. Their visit comes on the same day that both Canada and Mexico buckled under pressure from President Trump and agreed to enhance their efforts to secure the border.
They're not the only countries caving to the president's demands. As we said earlier, Venezuela has now also agreed to take back deported migrants, those illegals, and they will pay for the flight, just like Colombia agreed. Both countries will supply the transportation that means that saves us money.
Meanwhile, the White House has issued a powerful response to Selena Gomez and her sobbing uncontrollable, and a powerful video shared on social media over the deportation of violent illegal immigrants. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What about our children who were brutally murdered and raped and beat to death.
SELENA GOMEZ, CELEBRITY SINGER: Just want to say that I'm so sorry, all my people are getting attacked, children.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Seeing that video, it's hard to believe that it's actually genuine and real because she's an actress.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You don't know who you're crying for. What about our children who were brutally murdered and raped and beat to death and left on the floor by -- by these illegal immigrants?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I just feel like it's a ruse to deceive people and to garner sympathy for lawlessness.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Here with reaction, Trump administration border czar Tom Homan.
You know, Tom, great to see you. By the way, thanks for what you're doing. I think that video says it all, doesn't it?
TOM HOMAN, BORDER CZAR: Absolutely. You know, where's your -- where's your tears for the half a million children that were trafficked in the country, separated from their families put hands of criminal cartels and they can't find over 300,000 of them. I guarantee some of these children are sex trafficked and forced labor, where's your tears for those?
Where's your tears for the quarter million Americans dead from fentanyl poisoning because that open border? Where's your tears for the 600 percent increase of sex trafficking of women and children? And, of course, where's your tears for all the young ladies been raped, murdered and burned alive?
So, you know, it's -- it's just pathetic.
HANNITY: Yeah. Well, you got some help from president Trump, and for now, he got Canada and Mexico, Colombia and even Venezuela to accept back these illegal immigrants and you now have Gitmo as a place to put many of them. How -- how important are those developments to you.
HOMAN: You know, President Trump proves every day he's the greatest president in my lifetime, and I mean that. That -- he's moving at lightning speed. Look what we've done, you're right. Seeing airplanes of illegal aliens land in Gitmo, a game changer. Seeing the Department of Defense of take airplanes south with illegal aliens, first time in my 34 years of doing this job, a game changer.
President Trump's making progress every single day. Our numbers already -- remember, Sean, it wasn't too long ago we're dealing with 10,000, 11,000 illegal entries a day, yesterday, 524, and not one of them -- not a single one was released. They're either returned or detained seeking prosecution.
So game changer, greatest president in my lifetime proves it every day. And, look, we got a lot more to do and I'm -- I got a great team. We got the greatest president I ever worked for, you got Secretary Noem. She's already been on the ground with the Border Patrol. She's been on the ground with ICE. She's been on the water with the Coast Guard. She's done more enforcement actions in a week than Mayorkas has done in four years.
I got Pete Hegseth, shoulder to shoulder with Pete Hegseth giving us all the DOD assets to lock that border town. So, you know, what a great team.
We got Steve Miller, the architect, right? He amazes me every day at the White House.
We have one hell of a team. We will not fail this president.
HANNITY: Let me read a headline to you. Chicago leaders encourage residents to exercise their rights in resisting Trump's deportation policies. The governor of New Jersey, Phil Murphy basically admitted that he knew somebody that what didn't have full documentation, that he was hiding over his garage.
Then, we have Thom Tillis, senator from North Carolina, saying that people should have the right to sue sanctuary cities and states that aid and abet in lawbreaking your comment on all of that?
HOMAN: Well, I think the governor is pretty foolish saying what he said because I got all of it, won't let it go, we'll look into it. And if he's knowingly, knowingly harboring and concealing an illegal alien, that's a violation of Title 8 United States Code 1324, I will seek prosecution or the secretary will seek prosecution.
So maybe he's bluffing, if he's not, we'll deal with that. And as far as suing sanctuary cities -- well, get in line because the Trump administration is going to do that already. Sanctuary cities are sanctuary for criminals.
One example, right? If the -- the young -- sanctuary cities in New York City, if they would have gave us over the killer of Laken Riley when he got arrested in New York City for endangering child, he would have been in jail and he would have never killed Laken Riley. Sanctuary cities are responsible for deaths of thousands -- thousands of young children throughout my career, and we're going to sue `em. We're going to home.
And look, if he's got to go to Supreme Court, that's what President Trump's wanted to do. He will end sanctuary cities.
HANNITY: You know, there was a 2011 Government Accountability Office study found million criminal offense -- offenses had been committed by illegal immigrants. This is before Harris, Biden, Mayorkas threw the floodgates wide-open, `12, `14, `15, who knows?
How -- how many -- do we have any estimates? We know there's about 350,000 missing children that have been used by illegal immigrants, do we have any estimates how many Americans have been victims of violent crime, murdered and raped. Do we have any -- any idea that number at this point?
HOMAN: You know, there's really no metric on that because, you know, it's, of course, in the thousands. We -- we have no metric because of one reason, many sanctuary cities don't even track in nationality. When they book them in jail, they won't ask what country they're from what their immigration status is because they don't want ICE to find out.
So even though we know sanctuary cities is protecting criminals, we found out -- find out about a lot of them. There are a lot we don't find out about because they simply won't gather the biometrics, just so we know who they are.
But again I think President Trump, this administration are going to sue sanctuary cities we need that information. I'll say it again, sanctuaries are sanctuaries for criminals, bottom line.
HANNITY: All right. So what will happen -- what will ICE do to the politicians, the advocacy groups, the cities and states that have sanctuary status that are aiding and abetting in the law breaking. What will you do to those people that are -- are openly oppose, not just opposing, but helping those people that broke the law and didn't respect our borders in sovereignty.
HOMAN: If they openly impede us as a violation of federal law, it's a felony. If they knowingly harbor and conceal an alien, that's a felony. We will seek prosecution through the U.S. attorney's office. We got a great U.S. attorney coming in Pam Bondi. She's all in.
So we're going to seek prosecution, Sean. That's what we have to do because they're releasing public safety threats back in the community.
Any sanctuary city, any elected mayor, a city councilman, a governor who thinks it's a good idea to release public safety threats back in the community to reoffend, it's just ridiculous. We're going to hold them accountable. The Trump administration will hold them accountable to prosecution.
HANNITY: All right. Tom Homan, great job, amazing two weeks as you begin your third week. We appreciate your time.
When me come back, Donald Trump working fast to dismantle the deep state which has been on a far-left spending spree, compliments of you, the American taxpayer.
Wait until you hear some of the examples and we get reaction from one of our favorite Senators John Kennedy of Louisiana which by the way, the state where the Super Bowl will be this weekend, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. President Trump is working to save you the American taxpayer a lot of money and cut government waste, fraud, abuse.
Today, Elon Musk, he announced that he and President Trump are moving to dismantle USAID, which cost tens of billions of dollars -- taxpayer dollars every year, and has been a hot bet of corruption, fraud allegations, the advancement of all things radical left for decades.
So how do they spend your tax dollars? You should be interested. Look at this tweet from Missouri Senator Eric Schmitt. They spent a whopping $20 million on a Sesame Street show in Iraq, $56 million to boost Egypt and Tunisia's tourism, $40 million to build schools in Jordan, $11 million to tell Vietnam to stop burning trash. That's only the tip of the iceberg.
They also spent your money to advance DEI in Serbia's workplaces, produce a DEI musical in Ireland, a transgender opera in Colombia, a transgender comic book -- I can't even read -- I can't even tell you this and not laugh, and the list goes on and on.
Meanwhile, Louisiana senator, our friend John Kennedy is also working to save your money. He introduced a new bipartisan bill last week to end all government payments to deceased Americans. That'd be a good idea.
Here now, Senator Kennedy, Louisiana.
Congratulations, Super Bowl, all eyes on New Orleans and your great state, sir. Congratulations.
SEN. JOHN KENNEDY (R-LA): Thank you, Sean.
Let me say first, Sean, that it's -- it's kind of cool having a president again. Let me try to put all this in context for you. I like omelets. I mean, I really like omelets, I could eat an omelet at every meal. I like omelets better than sex.
(LAUGHTER)
KENNEDY: Not -- not -- not really but you get the point, I like omelets. You can't make an omelet without breaking some eggs.
Now, President Trump ran for office saying I'm going to review every single penny in the federal budget. Now, how are you going to review the spending in the federal budget without reviewing the spending? And that's what Mr. Musk is doing.
Now, my -- many of my Democratic colleagues and some of the tofu-eating wokerati (ph) at the USAID are screaming like they're part of a prison riot because they don't want us reviewing the spending, but that's all Mr. Musk is doing and he's finding some interesting stuff.
To my -- to my friends who are upset, I would say with respect, you know, call somebody who cares they better get used to this. It's USAID today, it's going to be Department of Education tomorrow.
And really, here's what's going on -- for four years under President Biden, the people in charge ask one simple question, who needs to pay more in taxes, who needs to pay more in taxes? Well, that's not the question that the Republicans and President Trump are going to ask.
Our question is, what the hell happened to the money? And that's all that's going on.
HANNITY: Five hundred and twenty million for consultant-driven ESG investments in Africa, $45 million to DEI scholarships in Burma. Why are your Democratic colleagues seemingly more freaked out about cutting USAID? This is our money. Do you know how much a million dollars is, 520?
I mean, that we have -- we're spending hundreds of millions of dollars over the years on this madness. What are they thinking? We have $40 trillion in debt.
KENNEDY: If you notice, my Democratic colleagues and the USAID officials, they're not defending the spending, all they're talking about is process, oh, it's an insurrection, and Elon Musk doesn't have the authority. Well, sure, he has the authority. The president gave it to him and all he's doing is looking at the spending, just what the president said he was going to appoint Musk to do.
Here's what I hope Rubio and Musk do. I would put together all this absurd spending into a booklet, I'd call a press conference and in front of God and country and the corporate media and the USAID folks and my Democratic colleagues, I'd go over it item by item by item, every bit of it. The DEI comic books, the transgender operas, the funding of gain of function research, I'd go over every bit of it and say now, do you want to defend this and they won't, they can't.
HANNITY: They -- they really can't. Let me shift gears a little bit and ask you about cash Patel and Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., Tulsi Gabbard picked up support from Senator Susan Collins today.
Do you believe after speaking with your colleagues that Republicans will hold the line and give the president the cabinet he's requested?
KENNEDY: Yeah, I do. I mean, I haven't done what we call a whip count and talked to every particular senator, but we're together every day and you kind of get a feel for things and it's -- I think in only four or five instances have presidents of a particular party not had senators of the same party support his nominees. And I don't think that's going to change this time.
I'm not sure, I mean if there were one person I would say is sort of on the bubble and I don't want to state overstate this, it's Ms. Gabbard. But I saw today where Senator Collins is going to supporter and that will probably be enough. That's my best guess at this point.
I don't tell my colleagues how to vote, Sean. I tell them to follow their heart but take their brain with them.
(LAUGHTER)
HANNITY: Now, you don't want to revise and extend those remarks, do you about your omelet?
KENNEDY: No. It's not -- omelets aren't better than sex, but you get the point. I like omelets, man. Did I mention that I like omelets?
HANNITY: Apparently.
All right. We appreciate you being with us. Senator Kennedy, have -- I'm sure you go -- you going to the Super Bowl, by the way, you have any predictions?
KENNEDY: I am -- I am -- I am. No.
HANNITY: Any predictions?
KENNEDY: No, no.
HANNITY: OK.
KENNEDY: I'm -- I'm -- I don't even know who I'm going to pull for. I'm still upset over the Luka trade to the L.A. Lakers.
HANNITY: You wanted the Saints in there, I know. All right.
KENNEDY: You got it.
HANNITY: We appreciate you, Senator. Thank you.
Straight ahead, Vivek Ramaswamy will join us to discuss a possible run for Ohio governor. That's straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: In 2023, Vivek Ramaswamy took to the political scene by -- he took it by storm when he announced his campaign for president.
Now, Ramaswamy gearing up to get back on the campaign trail. He is expected to announce a run for Ohio governor in 2026. Now, some of Vice President Vance's top political advisers have already joined Ramaswamy's team. And despite not formally announcing his campaign yet, new polling -- look at this -- they found the Ohio native with an impressive lead over potential competitors winning 22 percent of GOP voters in a hypothetical primary ballot and his closest opponent had 18.
Here with more, Vivek Ramaswamy.
Okay. Obvious question, you can't look at that number, you're at 52, your closest competitor if you want to even call it a competitor is at 18. The next person's at two. So I would say that your odds of being the next governor are high if you want it. Do you want it?
VIVEK RAMASWAMY, FORMER GOP PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Look, I think that states are going to have to lead the way. It reminds me of Donald Trump- sized leads in the primaries, which encourages me, Sean.
But the way I look at this is that Donald Trump is leading the way at the federal government, he's doing his job. To get the federal government out of the way, in areas like education. But after that, it's going to fall on the states to have to lead the way.
And one of the issues, you know I've been very focused on this, is driving the educational achievement crisis in the right direction in this country. Seventy-five percent of eighth graders can't do proficient math, 70 percent of them aren't proficient in reading. It's going to have to be the states that lead the way here, Sean.
And one of the things I'm most interested in is actually driving achievements so our kids are prepared to actually compete, not as victims but as victors in a competitive global economy and I'm looking forward to doing at the state level, what President Trump is leading at the federal level.
HANNITY: One of the biggest failures, I'll stay on this topic of education, I think if you look at states that have been run for decades by Democrats like New York, for example, New York City, deep blue state, they spend nearly 40 grand per capita per student and they come in, in reading and math, you know, anywhere between 36th and 40th in terms of industrialized country.
How do you fail at that spectacular level? Because we're failing our children and all the talent God put in every one of them.
RAMASWAMY: It's because we've abandoned meritocracy and a culture of achievement in favor of this culture of victimhood in our country, Sean. And I think that's the number one thing we're going to have to reject to save our country is that culture of victimhood.
How do we restore merit -- I'll tell you this. First is, of course, universal school choice and conservatives like you and I have been pushing for this for a long time. States like Texas are doing great. I think states like Ohio have done well, but can go further.
But here's a step that we haven't taken yet that we need to, which is also improving our public schools through merit-based pay for teachers and for administrators. If students are doing a great job, those teachers and those administrators deserve to be paid more than they are now but those who are failing our kids shouldn't be able to just sit there and keep collecting their paychecks, that's what we need is to light a fire under the feet of that system.
You got DeepSeek coming this way from China. You got students in China and other countries, in many cases lapping our own students right here at home, in areas like science and math and in some cases even in English proficiency. That's just unacceptable to me.
But we're not going to sit around and just talk about it anymore, Sean. President Trump's doing a great job, shut down the Department of Education and give that money back to the states. But after that, it's going to take creative governors who are going to have creative solutions, not just copying yesterday's models, but implementing merit-based pay, actually taking on universal school choice to the next level, including homeschooling freedom. That's how we're going to set our kids free.
HANNITY: Let's talk about DOGE. You had partnered with Elon Musk. What is the status of your position there? Has there been any -- any controversy, any conflict?
RAMASWAMY: Actually, we were on a Spaces last night that started at midnight. Elon and I co-hosted it last night, it went till about 1:30 a.m., which shows what the around-the-clock work schedule looks like.
I'm proud to play the role that I did in helping get that off the ground and the conclusion that we all came to is that with my focus on constitutional law, on driving change through legislation, elected office was the right place from which to do it. But here's the other thing, Sean, is in order for the thinning out of the federal government to be successful, when in doubt, my advice is cut it at the federal level. And if it's a doubtful area, send it back to the states.
Thinking about work requirements for Medicaid and welfare that aren't being applied, that's an issue for the states. Thinking about those educational failures, that's an issue for the states. Much of the overburdened federal regulation is duplicative of additional regulations at the state level as well.
So saving this country I think it is going to be a team effort. Donald Trump is doing his part at the best from the very top, but if we're going to save the country, it's going to be bottom up as well. That's why I'm drawn to my next chapter and I'll have more to say about that pretty soon.
HANNITY: Eliminate the Department of Education, you cut every mom and dad a check what school will they pick, the one that actually educates their kids. We'll watch this race closely.
RAMASWAMY: Amen.
HANNITY: Vivek Ramaswamy, thank you.
All right. When we come back, a preview of my next podcast, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. My next episode on foxnation.com is -- the show is called "Sean" -- is available tomorrow. I sat down with the one and only champ, Mike Tyson, for an extended interview. While this show is heavy on news and politics, it's a very different show.
You're going to hear amazing stories, the life of Mike Tyson, other newsmaker, celebrities, you're not going to hear anywhere else. So, we'll - - check it out tomorrow morning. It drops.
Anyway, that's all the time we have left this evening. Thank you for being with us. Thank you for making the show possible.
Please set your DVR so you never, ever, ever, ever miss an episode of "Hannity". News anytime, every time, all the time, foxnews.com, hannity.com.
In the meantime, let not your heart be troubled, Greg Gutfeld will put a smile on your face, next. Have a great night.

Load-Date: February 4, 2025


End of Document
