




The Times (London)
February 25, 2025 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition


Copyright 2025 Times Newspapers Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Pg. 30
Length: 573 words
Byline: Alistair Dawber
Body


President Trump has selected a conservative podcaster who railed against "peak stupid" American liberal politics to be deputy director of the FBI, placing two staunch allies at the head of the agency.
The appointment of Dan Bongino, 50, comes after Kash Patel was sworn in on Friday as the agency's director. Patel has said he wants to reshape the FBI, focusing on crime fighting and relocating hundreds of employees from its headquarters in Washington.
Bongino spent his early career as a New York City police officer before a 12-year stint as a Secret Service agent.
Since a failed bid for election to the US Senate in Maryland in 2012, and later bids for the House of Representatives there and in Florida, he has become a conservative commentator, with a television show on Fox News and more recently on Rumble, an online channel that hosts Russell Brand, among others.
He is also the host of The Dan Bongino Show, one of the most popular US podcasts on Spotify.
In an episode released on Friday, Bongino discussed the FBI, praising Patel and attempting to calm the fears among some Democrats that the agency could be used to undermine Trump's enemies.
"Kash Patel is there for one reason; he is there to make the FBI great again," Bongino said, adding that the new director was the "change agent" that the agency needed.
"How amazing would it be in four years to look back with a good, high-quality, reformed
FBI free of woke culture and DEI [diversity, equity and inclusion policies] that goes out making headlines, big arrests of real bad guys destroying your community? How good would that be?"
Trump, 78, announced the appointment on Sunday in a post on his Truth Social platform, praising Bongino as "a man of incredible love and passion for our country".
He called the announcement "great news for law enforcement and American justice". Democrats have said they are concerned that the president could seek to target his adversaries.
The role of deputy director would normally be expected to go to an agency veteran who would run its day-to-day operations. The director is often a political big hitter who is an ally of the president.
Bongino has been supportive of Trump's takeover of the Republicans and savaged the Democratic Party and liberal politics. "We are now living through peak stu- pid with the left, and this 'toxic masculinity', 'white patriarch' nonsense, where they've devolved to judging people exclusively by their gender and their skin colour, is a marker of the total intellectual collapse of the radical left," he said on his podcast, echoing his comments in 2018, when he said: "My entire life right now is about owning the libs."
Patel and Bongino succeed the two acting FBI leaders, Brian Driscoll and Robert Kissane, who had led the bureau since the departure of the former director Christopher Wray last month. Wray was appointed by Trump in 2017 and resigned at the end of the Biden administration to make way for his chosen successor.
Patel and Bongino will oversee the vast surveillance and investigative powers of the FBI, which employs 38,000 people and has a budget of about $11 billion.
Bongino joins a number of media figures who have secured jobs in the Trump administration.Pete Hegseth, a former Fox News host, has become the defence secretary, while Linda McMahon, the former chief executive of WWE wrestling, is due to be confirmed as education secretary. How Starmer can woo Trump, William Hague, page 21

Graphic

 
Dan Bongino has been appointed deputy to Kash Patel, below, who was sworn in as leader of the domestic crime-fighting agency at the White House on Friday

Load-Date: February 25, 2025


End of Document
