




Newsweek.com
February 21, 2025 Friday 7:14 AM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 610 words
Byline: Jasmine Laws
Highlight: A study by KFF found that one in four Republican parents now say they've skipped or delayed some childhood vaccines as of January 2025.
Body


The moment President  said he wanted to "thank" the CEO of , Albert Bourla, sparked loud boos from the crowd attending his White House reception for Black History Month on Thursday.
Newsweek has contacted the White House out of hours via email for comment.
Why It Matters
Pfizer, and other vaccine producers, have come into the spotlight in recent months as the American people's trust in vaccines has been dropping. A study by the health policy research center KFF found that one in four  parents now say they've skipped or delayed some childhood vaccines as of January 2025.
There has also been growing suspicion of the COVID-19 vaccine in the country, and Trump has faced frequent backlash from his own supporters for .
The American public has also been growing increasingly more skeptical of key health agencies in the last 18 months, as the KFF study shows. This also follows the shooting of UnitedHealth CEO  at the end of last year and the  in recent months.
What To Know
On Thursday, while speaking to the reception being hosted in the White House's East Room for the Black History Month event, Trump said: "We also have the head of Pfizer here so I want to thank him, one of the great people, one of the great businessmen, thank you Albert, thank you."
This evoked a loud chorus of boos from the audience, which made the president chuckle.
 on the social media platform X by the account user @LegendaryEnergy, who describes themselves as a "news analyst" and has more than 311,000 followers on the platform.
The post has since accumulated more than 170,000 views on X after being posted on Thursday afternoon.
Pfizer CEO Bourla also made headlines earlier this month when he revealed the details of his secret dinner with Trump's new health secretary  the Daily Mail reported.
Per the outlet, he revealed to stakeholders in early February that the meeting took place in December, a few weeks after RFK Jr was nominated for the role of health secretary in Trump's government.
 also came at a time when his administration has been making moves to eradicate Diversity, Equity and Inclusion programs aimed at boosting minority participation in the work force.
Black History Month is an annual celebration of achievements by African Americans and a time for recognizing their central role in U.S. history, and Trump , calling them "discrimination."
What People Are Saying
One X user @TheRubberDuck79, who has more than 133,000 followers, wrote in a post on the social media platform X: "Just now at a Black History Month celebration at the White House, Donald Trump introduced the head of Pfizer, Albert Bourla to a room full of overwhelming boos. The photo to the right shows Trump trying to hold back laughter during the boos cuz he knows Mr. Bourla will soon not be able to walk down the street."
Laura Powell, a civil liberties attorney, wrote in a post on X: "At the Black History Month event at the White House this afternoon, the crowd boos when Trump introduces Pfizer CEO Albert Bourla, calling him a great person and a great businessman. Why was Bourla invited to the Black History Month event anyway??"
What Happens Next
After appointing Kennedy Jr. as health secretary, well-known for his anti-vaccine views, what Trump's relationship with major vaccine companies will look like in the coming months is uncertain, as he has also previously shown .


Graphic

 
Donald Trump
Uncredited/Pool via AP
President Donald speaks at the Republican Governors Association meeting at the National Building Museum in Washington, Thursday, February 20, 2025.

Load-Date: February 21, 2025


End of Document
