




The Daily Campus: University of Connecticut
January 28, 2025 Tuesday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 577 words
Byline: Evelyn Pazan
Body


President Donald Trump is expected to write new executive orders focusing on the military, according to an NBC News article. These orders would specifically focus on prohibiting transgender troops from serving and dismantling diversity, equity and inclusion programs in the military.
The extensive recovery time following transition surgery and the potential mental health issues that can arise in transgender individuals were cited as the reason for their prohibition from entering the military, according to the article.
A White House document previewing this order stated, "Unit cohesion requires high levels of integrity and stability among service members," and "It can take a minimum of 12 months for an individual to complete treatments after transition surgery, which often involves the use of heavy narcotics. During this period, they are not physically capable of meeting military readiness requirements and require ongoing medical care."
Previous executive orders from Trump have already banned the use of "invented and identification-based pronouns" in the military and prevented people born as men or women from using facilities intended for the opposite sex, according to the article.
According to the article, the second executive order will ban "radical DEI and gender ideologies." What constitutes that will be decided by Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth.
Rainfall in California quells fires, brings new concerns about dangerous road conditions 
As wildfires rage across southern California, heavy rainfall in the area aided firefighters on Monday, according to an Associated Press news article. Although the rainfall has helped quell the fires, they have brought a new concern of ash and mud flowing down hillsides across the state.
In addition to the concerns about the loose ash and mud, snowfall in the area has also brought concerns to residents. According to the article, four schools in the Malibu area closed on Monday due to the road conditions.
An aerial view shows the devastation left by the Palisades Fire in the Pacific Palisades section of Los Angeles, Monday, Jan. 27, 2025. (AP Photo/Jae C. Hong)
Flood watches have been in effect in the Palisades, Altadena and Castaic Lake areas, according to Joe Sirard, a meteorologist for the National Weather Service's office for Los Angeles. Multiple highways have been shut down due to these conditions, according to the article.
The wildfires, which began in early January, have brought about mass evacuations across the state. The fires have caused 27 confirmed deaths and are linked to 31 missing person cases, according to a New York Times page.
Quakers sue over reversing of policy that prevented ICE agents from entering houses of worship 
A group of Quaker organizations is suing the Department of Homeland Security following the revoking of a policy that prevented Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents from arresting individuals present inside of a house of worship, according to an NBC News article. The lawsuit was filed in Maryland on Monday.
The policy protected "sensitive locations" from ICE operations, which included areas such as houses of worship, playgrounds, schools and hospitals.
The plaintiff in the lawsuit stated, "The very threat of that [immigration] enforcement deters congregants from attending services, especially members of immigrant communities," and argues that the revoking of that policy is in contradiction with the first amendment and the freedom of religion.

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
