




telegraph.co.uk
January 23, 2025 Thursday 6:00 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: BUSINESS; Version:2
Length: 1173 words
Byline: By Matt Oliver, Industry Editor in in Davos
Highlight: The unpredictability of America’s new president is dominating discussions in Davos
Body


Donald Trump is not at Davos but his name is on everyone’s lips at the annual gathering for the world’s elite.
The US president’s presence looms over every hall, meeting room and corridor at the World Economic Forum in Switzerland.
As one attendee quips: “If I had a pound for every time Donald Trump was mentioned here, I could probably pay off the UK national debt.”
Talk about   on his first day in office was rife when delegates first arrived at Davos, with people checking their phones constantly for updates on what he was doing.
The unpredictability that marked Trump’s last stay in the White House has returned, forcing chief executives and politicians to keep their eyes glued to the news.
Some are cheering his push to cut taxes and slash regulation, others are fretting about a possible looming global trade war.
“Going around Davos, making eye contact with all your trade ministerial counterparts, you can imagine what’s on our minds,” Jonathan Reynolds, the UK Business Secretary, said in an onstage interview.
Whatever the view, the alpine conference has once again highlighted Trump’s uncanny ability to dominate the conversation from thousands of miles away.
In many ways, the Davos crowd are the antithesis of Trump’s natural supporters.
Each year, around 2,500 executives, economists, policymakers and journalists descend on the Swiss ski resort to discuss lofty themes such as “investing in people”, “reimagining growth” and “squaring the climate-trade circle”.
It is the sort of stuff that is anathema to the president’s innermost circle. In fact, within hours of taking office, Trump ripped up the US government’s “diversity, equity and inclusion” (DEI) rules and doubled down on oil and gas drilling.
Despite the agenda clash, Trump’s return to the White House is triggering excitement at Davos, particularly among US business leaders.
Mary Erdoes, head of asset management at banking giant JP Morgan, told a panel that Wall Street was “in go mode”, adding: “A lot of this is exactly what you would do to have a very pro-business environment.”
“I can’t remember a time since Reagan when the animal spirits have been so high,” says Sir Martin Sorrell, the British advertising guru and quintessential ‘Davos man’.
“The vibes are very positive. It’s America on steroids.”
Not everyone is in such a jubilant mood. For Europe, there is plenty of fear about . 
Although he stopped short of announcing tariffs early this week, Mr Trump has launched a sweeping review of “unfair trade practices” by other nations – setting the stage for more threats and a potential trade war.
He singled out the European Union from criticism, claiming the bloc treats the US “very, very badly”.
It signalled a mixed picture at best for the Continent’s asset managers and a potential disaster for companies that rely on exporting to America.
“From a financial point of view, in the short term, it will be really good for our companies in America,” said Nicolai Tangen, the boss of Norway’s $1.7 trillion (£1.4 trillion) sovereign wealth fund. “There’ll be less regulation, there’ll be more growth. So that’s positive.
“Of course, if there are also tariffs and our European companies are hit by it, that’d be negative.
“Then there is a big question whether the policies will be inflationary, which will be bad news in the longer term.”
Meanwhile, European diplomats are scrambling to delay any action from the White House. With Trump’s contingent thousands of miles away in Washington, the easiest way to do this is flattery over the airways.
On the sidelines of Davos, Christine Lagarde, the president of the European Central Bank, praised Trump’s “smart” decision not to impose tariffs immediately.
But she also warned that Brussels needed to be ready. Since the last Trump presidency, the EU has put in place trade rules that will allow it to retaliate rapidly if America hits Continental goods with higher import duties.
“What we need to do here in Europe is to be prepared, and anticipate what will happen in order to respond,” Ms Lagarde told CNBC.
In Britain, ministers are hoping to navigate these treacherous waters without upsetting either Brussels or Washington – though it is not clear whether that will be possible.
Trade between the UK and US is more or less balanced, Reynolds pointed out, with the US actually benefiting from a relatively small surplus.
Speaking at a Bloomberg event on Wednesday, the Business Secretary added that Britain would champion an “openness to the rest of the world”, pointing to possible trade deals the Government is seeking with the Gulf, India and the US, as well as a “reset” with the EU and a thawing of relations with China.
“There’s a strength that comes from that openness,” he said.
Yet ministers may still find themselves buffeted by Washington’s policies. The Government’s decision to strip Chinese equipment out of the UK’s telecoms network in 2020 was motivated by heavy pressure from the US at a time when Trump was last president.
“It will be a choppy time to be a trade minister,” admitted Reynolds. “There’s no doubt about that.”
Kenneth Rogoff, a professor of economics at Harvard University, says: “Tariffs are depressing everyone – but it’s not just the tariffs.
“It’s so chaotic, and we don’t really know what he’s going to do and what he’s going to want. If you read The Art Of The Deal, he changes his mind every minute, bargains for one thing and then asks for twice as much.”
Besides worries about what punishments Trump will inflict on Brussels, many European executives are concerned about the widening economic gap between America and the EU.
“When I talk to European bosses, there is a sense of doom and gloom surrounding them,” says one banker, “whereas a lot of US bosses, you can almost spot them walking with a spring in their steps and their chests puffed out.”
Other clashes could soon emerge.
While Trump and his acolytes are taking the fight to ESG (environmental, social and governance) and DEI policies by threatening to prosecute companies that employ them, institutional investors in Europe are continuing to defend them.
“There is clearly a backlash against ESG,” said Tangen, of Norges Bank Asset Management, Europe’s biggest fund by far.
“But the policies we have, they are anchored in the [Norwegian] parliament so we are not changing our mind. We think it’s important we have climate reporting, we think diversity is good.”
Trump is expected to address Davos remotely by video link on Thursday, following up on poorly attended addresses by other world leaders such as Olaf Scholz, the German chancellor.
Rumours are also circulating that the mercurial tycoon could even make a surprise in-person appearance as he did in 2018 when he arrived by helicopter, Apocalypse Now-style.
What he will say to delegates remains a matter of speculation, but the smart money is on more fireworks and acrimony.
Whatever the Davos jet set thinks of Trump, one thing is undeniably true: they cannot afford to ignore him.

Load-Date: January 23, 2025


End of Document
