




The Daily Caller
February 20, 2025 Thursday 09:43 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: DAILY-CALLER-NEWS-FOUNDATION; defense
Length: 534 words
Byline: Wallace White, Contributor, 
Body



Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth is reportedly set to can a top general in the Air Force known for his liberal policies, two U.S. officials told CNN Thursday.
Air Force Gen. Charles Q. Brown, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, is reportedly on a list of suggested dismissals provided to congress,  to CNN. The move comes as Trump  to make good on his campaign promise to root out “wokeness” in the military.
The chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff is the highest-ranking  officer in the entire Armed Forces, also serving as a senior military advisor to the President, Secretary of Defense and the National Security Council. Hegseth has long advocated for firing “woke” generals, including the Joint Chiefs of Staff specifically.
“First of all, you've got to fire the chairman of the Joint Chiefs,” Hegseth  on the Shawn Ryan Show in November 2024. “But any general that was involved - general, admiral, whatever - that was involved in any of the DEI woke shit has got to go. Either you're in for warfighting, and that's it. That's the only litmus test we care about.” 

US Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth, alongside Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Charles Q. Brown, Jr. (L), speaks with the media during his first official arrival at the Pentagon as Secretary in Washington, DC, January 27, 2025. (Photo by SAUL LOEB/AFP via Getty Images)
Brown previously  his desire to remain at his post even in the wake of Trump assuming office, with Trump even reportedly softening his stance on the general, sources told NBC news in December 2024. Former President Joe Biden nominated Brown as the chairman in 2023, and he was confirmed after a contentious confirmation hearing. Senators questioned his  use of racial quotas in hiring decisions for the Air Force.
Under the Biden administration, the DOD had free  to pursue a myriad of left-wing initiatives, such as LGBT activism, sex change procedures, and diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) practices. Trump and Hegseth swiftly moved in to clear out the programs, refocusing DOD priorities to cultivate a “warrior culture.”
Indo Pacific command leader Gen. Samuel Paparo and U.S. Central Command in the Middle East commander Gen. Erik Kurilla are reportedly being considered as potential replacements, according to CNN.
Other names on the list included Chief of Naval Operations Adm. Lisa Franchetti, who was appointed by Biden as the first female assigned to her role. Franchetti openly  and celebrated DEI initiatives in the armed forces.
The Pentagon did not immediately respond to the Daily Caller News Foundation's request for comment.
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
