




The Daily Caller
February 10, 2025 Monday 05:49 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: DAILY-CALLER-NEWS-FOUNDATION; defense
Length: 588 words
Byline: Wallace White, Contributor, 
Body



President Donald Trump announced he was firing the board of visitors of all U.S. military academies on Monday in his continued crusade against “leftist ideologues” in the military.
Trump cleaned out the board of visitors for the U.S. military academies, such as West Point, the U.S. Naval Academy, Coast Guard Academy and Air Force Academy effective Monday,  to an announcement on Truth Social. Trump  in the 2024 election on reducing so-called “woke” politics in the military, saying he would create a task force specifically to root out diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI).
“Our Service Academies have been infiltrated by Woke Leftist Ideologues over the last four years. I have ordered the immediate dismissal of the Board of Visitors for the Army, Air Force, Navy, and Coast Guard,” Trump said on Truth Social. “We will have the strongest Military in History, and that begins by appointing new individuals to these Boards. We must make the Military Academies GREAT AGAIN!” 

US Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth gestures as he speaks during a meeting with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu (out of frame) at the Pentagon in Arlington, Virginia, on February 5, 2025. (Photo by JIM WATSON/AFP via Getty Images)
One fired member of the West Point  of visitors, Retired Lt. Gen. Nadja West, gave a  at Mount St. Mary's University in 2021 on how diversity leads to a “harmonious community.”
Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth has also been a long-time critic of left-wing politics in the military, such as  initiatives and allowing  in the military. Hegseth faced harsh criticism from Senate Democrats for his  on “woke” policies in the military.
The previous Biden administration introduced a  of left-wing policies that were criticized for allegedly causing a drop in recruitment in recent years, such as investigations by former Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin into so-called “extremism” in the military, which allegedly targeted conservatives.
For example, the Navy  for an active-duty sailor drag queen to drive recruitment on social media in 2023 through their Digital Ambassador program, which was promptly shut down after the Daily Caller News Foundation first  the story in May 2023.
Moreover, Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman C.Q. Brown issued a  in 2022 that the Air Force was updating its racial and gender demographic goals for applicants seeking to become officers to prioritize “diversity and inclusion.”
A year-long  released in 2024 by the Arizona State University Center for American Institutions alleges that Biden's multi-million dollar DEI policies and programs created a “race and sex-based scapegoating and stereotyping” environment in the military and hampered defense effectiveness.
The Naval Academy declined to comment, while West Point and the Air Force Academy deferred to the White House. The Coast Guard Academy and the White House did not immediately respond to the DCNF's request for comment.
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Graphic

 
U.S. President Donald Trump speaks at the National Prayer Breakfast sponsored by the The Fellowship Foundation at the Washington Hilton on February 06, 2025 in Washington, DC. The National Prayer Breakfast brings together members of Congress and leaders in fellowship and business for prayer and discussion. (Photo by Andrew Harnik/Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
