




The Times (London)
January 31, 2025 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition


Copyright 2025 Times Newspapers Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Pg. 4,5
Length: 786 words
Byline: Josie Ensor ; Harriet Alexander; Bevan Hurley
Body


President Trump suggested the policies of Joe Biden and Barack Obama were in part to blame for a collision between an army helicopter and a passenger plane that left dozens dead.
Sixty-seven people were killed when an American Airlines jet travelling from Kansas crashed into a Black Hawk helicopter leaving Washington's Reagan National Airport on Wednesday night.
Investigations are continuing into what caused the accident. Video footage showed the aircraft heading straight for each other before combusting midair in a fireball and then plunging into the icy Potomac River.
In a press conference yesterday, Trump said the administration "did not know" what led to the crash, but suggested that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)'s diversity efforts had made air travel less safe.
He accused previous administrations of lowering air safety standards with diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) programmes, which he has banned and made a cornerstone of his "anti-woke" agenda. Asked how he was able to attribute it to DEI before any investigation had been concluded, Trump said "because I have common sense".
The president announced the appointment of a new FAA administrator and recommended the firing of employees at the agency who "aren't mentally competent". He has already gutted an advisory committee on aviation safety created after the 1988 PanAm bombing over Lockerbie in Scotland.
Pete Buttigieg, Biden's transport secretary, defended the last administration's record and called Trump's comments "despicable". "We put safety first, drove down close calls, grew Air Traffic Control, and had zero commercial airline crash fatalities out of millions of flights on our watch," he posted on X.
The American Airlines plane was found upside down in three sections in waist-deep water. Recovery teams managed to pull at least 28 bodies out of the icy water and continued searching for the rest late yesterday afternoon. They recovered the body of a male sergeant from the helicopter, but the bodies of a male and female pilot were still in the fuselage.
"They had a lot working against them," Edward Kelly, general president of the International Association of Fire Fighters, told CNN. "They had the current in the river. They had jet fuel all over in the water. They had debris. They had ice. Like I said, the swift current was a challenge, searching the fuselage - there's a lot of sharp objects in the cockpit - so it was a difficult and risky and dangerous rescue attempt."
According to air traffic audio recording, the jet's pilots were asked to pivot its landing route to another runway.
A preliminary FAA investigation showed staffing at Reagan National airport was "not normal for the time of day and volume of traffic", with only one air controller handling helicopters rather than two. It raised questions about the airport, one of the nation's busiest and most complicated to navigate.
Daniel Driscoll, Trump's pick for secretary of the Army, said flight training near congested urban airports may need to end. It was the deadliest US airline crash since 2001, when an American Airlines flight crashed into a residential area of Belle Harbor, New York, killing all 260 people on board.
The Sikorsky UH-60 Black Hawk had been carrying out a night-time training mission "on a standard corridor for a continuity of government mis- sion," Pete Hegseth, the defence secretary, said earlier. "The military does dangerous things. It does routine things on a regular basis. Tragically, last night, a mistake was made," he added.
Air traffic staff were heard gasping as they watched the collision. "Tower, did you see that?" a pilot on another aircraft asked. A controller is later heard saying: "I just saw a fireball and then it was just gone."
Sean Duffy, the transport secretary, said the collision was "absolutely preventable", adding that the US had "the safest airspace in the world".
Robert Isom, chief executive of American Airlines, seemed to place blame on the helicopter, saying the jet was operating on a "standard flight pattern", adding: "At this time, we don't know why the military aircraft came into the path of the PSA aircraft."
The FBI said there was no indication of criminality or terrorism.
Ari Schulman saw sparks from the explosion in the sky as he drove by. "It was so brief.. I wondered if I had hallucinated it," he said. "It was lit up a very bright yellow and there was a stream of sparks underneath. It looked like a Roman candle, if you ever hold one of those on the 4th of July, but was much, much bigger."
Hamaad Raza told local station WUSA his wife texted him 20 minutes before the plane was to land. "I'm praying that someone is pulling her out of the river," he said. "I'm praying to God."

Graphic

 
Rescue teams search the wreckage of a commercial jet that collided with a military helicopter in Washington. Donald Trump blamed the diversity, equityEmergency response workers battle ice, fast currents and jet fuel spilt in the water during the search of the Potomac, where the American Airlines plane and the Black Hawk helicopter came down. Right, bodies recovered from the water are laid out next to emergency vehicles

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
