




Fox News FOX NEWS @ NIGHT 11:00 PM EST
January 28, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7431 words
Byline: Greg Gutfeld, Trace Gallagher, Bill Melugin, Kevin Corke, Ashley Strohmier
Guests: Cata Truss, Michael Gates, Luke Ball, Jessica Millan Patterson, Vik Bajaj, Brittney Hopper, Natalie Beisner, Tom Jones, Greg Perlman, Link Lauren
Body


GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Emily Compagno, Jim Breuer, Kat Timpf, Tyrus, studio audience. "FOX NEWS @ NIGHT" is next. Greg Gutfeld. I love you.
TRACE GALLAGHER, ANCHOR, FOX NEWS @ NIGHT: Good evening. I'm Trace Gallagher. It's 11:00 p.m. on the East Coast, 8:00 here in Los Angeles and this is America's late news, FOX NEWS @ NIGHT.
And breaking tonight. The Trump administration border agenda moving ahead, full throttle and unapologetic. ICE arresting 1200 criminal illegal immigrants, including convicted murderers, suspected terrorists and child predators. And Homeland Security secretary Kristi Noem just 48 hours into her new job, moving the raids into New York City, vowing that the "dirt bags like this will continue to be removed from our streets."
Remember, Trump campaigned and won on this agenda, but the legacy media remains astounded.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOY REID, MSNBC HOST: I mean, as I said, performative. I want to show you an image of Kristi Noem. She's cosplaying. It's almost a game where she seems to be cosplaying because I'm not sure what she thinks that she's portraying here. She might as well be at Comic-Con.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Plus, Karoline Leavitt holding her first briefing before a packed house where she vowed transparency, accessibility and gave the media exactly that. We'll have more on what she said about the mysterious drones in moments, but we begin with Bill Melugin live with more on the intensifying immigration raids. Bill, good evening.
BILL MELUGIN, FOX NEWS NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: And Trace, we certainly never saw DHS Secretary Mayorkas going out with ICE on their operations like this, but that's exactly what Trump's DHS Secretary Kristi Noem did in New York City this morning. That's where ICE targeted criminal aliens, really all across the city. Noem was embedded with ICE, as she said, they worked to get, "dirt bags off the street."
It was a multi federal agency operation that resulted in a handful of arrests of egregious criminals. That includes Anderson Zambrano-Pacheco. Take a look. He's a Venezuelan Tren de Aragua Gang member who is seen in a viral apartment video in Aurora, Colorado last summer. That video with all the guys in the hotel with the guns. He was arrested inside of a Bronx apartment this morning. He's charged with kidnapping, assault and burglary.
Meanwhile, at the White House today, it was Trump Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt first day in the briefing room. That's where she tangled with some reporters over Trump's ICE raids all across the country.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: How many have a criminal record versus those who are just in the country illegally?
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: All of them because they illegally broke our nation's laws, and therefore they are criminals, as far as this administration goes. I know the last administration didn't see it that way, so it's a big culture shift in our nation to view someone who breaks our immigration laws as a criminal. But that's exactly what they are.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MELUGIN: And just last week, Fox News embedded exclusively with ICE in the sanctuary city of Boston as they rounded up all sorts of egregious criminals in the city. Well, Boston's mayor says we were spreading fear with that story. Take a listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MICHELLE WU (D) BOSTON MAYOR: With Fox News embedded going along with Dr. Phil with this element of wanting to sensationalize and stoke greater fear about it.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MELUGIN: Just a little reminder, some of the targets that ICE arrested in Boston while we were with them were M.S.-13 Gang members, murderers, rapists. And a Haitian gang member with 17 criminal convictions in just the last two years. And Trace, they were somehow all roaming the streets in Boston.
GALLAGHER: Yes. We're going to talk about that. Bill, thank you. We appreciate it.
Well, the FOX NEWS @ NIGHT Common Sense Department is dumbfounded that the Boston mayor said Bill Melugin's ride along with ICE agents was "sensationalizing the story." Common Sense presumes the mayor realizes that to sensationalize means to provoke interest at the expense of accuracy. Is the mayor alleging that Fox News is lying when we say the illegal immigrants being rounded up include killers, rapists and a gang member with 17 convictions b, because we're not lying?
Which means the mayor of Boston is lying. And if the mayor wants to stop lying and provide a genuine example of sensationalism, she would point to the media who are now comparing ICE agents to the Gestapo. Does anyone in the media actually have or use a dictionary, because the Gestapo, the secret police of Nazi Germany, went after those who opposed the Nazis? The Gestapo rounded up innocent Jews and sent them to concentration camps to be murdered.
Is the legacy media so in love with the Trump-Hitler narrative that every Trump policy is now an offshoot of Hitler? Do the Democrats not understand that America rejected the Hitler narrative and elected the man Democrats call Hitler? Common Sense would suggest the media immediately stop sensationalizing and admit that what ICE agents are doing for the country is simply sensational.
Let's bring in Huntington Beach, California City Attorney Michael Gates. And Chicago resident Cata Truss. Thank you both for coming on. Cata, we talked about the Boston mayor. I want to play some sound of your mayor, Brandon Johnson, saying the following here. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BRANDON JOHNSON (D) CHICAGO MAYOR: What this administration is attempting to do, he's attempting to get us to surrender our humanity. We're not going to do that in Chicago.
There's a real goal here, to stoke fear into the American people.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: ICE is trying, Cata, to protect American citizens by removing the worst of the worst, the people with criminal records who are criminals in this country illegally.
CATA TRUSS, DIRECTOR, THE COMMUNITY ROUNDTABLE: Surrendering our humanity. ICE has come into Chicago to arrest criminals, to arrest people who broke the law twice, first by coming into the country illegally and secondly, by committing crimes and things against people once they got here. The fact of the matter is, is that we have a crisis. It is a crisis which is the reason that Trump got elected, and everybody seems to be missing the point that America came out.
We all knew who Trump was before we voted for him. We elected him because we know that Trump is going to do what he said he was going to do, and the country, the people, the citizens, are not happy with what's going on. And so these sanctuary city mayors who are standing by opting to protect these criminals, I have issue with that, and it's not OK. And I want President Trump and Tom Homan and Mrs. Noem to continue doing what they are doing.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Cata, thank you. California is a sanctuary state. Huntington Beach is fighting that. The New York Post writes the following here, Michael Gates. Southern California City just threw down the gauntlet against Governor Gavin Newsom's immigration policy. Huntington Beach, a city of around 200,000 in Orange County passed a non-sanctuary city resolution that instructs law enforcement to cooperate with Immigration and Customs Enforcement and other federal agencies as they ramp up their fight against migrant crime.
It's about protecting the people of your city, Michael.
MICHAEL GATES, HUNTINGTON BEACH, CALIFORNIA CITY ATTORNEY: It is. And that's why we've done two things in Huntington Beach. One, on the one hand, we are suing the state of California. I filed a lawsuit a couple weeks ago, basically to declare the sanctuary state law unconstitutional. It puts us in danger, and it forces our law enforcement officials to violate federal immigration law, specifically title eight, USC, Section 1324.
But in addition to that, we are now declared a non-sanctuary city because that allows our law enforcement officers to cooperate and coordinate and communicate with federal agents so that we can protect our citizens, we can keep our city safe. Huntington Beach is the 23rd largest city out of 482 cities in the state of California. We're large. We have a large population of 200,000 residents. It's incumbent on the officials to protect our community.
GALLAGHER: It is indeed. Meantime, new DHS Secretary Kristi Noem said the following here, Cata. I'll get your response.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
NOEM: We do have some challenges, and the world is a dangerous place, and we've got dangerous, evil foreign governments that want to take us down. We will be the first line of defense for anybody that's in the American homeland. We will do everything that we can to protect the American people.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Yes. We're a little low on time, Cata, but the premise there is we don't want other countries criminals and people who are suspected terrorists.
TRUSS: That's exactly right. And what people fail to understand is that we have had open borders for the last four years. And so, we don't know exactly who's coming into this country. I think that most people are of the mindset that the people are Mexican -- Mexicans, but we don't know who they are.
GALLAGHER: Yes, we don't. And last to you, Michael. It's not just, you know, the whole idea of U.S. and other countries. Mexico is now holding some of these -- they're fed up. Look at this. This is an Oxfam survey. 70 percent call illegal immigration. This is Mexicans on migration. Excessive 40 percent want to limit or stop illegal immigration altogether, because it increases the cost. It increases the threat to every country when you do not know who these people are.
GATES: It's costly and dangerous. California according to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security has three million illegal immigrants. According to the California Department of Justice, violent crime is up since 2018 by 20 percent here in California. So we have got to get back to common sense governing. We have got to get away from lawlessness, restore order and the rule of law and protect our communities.
GALLAGHER: Michael Gates, Cata Truss, thank you both. Well, the Trump administration held its first White House press briefing with Karoline Leavitt as the nation's youngest press secretary. We've had her on the show many times and now she is taking questions from all of the media and has promised us the most transparent president in history.
The senior national correspondent Kevin Corke is live in D.C. with more on the transparency and finally, getting some answers on the mysterious drones. Kevin, good evening.
KEVIN CORKE, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Evening, Trace. Now I'm going to tell you what the White House is saying about the drone controversy, but I'm not promising you that you're going to buy their explanation in its entirety. Now you recall the sightings began back in November in New Jersey. According to the FAA, residents say they saw drones hovering overhead, sometimes traveling in clusters.
In fact, sightings were reported in at least six states, New Jersey, New York, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Virginia and even Ohio. Now, at the time, the FBI and DHS said the sightings were cases of mistaken identity. Well, today, the White House seemed to add to the mystery just a bit by saying, no, it wasn't the enemy. But --
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
LEAVITT: After research and study, the drones that were flying over New Jersey in large numbers were authorized to be flown by the FAA for research and various other reasons.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CORKE: Various other reasons. Three words that call into question exactly what was going on and why on earth didn't the Biden administration just, you know, say that or tell the truth? Meantime, today was, as you mentioned, the first briefing for the newly minted press secretary, Karoline Leavitt and it was an absolute smash. A rousing success by just about all accounts.
Notably, she announced that new media outlets would be part of the briefings now that anybody covering the administration with, you know, daily reporting can, in fact, apply for press credentials. More on that later in the show. But for now, back to you.
GALLAGHER: Kevin Corke live for us in D.C. Kevin, thank you. Let's bring in California GOP Chairwoman Jessica Milan Patterson and Republican strategist Luke Ball. Thank you both for coming on. Luke, to you first. Here's the democratic narrative on Trump freezing some federal funding. Listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. PATTY MURRAY (D-WA): We can see a screeching halt to resources for child care, cancer research, housing, police officers.
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): Our cops and firefighters are in danger. Thanks to Donald Trump.
SEN. ROGER MARSHALL (R-KS): I think America supports this pause as we figure out where the money is being wasted.
SEN. JOHN THUNE (R-SD): What is impacted, obviously, is DEI, you know, the Green New Deal, things like that.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: I mean, that's kind of the deal, right? Is that -- is that, you know, the people who are supposed to get money are still going to get money, but you have to gin up the fear, because that's what it's all about, Luke.
LUKE BALL, REPUBLICAN STRATEGIST: It is total fear mongering. And the fact is that no program that offers direct benefit to the American people is impacted by this pause. It is a review process. Things like Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid and essential programs do not stop, but the media would not have a narrative if they didn't pick up on that run with the lies. You know, the things that could come under review and some of the things that could be cut, wasteful federal government spending, like $720,000 to preserve wetland facilities for Mexican ducks.
Sending $4.8 million to Ukrainian influencers and building a $12 million pickleball court in Las Vegas. Things like that with federal dollars can be reviewed and cut, and we have to stop this process of spending all of this money and figure out just where on Earth is going.
GALLAGHER: I played that pickleball court. It would end good but it was kind of amazing. Jessica, to you now. Karoline Leavitt said this about the drones, the big drone mystery.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
LEAVITT: Many of these drones were also hobbyists, recreational and private individuals that enjoy flying drones. In meantime -- in time, it got worse due to curiosity, this was not the enemy.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: She gave answers. There was no circling back, there was no -- I can't really -- I can't really talk about that. There was none of that B.S. where you can't talk about anything. It was kind of refreshing.
JESSICA MILLAN PATTERSON, CALIFORNIA GOP CHAIRWOMAN: It was not hard at all. Eight days in, we got an answer from the Trump administration on what was going on, that we have been asking this question for over a month from the Biden administration. I think that's what people are looking forward the transparency and the accuracy and getting us information.
GALLAGHER: It's amazing. I want to put this up on the screen, because this is the confirmation calendar, Luke, and you go up, and you can go from the top like left, you've got -- you had Howard Lutnick, you go back to RFK Jr. and Kelly Loeffler and then Kash Patel and Tulsi. And on it goes. I'm wondering, as you look at this, Luke, who do you see? Do you see trouble on the horizon? Who do you think gets in and who do you think maybe is on the bubble here?
BALL: Well, Washington, D.C. is Hollywood for Ugly people. That's why I'm here. And so, a lot of these senators are going to have to make some sort of a splash if they're in the Democrat Party trying to oppose some of these nominees, they're going to make it part of the process. But if Republicans people in the GOP camps start oppose Donald Trump's nominees, the people that he has picked out and asked that be nominated and confirmed to his cabinet.
They can very well expect a primary challenge in their backyard because it was such a route this past time where we saw an overwhelming majority of the electoral college and the popular vote, that a lot of these senators that get entrenched in their six year incumbency or whatever, can be up there and looking down at the American people and realize, if I don't listen to my constituents, I could very well have a primary challenge in the backyard.
And if they don't have a war chest the size of some small country's GDP, they might not be seeking reelection again.
GALLAGHER: I think all these nominees are actually going to do better than anticipated. Meantime, as for the federal employees going back to work, they got an e-mail today from the Office of Management and Budget saying, "If you resign under this program, you will retain all pay and benefits regardless of your daily workload and will be exempted from all applicable in person work requirements until September 30, 2025."
So you get nine months of grace there. There's some thought that maybe five to 10 percent of the federal workforce calls it quits. What do you think?
PATTERSON: Very likely. We've seen the draw of not being in the office every day that they are absolutely celebrating. And now there's a new sheriff in town. They are requiring people to come back to work. We are seeing over and over again. The Trump administration campaigned on very specific things and now they are delivering on all of those things. It will probably be that nine months of severance will be the best money they ever spent.
GALLAGHER: Well. And, you know, they're talking about, if you can save five percent -- 10 percent, if they quit, that's $100 million, maybe billion. I'm going to check the numbers. It's a lot of money that goes back to the government every year. Luke Ball, Jessica Milan Patterson, thank you both.
BALL: Thank you.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (D-CT): Kash Patel has an enemies list. He would use the FBI for political retribution.
SEN. JOHN KENNEDY (R-LA): I want to hear that Mr. Patel is going to go in and in a fair and equitable manner get rid of the bad -- the bad gals and bad guys and lift up the good gals and the good guys. That's what I want to hear. I don't want to hear that he's going to go in like a small earthquake and destroy the institution.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: And with that, let's bring in criminal defense attorney and federal litigator Vik Bajaj. Vik, great to have you on the show. I think a lot of Republicans appreciate Kash Patel because he's a straightforward guy. He's been on this show many, many times. Congressman Jim Jordan wrote this about him in Newsweek. "Kash was relentless and he was fearless. He followed the facts and pursued the leads, even when the Deputy Attorney General threatened him if he didn't stop. If Kash had succumbed to that pressure, we never would have uncovered the depths and political motivations of the Russian collusion hoax."
I mean, he's one of those guys that we bring him on the show because he's a straight shooter, and he loves to get to the bottom of stuff.
VIK BAJAJ, CRIMINAL DEFENSE ATTORNEY: And he has the finger on the pulse of the legal community. He's not just a talking head. He's actually out there in court. He's litigating these issues. He's done it from both sides, Trace. We've talked about that on the defense side, on the prosecution side, on the special investigation side. He's uniquely qualified to fill this position. I, like some others, perhaps you believe he will have limited resistance.
He's just so qualified and he's a rabid dog. He's not going to stop until he has what he wants, and that's what the American people are asking for now.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Meantime, Kerri Urbahn was talking about Trump and his firing of the 17 inspectors general. She said this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KERRI URBAHN, FOX NEWS LEGAL EDITOR: It may be that it's the process that this administration wants the process alone can be very tiresome when you're on the other end of that, you know, and I think -- I'm talking about these career officials who are fired. You know, they have to hire lawyers. It's going to be back and forth. And I also think if they think the Department is going to settle with them, they may want to think twice about that, because I don't -- I don't anticipate that from this Department of Justice.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: What do you anticipate, Vic? How is this going to shake out in your opinion?
BAJAJ: Well, let's look at the chronology and the procedure here. They can file an appeal with the merit State Board and the services board, but that means they have to prove they had the merit for the job, but they were fired for reasons such as race, color, sex, gender identity or affliction or anything that they have in their resume. Now the key term of this administration is meritocracy.
So, it comes to a fact-finding exercise. Was I fired because of something amorphous that's hard to prove? Or did I fail to uphold the law? Let's not forget about this thing called the United States Constitution, which gives President Donald Trump not only the authority over the executive branch to do exactly what he's done here, but also the authority under another clause, to say, I can do whatever it takes to uphold the law. What does that mean? He believes these people fell short of that responsibility.
GALLAGHER: Do you share that? Do you think that all 17 of these are out?
BAJAJ: I do, and the reason for that is you have Republicans and you have Democrats. This is not a politically based thing. It is purely based on meritocracy analysis.
GALLAGHER: Yes. A novel concept. Vik, great to see you.
BAJAJ: Thank you.
GALLAGHER: Coming up. Some federal agencies now trying to get around President Trump, ending DEI. And they're getting very sneaky on how they're doing it.
And later in The Nightcap. The Associated Press announcing they will continue using the term Gulf of Mexico despite Trump's executive order renaming it the Gulf of America. Why do you think that is? Should they go by the new name or keep it the way it was? Let us know on X and Instagram @tracegallagher. We'll read your responses coming up in The Nightcap.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GALLAGHER: Well, Karoline Leavitt, the youngest White House press secretary made her debut in the briefing room today and shook up the press corps by giving new media a seat at the table. Ashley Strohmier is live with that story. Ashley, good evening.
ASHLEY STROHMIER, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Hi, Trace. Yes. The youngest White House press secretary in U.S. history took to the lectern today for the first time, announcing some big changes for the briefing room.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
LEAVITT: Good to see all of you. We welcome independent journalists, podcasters, social media influencers and content creators to apply for credentials to cover this White House. Starting today, this seat in the front of the room, which is usually occupied by the press secretary staff, will be called the New Media seat.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
STROHMIER: In addition to creating a spot for nontraditional media outlets and personalities, 27-year-old Karoline Leavitt said the Trump administration is working to restore the press passes of the 440 journalists whose passes they say were wrongly revoked by the previous administration. So, Leavitt spoke for nearly an hour fielding questions on everything from the federal funding freeze to deep seek to mass deportations.
And unlike her predecessors, she did this with just a couple of pages of notes, instead of that big binder full of talking points. And Trey, so far, Levitt seems to have avoided criticism in the press, but you and I will bet it won't be too long before she is parodied on SNL. You know what's happening.
GALLAGHER: Yes. It's coming. It's coming. Ashley Strohmier live for us in New York. Ashley, thank you.
Let's bring in political commentator. Former Democrat Natalie Beisner, along with independent journalist Brittney Hopper. Thank you both for coming on. Brittany, to you first. I mean, what do you think one of Karoline Leavitt and two, of them saving seats for independent journalists like podcast and so on and so forth? Today, by the way, Axios was the first one called and just, you know, months ago, Axios says we don't even want to be in the White House briefing room.
BRITTNEY HOPPER, INDEPENDENT JOURNALIST: Yes. Oh gosh, Trace. I just love her. I mean, I think she was born for this job. She did such a great job today. And going back to what you were just asking, as a former media journalist on CBS News in Los Angeles and now an independent journalist, this is amazing. This opens it up to just so many more questions that can be asked.
And for the last four years, we've been only getting the left narratives questions. Now we're going to be hearing other questions, and get real journalism back in here. And this is what we mean. I think it's fabulous.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Speaking of the left narrative, Jim Acosta, his final partisan rant on CNN today. Watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JIM ACOSTA, CNN HOST: Don't give into the lies. Don't give into the fear. Hold on to the truth and to hope, even if you have to get out your phone, record that message, I will not give in to the lies. I will not give in to the fear.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Journalism, activism, what do you think, Natalie?
NATALIE BEISNER, POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: I think this is yet another example of legacy media slowly dying out, as the new press secretary kind of acknowledged today and other things are taking its place. They say, good riddance as a former Democrat. I mean, Acosta has repeated every single Trump hoax in the book. And I used to believe them, and I think a lot of Americans did, and that's no longer the case.
GALLAGHER: Yes, it really is. John Fetterman being fair on The View. The ladies didn't really like it. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. JOHN FETTERMAN (D-PA): I think overall, it was a positive experience. I mean, he was -- he was -- he was kind, he was cordial. It wasn't in a, you know, any kind of theater. It wasn't trying to get your picture taken, to kind of put something out on social media. It was just really a conversation. I'm in the business of finding wins for Pennsylvania and for the nation and engaging the president. I think I see that as doing my job.
ANA NAVARRO, HOST, THE VIEW: I understand the need for bipartisanship. I didn't love the optics of you going to Mar-a-Lago.
FETTERMAN: I think it's pretty reasonable to have a conversation.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Going to Mar-a-Lago to meet Trump. Pretty reasonable. Disagree. What do you think about that, Brittney?
BEISNER: This is the best person that they have on the Democrat side, and they can't even give him the respect and decency. I mean, it -- this just - - if you don't agree with their narrative, you're done. You're out. And I think that the American people are waking up, and they're seeing the lies and hypocrisy, just like we just saw.
GALLAGHER: The New York Post headline, this one has kind of made social media. This is big. New York Magazine ripped for cropping black people from Trump party cover photo, claiming almost everyone is white. This was for influencers at the inaugural, kind of an inaugural ball. It was hosted by somebody who's on this show, C.J. Pearson, who is black. And here's the cover of New York magazine, Natalie.
The cover is the cruel kids' table and it talks about no black people. The actual picture you can see, put it up on the screen here, and you'll see some red circles where they edited out, they cropped out all the black people and then condemned them for not having enough black people.
The host was black. It's one of those things where you think it's, it's so dishonest.
BEISNER: Yes, that's all they have at this point are lies and they're just desperately clinging to this narrative and they can't get with the picture that Trump won the popular vote and he made inroads with the very people that they're claiming were not featured at this party and didn't host this party.
It's like the last gasp of people who are on their way out, I think.
GALLAGHER: You think, there are consequences for something like this, Natalie? I mean, it just, it's kind of interesting. You think, New York Magazine actually suffers any consequences or people just blow this off like everything else?
BEISNER: I think it's coming, I think it's coming because I think we are seeing a shift towards independent and podcasts and things like that. I think that consequences are coming slowly.
GALLAGHER: Natalie Beisner, Brittany Hopper, thank you both.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This whole like snitch on people that Donald Trump, they better be careful because Donald Trump snitches on people that might get snitched on themselves.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Well, in these early days of the Trump administration, a conservative watchdog has launched the DEI watch list to monitor any federal bureaucrats abuse of diversity, equity and inclusion agendas. Let's bring in the American Accountability Foundation founder, Tom Jones.
I mean, you hear the pre-sound there, Tom. Thank you for coming on, first of all. They believe the American Accountability Foundation are pushing people to snitch on each other. And your response to that would be what?
TOM JONES, AMERICAN ACCOUNTABILITY FOUNDATION FOUNDER: My response is we're helping the Trump administration identify DEI staffers at federal agencies, particularly at health care agencies, because this is a radical, discriminatory, and dangerous policy that these staffers push.
What these DEI staffers say is, oh, we want the federal workforce to just look like America. Well, what's that mean in health care? In a health care space at the federal agency, that means Jews and Asians need not apply.
Physicians in the United States, 14 percent Jewish, but we're only 2 percent of the population. Scientific workforce in America, 26 percent Asian, but only seven percent of the general population.
So, if the workforce in the federal healthcare space looks like America, that means if there's a hundred grants and they're ranked in order from top to bottom, that means there's only three government Jews if even if they're ten of the best grants that are available.
GALLAGHER: Yes, meantime, you issued a statement, and it reads as follows, quoting here, "Many of these folks are aggressive DEI advocates but their titles don't make it obvious. For example, the head of the FDA Center for Tobacco Products is by his own admission bringing health equity to the forefront of tobacco product regulation. I mean, they just keep changing the name and keeping the DEI.
JONES: Yes, and that's why we got started on this early. We started working on this in November because we wanted to get these profiles ready before they could scramble and change their profile and get rid of some of their information so that they weren't easily seen.
What we're seeing now is a lot of these people changing their profiles, so the word diversity isn't in it and they're trying to pull a little Jedi mind trick on the administration that we're not the feds you're looking for.
But we've really, we've got the receipts here and we're going to help the Trump administration identify the people they need to get out of these positions and get out of a position where they can implement a discriminatory agenda.
GALLAGHER: The New York Post writes the following here, conservative watchdog compiles a list of woke ideologues in military for Pete Hegseth to purge. Do you think the military is kind of the victim of a semi-woke takeover? I've got about 30 seconds for you.
JONES: 100 percent. The Biden administration knows that this is one of the best places to indoctrinate young people, and they spent the last four years putting social justice warriors in the senior positions on both the civilian and uniform side of the military. And Pete Hegseth has got to clean those folks out if he wants to return to warrior culture.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Tom Jones, great to have you on the show. Thank you, sir.
JONES: Thank you.
GALLAGHER: And coming up, now that social media influencers have a seat at the table at White House press briefings, what does that mean for our next guest? The 25-year-old TikTok influencer who earned a name for himself by helping presidential candidates like RFK Jr. build up their social media following.
Link Loren joins us live next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is a gift of hope and love and letting you know that people care about you.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It means a lot to the Palisades community, first of all, because we've all just been destroyed by it and heartbroken.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You know, to know the family that I live with for all these years; don't have a home.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: In the aftermath of devastating wildfires here in Los Angeles, we are seeing neighbors and strangers alike step up to help one another however they can.
Let's bring in the Change Reaction founder, Greg Perlman. Greg, great to have you on the show. I know you were at a meeting with the victims of the Eaton Fire -- a thousand of these victims, and you gave away two million dollars, and the goal is to give away many million more.
What was it like being at the meeting?
GREG PERLMAN, CHANGE REACTION FOUNDER: It was hard. It was uplifting, because we brought together the community, a lot of them for the first time in three weeks seeing neighbors. But you know what they're facing is such devastation. We're talking about the middle-class home ownership.
I mean 9,000 homes lost. It was hard, but you know what? The thankfulness, the happiness, the strength of rebuilding, you know, the idea I really felt, I really left inspired, and it makes me just want to do more.
GALLAGHER: You said it was like giving oxygen. Some of these people are really, really receptive, and they're like this is something you need.
PERLMAN: You kind of have to understand that a lot of people are so focused on where's the money going to be used. You know they lost their houses. These are people up against it, but the key that we did is that we have a force of people at the Change Reaction, and we just use that force to go out and identify the people in the community that are in need. Because there's 9,000 homeowners and they're all really sad stories.
But who's up against it? Who are the grandmothers there that have no resources, no access to GoFundMes? So, we put out 24 Change Agents into the community and they vetted every single person. We even looked at the GoFundMes. We said, if you have 50,000, you don't need our 2,500.
GALLAGHER: It's interesting because you said you started the chain reaction, or the Change Reaction, sorry, because of the bureaucratic B.S. And you know that these people in both the Palisades and the Eaton Fire are going to go through a ton of bureaucratic B.S. in the next few years.
PERLMAN: Well, the Change Reaction started five years ago, and we've tried to turn philanthropy on its head. One of the things that we do is that unlike any other philanthropy, we're focused on the working class.
GALLAGHER: Right.
PERLMAN: And the working class is, you know, they're the ones that are left out, right? Almost all philanthropy in the government, they're always focused on the poor, but we have a minimum income. So, we're talking about teachers and nurses and bus drivers.
GALLAGHER: Right.
PERLMAN: And you know, they don't have any access to money and all of the philanthropy that's out there, the foundations and the government, won't give them anything. They say, oh, you make $26,000 a year? You don't get anything.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Are you, are you surprised at how bad the response was to this fire? I mean, everything, we look at everything, we could go down a list, Greg. It is unbelievable. Is that part of this?
PERLMAN: Yes, I mean look, I'm really hopeful that, I'm very concerned about the rebuilding, right? I mean the politics of the city, you know, have not been very favorable to the housing developers. So, I'm really hopeful that we can get housing rebuilt quickly over there.
And you know, Steve Soboroff has been named, I don't know who's going to be out there and not the county but they really, really need to get these houses rebuild because these people have nowhere to go. We have basically 15,000 displaced people right now.
GALLAGHER: Yes, amazing. I got to go. You think that people who have some money who are well option help some people who, who are in need in this case because the government's not, not filling the void.
PERLMAN: The government's not filling the void. FEMA is out there but it's trickling down. We decided that we can't wait for FEMA. That's why we were out there with $2,500 checks, giving them to over a thousand families. We're at 2,300 checks so far, over four and a half million.
GALLAGHER: Greg, you and your team are doing Yeoman's work. They need it desperately. Thank you for coming on. Come back, give us updates. If you would, we'd appreciate it.
PERLMAN: I'd love that. Thank you.
GALLAGHER: Thank you.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) DONALD TRUMP, U.S. PRESIDENT: I have a little bias toward TikTok right now. I have to tell you, so pardon me if I'm a little bit, I became a little bit jaded toward TikTok, but we'll see what happens. We're going to have a lot of people bidding on it. And if we can save all that voice at all the jobs and China won't be involved, you know, one China involved, but we'll see what happens.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: So, how did a 25-year-old influencer TikTok his way into RFK Jr.'s campaign? Let's bring in Gen Z independent voter, Link Lauren. Link, it's great to have you on the show. You say, you say that Americans don't care about perfection, they just want a warrior to fight for them, and you believe that RFK Jr. is that warrior. Explain that for us, Link.
LINK LAUREN, TIKTOK INFLUENCER: Absolutely, Trace. Great to be with you tonight. Like we've seen with Donald Trump, Pete Hegseth, RFK Jr., Americans really don't expect perfection. They don't care if you've been a perfectly good boy your entire life. They just want someone who's going to be a warrior on the front lines fighting for the issues they care about.
We have a chronic disease crisis in this country. We're spending about $4 trillion a year on chronic diseases. 90 percent of our health care costs go toward chronic disease. And Bobby Kennedy has been the canary in the coal mine on that issue for decades.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Washington Post writes the following here, Link, meet the 25-year-old who ticked off his way into RFK's campaign team. How'd you do it? What was the strategy here, Link?
LAUREN: Yes, that's a very 21st century headline. So, I was covering the campaign from the outside. I was making videos at home saying what I liked about the campaign, what he was doing well, what he could be doing better. One day the campaign called and said, do you want to come over to the house and meet Bobby? I said, sure. And the rest is history. They allowed me to work my way up to the highest rungs in the campaign and change my life in so many positive ways.
GALLAGHER: Yes. And, and, you know, you're being credited with really kind of designing some of his most successful online initiatives. Is that a fair thing to say that you really kind of pushed this along?
LAUREN: Well, I would definitely not take full credit for anything. We've worked with an incredible team, but I was involved in the scripting and producing of the top videos the campaign put out. We did not have a huge budget.
We were an independent campaign trying to get on the ballots in all these states. And I said, you know what? Let's just script some videos for TikTok that speak to the needs of the American people. Those videos in 24 hours, 15 million views, 30 million views, and we were able to circumvent the mainstream media like MSNBC, which wasn't even having us on.
GALLAGHER: Yes, and it's interesting, I wonder, do you have any kind of background in health? Why did you go after RFK Jr.?
LAUREN: Well, I actually didn't set out to go after RFK Jr., I was covering all of the candidates and I kept running into different candidates on the campaign trail, so I'd been in Iowa with Vivek Ramaswamy, they offered me a job.
I didn't feel like the timing was right. And then when Kennedy came along and his daughter-in-law took over the campaign, I was suddenly opening for him in front of thousands of people at events, and I've been making videos in my room six months prior.
GALLAGHER: I got to go. And I'm wondering, do you, are you amazed at how young people gravitate toward RFK Jr. and young people gravitate toward Donald Trump. What's your thought about that?
LAUREN: Young people, we want grit, we want authenticity, and that's what these guys have in spades. And they're also on that platform speaking to young people. So, only nine percent of Gen Z watch cable news. They're going to TikTok. So, if you're on those platforms, you're going to be able to reach them, Trace.
GALLAGHER: Listen, tonight, more than nine percent are watching cable news because they're all sitting around thinking, what is Link Lauren doing on there talking to Trace, we're going to get this on.
Link, thank you for coming on, we appreciate it.
LAUREN: Thank you.
GALLAGHER: Well, the associated press refusing to call the Gulf of Mexico the Gulf of America despite Trump renaming it. Why do you think that is, should they go by the new name or stick to the old? Let us know X and Instagram, @TracGallagher we're back with the "NIGHTCAP" crew including you, next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GALLAGHER: Back with the "NIGHTCAP" crew: Kevin Corke, Ashley Strohmier, Natalie Beisner, Brittany Hopper, Michael Gates and Vik Bajaj. Tonight's topic, the name game. The Associated Press announcing they will continue using Gulf of Mexico despite Trump's executive order renaming it Gulf of America. What do you think this is? Should they go by the new name or stick to the old? Kevin Cork.
CORKE: I think they'll eventually come around and I guarantee you if this were President Obama, they would have changed it right away.
GALLAGHER: They'd have changed it yesterday before anything happened. Natalie Beisner.
BEISNER: Yes, I think they're probably sticking to it because they hate Donald Trump, but I say call it the new name, why not? Be patriotic, do what people least expect?
GALLAGHER: Yes, it's kind of interesting because you kind of look at this, Brittany Hopper, and you realize the Associated Press, if you kind of go down their rule book, they got a lot of these types of things where Kevin's right, if Obama wanted to name it Gulf of America, that's what it would be in the handbook.
HOPPER: He took the words right out of my mouth. And what I'm going to add to it is the A.P. is throwing an adult tantrum. Just like a little kid in a candy store, this is exactly what they're doing. And I really don't have an opinion whether we change it or not, but that's what we're seeing by the A.P.
GALLAGHER: Ashley Strohmier.
STROHMIER: Yes, I mean, copy-paste everything that everybody said, but I mean, come on, let's be real. If Biden or Obama, or really anyone other than Trump did this, it would have been changed before they even made the decision.
GALLAGHER: Yep. Vik?
BAJAJ: 1,661 miles of coastline with America, 1,553 miles of coastline with Mexico. It seems like a very clear favor for the Gulf of America. I go with the numbers.
GALLAGHER: All right. Michael?
GATES: I love it. Gulf of America, it's a North American continent. I think the mainstream media is, this is just a form of protest against Trump. But they'll come around; they're going to be forced to come around.
GALLAGHER: Yes.
GATES: Whenever you protest Trump, you end up on the losing side.
GALLAGHER: Mystery says, "I will continue to call it the Gulf of Mexico. I'm way too old and curmudgeonly to change it now."
Don says, "It's not the first time the AP bends the truth. It's the Gulf of America now."
Jeff, "If a president they like renamed the Gulf or anything, they would joyously adopt the new name. This is just rebellion against Trump." That kind of echoes some.
J.R., "I like the new name."
Jason, "I think it's silly to change it. There are more important things."
Kathy says, "If it's changed on the map, then they should call it the new name, which by the way changed on the Google Maps."
Debbie, "It is the Gulf of America no matter what the fake news calls it."
And Christian, "As a recent retiree of having to refer to biological men as women for four years it should be an easy ask."
Thank you for watching America's late news, FOX NEWS @ NIGHT. I'm Trace Gallagher. We'll see you right back here tomorrow night.

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
