




Fox News FOX HANNITY 9:00 PM EST
February 5, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; International
Length: 6992 words
Byline: Sean Hannity, Joe Concha
Guests: Benjamin Netanyahu, Riley Gaines, Jillian Michaels, Stephen Miller, Horace Cooper
Body


SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS HOST: Welcome to "Hannity".
And we are near in the end of another very busy day at the Trump White House, where just hours ago, the president signed a new executive order banning biological men from women's sports. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We will not allow men to beat up injure and cheat our women and our girls. From now on, women's sports will be only for women.
(CHEERS)
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: And coming up, Riley Gaines, Jillian Michaels will weigh in on the president's efforts to protect women's sports.
Plus, we'll have news from Trump's newly sworn in attorney general, Pam Bondi. She has had a very busy first day.
We'll also bring you the very latest developments from DOGE and the billions and billions and billions of your hard-earned tax dollars wasted by radical Democrats for the green new deal, DEI, their woke ideology, transgender you name it, but not for America, no, not even for -- that would be bad enough. This is for all over the world, billions of dollars.
And in just moments, the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu will join us for an exclusive interview after his historic meeting yesterday at the oval office with President Trump.
But, first, let's check in on the Democratic Party, shall we, which has now moved, first, they were in the denial stage after the election. They couldn't believe they lost then they were in the grief and depression stage. Now, they have officially entered the rage and anger stage, which is where they usually are with President Trump, not much of a change, which, by the way, I'm perfectly fine with, if that's where they want to be. And I hate to break it to our friends in the radical, new left-wing socialized Democratic Party, but they -- they're -- they're screaming into a void at this point, same with their -- their allies and co-workers in the state-run legacy media mob. They lost the election, their approval numbers are nearing record lows, and yet they continue to fight two losing battles.
The first one is over illegal immigration. Outside of a tiny group of Democrats, almost everyone in America wants Donald Trump to deport illegal immigrants, those that are murderers, rapists, gang members, cartel members, known terrorists in our country, they're the only ones fighting -- oh, it's not a big deal. Really? Yes, it is a big deal.
And I love it. They should stay on this, the biggest losing battle of all time in D.C., and it surrounds the government accountability. In fact, Democrats are outraged we are in a constitutional crisis that Donald Trump and Elon Musk are exposing what is their massive amounts of billions of dollars in waste, fraud and abuse that are given to other countries to spread their ideology. You know, how dare Donald Trump and Elon Musk tell the American people the truth and be transparent?
The Democratic Party is now apparently willing to fight tooth and nail against government oversight? Wow. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. ELIZABETH WARREN (D-MA): Elon Musk is seizing the power that belongs to the American people. We are here to fight back.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Anytime a person can pay $250 million into a campaign and they be given access -- full access to the Department of Treasury of the United States of America, we are at war.
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): I am going to stand with you in this fight and we will win. We will win. We will win. We will win, we will win, we will win, we will win.
We won't rest! We won't rest!
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: No, you lost, but who's counting?
Despite the theatrics, Elon Musk, DOGE are doing incredible work for the Trump administration, and, frankly, for the American people. I mean, they're robbing from our kids and grandkids to advance their extreme agenda. It's insane.
They utterly exposed USAID, you know, which long served -- this was their slush fund for the far-left actors out of Washington to give to their, you know, friends around the globe, spending your billions and billions of hard-earned tax dollars on the woke causes, the green new deal causes, the -- you know, the transgender ideology, DEI, and all of that.
DOGE is expanding to other parts now of the federal government, including the Transportation Department. The status quo in D.C., it is over. Shock and awe has arrived. Democrats, they are sadly stuck in the past and don't expect them to change over the next four years.
Didn't take long, did not take long. I was ready to start a hannity.com pool who will be the first Democratic elected official who's going to be the first legacy media mob person, you know, to call for this. Sixteen days in, I didn't think it'd be that quick.
Democratic Congressman Al Green filing another round of impeachment articles against Donald Trump for his dastardly deeds. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. AL GREEN (D-TX): Dr. King was right. Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. And injustice in Gaza is a threat to justice in the United States of America. I rise to announce that the movement to impeach the president has begun. I rise to announce that I will bring articles of impeachments against the president for desperately deeds proposed and desperately deeds done.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: All right. The anger, the fear-mongering doesn't stop there. Now, Democrats, the media mob are once again outraged over Trump's bold new plan for Gaza. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: The only reason the Palestinians want to go back to Gaza is they have no alternative. It's right now a demolition site. This is just a demolition site.
Virtually, every building is down. They're living under fallen concrete that's very dangerous and very precarious. They instead can occupy all of a beautiful area with homes and safety, and they can live out their lives in peace and harmony instead of having to go back and do it again.
The U.S. will take over the Gaza Strip and we will do a job with it, too.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Now, like Trump's tariff threats and tough negotiations with Panama, Venezuela, Denmark, Mexico, Canada, this is like ally just the first chapter in a complex, ongoing art of the deal negotiation. But once again, for the millionth time, the Democratic Party is just overcome with hysteria. You decide.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I think it's the craziest idea I've ever heard in my life. Two million people living in Gaza, a problem that Israel has, and now, we're going to have. We want to own Gaza.
KIMBERLY DOZIER, CNN GLOBAL AFFAIRS ANALYST: You've got something like two million Gazans there. More than half of them do not support Hamas right now, but the moment you tell them that you've got a lead because of a U.S. plan backed by Israel, every single one will join Hamas in fight.
REP. ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ (D-NY): We have known that this is Trump's plan for the Gaza Strip. It is horrific. It is the definition of ethnic cleansing. It is part of the culmination of what I view to be genocide of the Palestinian people.
JAMES ZOGBY, PRESIDENT, ARAB AMERICAN INSTITUTE: It's delusional. It's also dangerous, and it is disgustingly insensitive to Palestinian humanity.
RULA JEBREAL, VISITING PROFESSOR, THE UNIVERSITY OF MIAMI: Clearly, there's now, it's an official foreign policy of the United States, the illegal occupation of a sovereign land, ethnic cleansing which constitute both -- on both counts crimes against humanity.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Ethnic cleansing when you promise that you're going to help, you know, clear out the rubble from the war-torn region and put people in nice homes. That's ethnic cleansing? See the same cycle over and over and over again. You know, wash, rinse, repeat.
The American people no longer care about the constant hysteria. They trust President Trump to improve our country, fix what's broken, drain the swamp and protect American lives from threats both foreign and domestic. Unlike the last administration, Trump knows how to work with our friends, hold our enemies in check. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REPORTER: Why say that you're unhappy to sign it if it's Iran and their proxies who have threatened to retaliate against you and your team by killing you guys for taking out Soleimani?
TRUMP: Well, they haven't done that and -- that would be a terrible thing for them to do, not because of me. If they did that, they would be obliterated that'll be the end. I've left instructions. If they do it, they get obliterated. There won't be anything left, and they shouldn't be able to do it. And Biden should have said that but he never did.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: And joining us now, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is with us.
Mr. Prime Minister, great to have you back, sir.
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER: Good to be with you.
HANNITY: First, once again, our -- my condolences after all your country has been through. The equivalent of 40,000 dead Americans a day in a single day, and murder and rape and kidnapping and torture and beheading and now, you know, a four, five, six, seven-front war. It's been -- it's been rough for Israel.
How's -- how's the country holding up?
NETANYAHU: Well, it's holding up remarkably because of the spirit of our people and the indomitable courage of our soldiers and the resolution of our government to roll back this tide of terror, this -- this murderous mass, hit Hamas, and hit the Iran axis that sponsors Hamas, Hezbollah, the Houthis, and is committed to destroy Israel.
They thought we were just going to fold. And a year and some later, they're folding. And we're going to continue until we achieve victory over our enemies that are your enemies because these people chant "death to America, death to Israel". You're the great Satan, we're the small Satan, but we're standing in their way.
Well, we're defeating them and our victory is your victory.
HANNITY: You -- you stood with America after 9/11, on this program, on with me many, many times. I'll never forget it.
Yesterday was historic and you actually used the phrase that Donald Trump is the greatest friend Israel's ever had in the White House. Explain.
NETANYAHU: It's that simple, he's the greatest friend Israel ever had in the White House.
(LAUGHTER)
NETANYAHU: You know, in his first term, he recognized Jerusalem as our capital, moved the American embassy there, recognized our sovereignty over the Golan Heights, got of the -- out of the disastrous Iran deal, brokered -- and we worked together on this -- the historic Abraham Accords that brought peace to Israel and four Arab states.
You want more? I mean, that's a lot.
And look what he's done in the last few days. I mean, he's done remarkable things. He's released the ammunition that we need to continue and march -- our march to victory. He's taken action against UNRWA and these other agencies that hate America and hate Israel.
He's done enormous things and yes, he's the greatest friend that Israel has ever had in the White House.
HANNITY: You said that you believe peace between Israel and Saudi Arabia is not only feasible, you think it's going to happen. And President Trump - - I'll juxtapose that with what he said about Gaza and how Gaza has been basically turned into rubble.
And, you know, he talked about that America would go in, dismantle the dangerous, unexploded bombs, level the site, rid the -- rid the site of destroyed buildings and create an economic development that would simply supply unlimited jobs, housing for people in the area, and really make it a place worth living in.
Is that anything you expected and do you share that belief? And what do you make of American media taking that? He's taking over Gaza. He sounds like he's rebuilding Gaza to me.
NETANYAHU: Yeah. Well, I don't think he talked about sending U.S. troops to complete the job of destroying Hamas. That's our commitment. That's our job and we're absolutely committed to it.
And I also don't think he said that he's going to fund it. He said that neighboring states, wealthy states would do it.
But the actual idea of allowing first Gazans who want to leave to leave -- I mean, what's wrong with that? They can leave. They can then come back. They can relocate and come back.
But you have to rebuild Gaza. If you want to rebuild Gaza, you can't have - - this is the first good idea that I've heard. It's a remarkable idea and I think it should be really pursued, examined, pursued and done because I think it will create a different future for everyone.
HANNITY: Two things the president said yesterday.
One is that we have to ensure Hamas is eliminated and restore peace to that area. And the second thing he said is Iran cannot have a nuclear weapon.
You are the first leader of a state, you're the first prime minister, the first president to come visit the White House in his second term.
Between the reports that I read, even in "The New York Times" and elsewhere and my sources, we keep hearing that Iran is very close to nuclear capability. I don't have the intelligence you have. I don't know what our country's intelligence has, but all indications are they want a nuclear weapon.
Am I -- am I leaning into something that I shouldn't lead into? Is -- was this an -- sort of an emergency meeting about the state of Iran?
NETANYAHU: Well, there's no question Iran is gearing up to get nuclear weapons. They probably would have been there 10 years ago already if we hadn't taken various actions to hold them up.
We held them up. We slowed them down, but we haven't stopped them completely. So, yes, they're seeking to do that and, of course, we discussed this. And the president said something very simple, which I said as well.
Iran must not be allowed to have nuclear weapons. You know, it's that simple, and it's just about all I can say about it. Iran should not have nuclear weapons.
HANNITY: Well, they can have nuclear weapons.
I would think -- you know, the president talking about other countries in the region, Egypt, Jordan, the Saudis, the Emirates, I -- I would think it's in their best interest to help resolve the issues in Gaza and Hamas and Lebanon and Hezbollah and Islamic Jihad and the Houthi rebels. I think it's in everyone's best interest.
But I think they all would unite against an Iran, they -- they would fight against Iranian hegemony and power with a nuclear weapon. I would think they all want that.
NETANYAHU: Well, I think -- I think it's a common -- it's common knowledge that the -- most of the Arab countries have shifted from seeing Israel as their great enemy to seeing Iran is a great enemy. They don't often say it, they often hide it, but they recognize that Israel is the one country in the Middle East that fought Iran. We fight Iran.
Iran openly declares its goal to destroy us. We didn't seek that conflict. They seek it.
They openly say that they will wipe out the Jewish state and they openly say that their goal is not merely the Jewish state but to conquer the Middle East and go beyond that, and also blackmail the United States with nuclear weapons.
So in resisting this and taking action against this, we're not only doing it for our own survival but again for the interest of many countries in the region, the U.S. interest as well, I think the interest of peace in the world.
You don't want a world in which the ayatollahs have nuclear weapons and the means to deliver them. That's not going to produce peace. That's going to produce the most horrible of wars. It has to be stopped.
HANNITY: Do you believe -- and you were pretty confident that all the hostages that are alive will be returned? You are confident of that?
NETANYAHU: Well, it's, first of all, goal that we said. We set three goals vis-a-vis Gaza. One, destroy Hamas's military and governing capabilities. Two, release all the hostages, and three, ensure that Gaza does not pose a threat to Israel anymore.
And we're committed to achieving all three.
So far, we've decimated most of Hamas's military power, not all. There's some left and we'll -- we'll make sure that it's not there when this war ends, and it could end very quickly.
Second, we have set -- we've released so far about 70 percent more than that actually of the live hostages which nobody believed we would do, and we're committed to getting everyone out, both the living hostages and, unfortunately, also the dead hostages which Hamas also keeps, that that cruel -- that that -- they're so monstrous. They actually keep bodies as hostages, too. It's just incredible.
So, yes, we intend to commit to do that. I won't talk here how we intend to do it, but it's something that is in my mind. It's also on the president's mind. We don't leave it.
HANNITY: My last question to you, you -- back to Donald Trump, when Donald Trump before he got into office and he said, all hell will break loose in the region, if those hostages are not released, how important were those words in your view to getting this deal done to get the hostages back?
NETANYAHU: I think he used his influence which is global. I think he used it with great effect to help us complete this -- this release, and I'm sure that working together will -- will achieve great things.
We intend to -- we're changing the Middle East. Israel has already done so in the last year. We've really changed the Middle East. It was basically an Iranian pond. They can do anything in it, and we, in many ways, single- handedly, but with some American air defense support which I appreciate. I don't -- and some other help that I appreciate as well.
But Trump's entry into the White House gives enormous, enormous, I say, backing to those who wish to see Iran's aggression rolled back. Iran never having a nuclear weapon and that affects the entire region. It elevates the spirit of Israelis. It elevates the spirit of all those who want to see a different Middle East, a prosperous and peaceful Middle East.
I think it -- it changes the global equation. It definitely changes the equation in the Middle East.
HANNITY: I think you got to take away their money, that would mean take out their refineries and take out their nuclear sites, and you know, that will prevent potential modern-day Holocaust which we cannot ever have happen.
Mr. Prime Minister, we appreciate your time. Thank you, sir.
NETANYAHU: Thank you, Sean. Appreciate it.
HANNITY: Thank you.
When we come back, a major win for female athletes. Today, Donald Trump signing an executive order to keep biological men out of women's sports. Riley Gaines, Jillian Michaels, they'll break it all down, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. Every educational institution in the country now has a choice to make. They can either block biological men from playing in women's sports or they can say goodbye to federal funding for the foreseeable future. Well, that's thanks to a new executive order signed today at the White House by President Trump, fulfilling a major campaign promise to keep men out of women's sports in America. And Trump announced today that promise includes the upcoming Olympics in Los Angeles. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: With this executive order, the war on women's sports is over.
(CHEERS)
TRUMP: With my action this afternoon, we're are putting every school receiving taxpayer dollars on notice that if you let men take over women's sports teams or invade your locker rooms, you will be investigated for violations of Title IX, and risk your federal funding. There will be no federal funding.
(CHEERS)
TRUMP: In Los Angeles, in 2028, my administration will not stand by and watch men beat and batter female athletes, and we're just not going to let it happen, and it's going to end and it's ending right now, and nobody's going to be able to do a damn thing about it because when I speak, we speak with authority.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Now, Trump's executive order was cheered by people who've actually played women's sports and denounced by only those that pretend to care about female athletes, including ESPN which I was pretty shocked, said in a post on X that Trump's order was, quote, designed to prevent people who were biologically assigned male at birth from participating in women's or girls sporting events.
People who are biologically assigned male at birth. Isn't that men?
Anyway, here with more, podcast host Jillian Michaels and the host of the "Gaines for Girls" podcast on the Outkick network, Riley Gaines.
Riley, you live this life. I mean, you know, think back, you would have -- you know, won that race. You had to deal with you know a naked male in the locker room. I'm sure that was a little awkward for a lot of the girls in the team, right?
RILEY GAINES, OUTKICK.COM CONTRIBUTOR AND HOST: Yeah, well, not even just awkward of course that is one of the most violating experiences you could possibly imagine.
HANNITY: I'm not diminishing. I want to be clear. Yeah, it was -- I would not -- I never -- never allow my daughter to do it. I'm with you.
GAINES: Well, that's because you're a good dad and you sound like my father.
But to see President Trump's decisive action today, as you said, it was a campaign promise of his, issue number 17 on his platform. No men in women's sports. So to see him deliver in the way that he did, that visual that you saw him signing this executive order with -- I mean, dozens of young girls surrounding him, I mean, I can't even tell you what that visual means to me, as someone who, of course -- I mean, three years, it doesn't sound like a long time especially for those who -- who I feel indebted to, who fought long before me.
But, man, I just feel vindicated and I feel this -- this overwhelming feeling of gratitude every day since -- since January 2025, I have been just overwhelmed by God's mercy that we certainly do not deserve.
HANNITY: Yeah. I mean, it was cool to see in the Oval Office. That was great.
You know, Jillian, you come at this from a different angle. California, you said to Sage Steele, California got too crazy for me. I grew up here. I'm a woman. I'm a gay woman. My mom's a Jew, my dad's an Arab. I have a black kid and believe it or not my son is half Latin, even though he it doesn't look like it.
You said I hold a million cards in your game of woke victimology poker, and when I leave California, maybe you lost your f-ing mind. I wish I was that articulate. I will concede I cannot come up with a line that good.
JILLIAN MICHAELS, "KEEPING IT REAL WITH JILLIAN MICHAELS PODCAST" HOST: Oh, I appreciate it, Sean. If I could just take a quick moment, I have never met Riley in person. I regret that. I am so excited to meet you at least in this capacity tonight and to say how much I have admired your strength and your courage. Congratulations and I thank you on behalf of my daughter and women across the country.
If I was to speak to you now my position on this, I would say it's straight science. I owned a sports medicine facility before being plucked to become a TV trainer, and I have reviewed 19 different studies that looked at the ways biological males who have transitions so their on puberty blockers and cross-sex hormones. And they still retain significant physical advantages in pretty much every aspect of athleticism across the board even against transgender males, meaning women, who are on puberty blockers and cross-sex hormones. And in strength alone, they have a 17 percent advantage even while being on the hormones and the blockers.
HANNITY: You know, Riley, you know, as I saw you there today, I felt -- I was happy for you, because you went out there and you want out there publicly, and you took a lot of heat and you went to college campuses, and the lunatics were ranting and raving as they always do, and you still -- you kept going, you kept showing up, you kept fighting, you never stop.
And why did you feel that strongly? Why was it -- why did you feel that -- you know, God -- God created you to do take on that fight/
GAINES: Well, I think a couple reasons, you mentioned God, but -- but personally, that is a big part of why I do what I do. Yes, of course, we are fighting for objective truth, biological reality. But as a Christian myself, knowing that we're fighting for biblical truth, it goes back to the first book. He created them male and female. That's all the reassurance that I need.
And, of course, having a younger sister myself, you know, one day hoping to have, I can only hope, to have a daughter of my own, how in the world could I look at myself in the mirror when -- going through what I went through experiencing what I did and not fighting for my younger sister. So that's a large part of why I do, what I do and again, that visual today, that is it.
That is why I fight the fight, and not just me, I think I speak for a lot when I say it's really about the next generation.
HANNITY: Well, you know I think God created Jillian so that Jillian could push me further and further and further away from McDonald's and Kentucky Fried Chicken and nicotine and all the things that I love in the world. That's -- you know, she always has -- in a very nice ways, give me the best advice and I'm getting better.
MICHAELS: Riley, I'm sorry you're getting dragged into this, Riley. This is not fair to you. This is a personal fight and now you're in the middle of it and I apologize for that.
HANNITY: It is not a fight.
GAINES: The middle love.
MICHAELS: It's absolutely a fight.
HANNITY: Well, I've got to say this publicly, Jillian said, eat grass --
MICHAELS: Riley, do you eat McDonald's? What would you like say about that, Riley?
HANNITY: Grass-fed organic beef and guess what? I had a steak this weekend and it was awesome. It was great. There you go. You win.
GAINES: There we go -- yeah, as an elite athlete, Sean. Well, then the whole MAHA movement --
MICHAELS: I won something.
GAINES: Of course, she does. Of course, she does, which I will say that is one of the greatest collabs to come out of President Trump's campaign, the whole MAHA, MAGA collab that that we've seen. It mobilized a lot of moderates similarly to how the issue of allowing men into women sports did. A lot of moms, right, right, they see what is happening to their children whether it's what's in their kids food or how their kids are being targeted by these large institutions in the way that they have it in regards to education or what have you.
And these -- these mad mama bears, they turned out. They turned out for President Trump for his America first agenda and to reject absurdity. And that is what the Democratic Party has become.
HANNITY: We'll give you the last word, Jillian. I mean I think both of you played a very big role in this in different ways. I mean, Jillian, you know, coming from California and saying goodbye to California in such a powerful way I think sent a loud message that it's okay to think differently.
And obviously, the work that that Riley did, you know, played a pivotal part in this as well.
MICHAELS: Honestly, Riley is spot on. It's issues like this that are just so absolutely and completely unhinged and defy logic dragged me into this fight. I was inspired by her and Sage Steele on this issue and I wanted to support them with the science as best as I could.
And hopefully, victories like this will continue to flow and I just say again, Riley, congratulations. Thank you for all you do.
And, Sean, I'm proud of you, buddy. I'm proud. Let's keep it going. We're - - we're on a streak.
GAINES: Thank you, Jillian.
HANNITY: I'm 50/50 on -- I'm 50/50 on the other issue. I'm making a lot of progress but I'm not going to get into it now. I don't need the -- I don't need all the hate mail.
Anyway, thank you both. Congratulations.
When we come back, Pam Bondi sworn in as our new attorney general wasting no time getting to work. We'll tell you what she did and some Democrats -- well, they are giving in on the foreign aid debate. In other word, USAID, your billions, because it's a fight they know they can't win. The vast majority, they are saying it's a threat to our constitutional order.
Those people, just stay where they are.
Stephen Miller, next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: Attorney General Pam Bondi was sworn in this morning, wasted no time getting to work. Our new attorney general issued a slew of directives, including orders to fight the weaponization of the Department of Justice, work with the DHS to help eliminate cartels, lift the death penalty ban.
She also cracked down on sanctuary cities and states ordering the DOJ to pause all their federal funding.
By the way, as a quick programming note, tomorrow, we will be interviewing Pam Bondi, her first interview as attorney general. And meanwhile, former Obama White House chief of staff and ambassador to Japan under President Biden, Ram Rambo Dead Fish Emanuel, he and David Axelrod both encouraging Democrats not to die on the hill of USAID, anyway, a sentiment that was echoed by Axelrod, two more moderate voices of reason, warning that the cuts to foreign aid -- well, could be popular with voters. The cuts are popular with voters.
Nobody in America wants to spend billions of dollars on woke, green new deal, DEI, transgender ideology, not for American every country around the world, literally hundreds of billions of dollars.
Here with reaction, White House deputy chief of staff for policy, Stephen Miller.
Before we get to Pam Bondi, I'll scroll what I did last night, all of the - - the hundreds of millions and billions of dollars that they have wasted, they're not spending it in America and they're spending it for the most radical policies that no America -- no American would support this, and they're calling it a threat to our Constitution.
Can you explain that?
STEPHEN MILLER, WHITE HOUSE DEPUTY CHIEF OF STAFF FOR POLICY: USAID has been exposed as the funding mechanism for the radical left here and around the world. The reason why the Democrats are up in arms is that Donald Trump exposed their scheme. They've been using USAID to line their pockets, to line the pockets of radical left Marxist organizations to fund gender studies in Albania, in Albania, diversity equity and inclusion all over the world, to fund radical left illegal immigration open borders groups, that support the dissolution of national borders. They're even funding left-wing media organizations here in the United States.
The radical left in this country are federal employees. In other words, they are sponsored and paid by the federal government. These non- governmental organizations are all subsidized by American taxpayer dollars.
So if you ever wonder where's the radical left coming from, who's paying for all this BS? How is it possible there's so much insanity in our corporations, in our school? It's because your tax dollars have been funding it and Donald Trump is shutting it down.
HANNITY: I mean, I -- I don't think there's one American that would ever support any of this money being spent. How were they able to hide it? And thank God Elon Musk and Donald Trump, the president, are exposing this and informing the American people with it their money.
Why -- why isn't this money going to people in North Carolina? Why isn't going to people in California? Why isn't it going to people in Florida, Tennessee, South Carolina? Why isn't to go into poor people in America?
MILLER: Exactly, Sean. We have in America, veterans under Joe Biden who couldn't afford housing. We had in America under Joe Biden, Americans in North Carolina who lost everything they had who couldn't even get temporary shelter. And then you have USAID funding communist nonsense in foreign countries all over the world, not to mention pushing all kinds of crazy plots on regime change and destabilizing foreign governments. It's a playground for the swamp while our own people hurt and suffer.
And Donald Trump came in and he said going to put America first and he is putting America first and that's why the American people are celebrating this presidency every single day.
HANNITY: And, by the way, Rahm Rambo dead fish and Axelrod are not wrong, but I actually am encouraging Democrats to double down on dumb and dumber.
Pam Bondi, now our attorney general, she issued orders to fight the weaponization of justice, work with DHS to eliminate the cartels, lift the death penalty, and my favorite, crackdown on sanctuary cities and states, ordering the DOJ to pause all of their federal funding. Why shouldn't they pause it when we both know that they're aiding and abetting in lawbreaking?
MILLER: Exactly. Well, let's take the last one first. Sanctuary cities shield criminal organizations. They shield Tren de Aragua. They shield MS- 13. They shield drug cartels. The cartels that Donald Trump is correctly and finally labeling as foreign terrorist organizations.
Federal taxpayer dollars should not be used to subsidize cities and governments that shelter terrorists and criminals that are murdering our citizens by the thousands. Donald Trump is going to shut that down.
You also mentioned that the new Attorney General Pam Bondi following President Trump's day one executive orders has made it clear that her department's mission will center on eradicating those criminal cartels in partnership with DHS and also in partnership with DOD which, of course, is being led now by the great Pete Hegseth.
And so, you have seen in just the last few weeks how President Trump has already shut down the southern border, the financial lifeblood of those criminal cartels, and then we are now beginning and accelerating the process of uprooting these cartels from our communities and deporting them out of our country and keeping them out of our country.
And when we have to and we find drugs and we find evidence of criminality, then they will spend a very long time in jail as well, too, maybe in jail here, maybe in jail in El Salvador or some other foreign country. But what they're not going to do is menace our citizens anymore.
HANNITY: By the way, is it weaponization if you investigate the Biden family syndicate and you investigate zero experience Hunter being paid millions with no experience at a time he's addicted to drugs and money he admits on his laptop he gave to pops? Is that weaponization or is that law and order?
MILLER: Pam will follow the laws of the -- of the United States and she will hold those accountable who must be held accountable and she will stop government from targeting conservatives and Christians and traditional Americans. Under President Trump, we will have justice, we will have accountability and we will have honest government once again.
HANNITY: All right. Stephen Miller, we always love having you. Thank you, sir.
When we come back, today, the FCC released CBS their six -- raw "60 Minutes" interview, remember the one with Kamala Harris following President Trump's lawsuit. Wait until you see what other answers they edited. We got that tape, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: Remember back in October, CBS News faced a massive backlash for editing Kamala Harris's word salad answer in a "60 Minutes" interview. They gave one -- they gave one answer in a promo, one answer during the show.
Now, President Trump sued CBS, alleging election interference over its handling of the interview, accusing the network of aiding his opponent shortly before the election. Now, President Trump's FCC chair ordered CBS to hand over the unedited interview which was released today and revealed even more edits that CBS made during the interview.
Take a look at this highly edited clip that CBS originally aired. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
INTERVIEWER: As president, would you support the effort to expand NATO to include Ukraine?
KAMALA HARRIS, FORMER U.S. VICE PRESIDENT: Those are all issues that we will deal with if and when it arrives at that point. Right now, we are supporting Ukraine's ability to defend itself against Russia's unprovoked aggression.
Donald Trump, if he were president, Putin will be sitting in Kyiv right now. He talks about, oh, he can end it on day one, you know what that is? It's about surrender.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: So that's the editor version. Let's take a look at the full unedited version of Kamala's word solid response. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
INTERVIEWER: How about as president would you support the effort to expand NATO to include Ukraine?
HARRIS: Those are all issues that we will deal with if and when it arrives at that point. Right now, we are supporting Ukraine's ability to defend itself against Russia's unprovoked aggression and doing what we can to continue to build and strengthen the alliance around the support for Ukraine's right to be an independent nation, free from having its borders forcefully taken by Russia. And we are going to continue to work closely with our NATO allies, to continue to reinforce America's alliance in the context of NATO.
Again, in this election, there's a real difference between me and the former president. I believe in reinforcing the strength of NATO, understanding again it is the greatest military alliance the world has ever known. Donald Trump would pull us out of NATO.
Donald Trump if he were president, Putin would be sitting in right now. Let's be clear about that. He talks about, oh, he can end it on day one, you know what that is? It's about surrender.
Achieving peace and an end to this war is not synonymous with surrender. Those two things are not the same.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Here with reaction, FOX News contributor Joe Concha, along with Project 2021 chairman, Horace Cooper.
Joe, you're the media analyst. What's your take? I know you watch the whole thing.
JOE CONCHA, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: I'm going to go out in the limb here, Sean, and say that CBS once again went from journalism to activism in trying to get another Democrat elected as you just showed, laid out in broad daylight.
By the way, this is not a one-off. Remember in 2004, Dan Rather used state documents in report on George W. Bush and his National Guard service on "60 Minutes" and that was meant to impact that election against John Kerry which was razor close. And even afterwards, after getting exposed, Dan Rather still insisted that those were fake but accurate. It's enough to make your hair hurt.
We all remember in 2020 when Lesley Stahl of "60 Minutes" after Donald Trump implored her to look at the explosive and potentially election changing contents of Hunter Biden's laptop as far as the extended corruption within the Biden family, which included the big guy himself, and Lesley Stahl in the most condescending manner possible lectured Trump that the laptop couldn't be verified and therefore wasn't a history. Hey, how's that looking now, Lesley?
And then obviously, ahead of this election, the vice presidential debate, J.D. Vance wiping the floor of goofy Tim Walz, and Margaret Brennan, Norah O'Donnell, CBS News attempted to fact check Vance and then when Vance turned around and fact check them very effectively, they cut off his mic. We've never seen that before during debate.
So great look there and now, finally this interview with Kamala Harris, which was done well after voting began, was so devastating to her campaign, they tried to limit the damage as much as possible by editing out all those incoherent, 1,000 word salad that occurred again and again in that interview.
Let's put this way, "60 Minutes" used to be a very proud place, Mike Wallace, Harry Reasoner, they did this all to themselves and legacy media once again showed that they're one of the least trusted industries of any entity because of situations like this. All they had to do is release the transcript, like they did after interviews with Donald Trump on CBS News as they've done in the past and we wouldn't be talking about this right now. But getting Kamala over the finish line, that was all that mattered.
HANNITY: Let's get your take Horace, and I have my own experience. I mean, during the first Trump term, "60 Minutes" came to me, wanting to push hard to get me to do an interview, and I said live to tape, no editing. They said no, so I said no.
This is why.
HORACE COOPER, PROJECT 21 CHAIRMAN: Well, Sean, you know, prior to COVID- 19 pandemic, I used to regularly go to the movies and I've actually never sat in the movie theater right before the movie started hearing the trailer and finding out that what's shown in the trailer is never shown in the movie. That's what CBS did and the FCC absolutely has the right to investigate what's called broadcast media distortion.
From the creation of the FCC, they're allowed to ask if the broadcaster manipulated the story or the news or the coverage that they are producing. The evidence is out there for everybody to see.
HANNITY: Will -- will there be repercussions, Horace?
COOPER: Well, I believe they're going to get fined. You know, the FCC has the authority to actually revoke your license. That's the death penalty. But I do believe we're going to see fines because there is no justification for what ended up happening other than to try to manipulate what the audience heard and understood.
HANNITY: Fifteen seconds, repercussions, Joe.
CONCHA: Absolutely, there'll be repercussions. I don't think the lawsuit goes away that Donald Trump level against them by the way. Ask George Stephanopoulos in ABC how that went. Accountability is back and the media just can't get away with this stuff anymore, Sean.
HANNITY: Yeah. I think Donald Trump will be getting another check from a media company.
All right. When we come back, more "Hannity" straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. Two program reminders. Be sure to tune in tomorrow night 9:00 p.m. Eastern. My exclusive interview with the Attorney General Pam Bondi.
Don't forget to watch my interview with Mike Tyson, it's on foxnation.com. That's all the time we have left this evening. Please set you DVR so you never, ever, ever miss an episode of "Hannity".
I have good news. In the meantime, let not your heart be troubled because Greg Gutfeld is next to put a smile on your face. Have a great night.

Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
