




The Independent - Daily Edition
January 23, 2025 Thursday
Second Edition


Copyright 2025 Independent Print Ltd All Rights Reserved


Section: WORLD; Pg. 16
Length: 1078 words
Body


Pentagon sends 1,500 troops to border on president's orders
The Pentagon said yesterday it has begun deploying 1,500 active-duty troops to help secure the southern border, putting in motion plans president Donald Trump laid out in executive orders shortly after he took office to crack down on immigration.
Acting defence secretary Robert Salesses said the troops will fly helicopters to assist Border Patrol agents and help in the construction of barriers. The Pentagon also will provide military aircraft for Department of Homeland Security deportation flights for more than 5,000 detained migrants.
The number of troops and their mission may soon change, Mr Salesses said in a statement. "This is just the beginning," he said. "In short order, the department will develop and execute additional missions in cooperation with DHS, federal agencies, and state partners to address the full range of threats outlined by the President at our nation's borders."
The active-duty forces will join the roughly 2,500 US National Guard and Reserve forces already there. AP
Trump orders federal diversity staff be put on immediate leave
Donald Trump has instructed that all federal diversity, equity and inclusion staff should be put on paid leave "immediately" and that they should eventually be laid off. It follows the president's signing of an executive order on his first day to dismantle the federal government's diversity and inclusion programmes, which touch on everything from anti-bias training to funding for minority farmers and homeowners.
The move revoked decades-old legislation brought in by Lyndon Johnson, which until now has protected workers against discrimination based on race, colour, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or national origin. The executive order also accused former president Joe Biden of forcing "discrimination" protocols into "virtually all aspects of the federal government" through "diversity, equity and inclusion" programmes (known as DEI).
Civil rights advocates have argued that such programmes are necessary to address longstanding inequities and structural racism. Mr Trump, however, has insisted on restoring strictly "merit-based" hiring. The Office of Personnel Management directed agencies to place DEI office staffers on paid leave, take down all public DEI-focused webpages and cancel any DEI-related training by 5 pm yesterday. Several federal departments had removed the web pages even before the memorandum.
Trump gives the OK for ICE raids on churches and schools
Donald Trump's administration has rescinded a longstanding policy that prohibits federal immigration authorities from carrying out enforcement action in places such as schools, daycare centres, hospitals, churches and other so-called "sensitive areas", as the president lays the groundwork for his "mass deportation" agenda.
"Criminals will no longer be able to hide in America's schools and churches to avoid arrest," a Department of Homeland Security spokesperson said in a statement. "The Trump administration will not tie the hands of our brave law enforcement, and instead trusts them to use common sense."
For more than a decade, Immigration and Customs Enforcement and Customs and Border Protection agents had been restricted from performing arrests in "sensitive" sites without approval from more senior officials. The latest directive under acting Department of Homeland Security secretary Benjamine Huffman rescinds previous guidance under Joe Biden's administration, which further expanded "protected areas" to include places where "children gather, disaster or emergency relief sites, and social services establishments".
The changes have drawn sharp rebukes and warnings from faith leaders, teachers' unions, school districts and immigrant advocacy groups. State and local leaders in so-called "sanctuary" policies have pledged to defend their jurisdictions in court.
Kentucky KKK distributes flyers warning immigrants to leave
Flyers given out by members of the Ku Klux Klan are telling immigrants in Kentucky and other states to "leave now" in order to "avoid deportation", according to authorities. The original flyer was posted in Ludlow, Kentucky, on 20 January - Donald Trump's inauguration day and the Martin Luther King Jr holiday - and its authors claim to be affiliated with the KKK.
After the flyer caused a stir locally, police in Ludlow took to Facebook to issue a message that the flyer had been taken down. "After some discussion we have decided to take down the flyer because it serves no real purpose, but we will keep this post up. We are aware and have already taken one report for this disturbing and disgusting propaganda that is being passed around our community," the department said in the Facebook post. "This hateful garbage has been turning up in other cities as well."
The department went on to say that it does not "support or condone this type of behavior" and that anyone who feels harassed or threatened should call and file a police report.
Trump inauguration draws fewer viewers than Biden's in 2021
Fox News was the top destination for those who wanted to see new president Donald Trump sworn into office for the second time, according to ratings released by Nielsen. On the flip side, though, the numbers show that Mr Trump's ceremony drew significantly fewer viewers than Joe Biden's inauguration back in 2021 - pulling in an audience of just 24.6 million for the day.
Between 11.30am and 1pm ET - a timeslot that encompassed Mr Trump's swearing-in ceremony and his first address as president - Fox News drew 10.3 million total viewers, and 2 million in the coveted advertising demographic of adults aged 25-54. That total represents the second-highest-rated inauguration in the channel's history.
CNN pulled in just 1.7 million viewers overall, and a demo audience of 534,000, which is the second-lowest inauguration in the network's history. MSNBC, meanwhile, delivered its lowest-rated inauguration day, averaging just 848,000 total viewers and 104,000 in the key demographic group. According to Nielsen, the actual swearing-in ceremony - which took place between 11.45am and 12.15pm - peaked with a total audience of 34.4 million viewers across 15 networks.
Nearly 40 million people watched Biden deliver his first address as president in 2021 across the broadcast and cable news networks, which was up slightly from the 38.3 million who watched Trump give his first speech after being sworn into office in 2017.

Load-Date: January 22, 2025


End of Document
