




MailOnline
February 5, 2025 Wednesday 2:20 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:4
Length: 736 words
Byline: Katelyn Caralle, Senior U.S. Political Reporter In Washington, D.C.
Body


The U.S. Army hit its highest recruitment figures in more than a decade as a flood of young people joined up in the wake of President Donald Trump's election victory in November.
'America's youth want to serve under the bold & strong 'America First' leadership of Donald Trump,' Trump's new Defense Secretary revealed in a post to his X account on Tuesday.
And an Army recruitment command spokesperson confirmed to DailyMail.com that the branch has now reached 59 percent of its recruiting goal for Fiscal Year 2025. 
Hegseth said the number of Army volunteers reached a 12-year high in December 2024. That was then overshadowed by a 15-year high recruitment figure in January.
The former Fox News host did not specify how many people joined up in those two months and the Army did not immediately respond to a DailyMail.com request for clarification on the figures.
But the Army posted to X that it recruited an average of 346 soldiers every day in December, meaning that approximately 10,700 were added to the roster in that month alone.
The surge shows the increasing interest from Americans who want to serve in the armed forces under the new administration. 
'U.S. Army Recruiting Command is on track to exceed the fiscal year 2025 recruitment goal of 61,000 new Soldiers and an additional 10,000 in the Delayed Entry Program,' Madison Bonzo, U.S. Army Recruiting Command spokeswoman, said in a statement to DailyMail.com. 
'As of today, USAREC has contracted 59 percent of the current FY25 goal,' the command added. 
'Our success couldn't be possible without the hard work of our Recruiters, continued transformation of the recruiting enterprise and modernization initiatives to attract qualified talent into America's most lethal fighting force.'
It came after a massive drop in recruiting figures over the last four years under President Joe Biden. 
Thousands were discharged from service under Biden due to their refusal to comply with the COVID-19 vaccine mandate set early on in his single term.
White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt said during her briefing on Wednesday it was a 'national security risk that our military branches are not fully staffed to where they need to be.' 
'When young men and women who are honorably signing up to serve in our nation's military see someone like Pete Hegseth, the new Secretary of Defense, who is a proven war fighter... that's very inspiring,' Leavitt told reporters of the latest figures. 
'And we look forward to seeing those recruitment numbers and retention numbers skyrocketing over the next four years,' she added. 
'I know Pete Hegseth is committed to increasing recruitment at all branches of the Military.'
Hegseth reposted to X a tweet from an Alabama-based conservative radio host who wrote: 'There are several young men from my hometown who were planning to go to college but have now enlisted to serve under Pete Hegseth and Donald Trump!
'Our military will be back to full strength by the end of the year thanks to ending DEI and promoting the meritocracy!' he added.
Right after retaking office, Trump signed an order that would give troops who were discharged for refusing the coronavirus vaccine the chance to be reinstated, restored to their previous rank and provided back pay and benefits that were lost during their time away.
Another executive action sought to rid all agencies, including the Pentagon, of diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) practices that he said were ruining the credibility of government departments.
The recruitment surge comes in the midst of those orders and as Trump took back over as Commander-in-Chief and bringing on Hegseth, an Army veteran, to lead the Pentagon.
It also comes as soldiers are being utilized in the president's push to have the DoD take over operational control of the southern border and help handle deportation of illegal immigrants.
While 2,600 Marine and Army forces were already deployed to the southern border, another 500 were sent to Guantanamo Bay Naval Base in Cuba to help with expanding the prison so it can hold 30,000 migrants.
'At the direction of the President of the United States, and in coordination with the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Department of Defense, U.S. Army South (USARSOUTH) has assumed responsibility as the lead Joint Task Force for ongoing illegal alien holding operations at Naval Station Guantanamo Bay, Cuba,' the Army said in a statement on the deployment.

Load-Date: February 5, 2025


End of Document
