



MailOnline
January 30, 2025 Thursday 9:15 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 1737 words
Byline: Geoff Earle, Deputy U.S. Political Editor
Body


READ MORE: Sign up for DailyMail.com's daily political email
President Donald Trump doubled down on comments blaming DEI hiring practices for the air crash in Washington, DC and dismissed a question about an immediate visit to the site of the carnage with a joke about swimming.
The new order came just hours after Trump held an extraordinary press conference where he blasted DEI and woke practices at the Federal Aviation Administration and complained that a commercial aircraft and Black Hawk helicopter were both at the 'same height' during the collision.
Asked point blank if he was aware of any performance issues or disciplinary actions with anyone working at DCA's air control tower or the aircraft during the crash, Trump responded: 'No.'
But at another point, asked race and gender played a role in the tragic accident, Trump said: 'It may have, I don't know. Incompetence might have played a role.'
Trump, 78, was asked if he had any plans to go visit the site, as rescue workers scour the Potomac River for bodies and collect debris at the start of a lengthy investigation about the crash. 
'I have a plan to visit - not the site. Because what - you tell me. What's the site? Water. We're going to go swimming?'
Instead of visiting the Potomac where only parts of the American Eagle flight 5342 are visible above about seven feet of water, Trump said he would be meeting with family members of some victims.
'I will be meeting with some people that were very badly hurt, with their family member, obviously, but I'll be meeting with some of the families,' he said.
White House staff secretary Will Scharf summarized Trump's latest executive order shortly before he signed it.
He said it called for an 'immediate assessment of aviation safety in light of the damage done to aviation safety by the Biden administration's DEI and woke policies.'
Scharf said it called for the new acting FAA administer to 'basically ensure that we are actively undoing all of that damage, that we are assessing how much damage was done' and ensuring that FAA employees 'are only the most outstanding, capable people for the jobs that they're being hired into.'
Trump also dismissed concerns that a government-wide email this week offering paid resignation 'buyouts' to 2 million workers would take a toll on the 50,000-strong FAA.
If people take the deal, 'then they'll be replaced with very competent people,' Trump said.
Trump ruled out concern about congestion at the airport with the nation's busiest main runway as a culprit. 'No, I think we need very smart people running the flights and doing it,' Trump said.
The conversation with the press inside the Oval Office came as responders were still removing bodies from the Potomac River from a crash that killed 64.
Instead, he kept his focus on policies that stress DEI hiring. ''And it's not based on anything other than the brain. We need the smartest people. We need both psychologically smart and just brilliant, period,' Trump said.
Trump's new order and comments doubling down came after he claimed diversity and inclusion policies are behind one of the deadliest plane crashes in U.S. history.
The commander-in-chief said the collision between a passenger plane and a military helicopter in Washington D.C that took 67 lives was a 'tragedy of terrible proportions.'
He added that those flying the Black Hawk helicopter should have 'seen where they were going'.
Speaking at the White House, Trump said the tragedy was entirely preventable as he slammed Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) recruiting practices in federal agencies.
He added that he had some 'pretty good ideas' of how the disaster occurred and vowed to make sure it would never happen again.
Trump then said he put 'safety' first while Presidents Barack Obama and Joe Biden prioritized politics and called former Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg a 'disaster' in an extraordinary attack on previous administrations. 
'He was a disaster as a Mayor. He ran his city into the ground and he's a disaster now. He's just got a good line of bulls***', Trump said of Buttigieg.
Trump added: 'The initiative is part of the FAA (Federal Aviation Administration) diversity and inclusion hiring plan. Think of that.' 
He insisted federal agencies need to be hiring based on intelligence rather than on diversity. He added that Air Traffic Controllers need to be 'geniuses'. 
As a reference, he pointed to a report from within the FAA that the workforce was 'too white.' 
On Wednesday night, American Eagle flight 5342 collided with an Army Black Hawk helicopter on a training flight as it approached the runway at Ronald Reagan National Airport.
There were 60 passengers and four crew aboard the PSA flight out of Wichita, and three members of the military aboard the Black Hawk. 
All are believe to have perished after the search and rescue transitioned to a recovery phase.
Divers have been in the frigid waters of the Potomac River overnight tyring to find bodies as investigators tried to piece together what led to the deadliest U.S. air crash since 2019. 
Only under questioning by reporters did Trump get back to some of the other areas being identified as potential contributors to the tragedy.
He was asked about Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth's statement that the Army Black Hawk was doing 'annual retraining, night flights on a standard corridor for a continuity of government mission.'
 Trump did not appear to immediately know about continuity of government - which refers to how the government functions during a disaster - when asked about it. 
'I don't know what that refers to, but they were practicing. They were - they do that. They call it practicing, and that's something that should be done. It's only continuity in the sense that we want to have very good people, and that has to be in continuity, and that's what they referred to,' Trump said. 
Nor did he address the heavy volume of flights into DC, something both of Virginia's Democratic senators have raised. DCA's main runway is the busiest in the nation.
Instead, Trump, who has his own plane that was parked at DCA Thursday, spoke of his own experience and the plane and altitude being at the same altitude.
'You had a pilot problem. Because it was visual. It was a very clear night ... It was cold, but clear and clear as you could be.'
'The American Airlines plane had lights blazing. They had all their landing lights on,' he said.
You can stop a helicopter very quickly. It had the ability to go up or down, had the ability to turn, and the turn it made was not the correct turn, obviously. And it did somewhat the opposite of what it was told.
They shouldn't have been at the same height, because if it wasn't the same height, you could have gone under it or over it. And nobody realized,' Trump said. 
In another demonstration of how Trump and his new cabinet members are marching in the same direction, both Transportation Secretary Sean Duffy and Hegseth also blamed DEI during their own brief remarks.
'We can only accept the best and the brightest in positions of safety,' Duffy said, echoing Trump's language.
'When you don't have the best standards one who you're hiring ... it puts stresses on the people who are already there,' said Vice President J.D. Vance.
Trump read from what he says was the FAA website listing diversity categories.
'The FAA website states they include hearing, vision, missing extremities, partial paralysis, complete paralysis, epilepsy, severe intellectual disability, psychiatric disability and dwarfism all qualified for the position of a controller of air planes pouring into our country, pouring into a little spot. A little dot on the map. A runway.'
Trump blasted Barack Obama and Joe Biden for including diversity standards. 'I changed the Obama standards from very mediocre at best to extraordinary,' Trump said.
Buttigieg, the first openly gay Secretary of Transportation and the Biden administration's former chief defender on Fox News, hit back online. 
'Despicable,' he wrote on X after Trump's presser. 
'As families grieve, Trump should be leading, not lying. We put safety first, drove down close calls, grew Air Traffic Control, and had zero commercial airline crash fatalities out of millions of flights on our watch. President Trump now oversees the military and the FAA. One of his first acts was to fire and suspend some of the key personnel who helped keep our skies safe. Time for the President to show actual leadership and explain what he will do to prevent this from happening again.'
Trump came to the briefing room for his first exchange with the press there in his second term. He began by holding a moment of silence for the victims and their families. 
It was the scene of numerous tense updates during the coronavirus pandemic during his first.
All 49 seats were occupied in the James Brady Briefing Room well before the start time, and correspondents stood two deep in the narrow aisles.
'It's sardine time,' said one late arrival.
The lights and the bodies made for a warm, intense environment.
Trump's new Transportation Secretary Sean Duffy said the crash was 'preventable,' and his new Pentagon boss Pete Hegseth said the military crew were engaged in an annual training exercise and had night-vision gear. 
Trump's appearance came after Trump issued a pair of online posts about the tragedy. 
But he chose to seize control of communications operation. 
His new Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth issued a video statement but nixed a planned briefing with the Pentagon press corps.
'I have been fully briefed on the terrible accident which just took place at Reagan National Airport. May God Bless their souls,' Trump wrote on his Truth Social site. 'Thank you for the incredible work being done by our first responders. I am monitoring the situation and will provide more details as they arise.'
That followed an angrier post overnight, when Trump blamed the Blackhawk helicopter involved in the crash as well as air traffic controllers. 
'The airplane was on a perfect and routine line of approach to the airport. The helicopter was going straight at the airplane for an extended period of time. It is a CLEAR NIGHT, the lights on the plane were blazing, why didn't the helicopter go up or down, or turn,' Trump wondered online.
'Why didn't the control tower tell the helicopter what to do instead of asking if they saw the plane. This is a bad situation that looks like it should have been prevented. NOT GOOD!!!'
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Web Publication

Journal Code: WEBDM

Subject: AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (91%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); SAFETY (88%); FAMILY (86%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); SAFETY, ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (77%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS (72%)

Industry: AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (91%); AIRCRAFT (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (89%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (77%); AIRPORTS (77%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (77%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (76%); HELICOPTERS (71%)

Person: DONALD TRUMP (79%); JOE BIDEN (78%)

Geographic: WASHINGTON DC, USA (79%); UNITED STATES (92%)

Load-Date: January 30, 2025


End of Document
