




Fox News THE WILL CAIN SHOW 4:00 PM EST
January 31, 2025 Friday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; International
Length: 8478 words
Byline: Andy McCarthy, Steve Harrigan, Griff Jenkins, Will Cain
Guests: John Ashbrook
Body


WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: We start "The Will Cain Show" with a FOX News Alert.
We expect the National Transportation Safety Board to give an update on Wednesday's deadly midair plane helicopter collision in D.C. within the next hour. And in the last 30 minutes, we learned the FAA will be restricting helicopter traffic around Reagan National Airport.
So let's go to Griff Jenkins, who's standing by at the airport right now -- Griff.
GRIFF JENKINS, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Good afternoon, Will.
A lot of news. Let's get you caught up, starting with that air restriction. Just moments ago, Transportation Secretary Sean Duffy tweeting out that, in consultation with President Trump and Secretary Hegseth at the DOD, they have decided to restrict helicopters from the airspace around Reagan National Airport.
Unclear if this is temporary or may endure for a longer period, we will wait to learn more about that. But as you mentioned, that NTSB briefing scheduled for 4:00, now pushed to 5:30.
And we're waiting to learn a lot of important details possibly, Will, because, of course, they recovered the two black boxes, the cockpit voice recorder and the flight data recorder from the American Airlines CRJ700 airplane that could tell us the conversation of those pilots at the time of the crash and, of course, the flight data recorder could give us down to a nanosecond the location and altitude of that plane at the time of the impact.
Meanwhile, a little earlier today, a somber update as the crews worked the river here in difficult conditions with rain and fog. The D.C. fire and EMS chief had this to say about what they have recovered so far. Listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOHN DONNELLY, WASHINGTON, D.C., FIRE CHIEF: We have identified 41 -- or we have recovered 41 sets of remains and 28 of those victims have been positively identified. And as of 6:00 a.m. this morning, next of kin notifications have been made to 18 families.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
JENKINS: Meanwhile, at the White House, Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt being asked about whether Americans should be afraid to fly, particularly on the heels of President Trump's comments about DEI possibly figuring into all of this.
Here is how she handled that. Listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: When you are flying on an airplane with your loved ones, which every one of us in this room has, do you pray that your plane lands safely and gets you to your destination, or do you pray that the pilot has a certain skin color?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
JENKINS: And, finally, will, we have learned the names of two of the three of the soldiers on that Black Hawk, the first being Staff Sergeant Ryan Austin O'Hara, 28 years old of Lilburn Georgia, and, of course, the other one, a chief warrant officer too, Andrew Lloyd Eaves 39 years old of Great Mills, Maryland.
At the request of the family, the name of this third soldier is not being announced at this time. We will bring you the latest as we get it -- Will.
CAIN: OK, thank you for that, Griff.
One hour -- a little over one hour, almost an hour-and-a-half, we will hear from the NTSB.
Now, as officials continue to look for answers on that collision, it continues to show why President Trump needs his Cabinet picks confirmed and working.
In that spirit, I have three questions, specifically three questions I would like to ask to Republican senators. When it comes to the confirmation hearings of Tulsi Gabbard, Robert F. Kennedy Jr. and Kash Patel, the first question would be is, is the status quo working?
This could be applied to any whole host of issues. We could apply it to the FAA. We could apply it to our health. We could apply it to our trust and national security. We could apply it to our intelligence community.
Right now, obesity rates in America are setting records. Take a look at the obesity rates among children and adults, 20 percent of kids, 42 percent of adults obese in the United States. And Robert F. Kennedy Jr. took that to task in his confirmation hearing yesterday.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ROBERT F. KENNEDY JR., HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES SECRETARY NOMINEE: No other nation in the world has what we have here. No other nation has a chronic disease. We have the highest chronic disease burden of any country in the world, Americans are the sickest people on Earth.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: So, that first question to senators, to Republicans, is the status quo working?
Second question, do you think that Tulsi Gabbard and Robert F. Kennedy Jr. are honest truth-seekers? Say what you will and whether or not you agree with all of their positions. The real question is, do you think they are asking questions where they are truly seeking the truth?
Look at Tulsi Gabbard's military history. Look at her life record. She's served for almost 20 years in the Hawaii National Guard. She's in the Army Reserve now. She served two tours in the Middle East. She's got a Meritorious Service Medal during Operation Iraqi Freedom.
She is asking questions about what we all know has failed, the status quo over the last two decades, whether or not it's intelligence that has led us to war in Iraq or intelligence leaders who told us that Hunter Biden's laptop was Russian disinformation, and whether or not it's Robert F. Kennedy Jr. asking questions about whether or not we should accept medicinal expertise as religion, or we're allowed to use critical thought and ask questions.
Ask for yourself, are they honest truth-seekers, like this from Tulsi?
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
FMR. REP. TULSI GABBARD (HI): You may hear lies and smears in this hearing that will challenge my loyalty to and my love for our country.
SEN. JERRY MORAN (R-KS): I want to make certain that in no way does Russia get a pass in either your mind or your heart or in any policy recommendation you would make or not make.
GABBARD: Senator, I'm offended by the question, because my sole focus, commitment and responsibility is about our own nation, our own security, and the interests of the American people.
SEN. MICHAEL BENNET (D-CO): Are you aware that your comments about proxy wars and Russia's legitimate, legitimate security concerns, to quote your own words, are in alignment with what the Russians have said to justify their invasion of Ukraine?
Yes or no?
GABBARD: Senator, I don't pay attention to Russian propaganda. My goal is to speak the truth, regardless of whether you like it or not.
(CROSSTALK)
SEN. SUSAN COLLINS (R-ME): Have you ever knowingly met with any members, leaders, or affiliates of Hezbollah?
GABBARD: No, and it is an absurd accusation.
COLLINS: I have not made a final decision.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: I'd like to help you make that decision, Senator.
If you do believe these are critical thinkers, independent thinkers, honestly seeking the truth and looking to disrupt a status quo that is not working, let's ask the third question. What did the people of America vote for?
Robert F. Kennedy Jr. and Tulsi Gabbard undoubtedly played a role in the election of Donald Trump. They put together a coalition, MAHA and MAGA, that really hasn't been seen in decades here in America, from moms to hunters to former Democrats.
Here's some.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
NICOLE SHANAHAN, FORMER VICE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I, like millions of Americans, want healthy food, healthy medicine and a healthy planet. I want to watch my child grow up healthy. I don't want what -- these numbers of parents that are burying their own children. It's far too high. That number increases year after year.
There's no greater tragedy than watching your child suffer, than having to bury your own child. I have heard from hundreds of thousands of these parents across America. It has to stop.
STEVEN RINELLA, PODCAST HOST: I mean, he's been very active and heavily involved in the conservation movement and aspects of clean air and clean water. I have followed his work on that over the years. And I think that he's also asking some pretty compelling questions about health and diet.
And, as you know, like, you always go through these trends in health and diet recommendations about food that seem to be somewhat biased and political at times, where one's diet becomes political. Yes, I think he's got some refreshing perspectives, man. I think he's asking some really important questions.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: Pretty unique coalition that's been put together that helped elect Donald Trump president of the United States.
So, I guess I'm asking these questions of the following senators who still seem to have questions about Tulsi Gabbard, RFK Jr., or Kash Patel. You can see on your screen some senators today where we do not know yet how they will vote on Donald Trump's Cabinet.
You have to ask yourself that final question. What did the people of America ask for? And if you choose not to vote for the people that America endorsed in their vote for Donald Trump, what will come of your next election?
Senator John Cornyn, Senate majority leader, seems to understand. He posted on X: "Having won the election decisively, I believe President Trump has earned the right to appoint his own Cabinet, absent extraordinary circumstances."
I would love to hear those answers from those three questions for many Republican senators today considering their vote on RFK, Kash Patel or Tulsi Gabbard.
Well, it's a new day for new media at the White House briefing, and we're going to talk to one of the co-host of the "Ruthless Podcast," who got the first question in the new media seat today.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
LEAVITT: To make this room a little bit bigger to do that, who want to participate in our new media seat at a future briefing.
So in this seat today, we have the "Ruthless Podcast."
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: And a quick look at the corner of Wall and Broad, stocks wrapping up a strong month with all three major averages higher in January.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: Welcome back to "The Will Cain Show."
It was a busy afternoon in the White House Briefing Room.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
QUESTION: Are they violating law?
LEAVITT: I would certainly think so. I'd have to check back on which specific law they're violating. But, certainly, if they're not enforcing our nation's immigration law, sounds like they are breaking the law. And I would also add that their constituents don't approve of that.
I was just with the president in the Oval Office, and I can confirm that, tomorrow, the February 1 deadline that President Trump put into place at a statement several weeks ago continues. The president will be implementing tomorrow a 25 percent tariffs on Mexico, 25 percent tariffs on Canada, and a 10 percent tariff on China for the illegal fentanyl that they have sourced and allowed to distribute into our country, which has killed tens of millions of Americans.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: That's scheduled will take place March 1.
Our next guest, by the way, was in that Briefing Room today, in the new media seat.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
LEAVITT: This White House has received more than 10,000 submissions from individuals across the country who are eager to join all of you, we might have to make this room a little bit bigger to do that, who want to participate in our new media seat at a future briefing.
So in this seat today, we have the "Ruthless Podcast." The hosts are Josh Holmes, Michael Duncan, Comfortably Smug. And the man joining us today, John Ashbrook.
So, with that, I will take your questions.
John, please kick us off.
JOHN ASHBROOK, CO-HOST, "RUTHLESS PODCAST": Thank you very much.
Karoline, in your first briefing, the media went after this administration for deporting illegal immigrants they claimed were not criminals.
The question is, do you think they're out of touch with Americans demanding action our border crisis?
LEAVITT: The media out of touch? I think that media certainly is out of touch.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: And joining us now is John Ashbrook, the co-host of the "Ruthless Podcast" and the person who asked that question you just saw sitting in that new seat, the new media seat.
Congratulations first, John. How did you get it, man? There's 10,000 applications and "Ruthless" is one of the first to get to sit in on the White House press briefing.
ASHBROOK: Man, I will tell you will, we were so pumped when we got the opportunity, given 10,000 people applied for it.
Our office is very, very close to the White House, so I think availability had something to do with it in this case. But I don't need to tell you it is a brand-new day in the media, Will. Podcasts are a real thing. And the "Ruthless Variety Program" is part of that.
We were so thrilled to be able to participate in the briefing today. Obviously, it's a very serious thing. You have people asking questions of their government and their government responding to those questions. Karoline Leavitt, I got to tell you, takes it very seriously and she's doing a terrific job.
CAIN: How were you received in that room, John? I mean, you guys are in the media sphere outsiders.
ASHBROOK: Yes.
CAIN: I know you well. For anyone who is new to "Ruthless," they have had a lot of fun crossovers with ""The Will Cain Podcast." You do it in a very casual style. But you're also insiders when it comes to D.C. politics. You know what you're talking about. You may have known a lot of those people in that room. So how were you received in the White House Briefing Room?
ASHBROOK: You know what? It was very funny.
And I was looking forward to it all day because I interacted with a lot of these same reporters as a press secretary back in the day. So when I walked into the room, I saw a lot of eye rolls and a lot of smirks and that's exactly what I was hoping for, Will, because at the "Ruthless Variety Program," we don't take ourselves too seriously.
We like to have fun and deliver information in a humorous way. When we're on with you, we always have a great time. And so I was hoping to have a little bit of a lighter moment in there. And I think we had it. It was just incredible in what this White House is doing, reaching out to new media, making sure that we, the people, have a voice inside of that room and that everybody who is concerned about what's going on in their government have an opportunity to voice that.
I'm telling you, what they're doing with this is absolutely brilliant and I think it's the way of the future.
CAIN: Why did you ask that question, John? Why did you ask about immigration and the media?
ASHBROOK: I have got to tell you, will, it's no surprise to you immigration was the central issue on the campaign last year. We talked about it on your show numerous times.
And you have the media taking shots at this administration because they are deporting illegal aliens, and the media is claiming that they're not criminals. Well, it's disingenuous. They know what they're doing. And they, I think, got dressed down by Karoline Leavitt today.
CAIN: OK, finally, John, it is a new day. As you point out, it's a new media. There's a new presence in the White House Briefing Room.
And digital media helped launch this show that you're watching currently and you're appearing on, on the FOX News Channel. What do you think you will be able to bring and any other digital media, for that matter, any new media, for that matter, you will be able to bring to the Briefing Room that hasn't been present with the same organizations always present?
ASHBROOK: You know, so many of these media organizations are full of bureaucracy. They are full of things that really keep the good questions and the most interesting content down.
And what we try to do with the "Ruthless Variety Program" is the same thing you try to do on your show every single day. It's bring information that you're hearing from your audience back to people who maybe haven't heard it before.
And in this White House Briefing Room, it's just been too long of the same people asking the same questions. And now you have an opportunity to hear from somebody else.
CAIN: With the same presumptions and the same agenda...
(LAUGHTER)
ASHBROOK: Exactly.
CAIN: ... driving often the same propaganda. I think you're exactly right, an opportunity for the people, not you and me...
ASHBROOK: Yes.
CAIN: ... but the people listening to you and watching me, to hopefully have a much more direct connection to those in power.
ASHBROOK: Yes, that's what it's all about.
CAIN: Happy for you guys, Holmes, Smug, Duncan, yourself. Happy for all of you guys. Look forward to seeing you soon, man. Thank you.
ASHBROOK: Yes, thank you, Will.
CAIN: All right. All right.
You're now looking live at Arlington, Virginia, where there's a lot of activity right now in the recovery efforts for that midair collision on Wednesday. Going to be monitoring those efforts as we wait for that 5:30 p.m. NTSB update.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CAIN: Welcome back.
A quick note. Earlier, I said the tariffs take place March 1. They actually take place February 1. My mistake. Not the first. Won't be the last mistake, but we will always correct ourselves.
And we're going to do something else. We're going to collect my mistakes. We're going to make sure that I am made fun of here on "The Will Cain Show."
Meanwhile, Marco Rubio set his first overseas trip as secretary of state. He's heading to Panama.
FOX News chief international correspondent Steve Harrigan joins us from Panama City -- Steve.
STEVE HARRIGAN, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Will, it's stunning here just to watch these giant ships come in from the Pacific and cross this canal. It's hard to imagine this was built by U.S. engineering all the way back in 1903.
We have got a very interesting diplomatic situation here about to unravel. You have Marco Rubio, the new secretary of state, making his first trip to Panama, really showing the importance of this issue, who controls the Panama Canal. The president of Panama has said it's not even up for discussion.
So, Rubio is coming to talk about something the president here says he will not talk about. And, keep in mind, Rubio has already said that there is a real danger to U.S. national security because China controls two ports on the edges of this canal, a potential threat to U.S. national security. He calls it a potential choke point.
But President Trump has gone much further than that, President Trump posting today, China controls the canal, and then President Trump posting in all capital letters, "Panama will not get away with this," so some really forceful statements from the secretary of state, even more forceful from the president. And this is about an ally as well.
The reaction here in Panama among the elite is really one of shock. When you talk to Panamanians on the ground, they say, we haven't seen any money from this Panama Canal. Our government is corrupt. We're not going to fight and die for this canal.
So, a real diplomatic situation about to unfold here in Panama -- Will.
CAIN: Wow, fascinating. We will be watching that.
Thank you so much, Steve Harrigan.
Meanwhile, back here at home, Illinois Democratic Governor J.B. Pritzker, he's reportedly blocking January 6 participants who were pardoned by President Trump from getting state jobs. Is that constitutional?
Let's ask former assistant U.S. attorney and FOX News contributor Andy McCarthy.
Andy, good to see you this afternoon.
ANDY MCCARTHY, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Hi, Will.
CAIN: So Pritzker says that, if you were pardoned, if you were first charged and run through the court system when it comes to January 6, and you got a pardon from President Trump, you will be ineligible for employment in state government in Illinois?
MCCARTHY: Yes, well, I don't think that that's going to be legal under Illinois law.
But as far as federal pardons are concerned, Will, they basically block federal prosecution for the crime again, and they wipe the slate clean with respect to collateral consequences in the federal system.
As far as state actors are concerned and private actors, they can't treat the conviction as a standing criminal conviction, but they are allowed to look at the underlying facts and circumstances and factor those things in for employment and other purposes.
Where I think this is outrageous is that Pritzker is the leader of progressive Democrats in Illinois who have criminal-friendly policies that have actually tried to go easy on actual convicted violent criminals in Chicago, for example, or in Illinois.
For example, they have something called the Illinois human rights statute...
CAIN: Right.
MCCARTHY: ... that basically makes it easier -- or makes it harder for employers to take into account criminal behavior by potential employees.
CAIN: I got to leave it there, Andy. It seems unconstitutional to make a sweeping order over a protected or an entire class of people, but we will keep an eye on that in Illinois.
Thank you, Andy.
CAIN: We have got to go.
Meanwhile, President Trump is signing and taking questions in the Oval Office moments ago. Let's listen in.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: As you know, with all three of them, and, in one case, they're sending massive amounts of fentanyl, killing hundreds of thousands of people a year with the fentanyl.
And in the other two cases, they're making it possible for this poison to get in, number one. And, number two, we have big deficits. And it's something we're doing. And we will possibly very substantially increase it, or not. We will see how it is.
But it's a lot of money coming to the United States. As you know, we have about a $200 billion deficit with Canada getting close to $200 billion. They have treated us very unfairly. And I say, why should we be subsidizing Canada? They -- it's wonderful. I have so many friends in Canada. It's a great place.
QUESTION: Is there a concession you're looking for, sir?
TRUMP: No, we're not looking for a concession. And we will just see what happens. We will see what happens.
And, with Mexico, it's the same thing. We have a $250 billion deficit and we have a lot of people coming into the border. And now we have largely stopped that, but we have stopped that ourselves. But -- and I think they have done a fantastic job. You have seen the numbers. They have dropped to almost zero.
But we have suffered under the past administration for years and years. We have suffered with millions of criminals coming into our country, criminals, people from jails from all over the world. They come through Mexico and they come through Canada too.
A lot of them come through Canada and a lot fentanyl comes through Canada. And China makes the fentanyl. China makes the fentanyl, gives it to Mexico, puts it through Canada, puts it through different places, mostly Mexico, but also a lot through Canada. And so all three haven't treated us very well.
(CROSSTALK)
QUESTION: Sir, could I ask you about your meeting with Nvidia? What did you talk about and do you think you need to ban more of the chips that they're selling to China?
TRUMP: Well, he's a great gentleman. And I hadn't met him. He's the biggest in the world in terms of chips.
And I can't say what's going to happen, whether we had a meeting. It was a good meeting. But eventually we're going to put tariffs on chips. We're going to put tariffs on oil and gas. That will happen fairly soon, I think around the 18th of February. And we're going to put a lot of tariffs on steel.
We already have tariffs on steel and we have saved our steel industry, but that was relatively small compared to what it'll be. But we're going to be putting tariffs on steel and aluminum and ultimately copper. Copper will take a little bit longer. And that will happen pretty quickly. It'll mean that it'll be a great boost for our steel industry.
It'll make our steel industry very strong. If I didn't put the tariffs on years ago on steel, which actually Biden left because there was so much money that they couldn't do anything about it, we would have lost -- we wouldn't have one steel mill in this country if I didn't do that. We saved the steel industry.
So it was an honor to do it. And I think the people that love me most in the whole world are the people that make steel, but we're going to be putting -- some time this month, next month, we're going to be putting tariffs on steel and aluminum. And we will give you an announcement as to what the exact date is, but it'll be a tremendous amount of money for our country, tremendous amount.
These are big numbers. And in addition to that -- and you see the power of the tariff, I mean, the tariff is good. And nobody can compete with us because we have by far the biggest piggy bank. And so that will take place very quickly, but also we will be doing pharmaceuticals, and to bring our industry back.
We want to bring pharmaceuticals back to the country. And the way you bring it back to the country is by putting up a wall. And the wall is a tariff wall. We were the richest country in the world. We were at our riches from 1870 to 1913. That's when we had -- we were a tariff country.
And then they went to an income tax concept. And how did that work out? It was fine. I mean, it was OK, but it would have been very much better. So we will be doing pharmaceuticals, importantly, and drugs, medicines, et cetera, all forms of medicine and pharmaceuticals.
And we will be doing, very importantly, steel. And we will also be doing chips and things associated with chips.
QUESTION: And, sir, what do you plan on talking with the Japanese prime minister about next Friday when you all meet?
TRUMP: Well, he's coming in, yes, next week. I don't know. He asked for a meeting, and I have great respect for Japan. I like Japan. Prime Minister Abe was a very close friend of mine. What happened to him was so sad, one of the saddest days.
But they're coming in to speak to me. I look forward to it.
QUESTION: Mr. President, on the crash, do you have any concerns that your commentary about things you have described as common sense or your observations could in any way interfere with the thorough investigation of the crash?
TRUMP: No, I think they will do an investigation. It'll probably come out the way I said it. I'd like to put it up front. I'm so tired of listening to things happen to our country and then people say we will do an investigation and three years later they come out with a report that nobody looks at, especially -- not in all cases can you do that, but in this case, you had a helicopter that was -- the Black Hawk was too high.
It was above the 200 limit by double. Shouldn't have been there. And there were some other mistakes made too. And I pointed them out also and I was right on all of it. But they will still do an investigation just to check it out. But I think that's what people...
(CROSSTALK)
QUESTION: As commander in chief, are you at all concerned about opining about the Army and the conduct of that aircraft, when you are commander in chief and these are the people who report to you...
TRUMP: No, no.
QUESTION: ... and there is an investigation ongoing?
TRUMP: This was all caused by bad rules, regulations and other things by the Biden administration.
QUESTION: What tells you this?
TRUMP: And when you look at the way they ran things, in fact, if you look, we hired -- one of the first things I told them to do is said, get talented people in those beautiful towers overlooking runways.
You better get them in there fast, because we want to have people there that are qualified. And you knew that because planes were landing very, very late and were circling all over the place. We had people that didn't know what the hell they were doing and if you look -- excuse me.
QUESTION: And, sir, there are planes in the air everywhere, and there are other air traffic in...
TRUMP: Excuse me. Excuse me.
QUESTION: Pardon me, sir.
TRUMP: They -- we have to have the best people, the smartest people, the sharpest people as control tower experts. And that's what they have to be. They have to be experts and they have to be very smart.
And we didn't have our best. And if you read the quote that I read yesterday at the news conference, it talked about people that were psychologically injured were OK and people that had lots of problems were OK. I'd read it again if you would like me to, but I don't think I have to waste your time.
QUESTION: Does that give you concern, though, sir, with planes in the air all around the country, people relying on that as safety? Are you suggesting there's an ongoing risk?
TRUMP: No, I think there's very little risk, but I think that we have to make sure that this never happens again, very, very little risk. And we're taking actions that this can't happen again.
The helicopter, as you know, was out of its zone. Shouldn't have been out of its zone. It was at the same height as the airplane. Now, the airplane was coming down on its track. It was perfect. It was in perfect shape coming down and something was in its way.
You can't let that happen. And it won't be happening again. And this was all because of weak rules in the Biden administration. And we're just not going to let that kind of thing happen again. And, again, I could wait and I could give a report in two years, like they always do. And sometimes it's obvious. In this case, to me, it was very obvious that I think I have been proven to be very correct.
Yes.
(CROSSTALK)
QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)
TRUMP: I expect a lot of good things. From all meetings, I expect good things.
Marco Rubio, as you know, is going to make a tour of various countries in South America. He's going to be meeting in Panama, where Panama's treated us very badly. They gave him, rather, them, rather foolishly, a thing called the Panama Canal. It's the most expensive project we ever built, if you look at today's numbers, most expensive ever built.
We lost 38,000 men, in that case, all men, just about all men, 38,000 to the mosquito, to malaria and various other problems that you get from jungles. It was a tremendously costly event. We built the Panama Canal 110 years ago.
Think of it, the most expensive development we ever did and really one of the wonders of the world, one of the great wonders of the world. And we didn't give it to China. We gave it to Panama. And Panama's been ripping down all the China language signs. They have been working like mad to try, but about 70 percent of the signs were up and they were written in Chinese, and it's not the deal.
So we're going to take it back. They have already offered to do many things. But we think it's appropriate that we take it back. They have totally violated the agreement. We have an agreement. They violated the agreement.
And Marco Rubio is going over there to talk to the gentleman that's in charge.
QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) Do you still think it's a good idea for Jordan and Egypt to be taking in Palestinians, when they reject the idea and the Palestinians who are living now in Egypt...
TRUMP: Oh, I think Jordan will take people, yes, people from Gaza. And I think Egypt will take them also.
I mean, I heard somebody said they're not going to, but I think they will. I feel confident they will.
(CROSSTALK)
QUESTION: Mr. President, will you -- will tomorrow's tariffs include oil?
TRUMP: What?
QUESTION: Will tomorrow's tariffs be -- included -- inclusive of Canadian crude?
TRUMP: I'm probably going to reduce the tariff a little bit on that. We think we're going to bring it down to 10 percent on the oil. So it's 25 percent on the Canada side.
QUESTION: Mr. President, are these tariffs stacking on top of already existing tariffs or...
(CROSSTALK)
QUESTION: Yes, on top of whatever may be existing.
QUESTION: Mr. President...
QUESTION: Mr. President, can I ask you a question about Venezuela?
Ric Grenell was seen on state TV shaking hands with President Maduro. Is there any concern that might lend legitimacy to the Maduro administration?
TRUMP: No, we want to do something with Venezuela. We have been -- I have been a very big opponent of Venezuela and Maduro. They have treated us not so good, but they have treated more importantly the Venezuelan people very badly.
We have a tremendous Venezuelan population. I got 92 percent of the vote, the Venezuelan vote. Now we want to see what we can do to get people back in their homeland safe and free and all -- and he's meeting with a lot of different people. But we're -- we are for the people of Venezuela. We're for the Venezuelan Americans.
If you look at it, we have them all in Florida right around the Doral area. That's where -- that's really -- they call it Little Venezuela, right? And they voted for me close to 100 percent. So we will see what we can do to straighten out the situation in Venezuela. Venezuela has been very unfortunate.
I was very surprised when I saw that Biden agreed to buy a lot of oil from Venezuela, because Venezuela was just about finished, the dictator. And when that happened, it brought him back to life. Biden went out and they buy millions of barrels of oil.
I say, what's that all about? So we're not going to let that stupid stuff happen. So we will see what happens. We're not happy with Venezuela. We don't like the way they have treated the Venezuelans at all.
QUESTION: Mr. President, there have been some warnings or messages that government Web sites will be shut down this evening to scrub them of DEI content. Can you confirm if that's actually...
TRUMP: What's been shut down?
QUESTION: Government Web sites, excuse me, will be shut down this evening to scrub them of DEI content. Can you confirm whether that's accurate and is there any concern...
TRUMP: I don't know. It doesn't sound like a bad idea to me. DEI is -- would have ruined our country, and now it's dead. I think DEI is dead. So if they want to scrub the Web sites, that's OK with me.
But I can't tell you. I guess probably certain people handle it in certain ways. But I will tell you who's very happy about it, the military. The real leaders, the real generals in the military, they're very happy about it. Doug is very happy about it. He's got a big, big group of people that are going to be working for him start -- really starting right now.
He just got signed up and they're very happy about it. He had a lot of DEI. Everybody did. But he has not been a fan. It would have really -- it was really hurting our country badly. It was costing a lot of money too. You see the kind of money we're talking about? Hundreds of millions of dollars for nonsense.
No, we have our country back now. Our country is back, and it's a nice thing to say. I have never seen such love. I have never had anything like it. I have never seen anything like it. People are coming up. Sir, thank you for bringing our country back. We were losing our country. And I think we're stronger now than we have been in many, many decades.
(CROSSTALK)
QUESTION: Have you got any update on your call with Vladimir Putin?
TRUMP: Well, we will be speaking. We have been -- we will be speaking. And I think we will perhaps do something that will be significant. We want to end that war.
That war would have never started if I was president. And we want to end that war. That war is a horrible war. Millions of young people are being killed, mostly on the lines now. Mostly, it's soldiers. But the cities have been largely destroyed, many of them. They're like demolition sites.
But the soldiers are just shooting at each other. It's a very flat land. I said this the last time, very, very flat land. The only place that a bullet stops is when it hits a person. And they're hitting a lot of people. They're hitting a lot of soldiers on both sides. I think Russia would probably say close to 800,000, and Ukraine 600,000 or 700,000.
And it's just a senseless situation. And it's got to stop. So whatever I can do to stop it -- and we are having discussions, yes.
QUESTION: Ongoing? Already scheduled and ongoing?
TRUMP: Already talking, yes.
QUESTION: You -- so you have already spoken of Vladimir Putin since...
TRUMP: I don't want to say that, but we are having very serious discussions about it.
QUESTION: Is there a reason you don't want to?
TRUMP: We are -- well, I just don't want to say that. We're having very serious discussions about that war, trying to get it ended.
QUESTION: With Russia?
TRUMP: With Russia, yes.
QUESTION: At the Department of Justice and the FBI, there are a number of high-level people who are being asked to resign or are being told they are going to be fired. Did you specifically request any actions at the bureau or DOJ with respect to those employees?
TRUMP: No, but we have some very bad people over there. It was weaponized at a level that nobody's ever seen before. They came after a lot of people, like me, but they came after a lot of people.
No, I wasn't involved in that. I will have to see what is exactly going on after this is finished. But if they fired some people over there, that's a good thing because they were very bad. They were very corrupt people, very corrupt, and they hurt our country very badly with the weaponization.
They used the Justice Department to go after their political opponent, which in itself is illegal. And obviously it didn't work.
QUESTION: Are you going to impose tariffs on the European Union?
TRUMP: What does that mean?
QUESTION: Are you going to impose tariffs too on the European Union, like you did with (OFF-MIKE) Mexico and Canada?
TRUMP: Well, you're asking me a question, because I'm sure you didn't hear. Am I going to impose tariffs on the European Union?
Do you want the truthful answer or should I give you a political answer? Absolutely. Absolutely. The European Union has treated so terribly.
QUESTION: You promised Americans to try to reduce costs.
TRUMP: Yes.
QUESTION: And so many of the products would be tariffed when they come into the country, the outgoing country is not paying the tariff. The buyers in the United States pay that. And then that's passed on to consumers in most instances.
TRUMP: Right, sometimes.
QUESTION: How would you expect to have prices come down if you have such a broad plan for tariffs? And what do you say to the voters who want to see you reduce everyday costs?
TRUMP: Well, let me just tell you that I got elected for a lot of reasons. Number one was the border. Number two was inflation, because I had almost no inflation.
And yet I charged hundreds of billions of dollars of tariffs to countries. And think of it. I had almost no inflation and I took in $600 billion of money from other countries. And tariffs don't cause inflation. They cause success. They cause big success.
So we're going to have great success. There could be some temporary short- term disruption, and people will understand that. I had that when I negotiated some of the good deals for the farmers. And, unfortunately, those deals have been led astray by Biden and his people, because they didn't enforce the deals.
We have a deal with China, which is phenomenal for the farmers, but there was nobody to enforce it in the Biden administration. They let them get away with murder. So we're -- that's another thing we're going to be bringing...
QUESTION: Do you accept the principle of costs being passed on?
TRUMP: They committed -- wait a minute. They committed buying $50 billion worth of farm product. And they did it when I was president.
As soon as I left, they stopped doing it because there was nobody in Biden to enforce it. But the tariffs are going to make us very rich and very strong and we're going to treat other countries very fairly. But if you think about it, other countries charge us tariffs. We don't charge them tariffs, and it's about time that that changes.
QUESTION: Sir, are you concerned about the market reaction around tariffs?
TRUMP: No, no. Tariffs -- the word tariff is a very misunderstood word. You have heard me say -- I say it kiddingly, but it's one of the most beautiful words in the dictionary. It really is.
And we have been taking advantage of, because others have charged us VATs. As an example, the European Union charges us 20 percent-plus-plus-plus a VAT tax, called a VAT tax, very similar. And it costs us an absolute fortune. We are treated so badly. They don't take our cars. They don't take our farm products, essentially. They don't take almost anything.
And we have a tremendous deficit with the European Union. So we will be doing something very substantial with the European Union. We're going to bring the level up to where it should be. And if you think of the European Union, then you go to NATO. It's largely the same group of countries.
Until I came along, I mean, we were paying almost 100 percent of NATO, only to get bad trade deals. And now it's been evened out, but very unfair having to do it. It was evened out pretty good. Actually, I did a good job. They paid $440 billion, if you look at the secretary-general's report.
And he was here recently, and he said that. He said one of the most amazing things I have ever seen is what President Trump was able to do with these countries of Europe, of which he was in charge of them, but he couldn't get them to pay. I went over, I said, you got to pay. And if you don't pay, we're not going to protect you. It's very simple.
But very unfair is with Ukraine, because we're in for $300 billion-plus, and they're in probably for $100 billion. There's a $200 billion difference, and they need it more than we do. We have an ocean in between. They don't.
And so they're going to have to step it up a little bit.
QUESTION: With efforts to reduce the federal work force, whether it's offering what we have called the buyout package or other efforts, do you have any concerns that there will be employees broadly across the federal government who might take that up?
And they're a part of the many different ways that agencies protect the public, from food inspections, water safety, to the air...
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: No, but everybody's replaceable, and we will get very good people to replace them if it turns out to be more than we thought. It could be a lot. It could be a little. We don't know, but we'd love to have them leave.
We're trying to -- remember this, we want them to go into the private sector. It's our dream to have everybody almost working in the private sector, not in the public sector. We have many people. Very few people came to work. They were -- it started more or less with COVID, but actually even before COVID.
But it started with the COVID. They didn't come back. And then Biden let them get away with murder. And they -- we had a federal work force, like 4 percent coming into the office. And that just doesn't work. People can say it does, but it doesn't work. You have to be unified in a group in the office. It's just -- it was crazy.
You don't know what they're doing. And then at some point, we may ask them to certify that they didn't have two jobs, meaning were they really getting a check from us, the government, and then were they also working a second job and a third job and on government time?
And many of them will say that they did, which is not legal, but it's a problem. It's a problem. No, we want to get that out. We want to clean it up. You know, people have been trying to reduce federal government now for 40 years, 45 years, and they haven't been able to do it.
And this is a way of doing it, I think, very nicely. It's sort of a buyout too. I think we're treating people very good. But people don't come to the office, they won't have a job starting on that very special date. So we will see how that works out.
I mean, nobody knows how that's going to turn out. Everybody might show up to the office, and maybe a large number won't show up. But if they don't show up, we have accomplished a very serious goal. We're trying to reduce government.
QUESTION: Does Mr. Musk or any of those associated with your DOGE effort, do they have any direct access through the government systems to how money is disbursed?
TRUMP: No, nothing. No, they are -- this has nothing to do also with the federal cutting, with this federal cutting. This is very separate. This is, if you don't show up, you don't get paid.
But DOGE, I think great progress has been made. We're talking about cutting over a trillion dollars of waste. We're talking about waste. We're not talking about -- we're going to love and cherish Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid. We're not going to do anything with that, other than if we can find some abuse or waste, we will do something.
But the people won't be affected. It'll only be more effective and better. And our country -- as our country gets richer, the people on Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, those people are going to be more secure. If Biden had gotten elected, Social Security was going to fail because the country was failing. It was going to fail.
The country was going to fail. And, therefore, the Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, and all of the other things that you may get would not be able to be paid. Our country is getting very strong. And you see it. I think more progress has been made in the last two or three weeks than has been made in the last four years.
I think not only has more progress been made. In the last four years, it's -- I will call it de-progress. We went way backward as a country in so many different ways, from woke to all of the other things that took place that were so bad. You look at Afghanistan, how embarrassing that was.
I think Afghanistan really started the problem with Russia and Ukraine, when Putin looked over and he saw how incompetently that was handled. I was getting out, but I was going to keep Bagram. Right now, China has Bagram. I was going to keep one of the biggest air bases in the world. They left it.
But other than Bagram, I was going to get out. I wasn't keeping Bagram for Afghanistan. I was keeping it for China because it's one hour away from where China makes its nuclear weapons. And we were keeping it.
So we have a lot of great things happening in our country. And we appreciate that you're here. And I'm really thrilled about Doug and I'm really thrilled about his friend Chris Wright, who's a legend in the oil business, right?
They keep telling me, Catherine (ph), he's like a legend. And he's a legend too in a lot of businesses. And we have an amazing group of people working with us. There's a man behind me who became a tremendous success. He was not a wealthy man. He didn't start off a wealthy man and he ended up a wealthy man. And that's a great talent.
And he's willing to sacrifice so much and to put it to work for our country. Watch the job he does on the Interior, but in particular on really making our country very, very wealthy by utilizing it properly. And at the same time, environmentally, he does it very -- and he's very much an environmentalist.
He's going to do it very carefully and very painstakingly good, but you just watch what happens, and working with the Department of Energy, where his compatriot, his friend and also considered the most talented man in the oil business is the head of the Department of Energy. And they work together.
It's almost like a partnership. It really is a partnership. And watch what that does for our country. It'll be a fantastic thing to see.
Thank you very much, everybody.
(CROSSTALK)
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: That was the president of the United States from the Oval Office accompanied by the new secretary of the interior, Doug Burgum, taking questions directly from the press.
He talked around a whole host of issues over 20 minutes. He said he has plans to speak with Vladimir Putin. He talked about the federal work force and employees being asked to return to work physically and those losing their jobs, including some at DOJ.
He addressed the Panama Canal. He talked about tariffs and those that go into effect tomorrow, the various industries, steel, chips. He said that tariffs are not the cause of inflation. They are the cause of success.
We will count it as a highlight that we got to have President Trump during our hour for the last 25 minutes.
This is the end of the second week of "The Will Cain Show." So I told you, we're going to hold me accountable as much as everyone else in the world of news. So, in that spirit, here are some of the highlights and the lowlights from week two of "The Will Cain Show."
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: It happened as cartel members tried to bring a group of illegal immigrants across the river. The agents fired back. No one on either side was hit. The group of illegal immigrants did not make it across the Red River.
Ben, your fellow tech entrepreneur Marc Andreessen has called this a Sputnik moment. Of course, that's the historical reference to the Russians putting a man into space that launched the American space race.
Chip likes country music, I didn't qualify that he likes red dirt Texas country music. So they gave you Tim McGraw. Nobody complains about Tim McGraw. But I know you would have preferred Whiskey Myers.
REP. CHIP ROY (R-TX): Yes, you read my mind brother. I was saying, hey, what are you going to do? You got to bring the Texas country music in, give us a little Flatland. Get us some Robert Earl Keen. Give us something.
CAIN: I just got a phone call during our last commercial break. It was from new Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth. Turns out he's going to be joining me in just moments, the new defense secretary. It says in the prompter "my friend." I think I can say my friend.
Pete Hegseth joins us for his very first interview since being confirmed.
Mr. Secretary, great to see you here today.
PETE HEGSETH, U.S. DEFENSE SECRETARY: Great to see you too, the host of "The Will Cain Show." Up and out, man. Congratulations on a fantastic show. Love watching it. Great to see you. Nothing but blue sky ahead.
CAIN: My plan was to score this very first interview with the secretary of defense, promote it, and build up to an hour-long sit-down.
Instead, it was a phone call in the middle of a commercial break.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN: All right. It's tariffs start February 1, not March 1. Illegal immigrants cross the Rio Grande, not the Red River, although, for us North Texans, sometimes, we consider it an equally important border.
Sputnik wasn't the first man in space, putting the first man in space. That was Yuri Gagarin, but, rather, satellites in space. So we check us here on "The Will Cain Show." So do you, we noticed.
It's time for some "Will of the People."
Turner says on X: "Please stop nodding your head through every interview. It's very distracting."
I will try, Turner.
KCollins says: "The last two days, your voice is deeper than usual. Are you OK? It sounds like a cold."
CAIN: I have had a cold. Thank you for your concern. I have gotten all your home remedies, including whiskey, bourbon and elderberry. I'm working on it. I will be solid on Monday.
And, finally, Mrsafety says: "Why does your voice seem deeper and not as treble? What goes?"
Well, unfortunately, this deep baritone will go eventually. I'd like to keep that part of having a cold.
All right, thanks for joining us, as we get to the heart of what matters from the heart of America. We hope you have a great weekend.
Here comes "The Five."

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
