




telegraph.co.uk
February 22, 2025 Saturday 12:19 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: US; Version:1
Length: 466 words
Byline: By Kieran Kelly
Highlight: Gen Charles ‘CQ’ Brown, who went viral with an emotional video about discrimination in the army, held role for only two years
Body


Donald Trump has fired America’s top military officer, as part of a major shake-up of the US armed forces leadership
The president offered no explanation for dismissing Gen Charles “CQ” Brown, who was less than two years into his four-year term as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
“I want to thank Gen Brown for his over 40 years of service to our country, including as our current chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. He is a fine gentleman and an outstanding leader, and I wish a great future for him and his family,” Mr Trump said on his Truth Social network.
Pete Hegseth,  , had previously called for Gen Brown’s dismissal because of his “woke” focus on DEI (diversity, equity and inclusion) programmes in the army.
Following the president’s announcement, Mr Hegseth said he was looking for a replacement for Adml Lisa Franchetti, the first woman to serve as America’s top US Navy officer. Gen Jim Slife, vice-chief of staff of the US air force, was also fired.
                     Five top officers replaced                   
Five top officers were being replaced in addition to Gen Brown, according to Mr Trump, who told Fox News before the election 
“You can’t have a woke military,” Mr Trump said.
All three of the top officers named on Friday were appointed by Joe Biden.
“Under President Trump, we are putting in place new leadership that will focus our military on its core mission of deterring, fighting and winning wars,” said Mr Hegseth.
Gen Brown went viral on social media after sharing an emotional video about his personal experience of discrimination in the military, after 
“I’m thinking about my Air Force career, where I was often the only African-American in my squadron or, as a senior officer, the only African-American in the room,” Mr Brown said.
“I’m thinking about the pressure I felt to perform error-free, especially for supervisors I perceive had expected less from me as an African-American.”
Mr Trump announced he would nominate Lt General Dan Caine, an F-16 pilot in the US air force, who was a CIA associate director, as Gen Brown’s replacement.
“General Caine is an accomplished pilot, national security expert, successful entrepreneur, and a ‘warfighter’ with significant inter-agency and special operations experience,” Mr Trump said in a statement.
Mr Trump told a Saudi investors’ forum in Miami on Wednesday that he had previously met Gen Caine in Iraq, where he was among a group of “handsome people – everybody’s, like, from a movie set”.
According to the president, Gen Caine told him that he went by the nickname “Razin”.
“I said, wait a minute, your name is Razin Caine? I love you, I’ve been looking for you for five years ... this is what I want,” Mr Trump recounted.

Load-Date: February 22, 2025


End of Document
