




The Griffon News: Missouri Western State College
February 20, 2025 Thursday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 399 words
Body


US President Donald Trump was joined by golfer Tiger Woods for an event marking Black History Month Thursday -- even as his crackdown on diversity programs has barred similar celebrations in some government departments.
"Welcome to the White House, and we proudly celebrate Black History Month," Trump told a cheering crowd of mainly Black guests at the event, which has become an annual tradition.
Trump thanked Black voters for their support in the 2024 presidential election, saying he had "more votes from black Americans than any Republican president ever." 
When he talked about the possibility of running for a third term -- which he is barred from doing under the US constitution -- there were cheers of "four more years."
Woods, who was also at the White House for talks with Trump on repairing the golf world's divide between the PGA and Saudi-backed LIV Golf, spoke only briefly to say it was an "honor to be with you." 
The crowd, meanwhile, booed Pfizer chief executive Albert Bourla when Trump introduced him, with attendees saying it was because of opposition to the pharma giant's Covid vaccine.
The glitzy event came as Trump's administration continues a crackdown launched since his inauguration a month ago on so-called diversity, equity and inclusion programs.
More from this section
DeJoy delivers exit notice to USPS after five years
Trump auto tariff threat prompts pushback in Germany
New arena, new attitudes? Cash spat in spotlight at UN nature talks
At the Pentagon, US Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth has banned the use of resources to mark months celebrating people of various ethnic backgrounds, including Black History Month.
Trump said in a joint interview with Elon Musk with Fox New's Sean Hannity earlier this week that diversity programs were a "sick trap," adding: "We've destroyed that, it's gone."
White House Deputy Chief of Staff Stephen Miller said hours before the Black History Month event that the United States had been "plagued and crippled" by what he called "illegal discrimination" through DEI policies.
Civil rights groups have sued Trump over his executive orders shutting down the schemes, which are meant to combat systemic inequalities faced by people of color, women and LGBTQ people.
Conservatives say they discriminate against white people, and white men in particular.
dk/sw
Originally published on doc.afp.com, part of the BLOX Digital Content Exchange.

Load-Date: February 20, 2025


End of Document
