




telegraph.co.uk
February 6, 2025 Thursday 8:39 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 1719 words
Byline: By Ed Cumming
Highlight: The case to make the Duke’s visa application public has reopened, and with the President as an adversary he could be shown the door
Body


The first fortnight of Donald Trump’s second term has not been light on incident. Practically every day, the United States president has done something many would have thought undoable. He has sent the military to the Mexican border, began deporting migrants to Guantanamo Bay, started or   with China, Canada, Mexico and the EU, banned transgender women from female sports, frozen the $41 billion per year USAID programme, proposed annexing Greenland and suggested turning the ruins of Gaza into a “. ”
Given this extraordinary catalogue, is it so fanciful to think he might deport a single British citizen resident in California: one Prince Harry?
  most famous Apache pilot might be in the US unlawfully gathered pace this week, when it was announced that a lawsuit trying to make his US Visa records public will reopen in court next week.
It marks the latest skirmish in a long-running campaign by the Heritage Foundation, a conservative think-tank, to make the Duke of Sussex’s visa details public. They launched a lawsuit in May last year against the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) after it refused to release the Duke’s private records following a Freedom of Information request.
The Heritage Foundation believes that the Duke’s admission to taking illegal drugs, including cocaine and psychedelics, in his  , would normally have disqualified him from obtaining a US visa. They argue that there is “immense public interest” in making his documents public, as they will show either that he lied on his documentation or he was given preferential treatment by Joe Biden’s administration.
The case appeared to have been settled in September 2024, when Judge Carl Nichols ruled that “like any foreign national, the Duke has a legitimate privacy interest” in keeping his files secret. The judge was appointed by Trump during his first term but has been described as “unpredictable” and has not always taken the Trumpian line. In 2022, Nichols sentenced the US leader’s former advisor Steve Bannon to four months in prison and was also involved in jailing some of the January 6 rioters.
With Trump back in the White House, however, Nichols .  At a hearing on Feb 5, he said he had seen secret records that are currently sealed from public view and that he wanted to see the “maximum disclosure as long as it doesn’t violate privacy” in the Duke’s case.
The possible volte-face on the Duke’s documentation reflects a sweeping change of mood in the US. Trump’s White House is pursuing a strict crackdown on immigration, while Elon Musk’s Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) is advocating for radical transparency in government. The Duke and Duchess of Sussex’s brand of   has rarely looked so out of time.
Although the president does not have a unilateral power of deportation, which is usually handled by the United States Department of Homeland Security (DHS), they can exert considerable influence. It may not be in the Duke’s favour that Trump’s DHS secretary,  , seems to be almost as eccentric and unpredictable as her boss. She wrote about shooting her own dog, does press appearances dressed as a cowgirl and has turned up to deportations in an Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) baseball cap and bulletproof vest. She gives every impression that she will do whatever she thinks Trump wants. If that means booting out the fifth in line to the English throne, so be it.
“There is now the strong possibility of the release of some of the documentation relating to the case,” says Nile Gardiner, director of the Margaret Thatcher Center for Freedom at The Heritage Foundation.
Heritage has long been close to the Trump campaign. They were behind  , a controversial instruction manual referred to as a blueprint for an “assault on democracy” by critics. Trump disavowed the document, but his government has adopted several of its recommendations, including dismantling diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) schemes, tightening security at the southern border, and imposing extreme fiscal discipline on the government.
“This hearing clearly reopens the legal case, so it’s very encouraging” Gardiner says. “At the same time, we are urging the president and Trump administration to release Prince Harry’s immigration records. We have a new US administration in place that is focused on the enforcement of immigration law, so we are urging full transparency.
“Anyone who applies to the United States has to be truthful on their application, and it is not clear that is the case with Prince Harry,” he adds. “He has openly admitted to widespread and extensive drug use. What he put on his application should match exactly what he put in the book [Spare]. No one should receive preferential treatment. No one is above the law. Everyone should be treated in the same way, regardless of whether they are royalty. We believe Prince Harry is a major public figure and should be held to account. If Harry lied on his application, and that was revealed, he would highly likely face deportation. The stakes are very high.”
 , the Duke confessed to using marijuana, magic mushrooms and cocaine when he was younger. He also made reference to it in Harry & Meghan, the Netflix documentary about his life with his wife, Meghan. US Visa forms ask applicants to declare whether they have ever broken drug laws. Drug use is not necessarily a barrier to entry, but being found to have lied can lead to deportation. Last year, John Bardo, a lawyer for the DHS, argued in court that Spare “isn’t sworn testimony or proof” and that “saying something in a book doesn’t necessarily make it true.” The Duke might have been making the claims to sell books.
“In order to have any impact on criminal admissibility, a formal admission under oath must be made,” says Kaitlin Davies, principal attorney at Davies Legal, which specialises in US/UK immigration law. While an admission in a book or on social media can “form the basis of an officer’s questioning,” they are not in themselves proof of liability. In 2014, the food writer Nigella Lawson was stopped from boarding a flight to the US after she admitted taking cocaine, but in her case, it was in court under oath.
Much depends on the type of visa the Duke is on, which remains unknown. In December 2024, Trump ended up siding with tech bosses in a row over the  , which brings skilled workers from abroad. Prince Harry is unlikely to be on this visa, which requires a university degree.
It has been speculated he is on an A1 Head of State visa, available to members of a reigning royal family – the kind of thing everyone does when they are trying to live a more normal life – which is subject to less stringent regulations. In April 2024, it was reported that the Duke had formally updated his country of residency to the US. As the husband of the Duchess, an American citizen, Harry would in theory be in line for a green card. In February 2024, he told breakfast show Good Morning America, that he had considered becoming a US citizen but parked the idea for now. “It’s a thought that has crossed my mind but it’s not a high priority for me right now,” he said.
The legal whys and wherefores may be the least of the Duke’s problems. He might find that he has an adversary even more powerful and intractable than US immigration law: Trump himself. The President was a great admirer of Queen Elizabeth II; finally getting a state visit to the UK in 2019, having previously been forced by protests to settle for tea in Windsor instead. After Elizabeth II’s death in 2022, Trump issued a statement. “Melania and I will always cherish our time together with the Queen, and never forget Her Majesty’s generous friendship, great wisdom, and wonderful sense of humor,” he wrote. “What a grand and beautiful lady she was—there was nobody like her!”
The King congratulated Trump after his election win in November. After the reopening of Notre Dame Cathedral in December, Trump met the Duke’s brother, the   and reported a positive conversation. “I asked him about his wife and he said she’s doing well,” Trump said. “And I asked him about his father and his father is fighting very hard, and he loves his father and he loves his wife, so it was sad.”
The president’s public statements on the Duke have been less positive.  , Trump said that if he won a second term he would not support Prince Harry. He added the Biden administration had been “too gracious” to the Duke. “I wouldn’t protect him,” he told reporters at the time. “He betrayed the Queen. That’s unforgivable. He would be on his own if it was down to me.” In 2020, when Harry and Meghan moved to California from Canada, Trump posted on X, then Twitter, that “the US will not pay for their security protection. They must pay!”
In extremis, if the DHS and the State Department do not open up Harry’s records, the President has the power to demand them himself. He has form for opening up access. One of Trump’s many executive orders since he took office for a second time last month was to declassify files relating to the assassinations of JFK and Martin Luther King.
Ultimately, however, Trump’s desire to maintain good relations with the rest of the Royal Family could help spare Harry’s blushes.
“I think Trump is going to get caught between a personal disdain for Meghan and Harry but not wanting to embarrass the palace, with which he wants to have a strong and close relationship,” says James D Boys, an Honorary Research Fellow at UCL’s Centre on US Politics (CUSP). “Of all the foreign countries, he clearly has great affection for the UK. He has golf courses here, family connections here. Presumably, they are lining up another big visit in the near future. Any moves with regard to Meghan and Harry will be carefully coordinated between the White House and the Palace, and that might ultimately lead to Nile Gardiner being disappointed.”
The Heritage Foundation and the Sussexes – and possibly Trump himself – will be closely following the developments in court. It would be the height of irony if Spare, the book Harry wrote to detail why he felt he had to move to the US, ended up being the reason he had to leave it.

Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
