




Fox News FOX HANNITY 9:00 PM EST
February 4, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7200 words
Byline: Sean Hannity, Jason Chaffetz, Katie Pavlich
Guests: Katie Britt, Steve Witkoff, Stephen A. Smith, Drew Pinsky
Body


SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS HOST: And welcome to "Hannity".
And tonight, we begin with the FOX News alert. By a vote of 54-46, Pam Bondi has officially been confirmed as the next attorney general of the United States. Only Democratic Senator John Fetterman crossed party lines to support Pam Bondi, good for him.
And meanwhile tonight the Trump doctrine it is in full effect it is shock and awe and the mainstream media and Democrats they are in shambles freaking out they have no idea what is going on.
So as a public service tonight I will interpret for them exactly what he said and what his true intentions are just like he's starting a trade war, oh, there goes the economy. Oh my. No, they don't understand Donald Trump but I will help them.
Anyway, even Stephen A. Smith, by the way, is now calling his own party pathetic. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
STEPHEN A. SMITH, ESPN HOST: The Democratic Party looks so pathetic after this election. I might entertain running. I just might change my mind one day. I don't -- I doubt it but I might because how much would it take to beat y'all. And Trump can't run again.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: And, by the way, Stephen A. apparently thinking about possibly running for president, okay. And we'll challenge him on his recent support for DEI.
Oh, also stay tuned tonight, we have a preview, yours truly will be in a Super Bowl commercial. We have the ad.
And later, Trump's special envoy to the Middle East, Steve Witkoff, will be with us just hours after the president delivered this stern warning to the mullahs of Iran and much more. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: They cannot have a nuclear weapon. With me, it's very simple. Iran cannot have a nuclear weapon. We don't want to be tough on Iran, we don't want to be tough on anybody but they just can't have a nuclear weapon.
REPORTER: Why -- say that you're unhappy to sign it, if it's Iran and their proxies who have threatened to retaliate against you and your team by killing you guys for taking out Soleimani.
TRUMP: Well, they haven't done that and that would be a terrible thing for them to do, not because of me. If they did that, they would be obliterated that'll be the end. I've left instructions if they do it, they get obliterated, there won't be any anything left and they shouldn't be able to do it.
And Biden should have said that, but he never did.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: The president also introduced tonight a proposal for the future of Gaza. He said the Palestinian population needs to be absorbed by other countries. Gaza needs to be demilitarized and he's offering to do the job and rebuild it into a beautiful safe haven. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: The only reason the Palestinians want to go back to Gaza is they have no alternative. It's right now a demolition site. This is just a demolition site virtually every building is down. They're living under fallen concrete that's very dangerous and very precarious. They instead can occupy all of a beautiful area with homes and safety and they can live out their lives in peace and harmony instead of having to go back and do it again.
The U.S. will take over the Gaza strip and we will do a job with it too. We'll own it and be responsible for dismantling all of the dangerous, unexploded bombs and other weapons on the site, level the site and get rid of the destroyed buildings, level it out, create an economic development that will supply unlimited numbers of jobs and housing for the people of the area, do a real job, do something different.
Just can't go back. If you go back, it's going to end up the same way it has for 100 years.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Let's be clear: what the president is saying is Gaza could no longer be a safe haven for terrorists to launch attacks against Israel and others, and if you knew Donald Trump even a little bit, you would think he came down the escalator in 2015, Donald Trump is once -- once again, just like in saying he would have tariffs, he is negotiating and sending a loud message to the entire Arab world, get engaged, end this conflict once and for all, eliminate terrorism in the area and a new day will begin.
Now, we're going to talk to Steve Witkoff. He's special envoy to the Mideast about the president's big plans and that includes Israel, Gaza, Iran and thanks to Biden's weakness, Iran has reportedly now been working with North Korea to build a nuclear missile that would be capable of hitting Europe. That can never happen.
But that project is coming to an end under President Trump along with Prime Minister Netanyahu. America's maximum pressure campaign, it is back, peace through strength has returned, the deep states woke leftwing piggy bank has been shattered and you -- this was on display, USAID was just exposed by the Department of Government Accountability, or DOGE, thanks to Elon Musk and a small team of programmers.
Well, the gig is up. The truth has been revealed. Most Americans have no idea how billions and billions and billions of your hard-earned tax dollars was being spent all over the world on bizarre green woke DEI, transgender programs for other countries all over the world, billions and billions.
Meanwhile Americans need help here. They spent a whopping $20 million on a Sesame Street show in Iraq, $45 million for DEI scholarships in Burma, $2 million on trans-led organizations and sex change operations. Is this how you want your hard-earned tax dollars to be spent?
$520 million for green new deal investments in Africa, $1.5 million was sent to Serbia to advance diversity, equity and inclusion, and then the fun stuff, 70 grand for, you know, Ireland to produce a DEI musical, 50 grand for a transgender opera in Colombia, 30 grand for a transgender comic book in Peru, $2.5 million for electric cars in Vietnam, another $1 million for so-called clean energy in Africa, $44 million for Venezuela and their migrants in Colombia, millions more go to Gaza, ended up in the hands of Hamas and other terrorists, nearly 5 million went to the Eco Health Alliance.
Oh, what, so they can fund a lab in Wuhan, working on gain of function research? Not very smart.
We could go on and on as you can see on your screen, but it would take us pretty much the entire night to read through list of billions of wasted taxpayer dollars. Now, keep in mind, according to the "Daily Wire", why are Democrats freaking out? Ninety-seven percent of all employee donations from USAID workers, they went to the Democratic Party.
And by the way, this is just the tip of the iceberg. DOGE is just getting started, buckle up, plans are already underway for the Department of Education, the Department of State, the Department of Defense, Elon Musk recently said when there is an important task, he will keep working until that job is done or die trying.
Naturally, Democrats, they're not too happy. They don't want government accountability. They don't want limited government. They don't want to return to constitutional order. They want the power that comes with that money that influence they think they have with your money they haven't been this worked up in a while.
They're out of the denial and grief stage and now they're back to the anger stage when it comes to all things Donald Trump. Moments ago, Elizabeth Warren had a full public meltdown while ranting and raving about Elon Musk. You got to love this, take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. ELIZABETH WARREN (D-MA): No one elected Elon Musk to nothing.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: That's right.
WARREN: Not one Democrat in America voted for Elon Musk.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Not one.
WARREN: Not one Republican in America voted for Elon Musk. Not one independent in America voted for Elon Musk. Not one libertarian in America voted for Elon Musk. Damn, not one vegetarian in America voted for Elon Musk.
And yet, Elon Musk is seizing the power that belongs to the American people. We are here to fight back.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: You fight back, Elizabeth, because guess what? What you don't like is Elon Musk was appointed by the president, duly elected by the people, and he is exposing all the waste, fraud, abuse and abuse and frankly outright stealing of American taxpayer dollars and he's going to clean it up, whether you like it or not.
And it gets worse. One Democratic congresswoman claiming we are now at war and it's time to shut down Washington, D.C. and fight in the streets, maybe those hats from are about to come back. I don't know. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We will not take this. We will fight back.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Fight back, fight back.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: And as I close out because I know we've been out here for a long time, and god damn it, shut down the Senate. We are at war!
Anytime, anytime a person can pay $250 million into a campaign and they be given access -- full access to the Department of Treasury of the United States of America, we are at war.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: We're at war, wow. Most Democrats didn't seem to care about Americans in East Palestine or the hurricane victims of Hurricane Helene in North Carolina. They made excuses for California's government as fire hydrants and reservoirs ran dry and entire neighborhoods burn to the ground in L.A.
They said nothing as millions of unvetted Harris-Biden illegal immigrants including terrorists cartel members gang members all poured across our southern border and didn't get that worked up. Elon Musk uncovers massive government waste fraud abuse exposes billions and billions and billions of far-left taxpayer funded global piggy bank that they get their power from and they're ready to go to war?
According to the left, Elon Musk is now anti-American, a threat to democracy. Why? For holding America's elected bureaucracy accountable?
Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. ILHAN OMAR (D-MN): We are witnessing a constitutional crisis. We talked about Trump wanting to be a dictator on day one and here we are. This is what the beginning of dictatorship looks like.
SEN. CHRIS MURPHY (D-CT): This is a constitutional crisis that we are in today. Let's call it what it is. The people get to decide how we defend the United States of America, the people get to decide how they're taxpayer money is spent. Elon Musk does not get to decide.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If democracy is a, quote/unquote, leftwing ideology to Elon Musk, I mean, this man is un-American as far as my definition of America is and I -- I just -- I'm -- the fact that more people aren't offended by this man's actions, I mean, it's -- it shows you how much he has helped successfully destroy the trusted information ecosystem because this is a five alarm fire. Elon Musk is a five alarm fire and the country doesn't realize it yet.
REP. ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ (D-NY): This dude is probably one of the most unintelligent billionaires I have ever met or seen or witnessed, which, you know, you can probably even glean that from watching these people on TV. Anyways, all of that is to say is that they don't do their homework.
WHOOPI GOLDBERG, CO-HOST, THE VIEW: So, I mean, are Americans going to be okay with Musk?
AUDIENCE: No!
GOLDBERG: Oh, okay. A guy nobody voted for having all this kind of power.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Let's see, SpaceX, Starlink, Tesla, oh, rescuing astronauts that Harris and Biden lost in space, that would be Donald Trump -- I'm sorry, that would be Elon Musk getting lectured on intelligence from AOC. Okay, I'll -- I'll put that in the back of my head.
They hate Musk because he's exposing all of this misappropriation of your hard-earned tax dollars. We'll scroll it again in a minute, and also, because he is helping Donald Trump fulfill his promise and we're returning to limited government, greater freedom and not wasting our money abroad, but we're going to put the American people first and you want to go to war and you want to assassinate the character of Elon Musk who's doing this for free. Really?
Remember, we are $40 trillion in debt. They are stealing your money. They are stealing the money for your children and your grandchildren.
And the Biden administration we just found out today, made $236 billion in improper payments last year alone. That's a quarter of a trillion dollars they wasted, and we're now beginning to see where they're spending that money because they get their power doing that, and the inflation under Biden devalued the dollar by more than 20 percent.
Americans struggling to get by, they're living paycheck to paycheck. They're paying the bare minimum on their credit cards. The Democratic party's upset that all this money, this insanity, this DEI woke ideology, green new deal madness abroad, not even for our country, is no longer going to be able to fund transgender operas in Europe and DEI programs in Asia.
And they're calling this a constitutional crisis their word of the day. This is madness.
And thanks to President Trump and Elon Musk, America is being rescued from a malignant, out of control bureaucracy. The swamp is being drained. Welcome aboard.
Those in the swamp -- well, they're pretty angry about it.
Here with reaction, FOX News contributors Jason Chaffetz, Katie Pavlich.
Katie, I'm loving this -- I am loving that they got exposed for billions and billions of waste and then they lash out at the guy that exposed them and you know what? The -- there's not one American that I would I think would ever vote to spend the money that we're putting up on that screen. We'll continue to scroll it.
KATIE PAVLICH, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Finally, we have a president who is willing to go into the federal bureaucracy in the executive branch and cut out this garbage. For so many years, the federal government has been hijacked by activists, liberal leftist activists who have been taking the hard-earned tax dollars of Americans all over the country and laundering it through these woke projects that they think that they are entitled to.
And this isn't about aid to certain countries, this isn't about trying to help people around the world for the left. It's about them losing their grip on power. Without this money laundering scheme of taxpayer money, they have nothing. They don't know where to go from there.
You know, Bernie Sanders is a perfect example of someone who just wants to take, take, take, and talk about the billionaires, who's never had a private paycheck in his entire life. Elon Musk is someone who has built multiple companies by creating thousands of jobs and signing the front of a paycheck not just the back from the taxpayer, and they can't stand that they are now seeing their projects going away because it's about their ideology. This is a way for them to implement their ideology through these federal government agencies that have not seen any auditing or accountability before.
And so, it's about the takers and the makers and the left is losing their grip on their power that they've had in a number of areas. I mean, look at the border. The border is out of control or was out of control for a number of reasons, but mainly, that NGOs were getting taxpayer funding to traffic people all over the country millions of people. That is ending and the grift is ending and American taxpayers are getting control of their money given that the federal government is taking more of their taxes today than they ever have in the history of the country.
And Democrats demand that Americans go to work and pay more for these woke projects.
HANNITY: You know, Jason, I'd love your take and getting lectured about intelligence by AOC, the guy that created SpaceX, Starlink, Tesla and is about to rescue astronauts lost in space. Really?
JASON CHAFFETZ, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Yeah.
HANNITY: I find that amusing.
CHAFFETZ: Yeah. You know what I love about Elon Musk, he's living rent- free in all of their minds. That was quite an accomplishment. And AOC called him unintelligent, the most unintelligent billionaire? Didn't she buy a Tesla? She did. She drives a Tesla because it's a great car.
But you know, what's amazing about them, look at where the Democrats spend their time and energy. They go absolutely apoplectic in front of an empty building, yelling and screaming because the American government is not going to give the American taxpayer dollars away to foreign countries fast enough. That's really what they're complaining about.
This is not money that's going to Americans. This is not going to help, you know, the fire victims. This is not going to the Helene victims. This is not going to build Maui.
This is money that's going out there. In 2023, AID spent $68 billion. Part of that was they sent out 69 million condoms. That's what AID is doing, and this is what the Democrats think is just going to destroy the country.
HANNITY: I --
PAVLICH: Constitutional crisis.
HANNITY: Part of me is laughing and a part of me wants to cry because that's money we're stealing from our kids.
All right. Katie and Jason, good to see you both.
PAVLICH: Yeah.
HANNITY: Thank you.
All right. More big news tonight from the White House, along with another major diplomatic win today, the first criminal illegal aliens were flown to the detention center in Gitmo, and soon, there could be another destination for violent illegal immigrants and other criminals, El Salvador. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REPORTER: Secretary Rubio announced a deal this week that would allow potentially American citizens for criminals to be put in a different country. Is that something you're looking to do?
TRUMP: No, I didn't know that he announced that yet, but if he did, it's fine, yeah. We have hard -- hardened criminals, horrible people. You see him pushing people into subways the train is coming last week, guy walking around and just sees somebody waiting for the train, train's coming 40 miles an hour and he gets pushed into the subway, and that happens all the time. These are sick people.
If we could get them out of our country and we have other countries that would take them, they could -- it's no different than a prison system, except it would be a lot less expensive and it would be a great deterrent. Send them to other countries.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: All right. Here with reaction, Alabama Senator Katie Britt.
Senator, let's get your take on Gitmo, but more importantly, what about El Salvador's offer?
SEN. KATIE BRITT (R-AL): Look, I mean, this is an exciting day. Peace through strength is back. It's nice to have a commander-in-chief and a secretary of state that's willing to put America first. It's remarkable that you had an administration that wasn't even willing to ask the world to take their criminals back and yet you have this administration who is saying enough is enough, with signing the Laken Riley Act last week, saying we're going to get criminals off of our streets, we're going to detain them. Now, we hear this week, we are going to deport them to Gitmo.
You have Joe Biden who had an open border system and drained Gitmo, actually emptying it and now you have President Trump who has closed borders and is saying I'm going to fill it up with the worst of the worst. It is an exciting day and this is what strength looks like. This is what winning looks like.
HANNITY: Yeah. All right. Let's -- let's talk about the -- your colleagues in the U.S. Senate. So Elon Musk exposes all this waste fraud and abuse and USAID, and insane amounts of money, billions and billions of dollars and they hate him and they hate President Trump.
How do they justify -- how do they claim it's a constitutional crisis when nobody in America and I follow the news as closely as anybody, knew that the money was being spent this way?
BRITT: Sean, you're exactly right. I mean, this is remarkable in all of the wrong ways, when you're scrolling that list -- I mean, are you not shaking your head as you're reading it, and you think about this. These Democrats are out having an actual meltdown, a four-year-old meltdown not over dollars at believe should be going to our veterans who have served this country honorably, not for dollars that they believe should be helping a single mom get on their feet, not for dollars that they believe should be securing our border and keeping Americans safe and secure, but they are crying over these dollars.
These aren't even to secure our allies or friends. These are going for liberal woke ideology, infiltrating that in countries all around the globe. And, Sean, let it not be lost on anybody, these are American taxpayer dollars, hard-earned taxpayer dollars, Americans deserve transparency and when Donald Trump run -- ran, he said that's exactly what you're going to get. Promises made, promises kept. We're seeing it time and time again. It is a new day, and it is a good day for Americans.
HANNITY: All right. Senator, good to see you. We appreciate your time.
BRITT: Good to see you.
HANNITY: When we come back, President Trump announced tonight that the U.S. would even take over and rebuild Gaza and, by the way, we'll bring you the details. We'll get reaction from special envoy to the Middle East, Steve Witkoff.
Later, yours truly, I'm in a Super Bowl ad with my friend and colleague, Bret Baier, and the one and only Stephen A. Smith, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: Another big day at the White House with Donald Trump, where the president welcomed the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Now, the two met in the Oval Office, then held a joint press conference as well, making major announcements about the future of the Middle East. Let's take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: They've lived like hell. They lived like you're living in hell. Gaza is not a place for people to be living, and the only reason they want to go back and I believe this strongly is because they have no alternative. What's the alternative? Go where?
There's no other alternative. If they had an alternative, they'd much rather not go back to Gaza and live in a beautiful alternative that's safe.
The U.S. will take over the Gaza Strip and we will do a job with it, too. We'll own it and be responsible for dismantling all of the dangerous unexploded bombs and other weapons on the site, level the site and get rid of the destroyed buildings -- level it out, create an economic development that will supply unlimited numbers of jobs and housing for the people of the area, do a real job.
I do see a long-term ownership position and I see it bringing great stability to that part of the Middle East and maybe the entire Middle East. And everybody I've spoken to, this was not a decision made lightly. Everybody I've spoken to loves the idea of the United States owning that piece of land, developing and creating thousands of jobs with something that will be magnificent.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: And before meeting with the prime minister, Donald Trump signed executive orders restoring maximum pressure sanctions against Iran and withdrawing the U.S. from the Israel-hating Human Rights -- Israel and U.S.-hating Human Rights Council and Relief Work Agency. This amid disturbing new reports that Iran could already have North Korean designed nuclear missiles that would be capable of hitting Europe.
The president was asked about that today. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REPORTER: How close do you think Iran is to developing nuclear weapons?
TRUMP: I think they're close. I think they're close. They're too close, but again, you can go back four years, I would have said they would have had it during this intervening period, but they're pretty close, Peter.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Here with more, the U.S. special envoy to the Middle East, Steve Witkoff is with us.
Steve, great to see you. Two big messages that I see tonight. Number one, Iran can never and will never have a nuclear weapon.
Number two, Gaza which has been destroyed can no longer be a launching pad for Hamas or other radical Islamic terrorists and I -- knowing Donald Trump as I do, tell me if I'm wrong. Is he not telling the Middle East that it's time for you to step up and absorb the population, of the Palestinian people and rebuild this and demilitarize this area?
STEVE WITKOFF, SPECIAL ENVOY TO THE MIDDLE EAST: I -- first of all, thank you for having me tonight, Sean.
I think he's telling the Middle East that the last years of doing things was not a correct way of doing things, and that he's going to change it up because all of those iterations have not worked. He's also telling the Middle East that he wants to be transparent with the Palestinian people. Gaza today is uninhabitable and will probably be uninhabitable for at least the next 10 to 15 years. That's how much -- how much work has to be done there.
HANNITY: Are -- so are other countries in the region, Steve, because you have been you know deep into the negotiations on all sides -- are they willing to step up, help this population and rebuild the area and demilitarize it?
WITKOFF: I think everybody wants to see peace in the region, Sean, and peace in the region means a better life for the Palestinians. A better life is not necessarily tied to the physical space that you're in today, a better life is about a better -- better opportunity better financial conditions uh better aspirations for you and your family. That doesn't occur because you get to pitch a tent in the Gaza Strip and you're surrounded by 30,000 munitions that go off at any moment. It's a dangerous place to live today.
And the president is saying, let's make it better for these people. Let's give them more hope. And if there are different places for them to live, let them -- let them -- let them make that choice, and I think he's right.
HANNITY: Yeah, he said, let's get rid of the destroyed buildings, level it, create an economic development that will supply unlimited numbers of jobs and housing for people, where the media is freaking out is, oh, Donald Trump's going to take over Gaza. But there's one other thing is -- and the president was very clear, Iran. If we look at the number one state sponsor of terror, they fund Hamas, Hezbollah, Islamic Jihad, the Houthi rebels, they launched their own ballistics into Israel, it -- they have -- this has to stop.
Will it stop?
WITKOFF: Well, you've heard the president say it. That's his direction and I couldn't agree with them more. They cannot have a weapon.
If they have a weapon, a nuclear weapon, then every other country in the GCC is going to look to get one and now the arms race is on. That's an unacceptable place for the GCC to go. He will stop it, the beginning of that is maximum sanctions, hopefully, we don't have to go past that and beyond that, Sean, it's not just a nuclear weapon, Iran has been the benefactor for Hamas, for Hezbollah, and now for the Houthis, and that has to end and the president has said that.
HANNITY: Will -- will President Trump if needed, if the Israelis believe they're on the verge of a nuclear outbreak, will he provide bunker buster bombs because there was a report today that he will provide weapons that Joe Biden would never provide?
WITKOFF: Well, the president has signed uh orders today that give the -- that resupply the Israelis with ammunition and they already have bunker buster bombs. But I think the president -- the president would prefer that that the Iranians -- the Iranians say we've had enough. But I -- I hope that they do say that, Sean. I really do.
HANNITY: I hope for peace but, you know, "I'm a trust but verify" guy.
Steve, I know you've been doing a lot of shuttle diplomacy. We appreciate you taking time out of your busy day to share with us. Thank you.
All right. When we come back is Stephen A. Smith really going to run for president? We'll ask him.
Later, yours truly, I'll be in a Super Bowl spot with our friend Bret Baier. We'll give you a preview, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: So the Democrats went radical left, they picked new party leaders. They're struggling to find out who to rally behind in 2028. A recent poll of potential presidential nominees shows former Vice President Kamala Harris in the lead at 33 percent, followed by former transportation secretary, pothole Pete Buttigieg at 9 percent, Gavin Newsom at 7 percent and the recent vice presidential nominee , Tim Walz, sits at 3 percent.
One point behind him is our friend, Stephen A. Smith, who is currently the star of "First Take" on ESPN, and he said he might consider run. Really, Stephen?
Look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SMITH: The Democratic Party looks so pathetic after this election I might entertain running. I -- I just might change my mind one day. I don't -- I doubt it, but I might, because how much would it take to beat y'all. And Trump can't run again.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Now, Stephen A. also has come out strong against Trump recent actions to dismantle the DEI wokeness that took over our government under Biden and, of course, before him, Barack Obama and he is preparing for a presidential run? Let's ask him.
Stephen A., how are you?
SMITH: What's going on, big time? How are you, man?
HANNITY: Okay. What you said is I might -- I might entertain running for president. You can't afford the pay cut by your own admission and if you run, your party would never nominate you because you're far too reasonable although I have a couple of bones to pick with you tonight.
SMITH: Well, well, first of all, but number one, you're absolutely right. My lifestyle is quite lovely and I would not want to ruin that by running to the presidency of the United States of America. I have no interest but - - but I was just trying to make a profound point and that is, is that I think the Democratic Party in the state -- in the state that they find themselves in, I think somebody like me could actually win.
I certainly think that I could beat any of those candidates that you put on the screen. I can tell you that right now. I certainly think if I was running up against somebody like you, I would win that race, too. So when you think about the candidates you possibly could go u against --
HANNITY: Oh, if you run, I'm running.
(CROSSTALK)
HANNITY: If you run, I'll run.
SMITH: Listen, you -- you have no chance in hell of beating me because you're too rigid, you don't have any patience with people that disagree with you.
HANNITY: Blah, blah, blah.
SMITH: You would lo -- you'd lose your mind. I, on the other had, I'm a man of the people.
HANNITY: Are you going to lecture people on patience? OK, whatever.
SMITH: I'm man -- I'm a man of people, whatever the American people wanted, I would be there.
HANNITY: I'm the one that wants lower taxes limited government, I'm the one that wants energy dominance, controlled borders, law and order, better schools.
SMITH: You want it all.
HANNITY: And I'm sorry -- you're going to lose that debate.
Now, but put that aside for a second --
(CROSSTALK)
SMITH: It's not that I'm going to lose it, I compromise but go ahead.
(CROSSTALK)
HANNITY: OK, you actually said about DEI, what you're really saying when you talk about DEI, what you're really saying is we want white dominance again. Let me put up on the screen and this was first instituted, you know, as it relates to the FAA under Barack Obama, their diversity push includes focus on hiring people with severe intellectual and psychiatric disabilities.
Now, Stephen A., you fly a lot do you want people with intellectual and psychiatric disabilities in that control tower.
SMITH: Not at all, not at all, and by the way, quote me accurately.
HANNITY: Check mate.
SMITH: I don't know -- I don't know how many times I have to tell you, just quote me accurately.
My issue with the eradication of DEI was not that on its premise. It was the -- it was the explanation that the Trump administration and others were giving about it. I don't want to hear DEI automatically being about people who happen to be minorities that are unqualified. That is what I was saying.
I said it's one thing to get rid of it all together. It's another thing entirely to articulate and verbalize the position that, excuse me, you know what everybody that was associated with DEI, are unqualified individuals. We don't want unqualified individuals --
HANNITY: That's not true.
SMITH: Particularly in public safety, I'm saying that's how people will come it across.
HANNITY: Well, then, we agree.
SMITH: That's how people -- of course, we agree on it. I, of course, we agree on it but when you have somebody like Hegseth,, for example, let's use him because he was speaking about your former colleague at Fox News.
(CROSSTALK)
HANNITY: Keep my friend out of it.
SMITH: Hold on, that's not a defense secretary. Excuse me, listen, I respect -- listen, I'm not bringing up anything personal, I'm simply saying, my God, Sean, when you're talking about people who are unqualified, I wish him nothing but the best, he served our country, you know, in the military. I get all of that but when you were a weekend host on FOX News and now you're the defense secretary of the United States overseeing 3-1/2 million people --
HANNITY: Let me ask you, did you serve --
SMITH: -- that is not qualified.
HANNITY: Did you serve in Iraq, Afghanistan and Gitmo?
SMITH: No, I did not.
HANNITY: Did you go to Harvard? Did you go to Princeton?
SMITH: No, I did not. No, I did not. No, I did not. No, no, no.
HANNITY: Yeah, well, he's certainly a pretty intelligent guy. So I would - - I would say --
SMITH: I didn't say he wasn't intelligent. I didn't say he wasn't intelligent.
HANNITY: Why do we give a real soldier an opportunity?
All right, I got another --
SMITH: OK. That's fair, but say that, but say that.
HANNITY: One thing I'm not qualified for -- I just said it.
SMITH: OK.
HANNITY: All right, the last thing.
SMITH: Okay.
(CROSSTALK)
HANNITY: I'll say -- I'm not qualified for this and we're going to show it at the end of the show, but I'm going to be in a Super Bowl ad and you're at the Super Bowl.
SMITH: Oh, God, you in a Super Bowl ad? What the hell is this world coming to? What kind of Super Bowl ad are you going to be in? You with your non- sports knowing self.
HANNITY: You have to watch at the end of the show.
SMITH: Talk about staying in your lane, that's you. You and a Super Bowl commercial, who did this? Did Trump post streaks to make this happen? I mean what the hell is going on? FOX?
(LAUGHTER)
SMITH: Well, Bret Baier, that's a different animal. I mean, Bret Baier is a different animal.
HANNITY: But you know what?
SMITH: He's -- he's a different animal. Go ahead.
HANNITY: You know what, I'm -- you're jealous.
SMITH: Jealous of what? What do I have to be jealous of?
HANNITY: I'm in the Super Bowl ad and you're not. You're jealous.
SMITH: Wait for it, wait for it, I mean, my time will come. My time will come, don't worry. I'll be around the long enough time. My time will come. I'll be in the Super Bowl commercial you can book that that's going to happen, that's going to happen.
HANNITY: All right. Last question --
SMITH: I mean, I'm not as big time as you, but this is -- it is what it is.
HANNITY: Oh, here we go. Who's going to win the Super Bowl?
SMITH: I'm not telling you that. I got two shows to do. I got two shows to do before Friday. I'm not giving you that information. I'm not giving the information to FOX News.
HANNITY: Who do you think is going to win? Who do you think is going to win?
SMITH: It's great, great -- it's a great match up.
HANNITY: At FOX News, what does that --
SMITH: You got Patrick Mahomes and the Kansas City Chiefs.
(CROSSTALK)
HANNITY: Stephen A. from ESPN, what does that mean?
SMITH: Excuse me, I didn't say I didn't know the answer, I didn't say you wasn't going to get the answer. I just said you ain't going to get it tonight on FOX News. I got a couple of shows to do for the remainder of the week. I'll give you my prediction later on the week.
All I'm saying to you right now is look forward to a very thrilling Super Bowl is going to be on FOX. Tom Brady's going to be calling the game, I think he's been doing an exceptional job. I think we're going to have a great, great game and we will see what transpires, but I'm not giving you my prediction yet. I'm going to wait until Friday.
HANNITY: I think Brady, by the way, has really developed into a great broadcaster. I think he's come a long way this year.
SMITH: So do I.
HANNITY: He's done a good job.
SMITH: He has.
HANNITY: All right.
SMITH: He has d, you do know something about sports.
HANNITY: As to you, my friend. I love you in spite of it all.
SMITH: Bye, bye. Thank you.
HANNITY: All right. When we come back, Biden's next move involves a Hollywood agent? What's he up to?
And Gavin Newsom headed to D.C. to meet with Donald Trump. It could be peace in the world. We'll check in with Drew Pinsky. We'll show you that Super Bowl ad straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. With his political career finally over after 50 years, Joe Biden is looking for his next act. Apparently, the 82-year-old, mumbling, bumbling, stumbling former president is again signing with an agency known for repping Hollywood talent, I don't know what he's plotting now.
And while Biden heads to a Hollywood agency, well, California Governor Gavin Newsom, he's headed to D.C. to meet with President Trump about fire aid for Los Angeles, as well as the state's water supply. I was glad to see he stopped his, you know, battle against Donald Trump and D Trumping and whatever they were planning out there in California.
Anyway, here with reaction, the host of "Dr. Drew" on Rumble, Dr. Drew Pinsky.
Is he going to act or is he going to give speeches? What is -- what -- what great -- what's his next act? Meaning Joe.
DR. DREW PINSKY, HOST OF "DR. DREW" ON RUMBLE: Well, you know, I -- Sean, it may seem like low-hanging fruit but my son mentioned something to me this evening when I mentioned what our topic was going to be and it made me laugh out loud.
The reality is the last couple years of his presidency has been a forme fruste of a weekend at Bernie's and now he can actually go do a remake of "Weekend at Bernie's". Perfect, well-planned, sir, well-executed.
The fact is he's not going to be doing -- much like the rest of his administration, he is not going to be administering much here. God knows it will be Jill. It will be others. I don't imagine he'll be acting but as I said, there is a perfect role for him here.
HANNITY: Listen, I don't think there's going to be a very high demand but he can do what -- what -- we live in a free country.
I was actually I'll -- I'll -- I'll -- I'll give Gavin some a compliment, and that is I think not Trump proof in California but meeting with Donald Trump is a far better strategy for the people of California, especially post these fires. Your reaction?
PINSKY: Yeah, it certainly is and my hope is, although there'll be a lot of screaming and yelling about it, is that President Trump holds Gavin Newsom's hand to the fire and requires him to govern in our state as a contingent upon which federal funds are provided. The fact is what you witness in the fires is something we've been yelling about here in California is that our leaders do not govern, anything but govern.
We had a period where Gavin Newsom stood in Los Angeles in the middle of all the trash and destruction and went who's in charge here, what's going on? I -- if you're not in charge, Governor, I don't know who is.
And let's remember, he's famous for saying that the face of homelessness is a mother of two who lost her job. Find that woman on the street please. If you don't know who homeless are, how do you expect to solve that problem?
And then his number two problem, biggest problem in Los Angeles, in southern California in particular, check cashing institutes. Oh, that, thank you, sir. That's going to solve all of our problems here in California.
HANNITY: Yeah, but if it was an election tomorrow and he was on the ballot, I would argue he'd win or if Kamala Harris runs after him, I might argue she wins. Am I wrong?
PINSKY: You know, Sean, one of the most traumatic experiences for me is during COVID when people had had enough of the government overreach and the continued lockdowns, the continued destruction of people's businesses and livelihood. They recalled Governor Newsom, I don't know if people in other states know this, but he was actively recalled. And then the Californians put him back in office.
That was so traumatizing for many of us that we -- we couldn't understand how that was possible. And so, the idea that we have faith again in the California voters, I don't know. I think we are changing here. We've seen enough, certainly, the Palisades and Altadena just off to my left here, they're angry and I think they've seen enough.
HANNITY: Well, I hope you and Adam Carolla end up being right because California needs change.
PINSKY: He is the -- he is the face of homelessness. I'll tell you why, Sean. He's the face of homelessness, he's staying at my house because he can't go back to Malibu. He's homeless.
HANNITY: All right. Give the guy a break. He needs -- needs a place to lay his head.
All right. Dr. Drew.
Coming up, my exclusive first look at Mike Tyson, my show on FOX Nation, and our Super Bowl ad, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: And tonight, two big announcements.
First, there is a new Super Bowl promo that maybe MSDNC and Stephen A. viewers may not like. Here's a preview.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS HOST: How do you think this story is going to play out?
HANNITY: Too close to call.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Five minutes to air.
BAIER: Go big.
HANNITY: Or go home.
We in a Super Bowl 59 spot.
BAIER: Feel super.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Kind of my apologies to Eagles fans. I like everybody.
But tonight, as a consolation prize, well, FOX did make a bloopers reel from that commercial you might like this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: I think Brett looks good though one.
(MUSIC)
HANNITY: Do I go first?
BAIER: We should do this more often,
(MUSIC)
HANNITY: Do you want me to look to Bret or look straight?
BAIER: It's the cape that really sells it.
(MUSIC)
BAIER: So does he start the line after the capes?
HANNITY: We should do this more often.
Well, that was really a good take.
BAIER: It was.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: That was a lot of fun to do with my colleague and friend Bret.
The Super Bowl this Sunday will air on FOX. You don't want to miss it.
Meanwhile, the next episode of my FOX Nation show "Sean" available to stream as I sat down with the champ, Mike Tyson, for an extended interview. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MIKE TYSON, BOXING CHAMP: He's very special. He's a very special individual.
HANNITY: Why do you say that?
TYSON: We've never seen anybody like him before.
HANNITY: In terms of being tough?
TYSON: Well, tough but everything seemed to align with him, everything lines up with him.
HANNITY: I think the greatest political comeback --
TYSON: In the history of political --
HANNITY: Seriously.
TYSON: Yeah, so this is -- this is history that we live in right now.
HANNITY: Yeah.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: And he's never been to the White House and wants to go.
The full interview at FOX Nation.
That's all the time we have left this evening. Thank you for being with us. Please set your DVR so you never, ever, ever miss an episode of "Hannity".
In the meantime, let not your heart be troubled. Greg Gutfeld is standing by to put a smile on your face. Have a great night.

Load-Date: February 5, 2025


End of Document
