




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 29, 2025 Wednesday 9:30 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 627 words
Byline: Maria CuriIna Fried
Body


January 29th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
The tech industry has pushed hard to partner with the federal government on everything from AI research to semiconductor manufacturing, but President Trump's  
Why it matters: While many big tech companies are flush with cash, the industry relies on the government for a range of research funding, institutional coordination and other support.
State of play: The president's move to freeze a wide array of federal grants - announced Monday but then  
The uncertainty hit the tech industry in a variety of ways, throwing a number of projects into limbo.
Congressionally approved grants help fund a variety of wide range of tech projects including boosting U.S. chip manufacturing and an effort to "rip and replace" telecommunications gear from Huawei and other Chinese firms out of rural cellular networks.
"That funding is now paused, leaving our rural small businesses in the dust and our telecommunications networks at risk," the office of Sen. John Hickenlooper (D-Colo.) said in a statement on Monday, adding that Trump's move "appeases China by allowing them to continue having a hold in our rural communication networks."
A federal judge on Tuesday  
Zoom in: The National Science Foundation and a host of tech companies big and small are investing in AI research.
One big driver for the  
On Monday NSF  
"In particular, this may include, but is not limited to conferences, trainings, workshops, considerations for staffing and participant selection, and any other grant activity that uses or promotes the use of DEIA principles and frameworks or violates Federal anti-discrimination laws," NSF said.
Between the lines: The Trump administration is targeting policies related to DEI, nongovernmental organizations, "the green new deal" and more.
That could cover a host of NAIRR-backed projects that have to do with environmental sustainability or bias.
Among those is  
The project recognizes that AI models are more attuned to the digital behaviors of younger generations and could leave senior citizens feeling underserved.
Another  
Project leads  
But University of Pennsylvania Professor Benjamin Lee, one of the project leads, said the project's focus on the environment is secondary and its work might be safe, since AI energy demands continue to be relevant to the new administration.
"My perspective is I'm waiting and seeing to see what specifics will come down the pipeline," Lee said.
Yes, but: A different researcher on the same project - Carnegie Mellon University assistant professor Emma Strubell - said she is "extremely concerned, particularly for our work on environmentalsustainability."
Strubell said of the administration's moves: "Likely deliberate ambiguity to confuse, discourage, disorganize."


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
