




The Daily Caller
January 29, 2025 Wednesday 01:29 AM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: DAILY-CALLER-NEWS-FOUNDATION; politics
Length: 628 words
Byline: Hailey Gomez, General Assignment Reporter, 
Body



President Donald Trump's administration on Tuesday offered a “payout” to government employees who didn't plan on returning to the office, according to a U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM) email.
The OPM  an email to millions of federal employees offering deferred compensation through Sept. 30, provided they submit their resignation notices by Feb. 6, according to a press release from OPM and first reported by . An estimated 5%-10% of the federal workforce are expected to quit, according to Axios and , potentially saving $100 billion. 
In the email sent to federal employees, workers were informed that the Trump administration would be reforming the workforce through four pillars: requiring a return to the office, focusing on a performance culture, creating a “more streamlined and flexible workforce,” and enhancing the standard of conduct.
“If you choose to remain in your current position, we thank you for your renewed focus on serving the American people to the best of your abilities and look forward to working together as part of an improved federal workforce,” the email states.  “At this time, we cannot give you full assurance regarding the certainty of your position or agency but should your position be eliminated you will be treated with dignity and will be afforded the protections in place for such positions.”
Following Trump's inauguration, the president signed an  requiring agencies to end remote work, directing federal employees to return to in-person work on a “full-time basis.” A senior administration official told Axios on Tuesday that the email was reportedly sent to gauge if federal employees would be “on board” with the new administration's in-office plan “and adhering to higher standards.”

The U.S. Capitol Building is surrounded in the early morning mist on September 18, 2024, in Washington, DC. (Photo by J. David Ake/Getty Images)
“American taxpayers pay for the salaries of federal government employees, and therefore deserve employees working on their behalf who actually show up to work in our wonderful federal buildings, also paid for by taxpayers,” White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt said in a statement, according to NBC News.
“If they don't want to work in the office and contribute to making America great again, then they are free to choose a different line of work, and the Trump Administration will provide a very generous payout of 8 months.”
The report follows Trump's move to end diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI)  in the federal government, signing an executive order on Jan. 21. The order ends “radical and wasteful government DEI programs and preferencing,”  former President Lyndon B. Johnson's 60-year-old executive order that established affirmative action.
In response, OPM acting Director Charles Ezell sent a  Friday to department and agency heads, stating that in accordance with the order, “each agency, department, or commission head shall take action to terminate, to the maximum extent allowed by law, all DEI, DEIA, and 'environmental justice' offices and positions within sixty days.”
The White House did not immediately respond to the Daily Caller News Foundation's request for comment.
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Graphic

 
US President Donald Trump looks on after delivering remarks at the House Republican Members Conference Dinner at Trump National Doral Miami, in Miami, Florida on January 27, 2025. (Photo by MANDEL NGAN/AFP via Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
