




MailOnline
January 30, 2025 Thursday 12:14 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:2
Length: 928 words
Byline: Stephen M. Lepore For Dailymail.Com
Body


PODCAST: Get the latest insider news and gossip on our new politics show - Welcome to MAGAland. Listen wherever you get your podcasts
                     Elon Musk is bringing his 'hardcore' work ethic to DOGE as he's reportedly told allies he's been sleeping in their Washington offices. 
The DOGE chairman has kept at the same pace as Donald Trump's fast-moving administration, already pitching several ideas and ensuring that Trump's vision is carried out at the highest level.
Now, it appears he's first to arrive and last to leave, telling multiple associates that he's been offered the Lincoln Bedroom by the administration, Wired reported.
Musk claims he has settled for the DOGE office in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building, not far away.
The Tesla CEO was put there to create some boundaries between himself and the president after Chief of Staff Susie Wiles denied him an office in the West Wing.
He supposedly told allies this at The Alfalfa Club, an exclusive Washington gathering that exists only to hold an annual black tie banquet on the last Saturday of January at the Capital Hilton.
Musk is known for his 'hardcore' work habits and for demanding similar ethic of his employees. 
The billionaire Tesla founder in 2022 sensationally took over Twitter and renamed it X to much dismay from staff, 80 per cent of whom found themselves unceremoniously sacked.
At the time, he sent a letter to staff titled: 'A Fork in the Road' which warned he needed to be 'extremely hardcore' in order to 'build a breakthrough Twitter 2.0 and succeed in an increasingly competitive world.'
'This will mean working long hours at high intensity,' he told staff. 'Only exceptional performance will constitute a passing grade.'
Musk offered employees a link to click if they were certain they wanted to 'be part of the new Twitter.'
Anyone who did not click the link by 5pm the very next day were immediately handed three months severance pay and let go. 
'Whatever decision you make, thank you for your efforts to make Twitter successful.' 
Donald Trump's letter to federal employees was revealed and illustrates the stark similarities between the two - including the same exact title - suggesting that 'First Buddy' Musk has had a significant role in shaping the policy.
'If you choose to remain in your current position, we thank you for your renewed focus on serving the American people to the best of your abilities and look forward to working together as part of an improved federal workforce. 
'At this time, we cannot give you full assurance regarding the certainty of your position or agency but should your position be eliminated you will be treated with dignity and will be afforded the protections in place for such positions.
'If you choose not to continue in your current role in the federal workforce, we thank you for your service to your country and you will be provided with a dignified, fair departure from the federal government utilizing a deferred resignation program.'
Musk has since shared on X that he commissioned an artwork of an enormous fork standing in the road.
'Two years ago, I commissioned an art piece: A Fork in the Road,' he wrote.
'Had to make sure that civilization took the path most likely to pass the Fermi Great Filters.'
The art piece is located at the Tesla HQ in Texas.
Musk's role with the Department of Government Efficiency is primarily to reduce unnecessary government spending.
'DOGE is saving the Federal Government approx. $1 billion/day, mostly from stopping the hiring of people into unnecessary positions, deletion of DEI and stopping improper payments to foreign organizations, all consistent with the President's Executive Orders,' DOGE said in a statement.
'A good start, though this number needs to increase to > $3 billion/day.'
Musk's DOGE has hit the ground running much like the rest of the Trump administration in the first week on the job.
DOGE has set to work removing the Chief Diversity Officers Executive Council website from the U.S. Office of Personnel Management. 
                     President Trump has been highly vocal about his intention to dismantle diversity, equity and inclusion offices across federal government, describing them as 'Marxist.' 
'I will end all of the Marxist diversity, equity and inclusion policies across the entire federal government immediately,' Trump said in December.
Prior to Trump reclaiming the White Hosue, the website described its services as the 'principal interagency forum to implement and sustain a national strategy for DEIA across Federal government.'
But Musk's call to wipe the website from the personnel platform indicates the entire department will be - or has already been - shuttered.
The department is also looking into stopping production of the penny to save taxpayers money. 
In a post on X, the group pointed out that a penny now costs three cents to make - triple its value. 
That cost taxpayers a whopping $179 million in fiscal year 2023, the post said. 
DOGE has been tasked with coming up with recommendations on how to cut federal spending. 
It's unclear if it would advise permanently killing off the penny, or just halting or trimming the penny's production. 
Musk's DOGE has been tasked with reducing government expenditure and improving productivity within the public service.
He claims it can save $1trillion - but that number has already been worked down from the initial $2trillion he promised recently.
For the latest White House gossip and news, listen to the Daily Mail's new politics podcast, Welcome to MAGAland. Available wherever you get your podcasts now. 

Load-Date: January 30, 2025


End of Document
