




TheHill.com
January 29, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 NEXSTAR MEDIA INC.  All Rights Reserved


Section: US POLITICS NEWS
Length: 442 words
Byline: Cheyanne M. Daniels
Body


President Trump fired two of the three Democratic commissioners who enforce civil rights in the workplace Monday, extending his purge of diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) in the federal government. 
Charlotte Burrows and Jocelyn Samuels of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) confirmed their firings to The Associated Press on Tuesday. 
Both are in the process of finding ways to challenge Trump’s decision, arguing their dismissal before the end of their five-year terms undermines the EEOC’s independence.
“Removing me from my position before the expiration of my Congressionally directed term is unprecedented, violates the law, and represents a fundamental misunderstanding of the nature of the EEOC as an independent agency – one that is not controlled by a single Cabinet secretary but operates as a multi-member body whose varying views are baked into the Commission’s design,” Samuels said in a statement. 
“The President’s action undermines the stability and continuity of EEOC’s critical work to advance equal opportunity and fair treatment. It disserves both workers and employers, who rely on the EEOC to inform them about their rights and responsibilities, provide guidance about how to comply with the law, and promote accountability when discrimination has occurred. These removals leave the EEOC without a quorum, which hobbles the agency’s ability to protect workers from unlawful discrimination.”
The EEOC is a five-member bipartisan panel that was created under Title VII of the 1964 Civil Rights Act. Its goal is to protect workers from discrimination on the basis of race, gender, disability and other protected identity statuses. 
While the president does appoint the commissioners and the Senate confirms them, their terms are staggered to intentionally overlap presidential terms in an effort to help ensure the agency’s independence.
Trump has been working to cut federal DEI programs and policies, a promise he made on the campaign trail. But all three Democratic commissioners condemned his executive orders  in the federal workforce and private companies, along with protections for transgender workers. 
Rep. Bobby Scott (D-Va.) blasted Trump for the decision and expressed concerns around the agency’s ability to remain nonpartisan. 
“Ensuring that the EEOC can carry out its vital work should not be a partisan issue.  In the end, President Trump’s actions fundamentally hurt workers and undermines the civil rights laws of this nation,” said Scott, ranking member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. 


Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
