




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 23, 2025 Thursday 12:04 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 765 words
Byline: Delano Massey
Body


January 22nd, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
National Urban League president   
Why it matters: Morial's comments came during a meeting of more than a dozen leaders - across racial, ethnic, and religious communities - gathered in D.C. to strategize a response just hours after Trump, fulfilling a campaign promise, moved against 60-year-old government guidelines  
What they're saying: "We knew [Trump] was coming with it early, so we took a shot and planned the roundtable two days after the inauguration," Morial told Axios after the Demand Diversity Roundtable event at the National Press Club.
"It was important to make our statement early, and with as many leaders in the room as possible," he said.
Zoom out: Trump's order revoked one President Lyndon Johnson signed in 1965, more than two years after the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. gave his " 
LBJ's order gave the secretary of labor the authority to ensure equal opportunities for people of color and women in federal contractors' recruitment, hiring, training and other employment practices.
Zoom in: Organizers said they gathered community leader from across the nation to discuss how to confront disinformation campaigns targeting diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) programs, reaffirm their commitment to civil rights and expose divisive myths.
"We stand with the 81% of Americans who support economic opportunity, who support diversity, equity, and inclusion. And we stand against any effort - by anyone, through any method - to reverse the gains of the last 70 years," Morial said before opening up the discussion.
Referencing the Civil Rights Act of 1964 as the " 
"Diversity, equity, and inclusion are aligned with American values," he said. "They are about uniting us, not dividing us. Efforts to paint DEI as a preference program are nothing more than campaigns of smear and distortion."
Morial drew parallels between those historic efforts and the battle against disinformation and political backlash.
"We will not allow unlawful, extra-constitutional, and ill-advised actions to undo the hard work of many generations of Americans. This is a moment to recommit to the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the values that have guided us for six decades."
The big picture: Civil rights advocates believe  
"Nothing that's happening right now is accidental," said Amy Spitalnick, CEO of the  
She pointed to a recent  
"Advancing diversity, equity, and inclusion is not just about values or the deep diversity within the Jewish community - it's about ensuring that every community has a fair shot," she said. "Diversity and pluralism are our greatest strengths."
Latino leaders highlighted the economic and social fallout of DEI rollbacks, while Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) leaders emphasized how these policies deepen inequalities, harm local economies, and hinder progress toward an inclusive democracy.
"Anti-diversity is anti-business," said Brenda Victoria Castillo, president of the  
"Opponents attack DEI because it works," said Gregg Orton, national director of  
The bottom line: The message from the roundtable was clear: Defending DEI is not just about protecting civil rights but about preserving the nation's soul.
"We won't stand idly by," said Derrick Johnson, president of the NAACP. "Our coalition is stronger than the fears that divide us-and this fight is just beginning."
Go deeper:  


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 22, 2025


End of Document
