




The Guardian (London)
February 6, 2025 Thursday 11:13 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved


Section: US NEWS; Version:32
Length: 9686 words
Byline: Helen Sullivan (now); Robert Mackey, Alice Herman and Christy Cooney (earlier)
Highlight: This live coverage has ended. You can find all of our US politics coverage here
Body


block-time published-time 2.50am GMT 
This live coverage is ending now, thanks for following along. You can find all of our US politics coverage .  
block-time published-time 2.48am GMT 
United States Federal Election Commission commissioner and chair Ellen Weintraub said on Thursday she received a letter from Donald Trump that purports to fire her but added that the action was illegal.
In a post on X, Weintraub attached the January 31 letter signed by Trump which said: “You are hereby removed as a member of the Federal Election Commission, effective immediately.”
Since taking office last month, Trump, a Republican, has embarked on a massive government makeover, firing and sidelining hundreds of civil servants and top officials at agencies in his first steps toward downsizing the bureaucracy and installing more loyalists.
“There’s a legal way to replace FEC commissioners – this isn’t it,” Weintraub, a Democrat, said in her post.
“I’ve been lucky to serve the American people and stir up some good trouble along the way. That’s not changing any time soon,” she added.
The FEC has more than 300 employees, with six commissioners at the top. The FEC’s vice-chair, James Trainor, is a Republican.
Weintraub has served as a commissioner on the FEC since 2002, according to the FEC website. It says she has “served as a consistent voice for meaningful campaign-finance law enforcement and robust disclosure”.
FEC commissioners are appointed by the president and confirmed by the Senate.
 Related:  
block-time published-time 2.30am GMT 
In case you missed it: Donald Trump has signed an executive order that authorises aggressive economic sanctions against the international criminal court (ICC), accusing the body of “illegitimate and baseless actions” targeting the US and Israel.
The order grants the US president broad powers to impose asset freezes and travel bans against ICC staff and their family members if the US determines that they are involved in efforts to investigate or prosecute citizens of the US and certain allies.
The hostile action against the ICC comes in response to the court’s decision in November   for Benjamin Netanyahu and his former defense minister Yoav Gallant for alleged war crimes and crimes against humanity in Gaza.
 Related:  
block-time published-time 2.17am GMT 
 Summary  
Here are the key developments from the last few hours: 
The largest US government worker union and an association of foreign service workers sued the Trump administration on Thursday in an effort to reverse its aggressive dismantling of theUS Agency for International Development (USAid).Donald Trump has signed an executive order sanctioning the international criminal court (ICC), the White House has confirmed.  The text of  , posted on the White House website, accuses the ICC of having “engaged in illegitimate and baseless actions targeting America and our close ally Israel” and abused its power by issuing “baseless arrest warrants targeting Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Former Minister of Defense Yoav Gallant”.The Senate has confirmed Russell Vought as White House budget director, putting an official who has planned the zealous expansion of Trump’s power into one of the most influential positions in the federal government.Ellen Weintraub, the chair of the Federal Election Commission, revealed on Thursday that Donald Trump has sent her a letter telling her that she had been removed from the commission.  Weintraub, a Democrat appointed to the bipartisan commission by George W Bush,   an image of the letter, which was dated 31 January.Attorney general Pam Bondi dissolved an FBI taskforce aimed at combatting foreign influence operations on Wednesday, the same day that a hoax news report linked to Russia was shared by Donald Trump’s ally, Elon Musk, and his son, Donald Trump Jr.A “DEI watch list” targeting federal employees who work in health equity-related positions spurred fear for the workers’ safety and jobs. Most of the workers included on the list are Black.A budget dispute among congressional Republicans could slow their efforts to enact Donald Trump’s legislative agenda. Trump was scheduled to meet with Republican lawmakers on Thursday as they craft a spending bill that could avert a government shutdown in March.For the second time in two days, a judge moved Thursday to block Trump’s executive order ending birthright citizenship.  The Seattle judge said Trump viewed the rule of law simply as an “impediment to his policy goals.”A judge also temporarily limited Elon Musk’s access to the Treasury’s payment system.  The order allows for two of Musk’s associates to access the system – but on a read-only basis.Even after a judge delayed a buyout offer for federal employees, Musk’s self-styled Department of Government Accountability (DOGE), continued to pressure workers to quit.  Agencies under Musk’s unofficial purview threatened workers with layoffs and implied their jobs could be replaced with artificial intelligence.DOGE reportedly accessed sensitive data from the Department of Education and used artificial intelligence to analyze it.  The data reportedly included personal and financial information.The Trump administration has dropped efforts to sanction oligarchs close to Putin.  The Joe Biden administration had implemented sanctions on Russian oligarchs in the wake of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.
block-time published-time 2.15am GMT 
House and Senate GOP leaders have been desperately looking to Trump for direction on how to proceed on their budget bill, but so far the president has been noncommittal about the details – only pushing Congress for results. Trump’s message to them Thursday was: Get it done, according to the AP. The standoff is creating frustration for Republicans as precious time is slipping and they fail to make progress on what has been their top priority with their party in control in Washington. At the same time, congressional phone lines are being swamped with callers protesting Trump’s cost-cutting efforts led by billionaire Elon Musk against federal programs, services and operations. House Republicans planned to meet into the night at the Capitol to wrap up agreement on a package they could announce before lawmakers leave town Friday. White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt told reporters the president and lawmakers were discussing “tax priorities of the Trump administration,” including Trump’s promises to end federal taxation of tips, Social Security benefits and overtime pay. Renewing tax cuts Trump enacted in 2017 also was on the agenda, she said. “The president is committed to working with Congress to get this done,” Leavitt said.
block-time published-time 2.06am GMT 
Trump hosted an unusually long meeting with House Republicans at the White House on Thursday, the AP reports, turning over prime workspace for them to hammer out differences over the size, scope and details of their multitrillion-dollar plan to cut taxes, regulations and government spending. Trump set the tone at the start of the nearly five-hour session, lawmakers said, then left them alone for a meeting that ran so long that Speaker Mike Johnson missed his own one-on-one at the US Capitol with Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who instead met with Democratic leaders and other lawmakers as the speaker’s office scrambled to reschedule. “Very positive developments today,” Johnson said once he returned to the Capitol. “We’re really grateful to the president for leaning in and doing what he does best, and that is put a steady hand at the wheel and get everybody working.”
block-time published-time 1.40am GMT 
Trump’s foreign aid freeze and the shutdown of USAid have also crippled global efforts to relieve hunger, leaving about 500,000 metric tons of food worth $340m in limbo, Reuters reports. The lawsuit alleges that dissolving USAID, which was established as an independent agency in a 1998 law passed by Congress, is beyond Trump’s authority under the constitution and violates his duty to faithfully execute the nation’s laws. It seeks a temporary and eventually permanent order from the court restoring USAid’s funding, reopening its offices and blocking further orders to dissolve it.
block-time published-time 1.27am GMT 
The largest US government workers’ union and an association of foreign service workers sued the Trump administration on Thursday in an effort to reverse its aggressive dismantling of the US Agency for International Development, Reuters reports. The lawsuit, filed in Washington DC. federal court by the American Federation of Government Employees and the American Foreign Service Association, seeks an order blocking what it says are “unconstitutional and illegal actions” that have created a “global humanitarian crisis.” Those actions include President Donald Trump’s order on 20 January, the day he was inaugurated, pausing all U.S. foreign aid. That was followed by orders from the state department halting USAID projects around the world, agency computer systems going offline and staff abruptly laid off or placed on leave. The lawsuit names Trump and the State and Treasury Departments as defendants. The White House and the departments did not immediately respond to requests from Reuters for comment. The gutting of the agency has largely been overseen by businessman Elon Musk, the world’s richest man and a close Trump ally spearheading the president’s effort to shrink the federal bureaucracy. On Monday, Musk wrote on X, the social media platform he owns, that he and his employees “spent the weekend feeding USAID into the wood chipper.” “Not a single one of defendants’ actions to dismantle USAid were taken pursuant to congressional authorization,” the lawsuit said. “And pursuant to federal statute, Congress is the only entity that may lawfully dismantle the agency.” The agency’s website now states that as of midnight on Friday “all USAid direct hire personnel will be placed on administrative leave globally, with the exception of designated personnel responsible for mission-critical functions, core leadership and specially designated programs.” The Trump administration plans to keep fewer than 300 employees, out of more than 10,000, sources told Reuters earlier on Thursday. “The agency’s collapse has had disastrous humanitarian consequences,” Thursday’s lawsuit said, including shutting down efforts to fight malaria and HIV. “Already, 300 babies that would not have had HIV, now do. Thousands of girls and women will die from pregnancy and childbirth.”
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.29am GMT
block-time published-time 1.01am GMT 
 Trump administration sued by government workers over USAid slashing  
The largest US government worker union and an association of foreign service workers sued the Trump administration on Thursday in an effort to reverse its aggressive dismantling of theUS Agency for International Development (USAid). The lawsuit, filed in Washington DC federal court by the American Federation of Government Employees and the American Foreign Service Association, seeks an order blocking what it says are “unconstitutional and illegal actions” that have created a “global humanitarian crisis.”
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.13am GMT
block-time published-time 12.55am GMT 
 Project 2025 architect Russell Vought confirmed as White House budget director  
The Senate has confirmed Russell Vought as White House budget director, putting an official who has planned the zealous expansion of Trump’s power into one of the most influential positions in the federal government.
Vought has already played an influential role in Trump’s effort to remake the federal government as one of the architects of Project 2025, a conservative blueprint for Trump’s second term. Vought was confirmed on a party-line vote of 53-47. With the Senate chamber full, Democrats repeatedly tried to speak as they cast their “no” votes to give their reasons for voting against Vought, but they were gaveled down by Sen. Ashley Moody, a Florida Republican who was presiding over the chamber. She cited Senate rules that ban debate during votes.
block-time published-time 12.24am GMT 
 Trump acts to remove chair of Federal Election Commission  
 Ellen Weintraub, the chair of the Federal Election Commission, revealed on Thursday that Donald  Trump has sent her a letter telling her that she had been removed from the commission. 
Weintraub, a Democrat appointed to the bipartisan commission by George W Bush,   an image of the letter, which was dated 31 January.
“Received a letter from POTUS today purporting to remove me as Commissioner and Chair of the FEC,” Weintraub .  “There’s a legal way to replace FEC commissioners-this isn’t it. I’ve been so fortunate to serve the American people and stir up some good trouble along the way. That’s not changing anytime soon.”
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.33am GMT
block-time published-time 12.11am GMT 
 Musk and Trump plan to fire more than  97% of USAid staff, according to reports from Reuters and the New York Times. 
The Times   :
The Trump administration will reduce the number of workers at the U.S. Agency for International Development from more than 10,000 to about 290 positions, three people with knowledge of the plans said on Thursday.
The small remaining staff includes employees who specialize in health and humanitarian assistance, the people said, speaking on the condition of anonymity because they were not allowed to publicly discuss the cuts.
Four sources familiar with the plan told Reuters “only 294 staff at the agency would be allowed to keep their jobs, including only 12 in the Africa bureau and eight in the Asia bureau”.
 Atul Gawande, who led global health programs at USAid,   a screenshot from an internal email on the planned cuts and wrote that secretary of state, Marco Rubio claims that USAid’s “lifesaving assistance for health and humanitarian needs will continue. But his team just communicated that the entire agency will be imminently reduced from 14,000 to 294 people. Just 12 in Africa”.
“We already see the shutdown’s cost,” Gawande added in a thread on Twitter/X. “Kids with drug-resistant TB, turned away from clinics, are not just dying – they’re spreading the disease. People around the world w HIV, denied their medicine, will soon start transmitting virus. The damage is global”.
Gawande wrote that one veteran foreign service officer told him: “Our government is attacking us. This is worse than any dictatorship where I’ve worked”.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.15am GMT
block-time published-time 11.36pm GMT 
 A memorial service today for three people who died in the Eaton Canyon wildfire in Los Angeles was marked by simmering anger at Donald Trump’s choice  , a town with a historic Black community that was devastated by the fire.
Two weeks ago, Trump toured damaged areas of the Pacific Palisades, a much wealthier area of Los Angeles, and spoke to affected residents there, but did not come east to visit victims in Pasadena or Altadena, where 17 people were killed.
Speaking to a full room at Pasadena’s First African Methodist Episcopal church, Rev Al Sharpton, the veteran civil rights activist, criticized Trump for his suggestions this week that the US take over Gaza, while not having met with the victims of the wildfires in Altadena, which razed entire blocks, including an estimated . 
“You’re the president of the United States. You ain’t the president of Gaza!” Sharpton said. “You got a whole community burned down that needs to be investigated. What happened? What started it and why did it expand, and why did some folk get noticed seven hours before other folks got notice? I’ve got stuff for you to do! You want to be the president, then act like the president.”
“Now you want to take Gaza. Why don’t you take here?” Sharpton also said. “Want to take something? Take Altadena. Make it the Riviera of California.”
Earlier, civil rights attorney Ben Crump had referenced Trump’s choice sarcastically.
“We were confused as to why he didn’t come to Altadena, one of the hard-hit affected areas,” Crump said. “We don’t know his reasons why he didn’t come to Altadena – ”
“You know why!” someone in the audience called out.
Rev Larry Campbell of Pasadena’s First AME Episcopal church said that 54 families in the church’s congregation had their homes destroyed in the fire, while more suffered serious damage. Family members of Erliene Kennedy, Rodney Nickerson and Evelyn McClendon spoke at the service.
“The people in this town deserve as much respect and regard and attention and accountability as anybody anywhere,” Sharpton said. “We stand with those in the Palisades and the Hollywood Hills, but let everybody stand with us, too.”
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.16am GMT
block-time published-time 10.44pm GMT 
 Trump signs executive order imposing US sanctions on the ICC  
 Donald Trump has signed an executive order sanctioning the international criminal court (ICC), the White House has confirmed.
The text of  , posted on the White House website, accuses the ICC of having “engaged in illegitimate and baseless actions targeting America and our close ally Israel” and abused its power by issuing “baseless arrest warrants targeting Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Former Minister of Defense Yoav Gallant”.
According to the order:
The United States will impose tangible and significant consequences on those responsible for the ICC’s transgressions, some of which may include the blocking of property and assets, as well as the suspension of entry into the United States of ICC officials, employees, and agents, as well as their immediate family members, as their entry into our Nation would be detrimental to the interests of the United States.
Our colleagues on the Middle East live blog are . 
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.48pm GMT
block-time published-time 10.37pm GMT 
 Bondi disbands FBI 'foreign influence task force' as Musk boosts Russia-linked hoax smearing USAid and Ben Stiller  
Attorney general Pam Bondi dissolved an FBI taskforce aimed at combatting foreign influence operations on Wednesday, the same day that a hoax news report linked to Russia was shared by Donald Trump’s ally, Elon Musk, and his son, Donald Trump Jr.
“To free resources to address more pressing priorities, and end risks of further weaponization and abuses of prosecutorial discretion,” Bondi wrote in   to all Justice department employees after she was sworn in on Wednesday, “the Foreign Influence Task Force shall be disbanded.”
The FBI website   that former director Christopher Wray established the taskforce in 2017 to combat “covert actions by foreign governments to influence US political sentiment or public discourse”.
“The goal of these foreign influence operations directed against the United States is to spread disinformation, sow discord, and, ultimately, undermine confidence in our democratic institutions and values,” according to the FBI.
And as Olga Robinson and Shayan Sardarizadeh of BBC Verify  , Elon Musk shared a   with more than 200 million followers on his social media platform X that falsely claims the United States Agency for International Development (USAid) paid more than $40m to Angelina Jolie, Sean Penn, Jean-Claude Van Damme, Orlando Bloom and Ben Stiller to get them to visit Ukraine.
The video, which carries the branding of the NBCUniversal outlet E! News, and follows the style of its celebrity reports, never appeared on any of that outlet’s social media accounts.
The hoax, Robinson reports, “is extremely similar in style” to   BBC Verify previously exposed that use fictional social media news reports to impersonate media outlets and push anti-Ukraine narratives.
One of the named stars, Stiller, made an effort to combat the disinformation running rampant on Musk’s social-media platform by writing in   there: “These are lies coming from Russian media. I completely self-funded my humanitarian trip to Ukraine. There was no funding from USAID and certainly no payment of any kind. 100 percent false”.
Despite Stiller’s effort to halt the spread of the hoax news report, it was also shared by   and    , known for her leading role in spreading wild conspiracy theories about the 2020 election.
As the video began to be debunked, with community notes added to some, but not all of the posts sharing it on X, the Kremlin-funded Russian broadcaster X used the opportunity to engage in a bit of trolling. 
RT shared the viral video, but with   that read, in part: “No, USAID didn’t pay Angelina Jolie $20m to visit Zelensky. We would gloat about it but source is this single dubious viral video. Enough real scandals without fake news”.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.35pm GMT
block-time published-time 9.34pm GMT 
 Doge staffer installed at  treasury resigns after Wall Street Journal uncovers racist posts. 
 Marko Elez, a 25-year-old engineer who obtained access to a treasury department payments system as part of his work for Elon Musk ’s “department of government efficiency” initiative, reportedly resigned on Thursday after The Wall Street Journal asked the White House about a deleted social media account that advocated for racism and eugenics.
 , recent posts on an account that once used the handle @marko_elez called for the repeal of the Civil Rights Act and supported a “eugenic immigration policy” just before Trump returned to office and empowered Musk to take a sledgehammer to federal agencies.
‘You could not pay me to marry outside of my ethnicity,’ the account wrote on X in September, according to a Wall Street Journal review of archived posts. ‘Normalize Indian hate,’ the account wrote the same month, in reference to a post noting the prevalence of people from India in Silicon Valley.
“Just for the record, I was racist before it was cool”, the account holder posted in July.
A lawyer for the government confirmed in federal court on Wednesday that Elez, who had previously worked for Musk at SpaceX, Starlink and X, had access to US treasury payment systems that contain the sensitive personal information of millions of Americans.
Sources   earlier this week, that Elez had been granted the ability “not just to read but to write code on two of the most sensitive systems in the US government: the Payment Automation Manager and Secure Payment System at the Bureau of the Fiscal Service (BFS). Housed on a secure mainframe, these systems control, on a granular level, government payments that in their totality amount to more than a fifth of the US economy.”
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.38pm GMT
block-time published-time 9.00pm GMT 
 Summary of the day so far  
 Here’s what has been in the news this afternoon: 
A “DEI watch list” targeting federal employees who work in health equity-related positions spurred fear for the workers’ safety and jobs. Most of the workers included on the list are Black.A budget dispute among congressional Republicans could slow their efforts to enact Donald Trump’s legislative agenda. Trump was scheduled to meet with Republican lawmakers on Thursday as they craft a spending bill that could avert a government shutdown in March.For the second time in two days, a judge moved Thursday to block Trump’s executive order ending birthright citizenship.  The Seattle judge said Trump viewed the rule of law simply as an “impediment to his policy goals.”A judge also temporarily limited Elon Musk’s access to the Treasury’s payment system.  The order allows for two of Musk’s associates to access the system – but on a read-only basis.Even after a judge delayed a buyout offer for federal employees, Musk’s self-styled Department of Government Accountability (DOGE), continued to pressure workers to quit.  Agencies under Musk’s unofficial purview threatened workers with layoffs and implied their jobs could be replaced with artificial intelligence. DOGE reportedly accessed sensitive data from the Department of Education and used artificial intelligence to analyze it.  The data reportedly included personal and financial information. The Trump administration has dropped efforts to sanction oligarchs close to Putin.  The Joe Biden administration had implemented sanctions on Russian oligarchs in the wake of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. 
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.03pm GMT
block-time published-time 8.52pm GMT 
 After Donald Trump issued an executive order to ban diversity, equity and inclusion efforts, dozens of workers have been fired from their positions in the civil service. 
In an attempt to aid in the purge, a Heritage Foundation-linked group published a list of employees who work in health equity, most of whom are Black, and asked Trump to fire them. 
The “DEI watch list,” created by the rightwing nonprofit American Accountability Foundation, included the photos and work history of the employees it targeted – causing the workers to fear for their safety. 
 Related:  
block-time published-time 8.44pm GMT 
 Trump halts effort to sanction oligarchs close to the Kremlin  
 Donald Trump is disbanding an effort started after Russia’s 2022 invasion of Ukraine to enforce sanctions and target oligarchs close to the Kremlin, Reuters reports. A memo from Attorney General Pam Bondi, issued on Wednesday during a wave of orders on her first day in office but not previously reported, said the effort, known as Task Force KleptoCapture, will end as part of a shift in focus and funding to combating drug cartels and international gangs. “This policy requires a fundamental change in mindset and approach,” Bondi wrote in the directive, adding that resources now devoted to enforcing sanctions and seizing the assets of oligarchs will be redirected to countering cartels. The effort, launched during Democratic President Joe Biden’s administration, was designed to strain the finances of wealthy associates of Russian President Vladimir Putin and punish those facilitating sanctions and export control violations.
 Related:  
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.54pm GMT
block-time published-time 8.25pm GMT 
 Politico clarifies it is not funded by government after rightwing claims  
 In a statement, Politico’s CEO and editor-in-chief responded to  , echoed by Donald Trump and Elon Musk, that the outlet is bankrolled by the US government. 
The outlet clarified that Politico does not receive any government funding, while private companies, organizations and government agencies may pay to subscribe to Politico Pro for specialized reports.
“They subscribe because it makes them better at their jobs — helping them track policy, legislation, and regulations in real-time with news, intelligence, and a suite of data products,” they wrote in the statement.
 Related:  
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.48pm GMT
block-time published-time 8.10pm GMT 
 Musk's Doge uses AI to process sensitive education department information - report  
 Elon Musk’s associates at the tech billionaire’s self-styled Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) have reportedly used artificial intelligence to process sensitive data from the Department of Education. 
According to the Washington Post, the operatives   to analyze spending by the Department of Education. Some of the information included sensitive employee and financial data. 
Meanwhile, Donald Trump is reportedly considering   to dismantle the Department of Education, including one proposal to abolish the department entirely. Dozens of employees of the education department were reportedly put on leave following Trump’s orders to ban diversity, equity and inclusion programming in the federal government. 
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.45pm GMT
block-time published-time 7.59pm GMT 
Democratic lawmakers are seeking an inquiry into possible security breaches by Elon Musk and his operatives, reports the Guardian’s   :
Democrats are demanding an investigation into potential national security breaches created by Elon Musk’s   through his self-styled “department of government efficiency” (Doge).
In a letter published on Thursday, the members of the House oversight committee say they are worried that Musk and his operatives have illegally accessed classified information and sensitive personal data at agencies including the   (OPM), the US treasury and the US Agency for International Development (USAid).
“There is no evidence that he, or any of his associates working under the ‘Doge team’ moniker, are entitled to access our government systems, nor is there any evidence that they have undergone the proper vetting to ensure the security of taxpayer and government data,” the letter said.
 Related:  
block-time published-time 7.44pm GMT 
 Musk's Doge continues efforts to push out federal workers despite judge ruling on buyout - report  
 Even as a judge blocked a buyout offer for federal employees, Elon Musk has continued his effort to push federal workers out of their jobs.  
According to a   by Politico, officials at the agencies now overseen by Musk’s unofficial Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) have peppered employees with messages urging them to take the offer – or brace for layoffs. In one email, an official suggested the government would cut “redundant business functions and associated staffing” and was considering implementing artificial intelligence.
Meanwhile, Musk has continued to regularly share posts throughout the day on X promoting DOGE and the idea that the civil service is rife with fraud. 
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.52pm GMT
block-time published-time 7.27pm GMT 
 Judge temporarily limits Doge's access to highly sensitive treasury payment system  
 A judge has   the unofficial Department of Government Efficiency (Doge)'s ability to access the highly-sensitive payment system of the US Treasury that Musk’s associates reportedly   to use to block USAID payments. 
The ruling marks the first time that the courts have limited DOGE, which, in the last two weeks, has dug into the federal bureaucracy, pushing to shut down USAID and sowing chaos in the civil service.
It comes in response to unions that represent federal employees accusing the Treasury of unlawfully sharing personal employee data with DOGE. The   named two DOGE associates who could be given access to the payment system – but on a read-only basis.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 7.28pm GMT
block-time published-time 7.13pm GMT 
 A judge has moved to block Donald Trump’s executive order seeking to end birthright citizenship in the US, the second such ruling in two days. 
On Thursday, the Seattle judge, John Coughenour,  , “It has become ever more apparent that to our president the rule of law is but an impediment to his policy goals.” 
Wednesday, a judge temporarily paused Trump’s order, which sought to prevent the US-born children of undocumented immigrants from obtaining automatic citizenship. The fourteenth amendment protects birthright citizenship, a right that was recognized by the US supreme court in 1898.
block-time published-time 6.53pm GMT 
 Donald Trump is meeting with congressional Republican leadership Thursday to discuss a budget bill that has generated conflict within the GOP caucus. 
The proposed spending bill will attempt to turn Trump’s agenda into legislation, touching on immigration, energy and taxes, and while the senate Republican leadership has signaled they are ready to move forward with a two-part piece of legislation, Trump has suggested he prefers a single measure to deliver his agenda. 
The conflict underscores how narrow the Republicans’ majority in the house is: with 218 Republicans to 215 Democrats, the Republicans need nearly every vote to pass legislation. 
block-time published-time 6.28pm GMT 
The Heritage Foundation funded the group compiling a list of federal employees to be targeted for firing under the Trump administration, the Guardian’s   reports:  A rightwing group that has created a series of blacklists to target federal workers it believes the   should fire has received funding for the project by the thinktank behind Project 2025.
A recent list created by the American Accountability Foundation called the “DEI Watch List” includes mostly Black people with roles in government health roles alleged to have some tie to diversity initiatives. Another targets education department employees in career roles who “cannot be trusted to faithfully execute the agenda of the elected President of the United States”. One calls out the “most subversive immigration bureaucrats”.
Tom Jones, the president of the American Accountability Foundation, said the organization had plans to add to its existing lists and create more. The group was designed to go after the “DC bureaucrats and leftist organizations” that had been allowed “to subvert, obstruct, and sabotage the America First agenda”, according to its website. 
 Related:  
block-time published-time 5.59pm GMT 
 Summary of the day so far  
 Here’s a recap of developing news today so far: 
The Senate appears poised to confirm the nomination of Russell Vought to lead the powerful Office of Management and Budget, despite intense Democratic opposition. Senate Democrats held an overnight floor session in the senate to deliver speeches decrying Vought, an architect of Project 2025 who would likely attempt to further consolidate executive authority under Trump if confirmed.Trump attended the National Prayer Breakfast in Washington, an annual gala, where he said he had plans to create a task force to root out “anti-Christian bias” and floated possible changes to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).The deadline for federal workers to accept offered buyouts approaches tonight,  leaving federal employees to wonder whether the promised benefits are really on offer, and whether they will be laid off if they choose to stay – a possibility   by top Trump officials.CNN reported that top associates of Elon Musk sought to use the highly-sensitive Treasury payment system to block funding for the US Agency for International Development (USAID), sparking fears of overreach by the unelected government employee and his staff.Trump is expected to sanction the International Criminal Court in an executive order,  accusing the court of improperly investigating the US and Israel. In November, the ICC issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and top Hamas leadership.A federal judge said he stood ready to enforce his order for the Trump administration to end its freeze on federal grant funding.  States have reported programs like Head Start still struggling to access their funding despite the Trump administration rescinding its pause on such funding and a court order to do the same.
block-time published-time 5.28pm GMT 
 A federal judge on Thursday said he stood ready to enforce an order he issued blocking Donald Trump’s administration from freezing federal grants, loans and other financial assistance after Democratic-led states said billions of dollars in funding was still being tied up, Reuters reports. US District Judge John McConnell in Providence, Rhode Island, during a virtual court hearing, said state agencies had a “rightful concern” that they were still not able to fully access money nearly a week after he issued his temporary restraining order. He issued that 31 January order at the behest of Democratic attorneys generals from 22 states and the District of Columbia, determining it was necessary even after the White House’s Office of Management and Budget rescinded its wide-ranging directive that had announced the funding freeze.
block-time published-time 5.25pm GMT 
 The Trump administration sued the state of Illinois and the city of Chicago in federal court Thursday, accusing both of impeding the administration’s immigration enforcement efforts. 
On Wednesday, US attorney general Pam Bondi, issued a memo announcing her plan to withhold federal funding from “sanctuary cities” that refrain from aiding the administration in its deportation efforts. 
The lawsuit   Trump’s day one executive order to declare an emergency at the southern border of the US and claimed the jurisdictions had launched an “intentional effort to obstruct the Federal Government’s enforcement of federal immigration law.” 
Illinois and Chicago policies limit local law enforcement officers’ ability to aid federal immigration enforcement efforts.
block-time published-time 4.58pm GMT 
 Trump to sanction ICC in new executive order - report  
 Donald Trump will   sanction the International Criminal Court (ICC) by executive order Thursday over the court’s investigations into the US and Israel. 
The ICC issued simultaneous arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his defense minister and top Hamas military leadership in November 2024. The US rejected the court’s warrant for Netanyahu’s arrest and Netanyahu visited the country this week. 
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 5.02pm GMT
block-time published-time 4.37pm GMT 
 Musk sought to use Treasury system to block USAid funding - report  
 According to new   by CNN, associates of Elon Musk sought to use the highly-sensitive Treasury payment system to block funding for the US Agency for International Development (USAID). 
According to the report, a Musk associate asked the acting Treasury secretary, David Lebryk, to stop USAID payments using the Treasury’s internal payment system. When Lebryk pushed back, saying he lacked the “legal authority” to do so, Musk’s lieutenant suggested it would be illegal for Lebryk not to comply. 
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.43pm GMT
block-time published-time 4.17pm GMT 
 The Trump administration ramped up pressure on US government workers on Thursday to accept a buyout offer ahead of a midnight deadline as labor unions urged members to remain in their jobs and sought to block the proposal in court, Reuters reports. In emails sent out on Thursday, the administration emphasized that the offer expires at 11:59 p.m. eastern time and told workers that those who do not accept it could still lose their jobs. “At this time, we cannot give you full assurance regarding the certainty of your position,” the message read, according to a copy seen by Reuters.
block-time published-time 4.11pm GMT 
 Trump says attorney general will lead task force to root out 'anti-Christian bias'  
 Donald Trump said Thursday that he wants to root out “anti-Christian bias” in the US, announcing that he was forming a task force led by Attorney General Pam Bondi to investigate the “targeting” of Christians, the Associated Press reports. Speaking at pair of events in Washington surrounding the the National Prayer Breakfast, Trump said the task force would be directed to “immediately halt all forms of anti-Christian targeting and discrimination within the federal government, including at the DOJ, which was absolutely terrible, the IRS, the FBI — terrible — and other agencies.” Trump said Bondi would also work to “fully prosecute anti-Christian violence and vandalism in our society and to move heaven and earth to defend the rights of Christians and religious believers nationwide.” The president’s comments came after he joined the National Prayer Breakfast at the Capitol, a more than 70-year-old Washington tradition that brings together a bipartisan group of lawmakers for fellowship, and told lawmakers there that his relationship with religion had “changed” after a pair of failed assassination attempts last year and urged Americans to “bring God back” into their lives. An hour after calling for “unity” on Capitol Hill, though, Trump struck a more partisan tone at the second event across town, announcing that, in addition to the task force, he was forming a commission on religious liberty, criticizing the JoeBiden  administration for “persecution” of believers for prosecuting anti-abortion advocates.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.42pm GMT
block-time published-time 3.56pm GMT 
 Senate Democrats’ marathon session to oppose Russell Vought’s confirmation as head of the Office of Management and Budget continued through Thursday morning. 
During the session, senators described the Trump administration’s efforts to sharply curtail congressionally-appropriated funding for federal grants as unconstitutional – and pointed to Vought’s support for such policies. 
“At stake is our very notion of self-government, a notion that Mr. Vought appears to disdain,” said New Hampshire senator Maggie Hassan. “The right of congress, the first of the three branches of government provided for in the constitution, to make laws and appropriate funds, was made clear first in our constitution and then in the Impoundment Control Act of 1974.” 
Vought’s think tank, Center for Renewing America, has called the Impoundment Control Act – which limits the president’s ability to temporarily withhold congressionally-approved funding – unconstitutional. 
block-time published-time 3.42pm GMT 
 Democrats sound alarm about Project 2025 architect in leading budget role  
 During their protest of Russell Vought’s confirmation, Senate Democrats sounded the alarm about Vought’s role in drafting Project 2025 and his support for vastly expanding the power of the president. 
Vought, said Wisconsin senator Tammy Baldwin at 10:30 pm eastern time on Wednesday, “has openly called for the president to defy congress and take control of federal funding decisions that are constitutionally vested in the legislative branch.” 
Schiff accused the Trump administration of unlawfully attempting to break down the separation of powers and said Vought would play a role in aiding that effort.
“This is an effort to try to consolidate power, all the power of this government, in the hands of Donald Trump and a few of his hand-picked very wealthy, billionaire friends,” said California Democrat Adam Schiff. 
“Russell Vought is an extremist who will betray working families, will betray your family, and there’s simply no other way to put it,” said Nevada senator Jacky Rosen Thursday morning. “After all, he was the main architect behind [the] Project 2025 agenda.” 
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.42pm GMT
block-time published-time 3.06pm GMT 
 Democrats have objected strongly to Vought’s nomination, boycotting a vote by the Senate budget committee to pass his nomination along to the full Senate and holding overnight speeches from Wednesday to Thursday in protest. 
“Why on earth would any one of us confirm someone whose entire game plan is to break the law and dare the world to stop him?” said Senator Patty Murray, the Washington Democrat who serves as vice chair of the Senate Appropriations Committee. 
block-time published-time 2.50pm GMT 
 Who is Russell Vought, Donald Trump’s pick to lead the Office of Management and Budget?  
Russell Vought, a key Trump ally who helped architect the Heritage Foundation’s notorious Project 2025 – a strategy document laying out plans for a rightwing presidency – is an experienced Washington operative. He filled the role of OMB director at the end of Trump’s first term and when the president left office, founded a thinktank and began plotting out policy ideas for a possible second Trump term.
His think tank, called Center for Renewing America, has advocated for the use of the Insurrection Act to send the military to the US-Mexico border, and for the president to take unprecedented control over the budgetary process – which is legally controlled by Congress.
In addition to his experience in DC, Vought is known for his far-right and Christian nationalist beliefs, and has reportedly   into Trump’s administration.
According to reporting by ProPublica and the research group Documented, Vought has advocated for a strategy to demoralize and reduce the size of the civil service by villainizing them.
“We want the bureaucrats to be traumatically affected,” .  “When they wake up in the morning, we want them to not want to go to work because they are increasingly viewed as the villains.”
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.53pm GMT
block-time published-time 2.30pm GMT 
The Trump administration appears to be gaming Google to create the impression of mass deportations, by updating the timestamps on old Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) press releases, the Guardian’s   reports: 
News of mass immigration arrests has swept across the US over the past couple of weeks. Reports from Massachusetts to Idaho have described agents from Immigration and Customs Enforcement (Ice) spreading through communities and rounding people up. Quick   searches for Ice operations, raids and arrests return a deluge of government press releases. Headlines include “ICE arrests 85 during 4-day Colorado operation”, “New Orleans focuses targeted operations on 123 criminal noncitizens”, and in Wisconsin, “ICE arrests 83 criminal aliens”.
But a closer look at these Ice reports tells a different story.
That   in Colorado? It happened in November 2010. The   in New Orleans? That was February of last year.   ? September 2018. There are thousands of examples of this throughout all 50 states – Ice press releases that have reached the first page of Google search results, making it seem like enforcement actions just happened, when in actuality they occurred months or years ago. Some, such as the   in Nebraska, go back as far as 2008.
 Related:  
block-time published-time 2.21pm GMT 
 Today is the deadline for federal workers to accept a buyout offer issued to employees by the Office of Personnel Management 28 January. 
The Washington Post   that more than 40,000 people had accepted the buyout offer as of Wednesday, 5 February. Confusion over how and if, in fact, it would actually be implemented   as the deadline approached. Elon Musk, who leads the unofficial government program “Department of Government Efficiency” has touted the offer. 
Meanwhile, federal employees have described chaos and confusion after Musk and his team took over the agency that manages the federal service. 
 Related:  
block-time published-time 1.59pm GMT 
Later today, Donald Trump is scheduled to meet with Republican members of congress to discuss a budget resolution that has generated conflict among Republicans in the House over how to enact Trump’s legislative agenda. 
Delays in the budgetary process are   a result of headbutting over deep spending cuts. The government shutdown deadline is 14 March. 
block-time published-time 1.41pm GMT 
 Trump hints at possible changes to FAA  
 At the National Prayer Breakfast in Washington, Donald Trump alluded to possible changes to the Federal Aviation Administration. 
Trump spoke about the catastrophic crash that killed 67 on a passenger jet and Army helicopter that collided midair near Ronald Reagan National Airport in Washington 29 January. 
“You need one company with one set of equipment,” he said. “There are some countries that have unbelievable air controller systems, and bells would’ve gone off when that helicopter literally even hit the same height.” 
Transportation secretary Sean Duffy said at an event Wednesday that Elon Musk planned to make drastic changes to the air traffic control system. Musk’s intervention in the foreign assistance agency USAID, has involved mass spending freezes and thousands of layoffs of contractors. 
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.08pm GMT
block-time published-time 1.28pm GMT 
 Key figure in Project 2025 expected to be confirmed as Trump's budget chief  
 Democrats held the senate floor overnight last night to protest the nomination of Russell Vought to head the Office of Management and Budget. 
The Senate has been in session since 10:30 am eastern time on Wednesday, with Democratic senators holding speeches throughout the night to denounce Donald Trump’s nominee. Vought, who directed the OMB once before, during Trump’s first term, was a key figure in drafting Project 2025, the Heritage Foundation strategy document that envisions a dramatic consolidation of power by the executive branch.
If confirmed, Vought would lead the office that issued a memo to freeze federal grant funding two weeks into Trump’s presidency. Although Vought did not head the OMB at the time that the memo was issued, it neatly matched his vision for the executive branch wresting control of the budgetary process.
“They are refusing to let Russell Vought pillage programs like Head Start, like Meals on Wheels, like so many others,” said California senator Alex Padilla Thursday morning. “A question to my colleagues across the aisle: who are you more loyal to, your own constituents, or a reckless president?”
Vought is expected to be confirmed at 7pm Thursday.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.11pm GMT
block-time published-time 1.02pm GMT 
 A new and starkly different vision for the   (EPA) has been outlined by the Trump administration – one that involves mass staff cuts, an influx of industry lobbyists and, unusually, the promotion of artificial intelligence as a key agency priority. 
A   issued by new EPA administrator   to guide the agency, set up under Richard Nixon in 1970 to protect US public health and the environment, does include one referencing “clean land, air and water for every American”.
But the other four priorities move into areas beyond the traditional mission of the EPA, such as bolstering “American energy dominance”, a pledge to speed up the approvals of new projects such as oil and gas drilling, a focus on ensuring “a great comeback of the auto industry” and a promise to “make the United States the Artificial Intelligence capital of the world”.
The new set of priorities come amid tumult at the EPA, where more than 1,000 members of staff have been told they face being immediately fired. 
 Read the full story here: 
 Related:  
block-time published-time 12.46pm GMT 
 As mentioned in our opening post, President Trump’s nomination for US trade representative, Jamieson Greer, is due to attend a congressional hearing as part of his confirmation process. 
The hearing, before the Senate finance committee, will begin at 10am eastern time (3pm GMT).
Greer served as chief of staff to Robert Lighthizer, the US trade representative during Trump’s first term.
He was previously in the military, serving with the legal arm of the US air force in Iraq, and is currently an attorney specialising in international trade.
Greer is expected to say his focus would be on supporting well-paid jobs for American workers and that resilient supply chains are necessary for economic and national security.
Speaking in 2023, he name-checked the UK as a possible partner for a future free trade deal last year.
“I recommend that the United States seek market access in non-Chinese markets in incremental, sectoral and bilateral agreements with other countries,” he said.
“Focusing on trading partners such as the United Kingdom, Kenya, the Philippines and India would be a good start.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.46pm GMT
block-time published-time 12.26pm GMT 
 We have another post now from Donald Trump’s Truth Social account, this one repeating inaccurate claims about federal funds paid to political publication Politico. 
Recent days have seen a number of viral social media posts claiming that USAID, the US government’s aid agency, gave Politico $8m (£6.5m) in federal funding.
“LOOKS LIKE BILLIONS OF DOLLARS HAVE BEEN STOLLEN [SIC] AT USAID, AND OTHER AGENCIES, MUCH OF IT GOING TO THE FAKE NEWS MEDIA AS A ‘PAYOFF’ FOR CREATING GOOD STORIES ABOUT THE DEMOCRATS,” Trump wrote.
“THE LEFT WING ‘RAG,’ KNOWN AS ‘POLITICO,’ SEEMS TO HAVE RECEIVED $8,000,000. Did the New York Times receive money??? Who else did???
“THIS COULD BE THE BIGGEST SCANDAL OF THEM ALL, PERHAPS THE BIGGEST IN HISTORY! THE DEMOCRATS CAN’T HIDE FROM THIS ONE. TOO BIG, TOO DIRTY!”
It’s true that federal funds were spent with Politico, but the money was in fact used to buy subscriptions to Politico Pro, a premium service separate from the better-known website that provides in-depth analysis and digital tools for specialists and industry figures. Subscriptions typically cost thousands of dollars per year.
The $8m figure is also the amount spent by all government departments and agencies between fiscal years 2016 and 2025, conservative outlet .  The actual figure from USAID was $44,000.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.31pm GMT
block-time published-time 11.51am GMT 
 'No US soldiers needed' for Gaza plan, says Trump  
Donald Trump has said no US soldiers would be needed to enforce his plan for the US to take control of Gaza. 
“The Gaza Strip would be turned over to the United States by Israel at the conclusion of fighting,” he wrote in a post on his Truth Social platform.
He said the Palestinians in Gaza would have “already been resettled in far safer and more beautiful communities, with new and modern homes, in the region” and would “actually have a chance to be happy, safe, and free”. 
“The U.S., working with great development teams from all over the World, would slowly and carefully begin the construction of what would become one of the greatest and most spectacular developments of its kind on Earth,” he said. 
“No soldiers by the U.S. would be needed! Stability for the region would reign!!!”
block-time published-time 11.23am GMT 
 Here’s some more detail on that executive order President Trump signed on Wednesday banning transgender athletes from taking part in women’s sports. 
The order said it was intended to “protect opportunities for women and girls to compete in safe and fair sports”.
“In recent years, many educational institutions and athletic associations have allowed men to compete in women’s sports,” it read.
“This is demeaning, unfair, and dangerous to women and girls, and denies women and girls the equal opportunity to participate and excel in competitive sports.”
It called for “immediate enforcement” nationwide and threatened to cut off federal funding for any school that allows trans women or girls to compete in female competitions.
The order is likely to face legal challenges and has already drawn opposition from trans right groups.
Athlete Ally, a non-profit athletic advocacy group, said in a statement: “We’ve known this day was likely to occur for a long time, as this administration continues to pursue simple solutions to complex issues, often resulting in animus towards the most marginalized communities in our country.”
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.28am GMT
block-time published-time 11.13am GMT 
 Trump order bans trans athletes from women's sports as officials walk back from Gaza comments  
Good morning and welcome to our US politics blog, where still much of the focus is on Donald Trump’s comments on Tuesday that the US could “take over” Gaza.
  and a warning against “ethnic cleansing” from the head of the UN.
Trump officials, meanwhile, appeared intent to walk back his position and you can follow developments in our Middle East live blog here
 Related:  
Of course, there are still many other foreign and domestic developments as Trump’s second term gets under way.
On Wednesday,   and threatening to cut off federal funding for any school that allows trans women or girls to compete in female-designated sporting competitions
Meanwhile, a federal judge who already questioned the constitutionality of Trump’s birthright citizenship executive order is set to hear arguments today over a longer-term pause of the directive, which aims to end citizenship for children born to parents not legally in the country. US District Judge John Coughenour’s case in Seattle comes just a day after a Maryland federal judge issued a nationwide pause in a separate but similar case.
On tariffs, the first of 10,000 troops Mexico promised to send to its northern border after Trump agreed to delay the imposition of tariffs have arrived. Trump has said he wants the country to do more to stop the flow of fentanyl and illegal migration into the US. He has also delayed measures against Canada but is continuing with his China tariffs.
And Trump’s nominee for US trade representative, Jamieson Greer, will appear before a Senate confirmation hearing today. Greer, who served as chief of staff to the trade representative in Trump’s first term, has previously backed trade deal with a number of other countries, including the UK, and is expected to say he would focus on securing jobs that pay American workers well.
We’ll be bringing you more on these issues and all other US politics news through the day.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.51am GMT

Load-Date: February 11, 2025


End of Document
