




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 20, 2025 Monday 10:00 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 829 words
Byline: Neal RothschildBrittany GibsonRussell Contreras
Body


January 20th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
  
Why it matters: The most consequential pre-presidency in recent U.S. history has left Trump uniquely positioned to quickly impose his plans to  
Trump's also ignited a rightward tilt of corporate America, the removal of social media speech guardrails and significant geopolitical shifts.
Zoom in: This week, Biden's White House hailed a Gaza hostage and ceasefire deal - one that was made possible partly by Trump's imminent arrival.
Biden's team worked for months to secure peace, but Israel was willing to close the deal only with  
Trump has sent ripples through several countries with his -pre-inauguration musings on foreign policy.
Justin Trudeau's resignation was triggered in part by divisions  
The Overton window on     
Iran put a retaliation plan against Israel on the back burner, signaling it wants to negotiate a new nuclear deal with Trump.
The Trump effect has hit tech at a head-spinning pace.
The incoming president is trying to resuscitate TikTok, signaling that he'll sign an executive order Monday to keep the social media app alive - at least temporarily.
In a matter of weeks, Meta morphed into a Trump-hugging, MAGA-aligned fount of " 
The company's blitz of moves included loosening speech restrictions,   
These effects are cascading through Corporate America.
Several of the country's biggest companies have  
Top executives, including Zuckerberg, sense a new permission structure to  
Zoom out: Trump has cast Biden as weak, but on some policy fronts - namely immigration and the economy - Biden is leaving Trump a stronger hand than the Republican admits.
As Biden departs, border crossings are down, deportations are up and the economy is humming along, with inflation trending down.
State of play: Trump enters office with plans to deport millions of immigrants at a time when U.S. immigration courts already are on pace to decide record numbers of deportation cases - and order the most removals in five years - under Biden's push to  
Immigration courts are predicted to rule on 852,000 deportation cases from Oct. 1, 2024, to Sept. 30, 2025, according to an analysis of data by the Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse (TRAC) at Syracuse University.
If that pace continues, immigration judges will rule on more deportation cases in 2025 than in any previous year on record.
 
Illegal border crossings also have declined steadily in 2024 after a sharp drop early in the year, according to Department of Homeland Security data obtained by   
Documents obtained by the  
Those proposals could give Trump a running start for a key part of his mass-deportation plan.
On the economy, encouraging consumer price index 
Jobs reports also have been strong under Biden, whose post-pandemic recovery added  
A majority of Americans are already giving Trump credit for these economic improvements,  
Trump's challenge in the Middle East will be to help maintain the fragile peace established in Biden's  
Biden's team dismisses the notion that Trump's impending return helped clinch the deal. Asked by reporters whether Trump should get credit,  


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 27, 2025


End of Document
