




Fox News FOX NEWS @ NIGHT 11:00 PM EST
February 11, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Length: 7634 words
Byline: Trace Gallagher, Mark Meredith, Ashley Strohmier
Guests: Chuck DeVore, Sheila Nazarian, Aaron Cohen, Bethany Mandel, Elizabeth Pipko, Caroline Sunshine, Brianna Lyman, Brittany Hopper, Lynn Miller, Houman Hemmati
Body


SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Unfortunately, that's all the time we have left this evening. Thank you for staying with the Fox News Channel and we have continuing coverage.
Our friend and colleague. Let not your heart be troubled. Trace Gallagher, will take it from here. Please set your DVR, see you never, ever, ever miss an episode of HANNITY. And stay tuned for Fox's continuing coverage right here.
TRACE GALLAGHER, FOX NEWS CHANNEL ANCHOR: Good evening. I'm Trace Gallagher. It's 11:00 p.m. on the East Coast, 8:00 here in Los Angeles, and this is America's late news, FOX NEWS @ NIGHT.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MARC FOGEL, FREED AMERICAN PRISONER: Whoever has won owed so much to so many that this super organism of people that came to my support and the love that I was given to save sustain me for 3-1/2 years in a prison that had me in hospitals for more than 100 days, I was given more than 400 injections in that time.
And knowing I had the support of my fellow Pennsylvanians, my family, my friends, it was so overwhelming that it brought me to my knees and brought me to tears.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: And breaking tonight, we showed it to you live, moments ago, American teacher Marc Fogel arriving back on U.S. soil after being wrongfully detained in Russia for more than three years. We'll have a lot more on this story coming up.
And while the Trump administration is successfully getting American hostages back from places around the world, Hamas appears to be playing games.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: You know, I have a Saturday deadline, and I don't think they're going to make a deadline personally, I think they want to play tough guy, but we'll see how tough they are.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Meantime, the president signing more executive orders, targeting government waste, while Democrats struggle to play defense.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. STENY HOYER (D-MD): We need to raise every sign. We need to raise every voice.
AMERICAN CROWD: Yes!
HOYER: We need to raise hell!
REP. LINDA SANCHEZ (D-CA): Without federal workers, this country grinds to a halt. Sadly, that's exactly what these billionaire bros want to do. They want to create more chaos.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Plus, members of Trump's team busy at home and abroad appearing to dominate their to do list. But for some reason, California officials can't seem to walk and chew gum when it comes to rebuilding from the wildfires and planning for the Olympics.
We'll have more on that with our panel later. But first, Mark Meredith live in D.C., with the latest on American hostage Marc Fogel back on us terrain. Mark, good evening.
MARK MEREDITH, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Trace, good evening to you. What a night it's been. Tonight, Pennsylvania teacher, Marc Fogel is all smiles. He says he is thrilled to be back on U.S. soil.
As you mentioned. He arrived back at the White House draped in an American flag within the last hour. Since 2021, he is been in a Russian prison -- Russian prison.
Moments ago, President Trump took a victory lap for securing his release. Fogel, you may remember, was arrested while at the Moscow airport and later sentenced to 14 years in jail for traveling with a small amount of medical marijuana. His family has been spending years fighting for his release, and tonight, both President Trump and Fogel celebrate this return home.
FOGEL: I feel like the luckiest man on Earth right now. And I want you to know that I am not a hero in this at all, and President Trump is a hero.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What were the terms of this deal, Mr. President?
TRUMP: Very fair. Very, very fair, very reasonable, not like deals you've seen over the years.
MEREDITH (voice over): Not long after Fogel's release, he was spotted on a private jet sipping a cocktail, U.S. passport in hand, to look very happy there. The White House is crediting Steve Witkoff, who is a longtime Trump friend and special envoy for securing Fogel's release. He was also the highest-ranking U.S. official that we know of to visit Russia since late 2021.
Tonight, Pennsylvania Democratic Senator John Fetterman is among those praising the efforts to get this man released. He says, "Fogel's return home is long overdue, and I know all of Pennsylvania, especially his family, will be welcoming him home with open arms. I want to thank the president and Steve Witkoff for their efforts to bring Marc home.
Now, so far, there -- the Russian government has not explained what happened with this deal from their perspective. A Kremlin spokesperson today refused to talk about it. Trump said he hopes Russians relations between the U.S. will improve, as he urges Russia to end its war against Ukraine.
But as you can imagine, Trace, there's still a lot of questions about what's next to Ukraine, including some new air strikes tonight by the Russians in Kyiv. Trace.
GALLAGHER: Yes. It's interesting.
Mark, thank you very much. We appreciate your time.
Let's bring in retired Army Lieutenant Colonel Chuck DeVore. Chuck, great to have you on the show.
I mean, Fogel was not included in multiple prisoner swaps in the. Biden administration. Trump told the family -- I mean, months and months, told the family he would get him out. He lived up to his promise. I mean, it's a big victory for Fogel and for this administration, quite frankly.
CHUCK DEVORE, VICE PRESIDENT FOR NATIONAL INITIATIVES, TEXAS PUBLIC POLICY FOUNDATION: Yes, trace, it's a huge victory. And I think it really shows the contrast between the lethargic leadership under Joe Biden and the active leadership under President Trump.
I also think it's no accident that Marc Fogel was taken on August 15th, 2021. What also happened on that date? Well, that was the fall of Kabul. That was the fiasco in Afghanistan, really signaling the dysfunction and the weakness of the prior president.
And I think Putin took note of that, and, of course, took Fogel as kind of a poker chip for future bargaining.
GALLAGHER: Yes, I want to play another sound bite of Marc Fogel with the president. They had this to say earlier. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
FOGEL: I'm a middle-class school teacher, who is now in a dream world.
TRUMP: We're going to show you the Lincoln Bedroom. You know, it's a very special, special place.
(CROSSTALK)
FOGEL: I am --
TRUMP: Appropriate for tonight. Very appropriate.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: This is the kind of stuff, Chuck, that makes Americans believe that President Trump is good at the negotiating, good at foreign policy.
DEVORE: Well, again, absolutely. And I think it's also very important that you saw Steve Witkoff, a very close friend of the president, a fellow real estate developer, and someone who is named, curiously enough, the Middle East special envoy.
But, you know, news travels. And when you see such a high-profile success like this with President Putin and his government in Russia, well, news is going to travel fast in other quarters of the world, especially in the Middle East, and it's going to elevate Witkoff's prestige and credibility and prepare him to be successful in other tasks that may very well be even harder.
GALLAGHER: Yes, you talk about Witkoff in the Middle East, and all of a sudden, there is this Russia deal going.
I've got just a few seconds left for you, Chuck, but it sounds like this might be a first step to maybe ending, or at least kind of negotiating what's happening at the war in Ukraine now, because the communication lines appear to be wide open.
DEVORE: They are wide open. And let's not forget that Trump is also displaying strength. And you're not really hearing that from his chorus of critics here in America. You may have noted just a few days ago that the Trump administration was talking about lifting the restrictions on the sale and use of long-range missiles for Ukraine to be able to strike back at Russia. And things like that, because Trump's enemies here at home don't want you to believe that he would do anything that would rile up Russia.
GALLAGHER: No.
DEVORE: Well, in fact, I think that, that display of strength helped bring the prisoner back home. I really do.
GALLAGHER: Yes, I think it's a fair assessment. Chuck DeVore, great to have you on. Thank you.
The president, again, threatening that all hell is going to break out if Hamas delays the release of hostages past a noon, Saturday deadline.
Ashley Strohmier is live in New York City with the latest on a shaky cease fire in the Middle East. Ashley, good evening.
ASHLEY STROHMIER, FOX NEWS CHANNEL ANCHOR: Hi, Trace.
Yes, the clock is sticking toward a Saturday deadline for Hamas to release the rest of the hostages they took during the horrific October 7th attack. But right now, President Trump says they are playing tough guy.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: You know, the bully I've always -- and I found it throughout my life, a bully is the weakest person, and they are bullies. Hamas is bullies. The weakest people are bullies.
STROHMIER (voice over): Israeli officials are also backing Trump's demand. At the same time, amassing troops in and around Gaza in case Hamas fails to deliver the hostages.
Israel also recently backed Trump's plan for the U.S. to eventually take over the war-torn territory.
But the leader of nearby Jordan, who visited with Trump at the White House today, doesn't seem to be a big fan of the idea. Watch.
KING ABDULLAH II, KING OF JORDAN: Mr. President, I think, we have to keep in mind that there is a plan from Egypt and the Arab countries. I think the point is how to make this work in a way that is good for everybody.
TRUMP: Right.
KING ABDULLAH II: Obviously, we have to look at the best interests of the United States, of the people in the region, especially to my people of Jordan.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
STROHMIER (on camera): And Trace, Egypt did announce a summit will be held with Arab leaders later this month, to "discuss new and dangerous developments for the Palestinian cause." So, we're going to see what happens then. Back to you.
GALLAGHER: We will indeed.
Ashley Strohmier, live for us in New York. Ashley, thank you.
Let's bring in the star of Netflix's Skin Decision, board certified plastic surgeon, Dr. Sheila Nazarian; Israeli Special Operations veteran, Aaron Cohen; and from the Mom Wars, Substack, Bethany Mandel. Thank you all for coming on.
Aaron, on the war front, first to you. When you hear the president used terms like, all hell will break out. What does that mean?
AARON COHEN, ISRAELI SPECIAL OPERATIONS VETERAN: Well, here is how I would be -- let me -- let me talk to the virtual signalers who are going to be popping all over this thing in the next couple of days. First thing it means all the humanitarian aid is going to get cut off. That's going to get stopped immediately.
Israel controls the electricity and the fuel. That's going to get shut off next, because the Hamas crossed the legal border, killed 1200 people and kidnapped hundreds. Israel has no responsibility to keep that power and water going.
Three, we're talking about the immediate deportation of all Gazans, followed by immediate intensive military operations from the air, from the ground, special operations. But this time, there is going to be no Biden to hold them back, which means that Israel is going to go into every tunnel. Israel is going to go into every structure.
GALLAGHER: Yes.
COHEN: And they are going to clear out those terrorists. And then, we're talking about the potential resettlement of Jewish settlements in Gaza. It's going to be absolutely aggressive, Trace.
GALLAGHER: Trump said this, Bethany Mandel, about the hostages released over the weekend, the ones that we saw come out. It was a troubling scene to watch. He said this:
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: I watched the hostages come back today, and they look like Holocaust survivors. They were in horrible condition. They were emaciated. It looked like many years ago, the Holocaust survivors. And I don't know how much longer we can take that.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: I mean, it's unacceptable Bethany. And it seems like Hamas is trying to stop a repeat of that same scenario.
BETHANY MANDEL, CO-AUTHOR, STOLEN YOUTH: Yes, it seems clear that they released the hostages that were in the best health first, and as the hostage releases kept going, they were in worse and worse condition.
Two weeks prior, Keith Segal, who is a 65-year-old American citizen, he was also skin and bones with sunken eyes, and his appearance was really disturbing.
And then, fast forward to on Saturday, the three hostages that were released, every single person's initial gut reaction was, these are Holocaust survivors.
(CROSSTALK)
GALLAGHER: Yes.
MANDEL: And I just want the viewers to keep in mind that there are two American citizens who are presumed to still be alive, Edan Alexander, a young man from New Jersey, and Sagui Dekel-Chen, a 38 year old father of three, and he was supposed to be on the phase one list, and we desperately need all 76 hostages home, but especially, these Americans, six of whom are being held to our --
(CROSSTALK)
GALLAGHER: Yes.
MANDEL: Presumed to be alive.
GALLAGHER: And Sheila, the thing to you is, you know, we talked, the Edan's parents were out speaking today, saying they are very concerned about all the sudden the war going up.
The Wall Street Journal headline reads as follows, "Hostage accounts raise alarm about how long those left in Gaza can survive." And that this, and Edan's parents are among those.
DR. SHEILA NAZARIAN, PRO-ISRAEL ACTIVIST: Yes, you know, it makes me think, Trace, you know.
This type of statement from President Trump should have come from President Biden on October 8th.
GALLAGHER: Yes.
NAZARIAN: You know, these people were seeing be released, looking so emaciated, giving harrowing tales of being held in the dark in tunnels, no air, being given one pita bread a day just to keep them alive, no communication with each other, not even allowed to hold hands, not allowed to hug each other. I mean, it's like solitary confinement.
We know what that does not just to the body, but to the psyche.
(CROSSTALK)
GALLAGHER: Yes.
NAZARIAN: These hostages that have been released, they are not out of the woods.
GALLAGHER: Yes. And we don't know yet. I mean, we haven't gotten the psychological evaluations. We don't know anything about that.
King Abdullah of Jordan, meeting with Trump, saying that Trump is going to get talking about Gaza, the Palestinians, what to do with them -- get this across the finish line. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KING ABDULLAH II: I truly believe that with all the challenges that we have in the Middle East, that I finally see somebody that can take us across the finish line to bring stability, peace, and prosperity to all of us in the region.
And it is, I think, our collective responsibility in the Middle East to continue to work with you, to support you, to achieve those wealthy goals.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Get across the finish line, Aaron. Someone is got to take these people, and nobody wants to take these people. You've got Jordan, you've got Egypt, and they're all a little bit reticent to be able to say, OK, we're going to help you with this. They are talking but, but there is no commitment so far.
COHEN: Well, the Palestinians have tried to overthrow the Egyptians and the -- and the Jordanians.
GALLAGHER: Right.
COHEN: Keep in mind, the Jordanians receive $1.7 billion a year from the United States, of which half of that goes to their military defense.
Now, the king is the warrior king. He went viral a couple of years ago. When I look at the at the interview, and I look at him sitting with the president, there's a little bit of a jitter in his body language. I'm going to get a little Intel on you, and here is what I'm seeing.
He is absolutely terrified to take them, and he should be. However, at the end of the day, the Arabs in the Gulf states have been using the Palestinians as pawns for 75 years, and now the games are over.
GALLAGHER: Yes.
COHEN: And he knows it, and I can see it in his body language.
GALLAGHER: You had Benjamin Netanyahu, Bethany Mandel, I'd like to get both you and Dr. Nazarian's point on this, speaking today on Fox. And he said this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, PRIME MINISTER, ISRAEL (through translator): Everybody describes Gaza, as the biggest open-air prison in the world. You know why? Because they are not allowed to leave, and therefore, you know, they are just getting more and more densely populated, more miserable, overtaken time and time again by these terrorists.
And then come, President Trump, and he says, hey, open the gate. Let them leave.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Let them leave, but will somebody accept them, Bethany?
MANDEL: I mean, there is lots of Arab countries in the world and only one Jewish state.
But, you know, it's these dichotomous messages that we're hearing about Gaza, that it's an open-air prison and it's cruel to let the people leave.
What President Trump said when he first announced this plan was that it's the humanitarian thing to do. This is a wasteland. It's going to take years to even clear the rubble. If we want to do what is best on the humanitarian level for the civilians in Gaza, it's to get them out and to get them to a place where they can have a safe, secure life.
(CROSSTALK)
GALLAGHER: Yes.
MANDEL: To raise their children, not hating Israelis, not hating Jews, but to just lead a prosperous life.
GALLAGHER: Hard to get the hate out, Sheila. Your final thoughts on this.
NAZARIAN: I think Bethany is totally right. I think the only way to get the hate out is to put them in a place where their education system is different. They are not taught to hate from a young age. And also, to show them there is more to life than killing Jews. You can actually succeed and thrive.
GALLAGHER: Sheila, Aaron, Bethany, thank you all.
Well, before Elon Musk held court in the Oval Office today, Democrats were at it again in Washington, protesting the Trump administration's Department of Government Efficiency.
Bill Melugin is live with that story tonight. Bill, good evening.
BILL MELUGIN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Trace, good evening to you as well.
President Trump signed another handful of executive orders today, all aimed at reducing government waste. He also held a Q and A in the Oval Office with DOGE's Elon Musk. Take a listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: Now, we've already found billions of dollars of abuse, incompetence, and corruption. A lot of corruption.
ELON MUSK, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, SPACEX, TESLA, AND TWITTER: It's not draconian or radical, I think. It's really just saying, let's look at each of expenditures and say, Is this actually in the best interest of the people?
MELUGIN (voice over): But Democrats continue to resist DOGE. They marched in Washington today to protest the cuts DOGE is making. They also held a press conference where they bashed President Trump and Elon Musk.
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): Everyone knows there is waste in government and should be cut. But DOGE is using a meat acts.
REP. MAXINE WATERS (D-CA): Why does Elon Musk want to get rid of all of this? Because he's a thief. He is a gangster.
REP. AYANNA PRESSLEY (D-MA): Keep his grubby hands, his greedy grubby hands off of our government.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: A rally a day keeps the fascists away.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I say -- Trump!
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MELUGIN: Now, multiple Democrats also said F Trump, and some even appeared to promote physical violence against the Trump administration, while protesting DOGE.
And Trace, here is the kicker. Tonight, Elon Musk and DOGE revealed that retirements for federal workers, believe it or not, are handled in a limestone cave in Pennsylvania that's been around since the 1950s. And in that cave, everything is processed by hand with paper, in a process that takes several months to complete.
GALLAGHER: The stuff we learn every day about this is just fascinating. Bill Melugin, live with us here. Bill, thank you. Let's bring in former GOP national spokesperson Elizabeth Pipko, and former Trump 2024 deputy communications director, Caroline Sunshine.
It's great to have you both in Los Angeles. Great to have you on set.
I want to show this, because it's the newest thing we found today. It's called the DOGE tracker, Elizabeth.
And I want to put it up on the screen because it says, OK, 500 days until July 4th, 2026, $37.69 billion taxpayer dollars saved. $37.69 billion total savings. 251 per taxpayer, 1.9 progress toward the goal, 51 total initiatives. They are checking this off by next Fourth of July, they think they can save a trillion dollars.
This is the kind of stuff that people are like, little applause, little something good for what's happening here. Democrats like, oh no, it's evil.
ELIZABETH PIPKO, FOUNDER, LEST PEOPLE FORGET: Well, here's the problem, right? I want people to be honest. If Elon Musk was doing this and heading this DOGE department for a Kamala Harris administration, I'm pretty sure the Democrats would be celebrating, right?
If there is anything the American people agree on the left and the right, it's that our government that's very inefficient, that they are run very poorly, and that it needs work. Right?
So, the fact is, they're attacking Elon Musk, not because of what he is doing, because of who he's doing it for. Because he's doing it for Donald Trump, his supporters being the American people.
(CROSSTALK)
GALLAGHER: Yes.
PIPKO: And if people were a little bit more honest with themselves, I think they'd be happily, you know, ready to admit that.
GALLAGHER: Yes, and I think that's right.
Here is how Democrats are fighting back, Caroline. Watch this sound.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SANCHEZ: Let's be perfectly clear. President Trump and Elon Musk are breaking the law.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This is about his co-president, Elon Musk.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes!
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: And the billionaire boys and the way that they can expand their fortune. That's what this is about.
PRESSLEY: Elon Musk needs to keep his grubby hands, his greedy grubby hands, off of our government.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: We're going to talk more about the constitutional crisis they keep talking about, but they don't really have a cogent argument here. Caroline.
CAROLINE SUNSHINE, TRUMP 2024 DEPUTY COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR: Yes. Well, that's because DOGE isn't a constitutional crisis, it's a political crisis for the Democrats who just lost an election, where they lost all seven swing states and the popular vote. But that's not how they are behaving.
I mean, you know, the only people that I -- the only person I think the Democrats should be listening to right now is James Carville, who says Democrats need to learn to talk about the economy authentically, and do it on a podcast.
And that's not what I just saw. A constitutional crisis, like I said, it's a political crisis for the Democrats.
GALLAGHER: Yes.
Fox news.com writes the following: "Four FEMA employees fired for paying hotels for migrants in New York City. It goes on to say, the firings come after Elon Musk wrote on X, Monday, that the DOGE team just discovered that FEMA spent $59 million last week to luxury hotels in New York City to house illegal migrants.
I mean, they are getting caught red handed, doing this stuff, Elizabeth. And yet, and that people are complaining like, oh, this is a violation of our rights.
PIPKO: right. And it's crazy, because you should be ashamed to admit that it's happening, not to admit that you got caught doing it. Right?
GALLAGHER: Right.
PIPKO: Not to admit that there's a problem because it's being publicized. The fact is, $59 million, think about what that could do for homeless veterans, for American children, for those that just need a meal or a place to stay, who deserve to be taken care of by this government because they are American citizens. $59 million is a lot of money for a lot of suffering people.
(CROSSTALK)
GALLAGHER: Right.
PIPKO: And I wish they admitted the fact that they were upset that they got caught, not that someone actually, you know, found this information.
GALLAGHER: And you have people that suffered hurricanes in North Carolina and in Florida, like, maybe, you know, maybe a little money down here?
SUNSHINE: Oh my -- I think she should --I think the woman who reallocated the fund should be tried for treason. I mean that. Because she circumvented the will of the duly elected president of the United States of America, who represents the free will of the American people.
(CROSSTALK)
GALLAGHER: Yes.
SUNSHINE: And I think she endangered the American people in doing so, because she allowed those funds to go to illegal immigrants, rather than Americans suffering in North Carolina, California, East Palestine. Take your pick.
(CROSSTALK)
GALLAGHER: Yes. I want to play the sound bit. This is Sam Altman on Biden versus Trump. Very quickly.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SAM ALTMAN, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, OPENAI: The last administration was so -- the word that came out was hostile. I was a little bit too strong. But they were not friendly to tech or business. I think President Trump has such a different opinion on building things and permits and power and manufacturing the U.S.
It's a very welcome breath of fresh air.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: I mean, from hostile, Elizabeth, to welcome breath of fresh air. A guy caught.
PIPKO: Yes. And I want to keep it simple. The fact is, Democrats worry about the reputation before the American people and their well-being. Donald Trump puts the American people and their well-being first. He has no issue of being hostile with anyone once he wants the American public to feel happy and feel like they're being worked for.
(CROSSTALK)
GALLAGHER: Yes.
PIPKO: Democrats worry about the reputation and getting votes instead.
GALLAGHER: 10 seconds for you, Caroline.
SUNSHINE: I just think it's nice that we have a president and a vice president who can actually spell A.I. once again.
I don't know if we have the Kamala Harris clip, but the famous clip of her saying, you know, artificial intelligence, it's very fancy concept. It's A.I., it's two letters, two words,
GALLAGHER: Oh, Caroline. Elizabeth, thank you.
(CROSSTALK)
SUNSHINE: Breath of fresh air.
GALLAGHER: Nice to see you. Coming up, the legacy media's new line of attack. How everything Trump does is a constitutional crisis?
And defense secretary Pete Hegseth, meeting with U.S. troops in Germany, even working out with them.
And later in the "NIGHTCAP", American hostage Marc Fogel freed from Russian custody today, after Venezuela released six Americans wrongly detained.
Would these Americans be home tonight if Kamala were in house? Let us know, X and Instagram, @tracegallagher.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GALLAGHER: Well, breaking tonight, three winter storms set to cover half of the country in snow, starting on the East Coast and moving west throughout the week. The system is expected to bring wind chills well-below zero across the Northwest. More than 80 million people now under winter weather alerts across the country.
While the FOX NEWS @ NIGHT "COMMON SENSE DEPARTMENT" is glad the legacy media got the memo, the constitutional crisis memo.
The media is convinced that the actions of President Trump, like executive orders and Department of Government Efficiency, have created, or will soon create a constitutional crisis. And the fear mongering is extreme, because for the left, it's a double whammy, a constitutional crisis created by Hitler. Except he is not Hitler, and it's not a crisis.
Now, is the President pushing the envelope? Well, "COMMON SENSE" would assume that's the plan, because pushing pays dividends, and sometimes it leads to court battles, even Supreme Court battles, where, if you win, you win, if you lose, you lose.
It's only a constitutional crisis if the president refuses to follow a Supreme Court decision, which makes "COMMON SENSE" wonder why the left didn't mention this constitutional crisis stuff during Joe Biden's term, because when the High Court ruled against Biden's student loan forgiveness, he vowed to quoting here, find a new way.
And when the Court ruled against affirmative action, Biden said, quoting again, "We cannot let this decision be the last word, except it is the last word or you risk a constitutional crisis.
Common sense knows we are not experiencing a constitutional crisis, but we are experiencing a commonsensical crisis.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. PRAMILA JAYAPAL (D-WA): Trump and Vice President Vance are saying we don't have to listen to the courts. That is a constitutional crisis. And that, by the way, is how dictators come into power.
KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN HOST: We are three weeks into the second Trump presidency, three weeks, and tonight there are warnings that the U.S. is dangerously close to a constitutional crisis.
SEN. ANDY KIM (D-NJ): But we are at a point where we are basically on the cusp of a constitutional crisis, seeing this administration taking steps that are so clearly illegal.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: I guess they send it out to everybody. Let's bring in independent journalist, Brittany Hopper; and The Federalist elections correspondent, Brianna Lyman. I don't know, Brianna, I guess they just send this whole thing out to everybody because you hear it, you hear it in the legacy media again and again and again and again, constitutional crisis. And before this week, I didn't hear it one time. What do you think?
BRIANNA LYMAN, THE FEDERALIST ELECTIONS CORRESPONDENT: Three weeks ago, Biden tried to amend the Constitution via a post on X. But yes, Kaitlan Collins, please lecture me about a constitutional crisis. Look, even Clarence Thomas in 2018, he questioned the legality of district court judges issuing a nationwide injunction.
So, it's not a constitutional crisis, it's unsettled legal question. But to answer your question, the reason Kaitlan Collins, MSNBC, the New York Times call it a crisis, they understand their sole job as propagandists is to create fodder for the Democrats. The best way to do that is to create an illusion of chaos, disarray, and crisis.
GALLAGHER: And meantime, Brittany, here is the media going after both Trump and Elon, maybe 50-50, 60-40 toward Elon, watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JAKE TAPPER, CNN HOST: President Trump and first buddy, Elon Musk, at the Resolute desk in the Oval Office defending their aggressive efforts to overhaul the government and root out fraud.
DANIEL DALE, CNN SENIOR REPORTER: There are certain contracts and certain spending at the federal government that Mr. Trump and Mr. Musk don't like. That is what has largely been cancelled.
NICOLLE WALLACE, MSNBC HOST: Irony died while he was talking. The only unelected party in any of this is Elon Musk.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: They act like, Brittany, it's a popularity contest and they really are going after the stuff they don't like. They don't like waste, and they want to limit waste. And so far, it's been pretty effective.
BRITTANY HOPPER, INDEPENDENT JOURNALIST: Oh, extremely effective. And this is what we wanted. This is why so many of the American people voted for Trump. He told us this is what we're going to get, and this is why the majority voted for him. This is exactly it. And this new phrase, this new narrative that they're plugging in, it's comical at this point. Come on, give me a break.
GALLAGHER: Yes, News Busters writes the following here: "Wikipedia effectively blacklists all right-leaning media, smearing Trump, GOP, and conservatives."
Goes on to say, "A new study by Media Research Center, Free Speech America found that Wikipedia, the encyclopedia behemoth, has effectively blacklisted all right-leaning media from being used as source material, exclusively relying on leftist legacy media notoriously known to spread misinformation and attack opponents of the left."
I mean, the problem is when they do this, it just destroys Wikipedia's credibility, Brianna.
LYMAN: Absolutely. You know, Robert Conquest, he has three laws. And the second law is that any organization that is not explicitly right-leaning will sooner or later become left-wing. And that is what has happened to Wikipedia. We have seen Wikimedia, which is the parent company, 30 percent of their 2023 to 2024 budget went to DEI.
Jerry Sanger, a co-founder of Wikipedia, said it went from being a neutral, unbiased news source to basically co-opted by the left. That is what happens when you allow these people to dominate the airwaves for so long with no pushback and let them try to set the narrative.
GALLAGHER: Yes, they keep trying to raise money. They keep sending e-mails trying to raise money, and you think, you know, if you just raise your credibility and the money will follow.
Lastly, this is my favorite because I'm just kind of fascinated by this. The FBI uncovers thousands of undisclosed records, Brittany Hopper, on the JFK assassination. The FBI statement reads as follows.
"The search resulted in approximately 2,400 newly inventoried and digitized records that were previously unrecognized as related to the JFK assassination case file."
I mean, all of the sudden, the scavenger hunt gets really interesting when you might have some new information in the mix, Brittany. What do you think?
HOPPER: I mean, look, transparency is good here and with this, and there's a lot of questions that need to be answered, but I think that they're just kicking the ball here. They're just wasting time. They're wasting American people's time. That's what I think.
GALLAGHER: Well, you're ruining my mystery-wanting drive here, Brittany. What do you think, Brianna? Do you have a different take on that?
LYMAN: Well, I think that it's funny. They use the term unearth. It reminds me of when you're like unearthing pyramids. So, they actually really just opened probably a desk drawer and found these files.
More importantly, I think the American people aren't going to trust that everything we get is legitimate, or at least transparent because the fact that had this for decades means they're probably hiding more.
GALLAGHER: You know, some novelist is writing right now about the hidden JFK files. Brittany Hopper, Brianna Lyman, thank you both for coming on.
Meantime, Pete Hegseth joining American troops in Germany for training hours into his first overseas trip as Defense Secretary. Hegseth's focus is on defense spending and the war in Ukraine.
He visited commanders of the U.S. military's European and Africa commands today, and is now in Belgium, where he has meetings scheduled with his NATO counterparts tomorrow.
And coming up, what is going on in this state that we are sitting in, California? Why can't officials seem to prepare for the Summer Olympics in 2028 as they continue to rebuild from the wildfire. Some reason it's a no can do.
And new video coming into Fox News of a plane collision on a runway in Scottsdale, Arizona. All of it caught on camera. More on that next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GALLAGHER: Well, a brand-new video coming into Fox News showing the moment a private jet owned by singer, Vince Neal, of Motley Crue crashed skidded into a park plane. The jet had just touched down at Scottsdale Airport in Arizona yesterday when its front landing gear failed. One person died in the crash, four others injured. Vince Neal was not on board that plane.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KAREN BASS (D), LOS ANGELES MAYOR: To the Palisades, I want to say that L.A. is with you. L.A. will stand with you until the Palisades is completely rebuilt, and your families return home. We are going to be all in on rebuilding your home, your neighborhood, and your future.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: A big promise there from L.A. Mayor Karen Bass. So, let's talk about how the early stages of the recovery efforts from last month's wildfires are going with Board-Certified Medical Doctor Houman Hemmati; and Pacific Palisades resident, Lynn Miller. Thank you both for coming on. Lynn, she says, oh, they're all in. They're all in. Remember that. Keep this in mind.
The L.A. Times writes the following, "Faced with the enormous task of rebuilding after the Palisades fire, Los Angeles City officials can no longer oversee a major expansion of the downtown convention center in time for the 2028 Olympic Games."
Rick Caruso, who ran for mayor against Mayor Bass and lost, says the following, "It's unconscionable that the city is now saying they have to delay critical construction for the Olympics. We don't choose between rebuilding from the fires or preparing for the Olympics. We do both. I have leaders from across the private sector begging to step in and help." And yet they're like, we have no plan on how to do that.
LYNN MILLER, PACIFIC PALISADES RESIDENT: Yes, they don't have a plan for many things. They brought in Steve Soboroff to try to help rebuild the Palisades, and he's only working for three months, and he was going to make $500,000. I don't know. They've got $675 million in charitable donations. We have no idea where they're going, how we're going to get that money, who's managing that.
GALLAGHER: Yes. I mean, that's it's a very good point. You're like, what's happening here? It's almost like I hate to say this because someone's going to scream constitutional crisis, Dr. Hemmati, but it's almost like California needs a little of its own DOGE, right?
DR. HOUMAN HEMMATI, BOARD-CERTIFIED MEDICAL DOCTOR: It does, Trace. I mean, there's a reason why I created a California DOGE X or Twitter account a while back, and it's gaining a lot of steam, why? Because people want California to have accountability.
Right now, no one is watching the books. We lost 24 million in homeless money. We lost tons of other money, 30 billion or more in unemployment fraud. What California needs is a true DOGE process. I will support whichever gubernatorial candidate or candidates in 26 say they will do this.
And it starts with an audit, and from there it goes to setting our priorities like public safety, and then it goes to slashing those things like high-speed rail, like carbon capture and offshore wind, and health care for illegals, et cetera., that we don't need in this state, and can't afford. And I think once we do that, we'll save 30 billion or more a year.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Rick Grinnell who you know, Lynn. We saw him last week, or a week, a little more than a week ago, bring home some of these hostages from Venezuela. And you think it's kind of, it's amazing when he's kind of Trump's get out of a bad situation guy. He said the following this -- watch?
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) RICHARD GRENELL, SPECIAL PRESIDENT ENVOY: I do think that the Army Corps of Engineers has to move a lot faster. You've got to get more people here, more help. I know you've got one preferred contractor or whatever. Bring in three.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes, I agree.
GRENELL: Bring in four. This is massive. This is so hard for us to handle. And it's my job to bulldoze through this stuff and say, let people start cleaning up the agencies. Government is here to help the people, not the other way around.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Yes, it's not the other way around, but it is the other way around in California, and that's kind of a sad byproduct of what's happening here.
MILLER: Yes. Actually, Rick made that statement in front of my house last week in Pacific Palisades. And thanks to Rick, we did see the EPA move a lot faster and getting the houses ready for the Army Corps to come in.
I was just there today, I don't know how the Army Corps is going to get it done in a year. We, in the Palisades, are super grateful to President Trump for giving them that mandate, and they are calling it their mission, it's not going to be easy -- and they're not getting help from the city of L.A.
GALLAGHER: We reported on this, Dr. Hemmati, you know about the billions that were lost in the homeless funds. Like, where did the money go? The homeless thing increased, the money was gone, and nobody knows where it went.
So, they lost track of the homeless money, now they're losing track of the fire response money, and we learned today that, by the way, they tried to put $3 billion into health care for illegal immigrants, turned out the bill was $9 billion and people are just kind of boggled, baffled what's happening with the money in California not being able to keep track.
HEMMATI: Trace, that's true. And guess what, they knew this was going to be the case. I did the math, I'm not a health economist, right? I'm just a regular dude, and I did the math, and I was tweeting a year ago and screaming from everywhere I could that this will be $9 billion, not three. They knew it as well. They said it was three so they could sell it, get it passed.
If they said nine, no one would have agreed to it. But now that it's there, it's there. It's going to be very tough to cut. But I think it's going to have to because we simply don't have that money with a 70-plus-billion- dollar deficit for California. And now, all of the other fire expenses, et cetera. How are we going to pay for this? And I think right now we really have to take a close look at what our priorities are.
We can still take care of people without putting obscene amounts of money after it. The state has proven that we see inverse relationship between money spent and outcomes. So, I think it's really time to have some accountability and really start taking a look at where our money is going.
GALLAGHER: Lynn Miller and Dr. Houman, regular dude, Hemmati, I want to thank both of you for coming on. We appreciate it.
Well, American hostage Mark Fogle was freed from Russian custody after the Trump administration negotiated an exchange and just days after Venezuela released six Americans wrongfully detained.
Would these Americans be home tonight if Kamala Harris were in the White House? Let us know, X and Instagram, @TraceGallagher. We're back with the "NIGHTCAP" crew, which includes you, next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GALLAGHER: Back with the "NIGHTCAP" crew: Dr. Houman Hemmati, Bill Melugin, Elizabeth Pipko, Caroline Sunshine, Mark Meredith, and Ashley Strohmier. Tonight's topic, welcome home.
American hostage, Mark Fogle, freed from Russia today just days after Venezuela released six detained Americans. Would they be safely home tonight if Kamala Harris were in office? Ashley Strohmier.
STROHMIER: No, absolutely not. And I feel like with the sheer velocity that Trump is making all these moves with everything, not just this, it's showing just how incompetent the Biden administration was, and that does include Kamala Harris.
GALLAGHER: Yes, it just didn't seem, Mark Meredith, and you tell me what you think. It didn't seem like there was a priority about getting these people out.
MEREDITH: Well, we saw the largest exchange of prisoners since the Cold War in August of last year. So, we know that President Biden certainly made an effort to try to get Americans home. But your question, will we see it under a President Harris? We'll never know the answer, but you have to hope leaders of both parties would always push to get Americans back home.
GALLAGHER: You would think. Dr. Houman Hemmati.
HEMMATI: Trace, this is not a question about Trump versus Kamala Harris. This is a question about Trump versus anyone else on earth. There is no one alive on either party who has the level of commitment, determination, and frankly, for lack of a better word, chutzpah, as Donald Trump does, to be able to get things like this done.
And I think this is the tip of the iceberg, I'm hearing many, many more are in the works. This is revolutionary, and I think it speaks very well for the kind of effort that he's putting in to start his presidency.
GALLAGHER: Yes, another release as early as tomorrow. Bill Melugin, you talk about this a lot, but it's like that where Trump told the family, I'm going to get him out, and here we are 23 days in.
MELUGIN: I don't think we have to wonder if Harris would have gotten him out. She was in office for four years and they didn't get him out.
GALLAGHER: Right.
MELUGIN: And you look at Venezuela, I mean they couldn't deport a single Venezuelan back for four years. Trump gets in three weeks, Venezuelans are going back.
GALLAGHER: Yes, it's amazing. Caroline Sunshine, your thoughts on that.
SUNSHINE: You know, Trace, I don't think you have to ask me. I think you could ask Mark's family and his 95-year-old mother how much Kamala Harris did when she was in the White House for the last four years. But we're under the Trump doctrine now where we are kicking out criminal illegal immigrants and we're bringing Americans home.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Elizabeth.
PIPKO: The answer is obvious. No, I don't think Mark Fogle would be home. I don't think those who are held in Venezuela would be home. I don't think Hamas would be shaking in their boots as they are right now. The fact is, America is back better than ever. Thank God. And as crazy as things are, it would be a lot worse under Kamala Harris.
GALLAGHER: We asked you and the response is. Clinton, "No, Harris would have been a continuation of Biden. Biden was not able to move the needle there.
William says, "Absolutely not. No world leader is going to mess with Trump."
Chris says, "We still would be burdened by what has been."
Catherine, "Negotiating is a skill that only Trump has resoundingly mastered."
Paul says, "Heck no, unless it was a celebrity that brought no value to America."
Monica says, "No, the hostages are coming home because of Trump."
Cruz, "Not a chance. Nothing else would have gotten done either."
And Cooper says, "No, because she was too worried about letting illegal immigrants into America."
And the bottom line is the family really did say tonight they were very grateful and very hopeful because Trump was in office. They thought it was coming, and it did.
Thank you all for joining the "NIGHTCAP." Thank you all for watching America's late news, FOX NEWS @ NIGHT. I'm Trace Gallagher in Los Angeles. We'll see you right back here again tomorrow night.

Load-Date: February 12, 2025


End of Document
