




telegraph.co.uk
January 29, 2025 Wednesday 4:18 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: US; Version:1
Length: 1829 words
Byline: By Charles Lipson
Highlight: His second term has thus far been more productive and energetic than that of any president in history
Body


When US presidents enter their second terms, they are generally spent forces. They have either achieved their main objectives or failed to get what they hoped for. They have exhausted their policy agenda and their initial cadre of aides and Cabinet officials. The president himself is typically reduced to defending his domestic achievements, battling crises, and trying to maintain America’s position abroad. As soon as they take the oath of office for the second time, they are considered “lame ducks” because that’s how they waddle and quack.
Not Donald J Trump. The first days of his second term have been more .  They match his record for the greatest comeback in American political history. The questions facing him now are, first, how much can he accomplish before resistance sets in; second, how enduring will his policies be, especially those enacted by decree; and, finally, will his MAGA coalition outlast his presidency and transform the shape of American electoral politics?
Trump is moving with extraordinary speed on a wide range of issues. He can only do that because he knew the people he wanted to fill his new administration and because his closest aides were prepared to move fast. They knew what he wanted, and they prepared detailed executive orders for him to sign in the first 100 hours.
Trump’s showmanship – and knowledge of his base – was on full display when he signed the   on his first night as President. Mull over that for a moment. Donald Trump was able to entertain a large crowd by signing documents. They loved it because he was delivering on policies he promised, policies they wanted. “Promises made, promises kept.”
Trump could take action immediately because his top aides and .  Their fidelity to his person and his policies was a requirement for appointment and a “lesson learned” from mistakes during his first term, when senior appointees pursued their own agendas and leaked their differences with the President to the media. Those days are over.
This flurry of activity is captured by the satirical website, Babylon Bee, with its usual humour: “Exhausted Media Begs Trump to Take a Day Off.” The Democrats devoutly share that wish.
The opposition party is now in the recycling bin,  of its old leaders and old ideas. Joe Biden is politically dead. No one considers him a party leader. Even the most partisan Democrats are   he gave to family members. Polls show the public is repulsed. Many see the pardons as evidence that the family, which enriched itself while Biden was vice president, has crimes to cover up. Biden’s defence is that the pardons were necessary because the Trump administration would pursue the Bidens as vengeance.
What comes next for the Bidens? For Joe himself, total disappearance. For his presidency, revelations about his cognitive decline that were kept secret by .  For Joe and the rest of the family, potential congressional investigations. Family members could be required to testify and provide documents since their pardons eliminate their Fifth Amendment protection against testifying.
What about other Democratic leaders: former presidents, presidential candidates, and Congressional leaders? Can any lead the party forward? No. They have all been discredited. That includes their most important leaders for the past decade, Nancy Pelosi on Capitol Hill and Barack Obama, the man who picked Hillary Clinton instead of Biden as the nominee in 2016 and the power behind the throne during the Biden presidency, when the White House was packed with his former aides. The best metaphor for the party’s current condition is Pelosi’s broken hip.
When will Democrats finally have a new leader? Not until they choose a presidential nominee in 2028. Just as important, they won’t have a strategy until then, either. They will be torn between the Coastal Progressives and Midwestern Centrists. The progressives are determined to block every Trump initiative. The centrists, who come from states Trump won, are ready to make some compromises to retain their own seats.
Trump is taking full advantage of the Democrats’ disarray. The clearest indication is that no one refers to the president as a “lame duck,” even though he is, constitutionally.
The term might have applied to Trump, at least nominally, because presidents cannot serve more than two terms. That’s true even if they are non-consecutive terms, like Trump’s (the first since Grover Cleveland in the 1890s.) The two-term limit was added to the Constitution after Franklin Delano Roosevelt violated the norm, established by George Washington, that presidents step down after two terms. FDR stayed on and won the office four times, leading to the amendment after his death. That amendment is why Trump is constitutionally a “lame duck”.
He’s certainly not acting like one. He’s moving so rapidly on so many fronts, it’s hard to identify his most consequential initiatives. That overload is by design. It has overwhelmed Democrats in Congress and the mainstream media, who are still ready to oppose Trump but lack the audience to block him.
Where will Trump’s rapid actions matter most? Four major areas will have the greatest impact on American life – and on the two parties’ futures. The President is determined to:
  and remove violent criminals already in the US illegally;                                                  based on “affirmative action” and “diversity, equity, and inclusion”;                                                  which affect all consumer prices; and                       Roll back the “regulatory state”.                                        
On illegal immigration, the initial raids have focused on violent criminals and others whom courts have already ordered to leave the country. Those raids have been conducted jointly by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), the FBI, and other federal agencies, all led by Trump’s 
Homan is unapologetic in defending his actions. His media appearances make clear that the raids are focused on the most dangerous aliens but that “everybody” in the country illegally is subject to deportation. In practice, that means non-violent immigrants may be arrested if they happen to be in a house or business that is raided in pursuit of violent criminals. Blue state mayors and governors could limit “collateral” arrests by permitting ICE agents into local jails and prisons, but many are refusing to cooperate.
What to expect? First, a huge deterrent effect on illegal border crossings. That is already happening. Second, blowback from Democrats and the mainstream media over children being separated from parents who are subject to deportation. Third, possible arrests of public officials for blocking ICE’s access to illegal aliens in local custody. Finally, major court challenges to Trump’s  ” (that is, automatic citizenship for any child born in the United States, even if the parents are here illegally or as short-term visitors).
On racial preferences, meanwhile, Trump is also acting decisively to eliminate them, including those promoted under “Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion” programmes. His most important – and under-reported action – was to revoke Lyndon Johnson’s 1965 Executive Order number 11246.
As the New York Post put it, LBJ’s order “launched our decades-long imposition of de facto racial quotas under the euphemism ‘affirmative action’ ... Trump has gone beyond the boldest imagination of any previous administration,” including Ronald Reagan’s. Trump has already eliminated DEI positions  , and many private companies are following suit. Those who continue to pursue DEI policies are vulnerable to lawsuits, charged with discrimination against whites, Asians, and others.
Expect far-reaching consequences from Trump’s actions, as well as the Supreme Court’s   Expect that ruling to extend to other domains very soon.
The cumulative effect will be to eliminate a wide range of racial preferences, such as minority set-asides for construction projects, board memberships, scholarships, and more. All private firms and non-profits are now at risk if they use racial preferences in hiring, promotion, or pay.
Resistance will come from Democrats, including many moderates, who believe in these programmes as “social justice” and as political schemes to win support among African-Americans voters. But they will lose in the courts and at the ballot box.
On the economy, Trump’s biggest challenge will be passing a budget that sustains the tax cuts he made during his first term and adds some new ones, such as eliminating taxes on tips and on Social Security. That battle is still several months away. Before then, he is acting to reduce energy prices by enacting his 
More energy supplies would help directly with prices, both at the pump and at stores and supermarkets, whose goods are transported by truck. It’s still uncertain, though, how quickly new energy supplies will come onto the market and how much they will help overall price levels.
So far, the most amusing response has been from Democrats blaming Trump for the high price of eggs. Oddly, he didn’t bring them down during his first week in office. To put it bluntly: when that’s your best attack, you ain’t got nothing.
The real problem with increasing energy production, pipelines, and refining capacity is the same as that with so many other sectors of the economy. They are tied up by extensive regulations, which choke off economic activity, stymie some projects completely and add years to others, require a phalanx of lawyers to challenge, and jack up the costs – and the price to consumers.
The  , will take a hard crack at those regulations, but it won’t be easy. Building the regulatory state has been the crown jewel of the Democratic Party since Franklin Roosevelt. The agencies are deeply embedded in the government’s current structure, and their regulations are difficult to repeal. Reforming that complex system is Trump’s most arduous and consequential challenge.
But what the first 10 days shows is that Trump is ready to take on that challenge and much more.
                     Charles Lipson is the Peter B Ritzma Professor of Political Science Emeritus at the University of Chicago. His latest book is ‘Free Speech 101: A Practical Guide for Students’. He can be reached at                    

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
