




MailOnline
February 12, 2025 Wednesday 1:46 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 779 words
Byline: Emily Goodin, Senior White House Correspondent
Body


Elon Musk has joined Trump in slamming judges
Democrats see judicial branch as their only hope of stopping Trump agenda
President Donald Trump ramped up his attacks on the judicial branch after a federal judge said the administration had violated his order halting a the freeze on federal funding and ordered the government to 'immediately restore frozen funding.'
Trump slammed the 'activist' judge, claiming Elon Musk's Department of Government Efficiency had found fraud and abuse and its work was being restricted.
'DOGE has found massive amounts of FRAUD, WASTE, INCOMPETENCE, AND ABUSE, but even knowing this, a highly political, activist Judge wants us to immediately make payment, anyway,' the president wrote on his Truth Social account. 
'In other words pay, even though you know the payment was fraudulently requested to be made. DOGE caught them - The Judge just doesn't care. It doesn't make sense!!!'
Meanwhile, Democrats fear the Trump administration will simply ignore any orders from the judicial branch, taking away their only path to fighting the president's agenda.
'This isn't hyperbole to say that we are staring the death of democracy in the eyes right now,' Democratic Senator Chris Murphy of Connecticut said Monday. 'The centerpiece of our democracy is that we observe court rulings.' 
Trump's ire was provoked when U.S. District Judge John McConnell accused the White House of defying his original ruling and then doubling down on it.
McConnell ordered the restoration federal funding after the plaintiffs in the case, a coalition of 22 states, said the government had not restored funding to several programs despite his Jan. 31 order temporarily halting a directive from the Trump administration to freeze all federal aid.
The order to resume spending is expected to remain in place until a hearing on a preliminary injunction later this month.
That hearing will determine the legality of a memo from the Office of Management and Budget that directed federal agencies to 'temporarily pause all activities related to obligation or disbursement of all Federal financial assistance, and other relevant agency activities that may be implicated' by Trump's executive orders, including, but not limited to, financial assistance for foreign aid, nongovernmental organizations, DEI, woke gender ideology, and the green new deal.' 
Trump told reporters on Tuesday that he would abide by federal orders even though he disagreed with them.
'I always abide by the courts and then I'll have to appeal it,' Trump said.
'But then what he's done is he's slowed down momentum. And it gives crooked people more time to cover up the books.' 
'The answer is I always abide by the courts, always abide by them. And we'll appeal,' Trump added. 'But appeals take a long time.' 
Elon Musk, whose DOGE is leading the effort to cut the federal government, also has ramped up his attacks on judges, seeing them as an obstacle to his efforts. 
After Judge McConnell ruled the administration violated his order about restoring federal funds, Musk wrote on X that 'democracy in America is being destroyed by judicial coup. An activist judge is not a real judge.' 
And Vice President JD Vance has railed against the rulings.
'Judges aren't allowed to control the executive's legitimate power,' he wrote Sunday on X.
'If a judge tried to tell a general how to conduct a military operation, that would be illegal,' he wrote. 'If a judge tried to command the attorney general in how to use her discretion as a prosecutor, that's also illegal. '
Trump officials said they aren't surprised at the court rulings halting Trump's orders and noted they had anticipated it. 
'The courts can be expected to do this,' a White House official familiar with Trump's thinking told NBC News. 'The unfortunate part is the wait time to get it to the superior courts and even to the Supreme Court if necessary.'
'We are careful in drafting the text of executive orders to make the possibility of court challenges being successful, but this is an occupational hazard,' the person noted.
Democrats see the courts as their only hope for blocking Trump's agenda. Republicans control the House, Senate and White House.
While they were in power, Senate Democrats rushed to confirm 234 judicial nominees from then-President Joe Biden, stocking the bench with judges that supporter their agenda.
Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer pointed to the importance of the judicial branch in a letter he sent to his colleagues Monday.
'The courts are the first line of defense in blocking illegal action of this administration,' he wrote. 'Over the last four years, Senate Democrats did historic work in rebuilding the federal judiciary.'

Load-Date: February 12, 2025


End of Document
