




Forbes.com
February 9, 2025 Sunday


Copyright 2025 Forbes LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 642 words
Byline: Conor Murray, Forbes Staff
Highlight: Trump canceled a planned visit for the Philadelphia Eagles to attend the White House after their 2018 Super Bowl victory after most players declined to come.
Body


Topline
President Donald Trump said in a Fox News interview that aired before the Super Bowl on Sunday he s picking the Kansas City Chiefs to beat the Philadelphia Eagles marking a rare public prediction from the president for a sporting outcome, which comes after he feuded with the Eagles following their 2018 Super Bowl victory after most of the team declined to celebrate at the White House.
<figure>
<figcaption>
President Donald Trump will attend the Super Bowl, multiple news outlets reported. (Photo by Andrew Harnik/Getty Images)
Getty Images
</figcaption></figure>
Key Facts
Trump told Fox News  Bret Baier that while he sees positives for both teams  I have to go with Kansas City,  lauding the success of quarterback Patrick Mahomes and noting Mahomes  wife, Brittany, is  a Trump fan, a MAGA fan. 
Though Trump has largely kept from publicly rooting for teams, he had been complimentary of the Chiefs on Truth Social while making no mention of the Eagles, years after he publicly sparred with the team, though he did mention the feud in the interview that aired Sunday.
Trump congratulated the Chiefs for making the Super Bowl in January,praisingthem for having a  GREAT Team, Coach, Quarterback, and virtually everything else,  and thanking fans in the city who voted for him.
Trump did not congratulate the Eagles, whom he disinvited from the White House in 2018 after the team beat the New England Patriots to win Super Bowl LII, which was part of an ongoing feud Trump had with the NFL over players protesting during the national anthem.
Forbes has reached out to the White House for comment.
Why Did Trump Disinvite The Eagles In 2018?
Trump postedon X (then known as Twitter) in June 2018 stating he rescinded an invitation for the Eagles to visit the White House in celebration of their Super Bowl victory, stating  only a small number of players decided to come.  Trump, in his post, slammed players for remaining in the locker room or kneeling while the national anthem played before NFL games as a form of protest against police brutality, which sparked backlash among some conservatives, though players and reporters disputed Trump linking the canceled visit to the protests. One unnamed player who spoke toCNNsaid the team held meetings about whether to make the traditional post-championship visit to the White House, and not many wanted to go, though the protests were never raised as a concern during these meetings.CBS Sportsalso reported no players on the Eagles took a knee in protest during the national anthem that season.
Key Background
Trump feuded with the NFL early in his first term over players, most notably former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick, kneeling during the pregame playing of the national anthem to protest police violence and racism.  Wouldn t you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say,  Get that son of a bitch off the field right now. Out! He s fired. He s fired,  Trump saidin September 2017. NFL commissioner Roger Goodell issued astatementdays later, without naming Trump, criticizing  divisive comments  that  demonstrate a lack of respect for the NFL.  Trump repeatedly slammed the NFL on Twitter, andBusiness Insiderreported he had tweeted about the NFL 37 times in the span of one month in late 2017.
Tangent
Goodell defendedthe NFL s diversity, equity and inclusion policies one of the primarytargetsof Trump s second term so far on Monday, stating the league s diversity efforts have  attracted better talent.  He clarified the league does not use quotas and operates  well within the law,  adding he does not believe the NFL s diversity commitments conflict with Trump s anti-DEI push.
Further Reading
Trump Abruptly Calls Off Philadelphia Eagles  Visit to White House(New York Times)
Trump expected to attend Super Bowl, White House official says(CNN)

Load-Date: February 10, 2025


End of Document
