




Forbes.com
January 29, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Forbes LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 709 words
Byline: Molly Bohannon, Forbes Staff
Highlight: Trump s blasting of the Federal Reserve and Jerome Powell came just hours after the announcement that interest rates would stand at 4.25% to 4.5%.
Body


Topline
President Donald Trump blasted Federal Reserve chairman Jerome Powell Wednesday for not stopping inflation, saying  the Fed has done a terrible job on Bank Regulation  and criticizing its priorities just hours after the Fed announcedit would pause interest rate cuts.
<figure>
<figcaption>
President Donald Trump speaks before signing the Laken Riley Act in the East Room of the White House, Wednesday, Jan. 29, 2025, in Washington.
Copyright 2025 The Associated Press. All rights reserved
</figcaption></figure>
Key Facts
In theTruth Social postjust after 4:15 p.m. EST, Trump criticized  Jay Powell and the Fed  and claimed he will have to stop inflation by  unleashing American Energy production,  and  reigniting American Manufacturing. 
 If the Fed had spent less time on DEI, gender ideology,  green  energy, and fake climate change, Inflation would never have been a problem,  Trump said in the post.
Trump s rant came hours after the Federal Reserve announced it would keep interest rates at the same level set last month at 4.25% to 4.5% despite cutting rates several times last year, leaving borrowing costs relatively high after the Fed hiked rates in 2022 and 2023 in a bid to quell sky-high inflation.
In itsannouncement, the Fed s policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee cited unemployment stabilizing and inflation staying  somewhat elevated,  both things that point to fewer interest rate cuts, and an  uncertain  economic outlook.
Trumppreviously saidhe would  demand that interest rates drop immediately,  and has often pushed for lower rates, which can boost economic growth, but at the risk of sparking inflation.
The comments were the latest by Trump about Powell amid a rocky history between the pair, the latter of whom was appointed by Trump in 2017 but has been regularly criticized by him since.
Get Forbes Breaking News Text Alerts: We re launching text message alerts so you'll always know the biggest stories shaping the day s headlines. Text  Alerts  to  or sign up .
News Peg 
The Fed s Wednesday announcement of holding interest rates was widely anticipated, but came after months of interest rate cuts. Prior to Wednesday, the Fed had lowered rates at every meeting it had since September.
Key Background
Powell was appointed by Trump during his first term, though the president has taken issue with Powell s setting of interest rates,sayingin 2019 he was  disappointed  in the pace of cuts. Trump was critical of Powell and the Fed a number of times in his first term for not lowering rates fast enough, oncesayingit should cut interest rates to zero or lower so the U.S. could  start to refinance our debt.  Powell wasreappointedin 2021 by Biden, and is serving a four-year term that runs through May 2026. He is also serving a 14-year term on the Fed board that ends in 2028, Bloomberg reported. Trump has acknowledged his disputes with Powell, though,telling Bloomberglast year ahead of the election that he intended to let Powell  serve it out, especially if I thought he was doing the right thing.  Powell, for his part,saidhe would not resign if asked to do so by Trump, and recently said he has not had contact with the president. He said Wednesday  the public should be confident that we will continue to do our work.  Typically, the president appoints the Federal Reserve chairman and governors but he does not have say over the Fed s decisions as it operates independently from the rest of government.
Can Trump Fire Powell?
It s a legal gray area, according to American think tankBrookings, which said there is no statute detailing whether a president can remove a fed chair and no president has tried, so there hasn t yet been a legal test. Though Trump said he won t fire Powell and will let him serve the remainder of his term, he has alsoexpressedthe belief that the president  should have at least say  in determining interest rates despite the Federal Reserve s long history of operating separately from the federal government.
Further Reading 
Federal Reserve Pauses Interest Rate Cuts First Meeting Without A Cut Since July(Forbes)
Can Trump Fire Jerome Powell? Fed Chairman Says He Won t Resign If Trump Asks(Forbes)
Jerome Powell Says He s  Not Concerned  About Federal Reserve Independence Under Trump(Forbes)

Load-Date: January 30, 2025


End of Document
