




Newsweek.com
February 20, 2025 Thursday 8:29 AM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 919 words
Byline: Hannah Parry
Highlight: President Donald Trump said he was considering a plan to Americans with savings from DOGE. Follow Newsweek's live blog for updates.
Body


President  said he was considering a plan to Americans with savings from the  (DOGE).
"There's even a — under consideration, a new concept where we give 20% of the DOGE savings to American citizens and 20% goes to paying down debt," Trump said at the FII Priority Summit in Miami on Wednesday.
The idea of a "DOGE Dividend" check, sent to every taxpayer, was first floated by a user on X, formerly Twitter, on Tuesday. Elon Musk, the head of DOGE, replied that he would "check with the President."
Trump did not specify where the additional 60 percent of the DOGE savings would be allocated.
This would not be the first time Americans have received checks during the Trump administration.
More than $814 billion went out to taxpayers during the Covid-19 outbreak.
 Follow Newsweek's live blog for updates.
Preston Brashers, a research fellow for tax policy at the conservative think tank the Heritage Foundation, wrote on X: "Love what DOGE is doing, but this is a bad idea. There's no need to send 'dividend checks.' The dividend we get from slashing spending is that it brings inflation into check. But if the government sends out stimmy checks, inflation will come back with a vengeance."
James Fishback, an investor, said in his proposal that the DOGE checks would not be inflationary as they would be "exclusively funded with DOGE-driven savings, unlike COVID stimulus checks which were deficit-financed."
He also said the dividends would be "sent only to tax-paying householders, who have a demonstrated propensity to save (not spend) the incremental dollar received."
According to Fishback, the "DOGE Dividend is different from past stimulus checks" as only taxpaying households would receive it.
"Tax-paying households are more likely to save (not spend) a transfer payment like the DOGE Dividend as consumption is a lower share of their income," he said, adding: "There is nothing inflationary about paying off debt, saving for emergencies, or investing in college or retirement. In fact, debt paydowns are actually deflationary."
During Trump's first term, the government issued two rounds of COVID-related stimulus checks. In March 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act) provided Economic Impact Payments of up to $1,200 per adult for eligible individuals and $500 per qualifying child under age 17. These amounts were reduced for taxpayers who earned more than $75,000 per year.
In December 2020, as part of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021, an additional $600 payment went out to eligible individuals.
In 2022, the Federal Reserve Board reported that the fiscal stimulus, which was distributed to households across the country, "contributed to an increase in inflation of about 2.5 percentage points."
"Our findings suggest that fiscal stimulus boosted the consumption of goods without any noticeable impact on production, increasing excess demand pressures in good markets," the report said. "As a result, fiscal support contributed to price tensions."
President  has said he is considering sending 20 percent of the money saved by the Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) directly to Americans.
DOGE has been tasked, on the direction of the president, to scale back federal spending and root out supposed fraud and waste. The nonofficial, temporary initiative has said it has  since it began its audits of government agencies—though it has been met with .
On Wednesday, at the FII Priority Summit in Miami Beach, Trump said, "There's even under consideration a new concept where we give 20 percent of the DOGE savings to American citizens, and 20 percent goes to paying down debt."
Checks being sent to every taxpaying household in the U.S. would be a first since coronavirus-era stimulus checks, which began during the tail end of Trump's first administration.

President  has officially been in office for a month and the comparisons to his first term are notable, analysts say.
Trump took office January 20, 2025, after a decisive victory against former Vice President . Since his inauguration, he has implemented sweeping change via swathes of executive orders, targeting Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI), immigration and most recently expanding access to in vitro fertilization.
In a  by The Economist/YouGov on Wednesday, Trump's approval rating is 50 percent, with a 45 percent disapproval rating. The survey was taken February 16-18, polling over 1,600 U.S. adults, with a 3.3 percent margin of error. The new poll marked an improvement for Trump from the week before, when his approval rating hit 46 percent.
According to YouGov, Trump's net approval rating is now higher at this time as compared to his first term.
Trump's first weeks in office have been filled with Cabinet nominations, domestic tragedies including wildfires in Los Angeles, and aviation disasters. Trump also managed to secure the safe arrival of .

The idea of a "DOGE Dividend" check, sent to every taxpayer, was first floated by a user on X, formerly Twitter, on Tuesday.
Elon Musk, the head of DOGE, replied that he would "check with the President."
The letter, shared by James Fishback, described the benefits; such as boosting "tax morale" and sharing the benefits of cost cutting with taxpayers.


Graphic

 
President Donald Trump speaks in Miami
Rebecca Blackwell/AP
President Donald Trump arrives to speak at the Future Investment Initiative (FII) Institute summit in Miami Beach, Fla., Wednesday, Feb. 19, 2025. (AP Photo/Rebecca Blackwell)

Load-Date: February 20, 2025


End of Document
