




Forbes.com
January 21, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 Forbes LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1272 words
Byline: Maria Gracia Santillana Linares, Forbes Staff
Highlight: Plus, federal DEI initiatives axed on MLK Day, low-performers to get cut from tech giants and worker engagement falls to 10-year low in this week s Careers newsletter.
Body


This is a published version of Forbes  Careers Newsletter. Click  to subscribe and get it in your inbox every Tuesday. 
<figure>
<figcaption>
MLK Jr. Day overlapped with inauguration day this year, as President Trump signed a number of executive orders shuttering DEI programs on the day America celebrates civil rights leader Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. (Photo by Nathan Morris/NurPhoto via Getty Images)
NurPhoto via Getty Images
</figcaption></figure>
Just one day after the second inauguration of President Donald Trump and we ve already got quite the slate of workplace news.
Most offices across the U.S. were closed yesterday in observation of Martin Luther King Jr. Day, a federal holiday that celebrates the life and legacy of the civil rights leader. But it was also a day that saw President Trump sign several executive orders that limit and outrightcut diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) initiatives in the federal government. One executive orderhalts DEI programs, ordering the White House to identify and end them within the federal government. Another calls for agencies and federal contractors to do the same, including eliminating all DEI policies, offices and positions. A third order says that federal hiring should not be based on theconsideration of job candidates  commitment to  the invented concept  of gender identity or equity.
A fourth orderrolls back protections for transgender people. Itrecognizesonly two sexes male and female and says that  these sexes are not changeable.  Federal prisons and shelters will be segregated by sex, and federal taxpayer money cannot be used to fund  transition services. 
Yet another orderrescindedformer President Joe Biden  federal DEI steering committee and his requirement that each government agency create an equity team.
DEI programs have come under firein a number of industries in the last year. Major retailers like Lowe s and Walmart have announced that theycut internal DEI programsand external DEI sponsorships. Pushback from conservative investors like Robby Starbuck has led other companies to follow suit.
Beyond these executive orders are new immigration reforms and return-to-office mandates that impact workplace policies (all of which we break down below).
If you work at a company that has cut its DEI program and would like to chat, you can reach me atmgsantillana-linares@forbes.comor at @mgsantillana.70 on Signal.
Happy reading, and hope you all have a lovely week!
WORK SMARTER
Practical insights and advice from Forbesstaff and contributors to help you succeed in your job, accelerate your career and lead smarter
Tapping into your retirement account, casualty deductions,and more tips on how our L.A. readersand fire victims can get help from the tax code.
College students: Here show to align your major to the .
Has yoursarcasm gotten you in trouble at work?Slow down, apologize andthink about your audience.
DEEP DIVE: Trump s Workplace Executive Orders
<figure>
<figcaption>
WASHINGTON, DC - JANUARY 20: President Donald Trump signs executive orders in the Oval Office on January 20, 2025 in Washington, DC. Trump takes office for his second term as the 47th president of the United States. (Photo by Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images)
Getty Images
</figcaption></figure>
From cutting DEI programs to requiring federal workers to return to the office, here are the workplace-related executive orders President Trump signed on Monday.
Newly-inaugurated President Donald Trump signed a number of executive orders Monday, ranging from border control measures to pulling out of international treaties and organizations. But a key focus of his administration is to cut down on government bureaucracy. The federal government is one of the largest employers in the U.S., employing more than 2 million workers. We ve compiled a list of some of the biggest executive orders impacting federal employees below.
DOGE: President Trump formally established the Department of Government Efficiency, known as DOGE, in hopes of  modernizing federal technology and software systems.  The executive order renames the United States Digital Service into DOGE and creates DOGE Teams in federal agencies. However, thedepartment was suedmoments after the president was sworn in.
Return to office: Trump has ordered all federal employees to return to working in the office five days a week  as soon as practicable.  But nearly half of American workers saythey ll consider a job changeif called back to the office full-time.
A pause in federal hiring: There is now a hiring freeze for all new federal employees, excluding the military and positions related to immigration enforcement, national security or public safety. The executive order prevents anyone from getting hired after noon on January 20 and stops new positions from being created until a workforce reduction memorandum is submitted in 90 days.
Schedule F is back: Trump has brought back an employee categorization that makes it easier for federal employees to be considered disloyal to his administration and subsequently fired. The order reclassifies certain workers as political appointees, which could impact as many as 50,000 people, according toAxios. The National Treasury Employees Unionsuedthe Trump Administration over the order s implementation on Monday.
No more ethics pledge:Trump rescinded a 2021 executive order by former President Biden that banned employees of the executive branch from accepting lobbyist gifts,  revolving door  provisions, or payment or gifts from former employers.
TOUCH BASE
News from the world of work
Workplace AI companies are raking in the funding.Collate, an AI startup automating paperwork for biotechs, announced it raised $30 million as it emerged from stealth on January 13. British startupSynthesia, which is newly valued at $2.1 billion after its latest funding round, is using AI to make corporate training videos less boring.
Meta and Microsoft are among the tech companies letting go of their low performers.As part of larger industry restructuring trends, Meta will cut 5% of its workforce, while Microsoft is reportedly cutting 1%, based ontargeted performance evaluations. 
Despite the uncertain future of TikTok, the company has said its about7,000 U.S. employees  pay and benefits are secure and its offices will remain open.  The bill is not written in a way that impacts the entities through which you are employed, only the U.S. user experience,  the company said in an email to employees published byAfter the app went dark on Saturday night, President Trump signed an executive orderhalting the ban for 75 days.
Costco workers voted to authorize a nationwide strike if the company does not agree to a  fair contract  before January 31.The unionized workers, represented by the Teamsters union, are striking over fair wages and benefits after the company recently reported $254 billion in annual revenue. Costco s CEOhas saidthe company is focused on a  fair and timely process .
Singular paychecks aren t cutting it anymore. About95% of American workers say their wages have not kept up with the rising cost of living, according to areportby job and career site Monster. That s on top of only 1 in 10 employees saying they have either received a raise or salary adjustment to cover inflation.
NUMBER TO NOTE
31%
The percentage of employees who are engaged at work, a 10-year low, according to Gallup s latest workplace survey. 
VIDEO
How To Get Rich In Your 20s With Vivian Tu
QUIZ
Professionals in which of these careers are likely to have a side-hustle, according to research from LinkedIn?
A. Marketing
B. Education
C. Business development
D. All of the above
Check if you got itright here. 

Load-Date: January 23, 2025


End of Document
