




The Daily Caller
January 28, 2025 Tuesday 06:10 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: NATIONAL-SECURITY
Length: 576 words
Byline: Eireann Van Natta, Intelligence State Reporter, 
Body



A Biden appointee tapped for acting Director of National Intelligence (DNI) no longer occupies the position, a source familiar confirmed to the Daily Caller.
The former Principal Deputy Director of DNI, Stacey Dixon, was picked by the Trump transition team to be acting DNI,  to Politico last week. Dixon was replaced by Lora Shiao to serve as acting DNI, according to the agency.
At the time of publication, the ODNI lists Shiao as acting DNI on its .
This comes in the wake of reports that Gabbard's nomination may be in jeopardy, and the Senate Intelligence Committee has two Republican members who could be swing votes - Maine Sen. Susan Collins and Indiana Sen. Todd Young,  to The Hill.
There are nine Republicans on the committee and eight Democrats, and she cannot afford to lose any Republican votes, the outlet noted. However, Gabbard's spokeswoman, Alexa Henning, told The Hill that no GOP Senators are on record opposing her nomination.
Some Republican senators are advocating for a public vote on Gabbard's nomination, Politico . A source familiar told the outlet that panel rules “do not allow for a public roll call of how each member voted.”
There were also unsubstantiated rumors circulating online that Dixon was attempting to prevent Gabbard's appointment, The Post Millennial . However, it is unclear if this rumor led to her ousting.
Shiao was named Deputy Director of the National Counterterrorism Center (NCTC) in April 2020 and served as the ODNI's Chief Operating Officer (COO) later that year. She has over a decade of experience at ODNI and 20 years in the Intelligence Community overall, according to her biography. 
The Caller reached out to the White House but has not yet heard back. The New York Times first  on Dixon's dismissal and replacement.
Dixon  in the intelligence community during President Trump's first term, but she was appointed by Joe Biden to be principal deputy DNI. 
 BREAKING: Trump says his government will be eliminating any and all forms of DEI and only recognize 2 genders 
 - End Wokeness (@EndWokeness) 
Dixon is a  advocate of diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI), and she made diversifying the intelligence community a key priority as Deputy Director of the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA).
The Trump administration  targeted DEI on the president's first day in office. Trump  an executive order to end “radical and wasteful government DEI programs and preferencing” last Monday.
Democrats stalled Trump's nominee for DNI, Tulsi Gabbard, the Caller previously . A source alleged that the Senate Intelligence Committee's vice chair, Democratic Virginia Sen. Mark Warner, prevented other Democrats on the committee from meeting with her.
 Thank you for a great meeting today, . I appreciated the insights you shared, and the warm welcome from Lucille! 
 - Tulsi Gabbard  (@TulsiGabbard) 
Gabbard has met with Republican senators and some Democrats, including Democratic Pennsylvania . 
Her confirmation hearing is  for Thursday at 10 a.m.

Graphic

 
Dr. Stacey A. Dixon, nominee for Principal Deputy Director for National Intelligence speaks at a hearing with the Senate Select Intelligence Committee on Capitol Hill on July 20, 2021 in Washington, DC. (Photo by Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
