




thetimes.co.uk
February 6, 2025 Thursday 12:01 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 434 words
Byline: John Hayes
Highlight: The president’s war on diversity may mean US firms ditch gender sign-offs on correspondence, a practice that could spread to City practices with US clients
Body


They started arriving about four years ago: the inclusion of a pronoun — typically, he/him/his or she/her or they/them/theirs — at the end of an email signature. A blizzard of similar pronoun signatures can be found on LinkedIn.
Large law firms in particular were quick to embrace initiatives from campaign groups, including Stonewall, which resulted in thousands of lawyers amending their email and other signatures to include pronouns. 
However, the inauguration of Donald Trump as US president — and his 

 — is likely to result in the quiet deletion of pronoun signatures.
The inclusion of pronouns at the end of signatures is seen as an overt message of support to the LGBTQ+ community. Another campaign group, Inclusive Employers, says that they “show support and solidarity for our transgender and non-binary friends in our acceptance of all genders” and “hopefully ease the burden on our trans and non-binary colleagues … from having the same conversations again and again”. 
And it is not just large law firms that have adopted the practice. One US technology company with a significant UK presence made it a disciplinary offence not to include pronouns at the end of signatures.
It seems that there was a direct correlation between the size of a law firm writing to my practice and the prevalence of pronouns in email signatures. Typically, lawyers at big international firms included pronouns in signatures — pre-populated, centrally — whereas most lawyers working at smaller law firms did not. 
We regard ourselves as a progressive law firm: we are largely remotely based and have a majority of women lawyers. We had an open debate about whether we should include pronouns in our email signatures and decided not to on the grounds that it seemed irrelevant to our client work: we only care about the substance of what is said in correspondence. 
Will the dawn of Trump 2.0 and the bonfire of DEI initiatives in the US government prompt large law firms and other big businesses quietly to ditch pronoun signatures? My guess is that it will. 
A fortnight ago, big business bent the knee to Trump at his 

. The S&P stock market index achieved its single 

 since Ronald Reagan took the oath in an equally freezing January in 1985. 
The winds are changing. Where big business leads, “big law” will follow. First in US law firms, then in the City, starting with those with US client bases.
                   John Hayes is the managing partner at the firm Constantine Law                 

Load-Date: February 5, 2025


End of Document
