




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 29, 2025 Wednesday 3:26 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 629 words
Byline: Mimi MontgomeryAlexa Mencia
Body


January 28th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
It's only been a little over a week since President Trump took office, but already he's unleashed a ream of actions targeting the federal workforce - a sort of government death via a thousand cuts.
Why it matters: This unprecedented stream of  
State of play: Since Jan. 20 -just nine days ago - Trump has:

Mandated full-time  
Moved to reclassify thousands of   
 
  
Sidelined  
 
The latest:   
The note stated that the "reformed federal workforce" under Trump would be built around four pillars: "return to office," "performance culture," a "more streamlined and flexible workforce" and "enhanced standards of conduct."
"Type the word "Resign" into the body of this reply email," OPM's missive said. "Hit 'Send.'"
But the note also had a message for workers who choose to stay: "We cannot give you full assurance regarding the certainty of your position or agency."
The intrigue: Some    
It's also the name of a piece of art  
Reality check: It's not entirely clear whether the  
Reorganizing or downsizing agencies can offer resigning workers a  
But many of the payments described in the email blast would likely exceed this number.
As of now, the government is only funded through  
Tim Kaine, Virginia's Democratic Senator, was on the Hill last night  
"The president has no authority to make that offer," Kaine said. "There's no budget line item to pay people who are not showing up for work."
What they're saying: The tactic might have unintended consequences: It could spur the most talented federal employees with the best private-sector prospects to leave, according to Terry Clower, an economist who studies the capital region at George Mason University.
"So how does that work if you're trying to accelerate government efficiency if who you drive away are your best workers?" Clower tells Axios.
The fine print: The severance applies to all full-time federal employees "except for military personnel of the armed forces, employees of the U.S. Postal Service, those in positions related to immigration enforcement and national security, and those in any other positions specifically excluded by your employing agency," per OPM's email.
What we're watching: Whether the administration will give more clarity around how workers would get paid out (lump sum, biweekly, other); whether there'll be restrictions around collecting the severance if you get a new job; and whether the policy will be challenged in court.
Cuneyt Dil contributed reporting.


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 28, 2025


End of Document
