




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 20, 2025 Thursday 9:45 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 826 words
Byline: Sara Fischer
Body


February 20th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
Data:  
President Trump, in small and unprecedented ways, is punishing media companies more than any leader since America's founding.
Why it matters: Once considered a bastion for free expression, America's record on press freedoms has fallen to a   
The big picture: Trump is targeting traditional media sources at a moment of tremendous vulnerability for the industry.
American trust in media has hit   
In his first four weeks, Trump's Administration has:
Banned the Associated Press: The White House last week said it would  
Ended federal news subscriptions: The State Department on Wednesday   
Reshuffled Pentagon press: The Defense Department    
Zoom in: These moves, while punitive, are temporary and a new president can easily reverse them. Broader efforts to target media companies by Trump, his administration and a Republican-led Congress recently could be harder to unwind.
Congressional PBS, NPR probe: Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene (R-Ga.) has called on the CEOs of  
FCC PBS, NPR probe: The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) is also  
FCC Comcast/NBC investigation: Carr  
FCC CBS inquiry: Carr opened an   
Reality check: A strong U.S. legal and regulatory framework  
Efforts by Trump to block reporters during his first administration   
Zoom out: Bullying and harassment campaigns, which include everything from lawsuits to name-calling, are often easier and more effective than leveraging presidential powers.
Lawsuits drain media companies of precious time and resources. Public bashing undermines the public's trust in the media, which can have a material impact on business.
Trump and Elon Musk have both  
Trump unleashed a slew of lawsuits against the media industry last year before he took office. He recently  
He sued and eventually   
What to watch: Trump on Wednesday  
The bottom line: Trump and his allies have vowed to  


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 20, 2025


End of Document
