




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 5, 2025 Wednesday 1:51 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 678 words
Byline: Andrew Freedman
Body


February 5th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
Neil Jacobs, the   
Why it matters: NOAA's work affects Americans daily, from weather forecasting and alerts to ensuring safe navigation in coastal waters.
Between the lines: The political landscape this time around is far more complex, with a greater appetite for drastic spending and headcount reductions, as well as a proposal that's  
Jacobs has told Axios he would resist efforts to break up NOAA,  
Despite his involvement with Sharpiegate, Jacobs' selection is being viewed by many at the agency as a best-case scenario, given his knowledge of NOAA's work and advocacy for the agency.
Zoom in: Technology changes are rapidly outstripping the National Weather Service's ability to modernize, with  
How to integrate AI modeling into NWS forecasters' suite of tools will be a key priority for NOAA, especially as human-caused climate change makes certain types of  
The agency can't simply replace its models and the systems it taps into from other forecasting centers with AI, experts told Axios. Instead, NWS needs to integrate AI into the tools its forecasters use, with its role growing in importance.
Advancing AI within NOAA requires working with the private sector and other public-sector agencies, well beyond striking technology demonstration deals.
Jacobs, who has worked to advance weather modeling in the private sector and academia in addition to NOAA, may have the toolkit to pull off some of those arrangements.
The intrigue: NOAA's ocean observation networks - including buoys in the tropical Pacific known as Argo that help keep tabs on  
A broader system of marine observing stations also requires additional funding at a time when money is especially scarce.
How the agency manages to continue to fund and conduct climate research is a big question facing the next NOAA leaders, considering Trump denies the reality of human-caused climate change, and Project 2025 called for broadly defunding such work.
What they're saying: "While 'climate' may become as toxic as DEI, weather tech applications will be where the action will be," with new partnership opportunities with the private sector, Paul Walsh, an expert on the economic impact of weather on consumers and industry, told Axios.
Walsh - founder and managing director of G2 Weather Intelligence - also pointed out that brain drain is possible within NOAA, particularly among anyone conducting climate-related work.
"From a workforce perspective, the biggest challenge will be dealing with a demoralized and anxious workforce," he said.
"The impact of the uncertainty and fear unleashed by the new administration has to be devastating to the rank and file."
Friction point: Jacobs faced political pressure during his previous tenure, having been reprimanded for his role in the " 
Jacobs will have to regain the trust of some NOAA staff after the scandal, which violated the agency's scientific integrity policies.
It's unclear what Elon Musk's government cost-cutting DOGE team wants to do with NOAA - but multiple NOAA sources told Axios DOGE representatives were seen at agency offices on Tuesday, seeking access to IT systems.
There is also   
The bottom line: This is a turbulent time to lead NOAA, an agency that's typically far more low profile than it's likely to be going forward.


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 5, 2025


End of Document
