



USA Today Online
January 22, 2025 7:55 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Length: 1386 words
Body


Just days after taking office, President  sent a : Follow the federal government’s lead and “end illegal DEI discrimination” or face civil rights investigations.
Trump’s executive order aims to end diversity, equity and inclusion policies in the federal government and affirmative action in federal contracting. It bars the government from pushing contractors to diversify their workforce and taps federal agencies to use Civil Rights-era laws “to combat illegal private-sector DEI preferences, mandates, policies, programs and activities.”
DEI policies “undermine our national unity, as they deny, discredit and undermine the traditional American values of hard work, excellence and individual achievement in favor of an unlawful, corrosive and pernicious identity-based spoils system,” the  said.
The  to overturn decades of affirmative action and diversity precedent is expected to have an immediate chilling effect on corporate DEI efforts. 
While the federal government does not have a direct say over the private sector’s diversity practices, it has wide purview over .
"These actions freeze DEI operations in the federal government with the anticipation of the end of such programs," said Jonathan Butcher, a senior research fellow with the conservative Heritage Foundation think tank. 
"Corporations," he said, "should recognize that racial discrimination and racial preferences will no longer go unchallenged by Washington."
Trump action expected to have immediate chilling effect
Trump’s executive order fulfills his campaign pledge to “terminate” DEI and reverse Joe Biden’s “woke takeover” of America – goals championed by his close allies and cheered by crowds at his rallies. 
Trump has cast DEI as illegal discrimination against white Americans. Trump adviser and Tesla billionaire Elon Musk has called DEI  DEI spending is also a priority of Trump’s Department of Government Efficiency, a nongovernmental task force led by Musk with the goal of reducing the size and scope of government.
"This is going to start a tidal wave of companies self-censoring and cutting back on those types of DEI efforts for fear of litigation with the federal government on the other end of that," said Joseph Seiner, a law professor at the University of South Carolina. "Even if they're doing everything that complies with federal law, they could still find themselves subject to an investigation, which can be expensive and timely to defend against."

DEI rollback threatens workplace progress, civil rights leaders warn
Coming less than five years after  led corporations to embrace greater equality in their workforce and leadership ranks, civil rights leaders warned the rollback – telegraphed in the  – threatens to reverse the progress women and people of color have made in the workplace over the past six decades.
Marc Morial, president of the National Urban League, and other civil rights leaders are calling for a “massive resistance movement,’’ including meeting with corporate leaders, urging people to write to congressional lawmakers and taking legal action.
“We are not going back,’’ Morial said. “We owe it to our ancestors. We owe it to our children.”
Diversity and civil rights advocates say affirmative action policies are still needed to fight discrimination in cubicles and executive suites and on factory floors.
Each year, , serving hot meals or manufacturing missile defense systems. For decades, taking a slice of the hundreds of billions the U.S. government spends each year on goods and services came with anti-discrimination strings.
In 1965, President Lyndon Johnson signed an executive order holding federal contractors to a  in ensuring that  have , training and promotions.
DEI case 50 years later: 
Nearly six decades later, an analysis by USA TODAY of federal contractors data obtained by  showed those firms were not living up to that commitment. 
Deep racial divides cut through the workforces of federal contractors, which employ 1 in 5 American workers. Though the employee ranks in these companies have diversified, the top jobs that command the best pay and benefits have not, mirroring the private sector at large, the analysis found.
“In less than 48 hours in office, President Donald Trump has eviscerated his promise to be a champion of workers, gutting basic workplace equal opportunity protections that have been in place for 60 years,” Fatima Goss Graves, CEO and president of the National Women’s Law Center, said in a statement. “These protections were enforced by the Department of Labor, and by removing this important watchdog, Trump has opened up workers to workplace discrimination.”

Employers pledged to stand by their DEI policies. 
Tim Bartl, CEO of the HR Policy Association, which represents hundreds of senior human resource executives across the country, said his organization would work with the Trump administration to ensure America’s largest employers can seek “the best talent regardless of race, sex, religious beliefs in order to win in the marketplace.”
“This EO hasn’t changed the law nor has it altered the commitment employers have to inclusive workplaces designed to attract and retain the best qualified talent,” Bartl said.
Trump executive power to slash DEI part of broader backlash
Trump’s executive order wiping out Johnson’s is the latest in a series of moves to unwind affirmative action and diversity policies in America.
Within hours of his swearing in, Trump revoked Biden executive orders to weave DEI into the fabric of the federal government. An incoming White House official told reporters on background Monday that more DEI actions were coming for the private sector.
Even before Trump took office, companies scaled back their corporate diversity efforts to align themselves with his administration. Last week,  became the latest to make substantial changes. 
The push to end  began during Trump’s first term and  since he’s been out of office.
Over the past few years, the private sector under fire from conservative foundations, think tanks and political operatives has dialed back diversity efforts. Those changes accelerated shortly after the Supreme Court in 2023 struck down affirmative action in higher education and as attitudes among U.S. workers on DEI began to shift. 
Anti-DEI activist Robby Starbuck’s pressure campaigns on social media have forced more than a dozen companies to make DEI concessions, from  to . 
"I see a lot of people saying DEI is dead. It’s not," Starbuck said on X. "It’s cornered and in a position to die but we must be punishing and relentless in finishing this ideology off. No mercy."
To that end, Trump has stocked his administration with anti-DEI allies − from Vice President JD Vance who, as an Ohio senator, introduced legislation that would prohibit government contractors from using federal funds for DEI initiatives to Trump’s deputy chief of staff for policy, , who filed dozens of legal actions against “woke” corporations. 
Trump tapped Andrea Lucas, a vocal DEI critic, to lead the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, which has vast influence over U.S. employers. Lucas said she would root out "unlawful DEI-motivated race and sex discrimination.” 
In December, Trump asked Harmeet Dhillon to lead the Justice Department’s civil rights division, touting her record of “suing corporations who use woke policies to discriminate against their workers.” The Civil Rights Division was formed in 1957 to enforce laws to stop discrimination against Black people and other historically marginalized communities.
(This story has been updated with new information and headline.)
Contributing: Davis Winkieand Deborah Barfield Berry
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Web Publication

Journal Code: 666052891

Subject: GOVERNMENT BODIES & OFFICES (91%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); DIVERSITY & INCLUSION (90%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (90%); GOVERNMENT & PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS & CIVIL LIBERTIES LAW (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); NEGATIVE SOCIETAL NEWS (89%); RACE & ETHNICITY (89%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (87%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (79%); BIPOC PEOPLE (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS & AUTHORITIES (78%); LAW & LEGAL SYSTEM (78%); LITIGATION (78%); NEGATIVE NEWS (78%); PROJECT 2025 (78%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY & INCLUSION (78%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (76%); CENSORSHIP (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

Organization: HERITAGE FOUNDATION (54%)

Industry: LAW SCHOOLS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

Person: DONALD TRUMP (79%); ELON MUSK (79%)

Geographic: UNITED STATES (95%); Ohio; United States; Americas, Northern America

Load-Date: January 23, 2025


End of Document
