




USA Today Online
February 19, 2025 7:01 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Length: 566 words
Byline: Andre Byik, USA TODAY
Body


The claim: Image shows Trump post saying he'd lower egg, gas prices on 'day one'
A Feb. 12 Facebook post (, ) shows what appears to be a screenshot of a Truth Social post that President Donald Trump shared in the run-up to the 2024 presidential election.
"EGGS & GAS PRICES – OUT OF CONTROL!!!" reads the supposed Trump post, which has a timestamp of Oct. 26, 2024. "Crooked Joe and the radical left DESTROYED affordability for hardworking Americans. It's a TOTAL SCAM! On DAY ONE, I'll SLASH prices – so fast it'll make their heads spin. Big Oil? Big Farms? They'll listen to ME, not lobbyists. NO MORE RIPOFFS!!! MAGA!!!"
The Facebook post's caption reads, "'On DAY ONE, I’ll SLASH prices' turned into 'On DAY 22, it’s Biden’s FAULT!'"
The post was shared more than 1,100 times in a week.
More from the Fact-Check Team: |  | 
Our rating: Manipulated media
The image is a fabrication. There is no record of the post on Trump's Truth Social profile.
Trump promised to lower costs, but the image is a fabrication
Trump repeatedly vowed to address living costs during the 2024 presidential campaign. In an August 2024 , he said, "Starting on day one, we will end inflation and make America affordable again." He again promised to "end inflation" while  in September 2024.
On Feb. 12, the same day the Labor Department  showing  in January, Trump sought to blame his predecessor, former President Joe Biden, for the rise in prices. He , "BIDEN INFLATION UP!"
The Facebook post tries to contrast Trump's campaign pledge to immediately improve the economy with his attempt to distance himself from unfavorable economic news now that he's back in the White House. However, Trump did not make the Truth Social post promising to tame food and energy prices on his first day in office. The image is a fabrication.
Fact check: 
The post does not appear on Trump's  or on , a continuously updated and searchable archive of Trump's Truth Social posts. Nor has any credible news report featured the purported Truth Social post as legitimate.
USA TODAY has debunked an array of social media claims involving Trump, including fabricated images claiming to show  from a July 2024 assassination attempt, a Trump post  Super Bowl loss on "DEI nonsense," and a post from famed journalist Bob Woodward .
USA TODAY reached out to the Facebook user who shared the post for comment but did not immediately receive a response.
 also debunked the claim.
Our fact-check sources
Donald Trump, accessed Feb. 17, 
Trump's Truth, accessed Feb. 17, 
Donald Trump, Feb. 12, 
Thank you for supporting our journalism. You can .
USA TODAY is a  of the International Fact-Checking Network, which requires a demonstrated commitment to nonpartisanship, fairness and transparency. Our fact-check work is supported in part by a .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: February 19, 2025


End of Document
