




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 21, 2025 Tuesday 3:17 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 424 words
Byline: Mimi Montgomery
Body


January 20th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
  
Why it matters: On Day 1, Trump is following through on his promise to overhaul the federal government, which employs hundreds of thousands of people in the Washington region.
He also issued   
The big picture: Some of    
"Requiring federal employees to come to the office five days a week would result in a wave of voluntary terminations that we welcome," Musk and   
State of play: The  
No positions that were empty as of noon on Jan. 20 can be filled, and no new positions can be created.

The fine print: The hiring freeze will not "adversely impact the provision of Social Security, Medicare, or Veterans' benefits," the order states.
That memorandum is set to expire in 90 days after DOGE and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) submit a plan to reduce the government's workforce.
An exception: The Internal Revenue Service (IRS). It'll remain in effect for the IRS until the Treasury Secretary, along with others, determines that "it is in the national interest to lift the freeze."
Zoom out:   
Through Biden's orders, the administration had  
A Trump official  
Go deeper:  


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 21, 2025


End of Document
