




telegraph.co.uk
January 28, 2025 Tuesday 11:00 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: US; Version:5
Length: 711 words
Byline: By Daniel Hardaker
Highlight: US president signs a flurry of executive orders focused on reshaping the armed forces and cultivating a ‘warrior ethos’
Body


Donald Trump has ordered an end to “radical gender ideology”   and for troops expelled for refusing the Covid vaccine to be allowed to rejoin.
The directives came as a batch of   focused on reshaping the armed forces by dismantling diversity initiatives and cultivating a “warrior ethos”.
While transgender people were not immediately excluded from the military, one directive stated that expressing a   could not satisfy the standards required for service in the armed forces.
It added: “A man’s assertion that he is a woman and his requirement that others honour this falsehood, is not consistent with the humility and selflessness required of a service member.”
The “hormonal and surgical medical interventions” involved in changing gender may also infringe on a department of defence policy intended to ensure troops are free of conditions that require too much time off for treatment, the order read.
As part of the directive, the “invented and identification-based” use of pronouns was banned across the department.
Men were also banned from using facilities designated for women.
The White House gave the Pentagon two months to update its policy on medical standards and 30 days to present revised guidance on how to implement the order’s vision.
“To ensure that we have the most lethal fighting force in the world, we will get transgender ideology the hell out of our military,” the US president said before signing a slew of military-related executive orders on board Air Force One late on Monday.
In his first term, Mr Trump banned transgender people from serving in the armed forces unless they had a waiver, a policy that was overturned by   in 2021.
There is limited data on how many transgender people are in the US military. Information that is available is largely based on surveys undertaken by external organisations.
The Rand Corporation, a US think tank largely funded by the government, estimated in 2016 that between 1,320 and 6,630 transgender people were then serving in the armed forces, out of a total of more than 1.3 million servicemen and women across all six service branches.
In a separate order, the US president commanded the defence secretary and the secretary of homeland security to tear down the   by abolishing every “DEI post” in their departments.
The directive said   had in recent years eroded the US military’s “lethality and force readiness” by “engaging in invidious race and sex discrimination”.
It comes after   aimed at ending DEI initiatives in the federal government almost immediately after taking office just over a week ago, a move that had been . 
                     Recommended                   
Trump's first week in office: confusing the enemy and seizing more power than ever
Another order stipulated that reinstatement would be offered to former troops who were discharged for refusing the Covid-19 vaccine and for those who provide a sworn attestation that they left service voluntarily rather than be vaccinated.
The military vaccine mandate lasted from summer 2021 to early 2023. The Biden administration discharged around 8,000 personnel for refusing to be vaccinated.
In a fourth order, Mr Trump announced the construction of an Israel-style missile defence shield to protect America from hypersonic missile attacks.
Elsewhere, the new US president doubled down on his plan to   by relocating up to 1.5 million Palestinians from the enclave to neighbouring Jordan and Egypt.
“I’d like to get them [Gazans] living in an area where they can live without disruption and revolution and violence,” Mr Trump said on Monday, after originally suggesting the idea on Sunday.
Pressed on how Jordan and Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, the Egyptian president, would respond, Mr Trump said: “We helped them [Egypt] a lot, and I’m sure he’d help us. He’s a friend of mine. He’s in… a rough neighbourhood. But I think he [el-Sisi] would do it and I think the King of Jordan would do it too.”
Jordan and Egypt have strongly rejected Mr Trump’s plan, saying that Gazans should be allowed to remain in Gaza.

Load-Date: January 28, 2025


End of Document
