



telegraph.co.uk
February 5, 2025 Wednesday 11:00 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: MONEY; Version:2
Length: 1430 words
Byline: By Helena Morrissey
Highlight: Companies are playing a dangerous game with their DEI programmes
Body


The backlash against “diversity, equity and inclusion” (DEI) has rapidly intensified following Donald Trump’s inauguration, when he signed an executive order 
Federal government officials and agencies were ordered to immediately cease any promotion of diversity, to terminate all programmes associated with DEI and to “encourage the private sector to end illegal discrimination and preferences”.
Or, to put it in a more catchy way, “DEI must DIE”, declared Elon Musk.
The president has since not just doubled, but quadrupled down on his message in the aftermath of last week’s tragic collision in Washington DC between an army helicopter and passenger plane, which killed all 67 people on board.
Following the event, Trump speculatively blamed it on   at the Federal Aviation Administration (although apparently those policies don’t apply to  ).
The escalating war against DEI has been greeted with either delight or dismay, usually sharply delineated on party political lines.
I am an exception – a Conservative peer and a champion of diversity, equity and inclusion.
Yet there is nothing inconsistent about this combination. My approach to DEI has always been predicated on seeking to improve business results, reward merit, create the best teams, mitigate the risk of “groupthink” and foster innovation.
The case of Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) is an example of a classic problem DEI initiatives were intended to fix. In 2007, there was just one woman on the bank’s 17-member board, and all the directors shared strikingly similar profiles – in their 50s and 60s, many from or educated in Edinburgh, moving in the same professional circles.
Given their closeness, it really should have been no surprise that the board was inclined to “groupthink” and that (according to the regulator’s report into the bank’s failure), not a single director questioned the catastrophic acquisition of private bank ABN AMRO, despite scant due diligence.
Following the global financial crisis, I launched the 30% Club to try to improve gender balance on boards. At the time, over 90pc of all UK-listed company directors were men, and there were some extraordinary all-male boards – Mothercare, for example.
Encouraging companies to consider more female candidates for their boards was just a starting point in shaking up the thinking. Today, through voluntary action (not legislation, as that would suggest appointing women just because they were women), over 40pc of UK company directors are female.
More significantly, the campaign helped to redefine what it means to be a good board member. This wasn’t about lowering standards – quite the opposite. It was about widening the lens through which companies spot talent.
The 30% Club wasn’t interested in tokenism, we wanted better boardroom decision-making and a more open and transparent director recruitment process. We didn’t want women to have preferential treatment, we wanted them to have a chance to compete.
Take my experience at Newton Investment Management, where I joined as a junior fixed-income fund manager and became chief executive seven years later.
Our mantra was: No one has a monopoly on great ideas. The best investment decisions emerged from robust debates among people who thought differently. Was it always comfortable? No. Did it lead to better results? Absolutely.
Yet too many DEI initiatives have lost sight of these principles. Art exhibitions excluding white male artists, dubious promotions that seem based on demographic credentials rather than qualifications, the blatant valuing of certain “characteristics” over others, and the stifling of open debate and free speech – 
And let’s be clear – done properly, true merit-based diversity means opportunity for everyone. I’ve heard proud DEI advocates declare they would “never hire an Old Etonian”, which entirely misses the point.
As a governor at Eton, chair of its endowment fund and parent of three alumni, I know first-hand that these students can offer tremendous value to employers. Again, the goal isn’t to exclude any group – it’s to ensure everyone with talent has a fair shot.
Ironically, perhaps – given all the accusations of bias towards under-represented groups – I have been told even recently that I did not make it to the shortlist for a role I was highly qualified for and where the initial interviews had gone very well, simply because I was “not the right profile”.
The shortlist did not include a single woman – and to my knowledge, the men were all privately educated (I went to a comprehensive school).
It’s far from the first time that has happened. I would not have minded if several candidates were stronger, but it is extremely frustrating to miss out because of “profile”. And I am very fortunate, and have had other opportunities. Others with much to offer do not have options. To unlock their potential, we need DEI done well, not dropped.
Some American companies have been quick to ditch the DEI terminology. Others have reinforced their commitment, believing in the benefits. Clients also often insist on diverse teams (as a woman I don’t necessarily want to have to deal with, say, a 12-strong all-male team).
But obviously, we must ensure that the efforts are genuine and all-inclusive. Meta’s recent shift toward “fair and consistent practices that mitigate bias for all, no matter your background” – if it’s for real – points to a way forward.
Here’s how I think organisations might evolve their approach:
                                                                     Acknowledge the mistakes or miscommunications. Businesses must accept that people need to believe DEI is relevant, rather than just be told. Some of the chairmen who were initially most opposed to the 30% Club became its most ardent supporters after a “penny dropping” moment – like the commercial real estate chairman who decided to join after the sole woman on his board intervened to stop the company signing an ill-thought-through joint venture. The men, he acknowledged, were so eager to do the deal that they glossed over the risk.                                                Re-examine the business case. Academics have criticised the methodology of some studies which suggest better gender balance or greater ethnic representation improve profits. The Diversity Project (which I chair) has commissioned new research from Prof Alex Edmans of the London Business School to explore the relationship between cognitive diversity and the performance of investment teams. We have not asked Prof Edmans to “prove” there is a link but to tell us what the data actually reveals. There is global interest in the findings.                                                Ensure that the efforts really do include everyone. Drop exclusionary language, off-putting acronyms, contrived pictures, virtue signalling (flags!), facile training. Rephrase the agenda around attracting and developing the best talent and teams.                                                Make it real. By this, I mean less mandatory training (which studies show fails every time) or requirements like pronouns on emails, and more common sense. At the moment we have DEI proponents in one corner of the boxing ring, opponents in the other. There are great examples of merit and diversity being perfectly aligned – like the massive progress achieved by women in medicine as the patronage model eroded in favour of objective qualifications. Call out examples where the business has benefitted from challenge and diversity of thought – or where the opposite has happened.                                                Be objective. Treat this like any other business objective, measure impact, costs and benefits, and reward success. Drop initiatives that don’t work. Double down on the ones that do. These topics are aspects of good corporate culture and human decency. They are not about serving special interests or creating distractions from company business.                                        
The calls to “ban” DEI are just as simplistic as the box-ticking approach the critics despise. Winning organisations in an increasingly complex world will be those with truly meritocratic recruitment and promotion practices along with inclusive cultures, where the best ideas are heard, regardless of source.
                     Recommended                   
In 35 years, I've seen a host of business leaders – the good ones all shared these qualities
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper; Web Publication

Journal Code: WEBDTNS

Subject: DIVERSITY & INCLUSION (90%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (90%); GOVERNMENT & PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (90%); GOVERNMENT BODIES & OFFICES (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); PUBLIC OFFICIALS (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (89%); COMPANY ACTIVITIES & MANAGEMENT (79%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); GENDER EQUALITY (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY & FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); NEGATIVE NEWS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); NEGATIVE SOCIETAL NEWS (76%); SEX & GENDER ISSUES (76%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (75%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (74%); MEN (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); ACQUISITIONS (50%)

Company:  NATWEST GROUP PLC (82%);  RBS HOLDINGS NV (53%)

Ticker: NWG (NYSE) (82%)

Industry: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); NAICS523940 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT AND INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (75%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (74%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (74%); MEDIA & TELECOMMUNICATIONS (74%); AIRCRAFT (70%); HELICOPTERS (70%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (55%)

Person: ELON MUSK (79%)

Geographic: EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (54%); WASHINGTON DC, USA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

Load-Date: February 5, 2025


End of Document
