




Fox News THE STORY WITH MARTHA MACCALLUM 3:00 PM EST
January 21, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6597 words
Byline: Martha MacCallum, Laura Ingraham, Kellyanne Conway, David Asman, Peter Doocy, Brooke Taylor
Guests: Bill Barr, Rick Crawford, John Kennedy
Body


MARTHA MACCALLUM, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Thank you very much, you guys. Good afternoon everyone. I'm Martha MacCallum and this is The Story.
Welcome to our coverage once again of the first hundred days of now the second Trump term. We cover them all for you the first time around, and we will do the same again.
So, breaking right now, we are about to hear a major announcement, we are, told from President Trump at the White House. We're going to bring that to you live. He has been meeting with Speaker Mike Johnson and Senate Majority Leader John Thune as the president wastes no time pushing his, quote, one big, beautiful bill to get his agenda out and rolling as quickly as possible.
He started this aggressive agenda within hours of taking the oath of office.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The rescission of 78 Biden era executive actions, executive orders, presidential memoranda and others.
A requirement that federal workers return to full time, in-person work immediately.
A withdrawal from the Paris Climate Treaty.
DONALD TRUMP, U.S. PRESIDENT: Could you imagine Biden doing this? I don't think so.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: Democracy in action. You hear those executive orders and applause from the crowd. Laura Ingraham and former Attorney General Bill Barr are going to join me in just a short time. But, first, we have Kellyanne Conway, former senior counselor to President Trump, now president of K.A. Consulting and a Fox News contributor, and David Asman, Fox Business Anchor. Great to have both of you with us today on the first full day, 99 days in the first a hundred days to go, and we're going to see a lot of action, no doubt.
Kellyanne, you know, I thought this was interesting, this piece by Walter Russell Mead in The Wall Street Journal talking about American exceptionalism returning. And he says his remarkable political recovery demonstrates the enduring strength of American cultural forces that have for more than two centuries made America uniquely hospitable to the disruption and chaos that dynamic capitalism inevitably brings. And I know David Asman's going to love that that concept, but, Kellyanne, let me get your thoughts on that and your reaction as we see a lot of action already.
KELLYANNE CONWAY, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Martha, nice to be with David and you. Thank you. Sure. Day one already feels like dog years. That's the Trump's feed. Everything goes very quickly in all dimensions, but that's what Americans voted for and expect.
As for this American exceptionalism, this is important because for years that really undergirded the center of right political movement in this nation, whether you are a foreign policy, national security, Republican or a fiscal social conservative, you felt that America was not just another country on the map. It is an exceptional place. And we have had presidents and other elected officials who have sort of dismissed, if not denigrated and denied that.
Now, with President Trump, even in his speech yesterday, I want to be known, my legacy as a unifier, a peacemaker. I thought his speech was also very aspirational, right, very optimistic, forward-looking, unleashing a golden age.
Sure, he looks backwards a little bit, airs his grievances, who doesn't? But at the same time, he is aligned with this op-ed in this way. The op-ed says that it is Americans sort of sturdiness that can overcome the natural chaos that comes from a dynamic system of capitalism and democracy. Why is that important? Because when it comes to Trump, so many people say, well, he creates the chaos. He creates a disruption. That op-ed makes clear, it's already in the system. It's how you deal with that. That matters.
And I think him taking quick action on any number of issues and people applauding because they understand what the Paris Climate Accords are, they understand what deregulation is, they understand what the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act meant for individuals and entities and small businesses across the country. They understand what it means to have the hostage families there from the Middle East.
So, it's not just that people are applauding him blindly and loyal to him. They're loyal to a set of principles. He beat the prosecutors of persecutors, he won the policy prescription debate, and now he has the political trifecta of Washington, House, Senate, White House, got to take advantage of that. That helps the American exceptionalism.
MACCALLUM: That's exactly what he's working on right now with Thune and Johnson.
Let me get you in here, David. You know, starting with DOGE, and I think, you know, it has to be recognized the influence that Musk has had on cutting spending.
And I think that was, in many ways, the initial sort of exchange for Musk's support was that there would be this Department of Government Efficiency, David. And we've already seen it shrinking federal government, a hiring freeze going into effect, and the elimination of DEI agency workers, they will be gone. And guess what? Federal workers have to return to the office five days a week.
DAVID ASMAN, FOX BUSINESS ANCHOR: Surprise, surprise, you have to be there to get something done, productivity.
I would just build on what Kellyanne would say. It's a difference between reality and fantasy. The world in which the Biden policies were constructed was a fantasy world. Whether you were talking about the border, which we all knew was open and they claim was closed, whether you were talking with the economy, green energy programs that didn't work, that they were spending billions of dollars on, CHIPS Act in which they were spending billions of dollars in corporate welfare going to companies like Intel, which did worse after they received the money. It's why President Trump was talking about common sense, what works and what doesn't work.
And it's not a coincidence that Elon Musk and Donald Trump are two very successful businesspeople. If you go into business with the fantasy, you may win short-term and fool some people, but, eventually, the reality catches up with you and you end up with a losing business.
The same is true with public policy. We have had four years of policy built on fantasy, not on the real world, but on the imagined world of a lot of these liberal policymakers and the stuff didn't work. Crime is another example. You go on and on and on. Foreign policy, all of these -- remember that foreign policy expert from the State Department who said, the Middle East has never been more peaceful now. That was a week before October 7th.
They just have this fantasy notion of what to do with policy that doesn't work. Elon Musk, Donald Trump has spent their lifetime working with reality and making things work in reality.
MACCALLUM: Yes, they know how to cut costs because that's what you have to do when you run a business.
You know, I'm curious what your thoughts are, Kellyanne, in terms of what this big announcement might be that we're expecting to get in a short time. There was some discussion that it may be about unused funds from the Inflation Reduction Act or even COVID funds that were designated for infrastructure. What's your hunch?
CONWAY: Sure. So, the Inflation Reduction Act passed on the completely partisan vote. This is important, Martha, because it wasn't Inflation Reduction Act at all. In fact, the special green envoy, John Kerry, said this is really a climate bill, it's a green bill. And when you take a look at the facts undergirding the Inflation Reduction Act, it gutted Medicare by $237 billion and that went to migrant care, that went to these climate change compliance green stuff, in addition to all the other things that were called infrastructure, E.V. charges, 500,000 of them, eight had been built by October, November.
So, President Trump is going to get in there and do a couple of things. Number one, get us back to where we were with him, and, number two, they broke it, I fixed it, they ignored it, I'll tackle it on this. On infrastructure, on A.I., on unspent funds, he can say, this is another kind of waste. They said they spent all this money on X, Y, Z. It's still sitting there. We're not going to put it there. I'm going to put it A, B, C, which is what you voted for.
Also, if the president tackles A.I. and even crypto early on, he's showing a recognition of what has evolved since he left the White House four years ago. These are two areas, and I've discussed this with him directly, these two areas that have just exploded. They certainly existed in 2020 and 2019, but they just exploded. He recognizes that by having some true crypto and A.I. experts around him. A.I. needs to be seen as a force for good. We don't want the Trump voters to think their jobs will go away because of A.I. and robotics. It's quite the opposite in some of these fields. So, I'm glad he's tackling that early on a level setting expectations.
ASMAN: Can I just say one thing about A.I., which is that it needs a lot of energy to work. And that's why they're creating all these new data centers, et cetera. And you're not going to get it from windmills. I'm sorry, but you're just not. You have to focus on energy, the energy that we have in the United States that produces enough energy for all these magnificent new things that we're going to be able to take advantage of. That's why his energy component is so key to the whole plan and why, frankly, the windmill program of the past administration on which they wasted literally more than a hundred billion dollars was, frankly, just a lot of waste of money. That's why the clawback would be so great if what Kellyanne says happened.
MACCALLUM: And this is why, when I see the tech giants at the inauguration, I see them as a team to make sure that we lead in A.I. as people who understand how to harness it and how to -- and what we all need to understand and know to dominate in it, because we have to dominate in A.I. We can't allow China to take that role.
My thanks to both of you.
Great to see you and hope to see you a lot as we cover these first hundred days. David Asman, Kellyanne Conway, thank you both.
So, President Trump, as I mentioned, huddling with leaders from his party right now, he has the majority in the House, majority in the Senate. They're working on an ambitious agenda. One big, beautiful bill is his desire. He's about to make a major announcement from the White House. That's why the Marine is posted at that door and why we're waiting for him to come out in just a short time from now.
Senator John Kennedy on the busy road ahead for Congress, what he hopes will be the priorities, next
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
MACCALLUM: President Trump meeting with Republican leaders right now at the White House, that familiar West wing door.
And you see the Marine standing guard and they are behind that door getting to work on this first day on the plan to execute his America first agenda. Lawmakers have not decided whether they will attempt to group all of the priorities into one bill. Think border, think energy, think cutting spending or break them up and try to get them through in pieces.
Here's the president.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: There is a bill coming up very shortly that we have a lot of Democrat votes, right? It's going to be a very beautiful bill. We're going to have a deciding, I would say, within a week or so, I think. And it's going to be a very good bill.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: Soon, Louisiana Senator John Kennedy in just a moment, but first to White House Correspondent Peter Doocy now covering a new president inside that White House. He joins us from the North Lawn. Hi, Peter.
PETER DOOCY, FOX NEWS SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: And, Martha, all those executive orders we saw the new president, Donald Trump, signing yesterday can only get him so far. He needs Congress to help him deliver on the big picture promises that he was making over the campaign. So, he's got some Republican allies here inside the West Wing for the first time since he got back. And they're trying to figure out how much stuff they can actually fit into one spending bill.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REPORTER: Speaker Johnson, how are you feeling ahead of your meeting with President Trump?
REP. MIKE JOHNSON (R-LA): Really excited. We got a lot of work to do in a short amount of time to do it.
REPORTER: Do you hope to come to a consensus on reconciliation? Do you know what he's feeling about it?
JOHNSON: Yes, he's for one big beautiful bill, and so am I. So, we'll get it together.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
DOOCY: And we have seen the president today at the National Prayer Service, which is a tradition, but the sermon, anything but traditional.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MARIANN EDGAR BUDDE, WASHINGTON NATIONAL CATHEDRAL BISHOP: There are gay, lesbian, and transgender children in Democratic, Republican, and independent families, some who fear for their lives. And the people, the people who pick our crops.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
DOOCY: The president and the vice president were sitting there, that message was directed at them. And when Mr. Trump got back to the White House, he gave a real time review.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REPORTER: What did you think of the service?
TRUMP: What did you think? Did you like it? Did you find it exciting? Not too exciting, was it?
I didn't think it was a good service, no. Thank you very much.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Thank you, press. Thank you, press.
TRUMP: They can do much better.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
DOOCY: And we are starting to get some details about this artificial intelligence announcement the president is going to make at the top of the next hour. He's got a couple different CEOs here. They are investing somewhere in the neighborhood of $100 billion for this big project. Martha?
MACCALLUM: Going to be fascinating and so important. Peter, thank you very much, Peter Doocy at the White House.
Joining me now, Louisiana Senator John Kennedy, member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, met with President Trump on Sunday. Senator Kennedy, welcome. It's always good to have you with us.
You know, this whole question of one big, beautiful bill, as you just heard Speaker Johnson talking about. The other day I sat down with the majority leader, Senator Thune, in his office and asked him about, you know, what this is going to look like since you have all three branches right now. And here's some of what he said.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: There's been other times when one party had the House and the Senate and the White House. And often, people look back and say, gee, why didn't they get all that done when they had all three?
SEN. JOHN THUNE (R-SD): The speaker us, here in the Senate, the president and his team, we are on the same page. And it's just a function now of how to figure out how to make everything work in a way that enables us to get to the finish line.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: Senator, welcome again. You know, what does it look like to you and will it be different this time? Will there be a lot of Republican progress given the leverage that you have right now?
SEN. JOHN KENNEDY (R-LA): Well, point one, Martha one bill or two, frankly, you can teach it round or you can teach it flat. I don't really give a function whether it's one bill or two. I care about the final project. My advice to my colleagues and to the president is, number one, don't get distracted.
Very shortly, the honeymoon will be over. My Democratic colleagues and many members of the media will start calling us, particularly the president crazy. They said the same thing about Noah and then the rains came and all the fact checkers drowned. We need to keep our focus on why we're here.
Here's why we're here. President Trump won aside from the fact that I think he's high energy and authentic and he doesn't talk down to people on four issues, inflation, border security, national security, and the fact that Vice President Harris and President Biden staffed their administration with a bunch of people who majored in online activism with a minor in puberty blockers.
All they wanted to do was sit around all day and talk about climate change and whether a man can breastfeed.
We've got to address those four issues in a bill. It's called reconciliation. We'll get no help from the Democrats, so we'll have to do it for a mechanism called reconciliation, which only requires a majority vote. That requires us to stick together.
Let me say it again. I don't care whether we do one bill or two. What I do care about is that everybody remember we can't let the perfect be the enemy of the good. The American people have given us a year at best. We've got to produce. We can produce, but everybody's going to have to give them a little bit.
MACCALLUM: So, what is that -- you know, what are your priorities? You talked about national security, you talked about the economy, inflation. You know, what is the -- give people a sense of what's realistic and how quickly they will see this happen? Because we've seen a lot of these executive orders, but as was said in the lead package here, the president needs Congress to get this passed. What are your priorities for this bill, Senator?
KENNEDY: Well, I'll tell you what my priorities are and what I would do if I were a king for a day. I'm not and I don't aspire to be. Number one, inflation. The only way we're going to defeat inflation, high prices, is to grow the economy, to increase people's wages. We've got to start with renewing the 2017 tax cuts. If we don't, taxes are going to go up in the amount of $4.3 trillion. 60 percent of that tax increase will hit middle America. It will crush our economy. Number two, border security. Number three, I want to spend more money on defense. Number four, I want to pass - - I want to see an eruption of common sense where we pass some laws, part of reconciliation, where if you are a biological male, no matter how you identify, you can't play a women's sports sport. It's cell-deep stupid. You can be whatever you want to be in America, but if you're a biological male, you can't compete with a woman fairly.
MACCALLUM: All right. Senator, thank you for laying out your priorities. Discussions are going on right now. We expect to hear from the president very shortly. And I thank you for joining us today. Senator Kennedy from Louisiana, thank you, sir.
Coming up, we'll speak with former Attorney General Bill Barr about President Trump's broad immigration orders, the power that he now has to wage a new war on the cartels and the drug trade at our border, something that the former attorney general feels very strongly about in terms of how aggressive we can be on this, even with our military. That is next.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BILL BARR, FORMER TRUMP ATTORNEY GENERAL: We're rolling the military down to invade Mexico. But our military, on these kinds of things, with the intelligence we have, can act with precision. And through special operations, the use of drones, going after the finances, which we know how they're structured and where they are, we can decimate -- we can destroy these groups in a relatively short period of time. It's just a matter of will.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
MACCALLUM: President Trump taking broad action to protect the country from illegal immigration by readying the military to secure the border, green lighting construction of a border wall, pushing for an end to birthright citizenship, and getting serious about combating the cartels.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REPORTER: President Trump, if cartels are now going to be seen as foreign terror organizations, would you think about ordering U.S. Special Forces into Mexico to take them out?
TRUMP: It could happen. Stranger things have happened.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is actually an executive order designating the cartels and other organizations to be foreign terrorist organizations.
TRUMP: That's a big one.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: That is a big one. Former Attorney General Bill Barr is here. But first to Correspondent Brooke Taylor covering this story from one of the hottest areas that has faced this issue in El Paso, Texas. Hi, Brooke.
BROOKE TAYLOR, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Hi, Martha. Yes, President Trump has declared the southern border a national emergency, and that's basically going to allow him to deploy the military and National Guard. And I could tell you we saw the effects of his executive orders just hours after his presidency. We want to show you video here of migrants in Mexico who has CBP1 app appointments. They were seen emotional, crying after learning their appointments had been canceled.
President Trump immediately ended this controversial program that has allowed more than 900,000 migrants into the U.S. right off the bat. He also reinstated the remain in Mexico policy. That requires migrants seeking asylum to stay in Mexico until those immigration court hearings.
Well, here in El Paso, immigration top of mind for people who live here. We are just minutes from where we spoke to people who live close to this border.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
RAUL SALAZAR, EL PASO RESIDENT: I believe immigration when it's done the right way. Just letting everybody run over come across, it's not right.
GILBERT ESTRADA, EL PASO RESIDENT: People coming here illegally, they're breaking the law. And that's one of the things that I do not like is people to break the law.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
TAYLOR: And illegal crossings have not stopped.
Just a little while ago, before we were on air, we saw a small group of migrants. They were loaded into a Border Patrol van taken in for processing. And this, Martha, behind me, is not a legal port of entry.
MACCALLUM: Brooke, thank you, Brooke Taylor in El Paso. Former U.S. Attorney General Bill Barr joins me now. General Barr, good to have you with us again. Your reaction to this emergency executive order, I should say, that President Trump signed with regard to naming the cartels as terror organizations and what that will allow him to do.
BILL BARR, FORMER ATTORNEY GENERAL: Well, he's taken a number of actions and I'm glad this -- I'm glad he's acting decisively. You know, in his first term, he said to me about the drug war that a lot of people have just kicked the can down the road, and he really feels he was elected to office to tackle problems head on. And that's what he's doing.
On the cartels, the designation of them as a terror group is an important step. It allows us to impose sanctions on individuals, impose additional sanctions beyond those we've already imposed. But at the end of the day, I think the real question is not so much designating them, but how we're going to treat them.
And I think we have to start treating them and responding to them the way we would a group like ISIS. And I think that's in the cards eventually.
MACCALLUM: I mean, that's something that you and I talked about when you were attorney general. And now there is this opportunity with President Trump back in.
What do you think it looks like? And, you know, I feel that this part -- the cartel part of the conversation often gets lost. And, you know, we show these images truthfully of people crossing the border. But this is a business that is bigger than the drug business now for the cartels. And the drug business is bad enough with the fentanyl traffic that crosses our border.
BARR: Well, right. Well, step one, I think, as the President recognizes, is sealing the border, getting control over that border. Because these groups are responsible for the migration, as you say, that's big business for them, human trafficking and the drugs that come across the border as well, and all their organized criminal activity and gangs that are coming across and setting up outposts in the United States. We have to get control of the border.
And he'll do that with his remain in Mexico policy, building the wall and putting more resources along the border. After that, we have to focus, and I think he will, on the cartels and China, because two countries are responsible for 90 percent of the drugs, the deadly drugs that come into this country, and that's China and/or Mexico. China produces the fentanyl and the fentanyl precursors.
They're aware that their companies are producing this and selling it to the Mexicans. They can stop it if they want to. The Mexicans have no ability to control the cartels. They're essentially co-opted and they're either intimidated or they're bought and paid for.
And so, we have to push the Mexicans to allow us to work with them to deal with the cartels. They can't by themselves get out from the death grip of the cartels. They need our help. And we're going to have to make it clear to them that the current situation is intolerable. And they're either going to be with us or against us. And I think they will have no choice.
I think the tariffs that the president has talked about, 25 percent on Mexico and an additional 10 percent on China, are going to be extremely important in breaking the back of the drug trade.
MACCALLUM: Absolutely. And so, do you see a scenario where we get an agreement with Mexico where we would send Special Forces in to go after the cartels and take them out, take out members of the cartels to send a very strong message?
BARR: Yes. I think eventually the Mexicans are going to have to agree to work with us. I think their government and their agencies are so corrupt and corruptible by the cartels, both because of intimidation, of terrorism tactics, but also because they have vast amounts of money to bribe people, that it's very hard to maintain operational security down there.
So they're going to have to give us some running room, and start working with us and allow us to train and vet units down there. They can't do it by themselves. And so, I think once they understand that the United States is not going to continue to stand by and permit this kind of catastrophic harm to our own country to continue, they will understand they have no choice.
Furthermore, the tariffs, I think, can drive their economy into the ground, and I don't think they can afford to let that happen.
MACCALLUM: Yes. I mean, we have had our own forces and Special Ops forces on the ground there in the past decades ago. Not unprecedented, as we heard the President say on the way in here.
Quick question on this birthright citizenship reversal that President Trump wants to do. Where do you stand on the subject of the 14th Amendment and whether or not it dictates that anyone who is born here is a citizen? Do you see it that way, or do you see the subject to the jurisdiction thereof clause in the 14th Amendment as something that leaves some room for change there?
BARR: I think the President is right as to what the right policy is. It's ridiculous to have birthright citizenship. Now, this language that was adopted, you know, in the 1800s is a little bit opaque. It says subject to the jurisdiction -- someone born in the US and subject to the jurisdiction thereof.
Most legal scholars would say that all that means is they're not the children of diplomats, they're not the children of foreign soldiers who are encamped in the United States. But I think there's a plausible argument to be made that it means allegiance. However, you know, it's going to take a lot -- it's an uphill battle because there's a lot of precedent over the last 150 years in practice, more than precedent, actually.
And I think the courts are going to be potentially reluctant to change that in the face just of an executive order. But I think it's worth starting the battle.
MACCALLUM: Yes.
BARR: I think once the people understand the arguments, they'll be supportive of what the President's trying to accomplish. If it can't be done by executive order, we should move by statute, where I think there's a good argument to be made that Congress would have more latitude in this because of the section 5 of the 14th Amendment that gives them power to enforce the 14th Amendment, and if we have to amend the Constitution. But I think this is a debate worth having.
MACCALLUM: Yes. Huge issue coming down the pike, and we'll see where it goes. Thanks for showing us, you know, the background around that law is going to get tested. It looks pretty clear. Bill Barr, thank you very much. Good to see you, sir.
BARR: Thanks, Martha. Good to see you.
MACCALLUM: So the newly minted chair of the House Intelligence Committee, Congressman Rick Crawford, on Trump's bold move to revoke security clearances for the officials who dismissed Hunter Biden's laptop, fifty-one of them, as you remember, they said right before the election that it had all the hallmarks, or earmarks, excuse me, of Russian propaganda. And they had to eat their words on that afterwards.
We'll talk to him about what's going to happen to them now that they are getting their security clearances revoked. I don't think they're going to like that very much. That's next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
MACCALLUM: President Trump revoking the security clearances for dozens of former intelligence officials who were part of the 51 who suggested that Hunter Biden's emails were just likely part of a big Russian disinformation operation. Prominent figures like James Clapper, Leon Panetta, John Brennan, Michael Hayden all signed that letter days before the 2020 election. And you remember there was also a social media effort to suppress information and stories about the Hunter Biden laptop.
It cast doubt on emails reported by the New York Post tying President Biden to his son's business dealings. Trump's executive order says that the intel officials, "willfully weaponize the gravitas of the intelligence community to manipulate the political process and undermine our democratic institutions."
With that, we bring in the Chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, Republican Congressman Rick Crawford, from Arkansas. Chairman Crawford, good to have you with us. Thank you very much for being here.
REP. RICK CRAWFORD (R-AR): Appreciate it.
MACCALLUM: I want to take us back to 2020. This is from the presidential debate end of October, shortly before the election when this bombshell story dropped that Hunter Biden's laptop had emails, 10 for the, you know, save 10 for the big guy, all of that. And that 51 intelligence officials, and it was reported that Antony Blinken was one of the orchestrators of putting together that list right before the election, said that, you know, don't worry about this. Doesn't look like the real thing. Looks like Russian disinformation.
Watch this exchange at the debate.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOE BIDEN, FORMER US PRESIDENT: There are 50 former National Intelligence folks who said that what this he's accusing me of is a Russian plan. They have said that this is -- has all the -- four -- five former heads of the CIA, both parties say what he's saying is a bunch of garbage.
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF UNITED STATES: You mean the laptop is now another Russia, Russia, Russia hoax? You got to be --
BIDEN: That's exactly what -- this is exactly what we've been told.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: This is stunning. Your reaction when you look back at that and your reaction to this decision to revoke their security clearances now, sir?
CRAWFORD: Well, look, to have a security clearance requires trust. Clearly, we can't trust these individuals who decided to take a political turn on that particular issue that was proven to be, in fact, valid. That was Hunter's laptop. It was proven to be his laptop. And they got out there for political reasons to try and protect Joe Biden and protect Hunter Biden.
So you lost your security clearance. Thanks for playing. I mean, you should have known better. And these are folks who have been in the business a long, long time, should have known better. So I don't feel a bit sorry for them.
MACCALLUM: Yes. You know, it's ironic that he was denying -- then former President Biden was denying that his family had any of associations. He denied it all the way through. And then yesterday, 15 minutes before the inauguration of President Trump, he pardoned. Blanket pardoned way before any charges or anything came, you know, all of the members of his family who were implicated in this. What is your reaction to that?
CRAWFORD: Well, I mean, to me, that implies that there was guilt. Why would you pardon somebody who was not guilty of anything? It's just common sense. But he anticipated that there might be legal action.
Why would he anticipate that, because he knew that there was. Therefore, he had to take action to prevent them from going to jail. It's just that simple.
MACCALLUM: So what's happening now as President Trump has said, he wants a deep dive into the intelligence agencies to eradicate any political tendencies or investigations that had been ongoing there to get a clean slate, essentially.
CRAWFORD: Yes. I've said this before and I'll say it again, we need to trust the intelligence community. We need to -- it's a national security imperative and we need to make sure that the folks that are charged with that responsibility are trustworthy.
And right now there are all these indications that there are -- at every level that there are just not -- there's just not enough trust present there. And that's a problem for our national security.
MACCALLUM: Yes. I mean, we all remember the Lisa Strzok -- Peter Strzok and Lisa Page, you know, you can smell the Trump support at Walmart and we won't let it happen when it came to Trump ever being president. And it'll be interesting to see.
It would be great to, you know, send all of those agencies, the polling, on how untrusted they are right now and say, look, let's by the end of the year move this number higher. I think it would be a great goal.
Congressman and Chairman Crawford, I hope you'll join us again. You've got an important job. Thank you so much for being here.
CRAWFORD: Thank you.
MACCALLUM: So a live look now at the White House. We're waiting for a major announcement from President Trump on his first full day office. "The Ingraham Angle" host Laura Ingraham on the history unfolding at lightning speed next.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: And you're witnessing the dawn of the golden age of America. That's what it's going to be. We're bringing it back. We're going to bring it back fast.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: Lot happening, we're waiting. President Trump is expected to make a big announcement at the White House regarding AI, and his commitment to the private sector involvement in making sure that we're dominant in this area, which is going to be crucial to our national security as he tries to secure his promise for a new golden age in America.
On that and a couple other things, let's bring in Laura Ingraham, host of the "Ingraham Angle." Laura, great to see you and great to watch you throughout the past couple of days, as we have marked this history of the beginning of the second Trump administration.
It sounds like he has secured huge investments from OpenAI, from SoftBank, from Oracle to invest trillions in the AI advantage for America. Your reaction ahead of this announcement, that's -- what we think is going to happen.
LAURA INGRAHAM, FOX NEWS HOST: Yes. There was a lot of grousing about the titans of the industry behind Trump at the rotunda. And I was pretty close up to the front, so you could feel kind of the -- it was unprecedented, obviously and just the power of that room, in addition to the pageantry and the grandeur of it all, and all the drama behind the scenes.
But he's doing this for a reason. He knows the future in technology is going to be dominated by artificial intelligence. And he knows America's future depends on a strong, vibrant economy that has a growing manufacturing class.
However, that's going to look in the coming years. And for him, cutting deals is the only way to get that done. And how refreshing is it, Martha, to see a president who is on the job?
I mean, people talk about 100 day schedule, like 100 day to sprint to get things done. Knowing him, as long as I've known Donald Trump wants to get, OK, what are we getting done the next --
MACCALLUM: Exactly.
INGRAHAM: Yes, 24 hours, 36 hours.
MACCALLUM: Exactly. You know, and it strikes me, and I mentioned this yesterday, like, you know, this is a national security investment, the presence of these people.
INGRAHAM: Yeah.
MACCALLUM: And I think about Kamala Harris saying artificial intelligence, that's what AI stands for. I think that the government needs to acknowledge that they don't understand how this works, and that you need to bring in the greatest frontier top talent, as the president mentioned in his inaugural address yesterday, to get some of this done.
INGRAHAM: Yes.
MACCALLUM: But I want to ask you about the cultural issues that are also part of these executive orders if I may, Laura. This is a bit of what was at the prayer service this morning from Reverend Mariann Edgar Budde scolding Trump for policies. Watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MARIANN EDGAR BUDDE, BISHOP OF WASHINGTON: In the name of our God, I ask you to have mercy upon the people in our country. We're scared now. There are gay, lesbian and transgender children in Democratic, Republican and Independent families, some who fear for their lives. I ask you to have mercy, Mr. President, on those in our communities whose children fear that their parents will be taken away.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: Your reaction to that from this morning, Laura?
INGRAHAM: Well, back in 2020, the same bishop was on the streets of Washington talking about how Trump needs to be replaced. So there are a lot of people who wear clerical garb, and it's kind of cool. And they have a following, although it's dwindling at the National Cathedral, to be honest.
MACCALLUM: Yes.
INGRAHAM: The Episcopal Church is having its own struggles, but this individual is a radical leftist. So she doesn't like Trump. We all know that, it's been obvious throughout the years. And she comes to the cathedral at a time where the country is coming together, there's historic change.
And she makes this point, Martha, that it's not compassionate to enforce the border or to enforce our laws. I would submit to this bishop that it's not compassionate to have an open border, violent crime, murders of Americans, human and drug trafficking that kills hundreds of thousands and brutalizes others.
Perhaps in the United States, Americans want compassion for those victims, I say, whose blood and tears, and agony is on the shoulders of Joe Biden, and Alejandro Mayorkas and Kamala Harris. Perhaps she could think about that for five seconds at a time like this where the Trump sat there.
I don't know if I would even have sat through that when she started on that routine. They have a lot more patience than I do.
MACCALLUM: Well put. We'll look forward to more of that on "The Angle." Great coverage last night.
INGRAHAM: How did you guess I was going to -- how did you guess I was going to talk about this today, Martha? You've already wound me up. I got a few hours to go. What am I going to do now?
MACCALLUM: Thank you, Laura. We'll look forward to that tonight at 7:00. Great to see you as always, Laura Ingraham, coming up on "The Angle" tonight at 7:00.
And a big hour ahead for the premiere of the "Will Cain Show." we'll check in with Will. Get ready for that coming up next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
MACCALLUM: All right. That is "The Story" for Tuesday, January 21st, first complete day of the Trump administration. "The Story" goes on for the first hundred days coverage and I'm excited because I get to bring in Will Cain right now from Texas to begin his first 4:00 PM show and we're so excited.
We're going to be all across the country, thanks to you Will, coming to us from the heart of the United States, my friend. Have a great show.

Load-Date: January 21, 2025


End of Document
