




thetimes.co.uk
January 26, 2025 Sunday 12:01 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 897 words
Byline: Irwin Stelzer
Highlight: The president thinks he can have it all: higher tariffs, lower interest rates and prices. He views business as a partner, not an enemy, and growth could follow
Body


President Trump has a view of economic cause-and-effect that is certainly out of the mainstream. He wants higher tariffs, lower interest rates and lower prices. He wants income from tips, overtime pay and social security (pensions) to be tax-free, his 2017 tax cuts extended, at a combined revenue loss of some $9 trillion over ten years, and a shrinking deficit. If he gets all he wants, look for fire sales of obsolete economic textbooks. 
Unless two ingredients of this stew of contradictory policies make it digestible. The first is one that Donald Trump claims to have in unlimited quantities: common sense. Watch for mid-course corrections. 
The second is Trump’s ability to convert stagecraft to statecraft — to create an atmosphere so alive with what the economist John Maynard Keynes called 

 that investment pours in, with risk-takers sitting on piles of unused cash deciding that he is about to make America great again. With that belief pervasive, the pace of innovation rises in response to the stripping out of the system regulations that slow its pace and increase the risk of failure. 
Keynes put it this way: “Economic prosperity is excessively dependent on a political and social policy which is congenial to the average businessman.” That is what Trump created on his famous Day One last week. Americans saw a vigorous president moving from one gruelling event to another for hours on end, and topping it off with a whirl around the floor with a stylish (“classy” and “elegant” to X posters), smiling wife. 
Gone was the predecessor who succumbed to the ravages of age and the importunings of a vigorous left wing, with an attentive wife guiding him through the day. 
Entrepreneurs and executives saw a president granting easy access to the press after his rivals had done their best to elude journalists. Joe Biden and Kamala Harris acted as if they had all to hide; Trump lets it all hang out. 
Even more important, businessmen and women, and millions of others, watched as he signed about 200 executive orders. Of those, 78 repealed Biden orders, and the balance mostly addressed his grievances and those of his supporters, to which he is exquisitely attuned. 
 The border is to be closed, the bad guys sent home or to jail. 
 Out goes “diversity, equity and inclusion” (DEI) and in comes a “colour-blind and merit-based society”. All government DEI offices were ordered to close on Wednesday, with 

.
 “We will get critical race theory and transgender insanity the hell out of our schools.” 
 “It will henceforth be the official policy of the United States government that there are only two genders: male and female …We will keep men out of women’s sports.” 
 Out go the green revolution and $300 billion (£240 billion) of green infrastructure spending, US membership of the Paris Agreement on climate change, windmills and “the electric vehicle mandate”. In come “drill, baby, drill”, survival of the internal combustion engine, and permits for liquefied natural gas (LNG) export facilities.
 Out go Biden appointees, in come 4,000 Trump loyalists. Out go über regulators harassing, among others, banks; in come mergers and 

 enthusiasts.
That new societal background music, and a government that views business as a partner rather than an enemy, is Trump’s gift to the business community. Add this: Americans, for better or worse, admire financial success and now see a president, basking in the opulence of Mar-a-Lago, who has replaced one who fell off a bicycle while eating an ice cream cone. He is surrounded by billionaires and millionaires, many self-made, rather than by academics and left-leaning politicians and union leaders. 
Trump huddles with a man optimistically talking about colonising Mars and shrinking bloated government, rather than with union leaders figuring out how to hold back innovation, or with ideologues who would expand the federal bureaucracy. Wall Street enlisted in the interest of Main Street.
The International Monetary Fund has raised its 2.2 per cent pre-election forecast of US growth to 2.7 per cent, while simultaneously lowering its growth forecasts for most European economies. Small business optimism is at its highest level since October 2018, and for the first time since 1983 a majority expect the economy to expand rather than contract — with 80 per cent believing that revenues will increase and 71 per cent expecting the number of employees to increase. 
Adding to the optimism is a still strong but better-balanced labour market that has restored to bosses some of the bargaining power they lost during the pandemic, and that might repopulate empty offices.
Chief executives of larger corporations have also become more optimistic. Their confidence dipped during the final quarter of 2024, but “the overall sentiment … has turned positive since the presidential election”, reports Chief Executive magazine. They are encouraged by the recent 2 per cent growth in productivity — the main path to higher living standards. Think of that when QR codes replace your paper menus, and a videoconference replaces a long business trip. 
Only a practitioner of the dismal science would end with a reminder that during Trump’s week of triumph, the national debt increased by about $40 billion.
                    Irwin Stelzer is a business adviser                 

Load-Date: January 25, 2025


End of Document
