




Financial Times (London, England)
January 25, 2025 Saturday
Edition 1, European Edition


Copyright 2025 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 12
Length: 910 words
Byline: HARRIET AGNEW; ORTENCA ALIAJ; STEPHEN MORRIS ; ARASH MASSOUDI
Body


Fomo is pervasive at Davos - there's always a more exclusive party or powwow. But as the so-called global elite descended on the Swiss mountain resort on Monday for the World Economic Forum, the overwhelming feeling was that the real action was far away in Washington.
Goldman Sachs boss David Solomon, Uber chief executive Dara Khosrowshahi and investment banker Ken Moelis were among those who attended events in the US capital to mark the inauguration of Donald Trump and then hotfooted it to Switzerland.
This year's theme at Davos - the annual jamboree where world leaders hobnob with corporate titans and a smattering of celebrities, and an elite badge costs SFr27,000 ($30,000) - was nominally "Collaboration for the Intelligent Age".
But the talk of the town was Trump, tariffs and what one senior US banker called "peak pessimism" on Europe.
"Dominating the agenda at Davos this year is Trump 2.0 and what ... Europe needs to do in order to ensure that it is competitive and, frankly, secure," said Kasim Kutay, chief executive of Novo Holdings, the $187bn investment arm of Danish drugmaker Novo Nordisk's philanthropic foundation.
European Central Bank president Christine Lagarde declared that the continent was facing an "existential crisis", while one top bank executive put it even more bluntly, saying "it's five minutes to midnight for Europe".
Hours after Trump unveiled a blitz of executive orders, the same banker proclaimed that "everyone is all-in on America". Summing up the prevailing mood, he said the next four years would be characterised by a "bonfire of regulations, 'drill baby drill', and the end of [environmental, social and governance] standards".
The main tenets of the Davos agenda - diversity, equity and inclusion, free trade and climate change - were drowned out by US exceptionalism, artificial intelligence and a cryptocurrency frenzy, even as wildfires raged in California and daytime temperatures in the ski resort rarely fell below zero. Several executives breathed a sigh of relief that cancel culture was over and DEI no longer a feature, while president of Argentina and Trump ally Javier Milei attacked the "cancer" of "wokeism".
At JPMorgan's cocktail party at the Kirchner Museum on Wednesday, guests queued for selfies with its chief executive Jamie Dimon, his lieutenants and former UK prime minister Sir Tony Blair.
Rumours swirled at the shindig that Trump would turn up with his "First Buddy" Elon Musk in tow. "Why not? It's a big fuck you to all these people," said one attendee. But in the end the US president appeared only by video link on Thursday for a Q&A with chief executives in which he accused Dimon and Bank of America boss Brian Moynihan of not providing banking services to conservatives. Musk-watchers had to make do with Elon's restaurateur brother Kimbal, who was rocking a Stetson at the JPMorgan party.
Masters of the universe were out in force, including Blackstone's Steve Schwarzman, hedge fund titan Ray
Dalio and BlackRock CEO Larry Fink. Former England footballer David Beckham rubbed shoulders with former UK chancellor George Osborne at a latenight after-party hosted by PR man Matthew Freud.
Sitting on stage next to Dalio and IMF head Kristalina Georgieva, rapper Will.i.am observed that "AI is like, wow ... The latest version 5 of Waymo is 'way mo' better" - referring to San Francisco's self-driving AI taxis. ArsÈne Wenger, the former manager of Premier League football club Arsenal, spoke at an event for top Barclays executives.
Meanwhile, there were private musical performances by Wyclef Jean and Aloe Blacc, and Duran Duran played at Salesforce's closing party on Thursday - one of the hottest tickets in town.
The mood among the tech community reached "peak Trump" this week, according to one investment banker, boosted by the new president's rash of executive orders and deregulatory moves.
Rescinding Joe Biden's AI bill, Trump removed the guardrails on the development of the technology. He also signalled he would develop a regulatory framework for digital assets - a major boost for cryptocurrencies in their quest for legitimacy.
Meanwhile, investors hoped that Trump's "America First" tech boosterism would galvanise European politicians, who have been restricting the growth of AI in the region with strict rules governing data use and dealmaking, to get their act together. "Europe is underinvesting and over-regulating," said Fabricio Bloisi, chief executive of Prosus, one of the world's largest tech investors.
"The US has made a big push this week - hopefully this will be a wake-up call to Europe to move out of discussion, soften their stance and act."
But Trump fatigue was already setting in among some Europeans, and executives articulated a wave of concerns.
"People are worried about everything related to ESG, diversity and disclosure," said Ronald Wuijster, chief executive of APG Asset Management in the Netherlands, one of the world's largest pension funds.
Privately, some foresaw darker times ahead. The head of one sovereign wealth fund warned that "we're moving towards a kleptocracy in the US that we've never seen before", describing the meme coins launched by Trump and his wife Melania days before his inauguration as "daylight robbery".
And, as attendees questioned whether - and where - the animal spirits might backfire, there was a gnawing feeling that, historically, the event most likely to happen is the opposite of whatever is the Davos consensus.

Graphic

 
European Central Bank president Christine Lagarde declared Europe was facing an 'existential crisis' Stefan Wermuth/Bloomberg

Load-Date: January 24, 2025


End of Document
