




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 6, 2025 Thursday 9:30 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 911 words
Byline: Marc Caputo
Body


February 6th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
The Trump administration's   
Why it matters: Trump promised during his campaign to root out the "Deep State" - generally framed as institutional resistance in D.C. that impedes his agenda. But the speed and tactics of Trump's vengeance-fueled cost-cutting efforts have been surprising.
The CIA on Tuesday became the first major security agency to offer "buyouts" to its entire work force. The buyouts, first reported by the   
Fresh off her Senate confirmation, Attorney General Pam Bondi is  
Tulsi Gabbard will be tasked under a Trump   
Musk's Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE)  
Some State Department workers sent word to Axios that they suspect administration officials "are now stalking people's LinkedIn to check their backgrounds for possible loyalty issues."
Zoom in: Trump is focused on the Justice Department for prosecuting him, but the State Department and the National Security Council are two major ideological battlegrounds where officials say they expect to encounter "resistance" liberals.
Even before Trump's Jan. 20 inauguration, his team was seeking mass resignations from the   
"The folks that we're bringing in are 100% aligned with the president's agenda," National Security Adviser Michael Waltz told  
"The State Department is largely run by bleeding-heart liberals," Florida Rep. Brian Mast, a Republican who chairs the House Foreign Affairs Committee, told Axios.
Secretary of State Marco Rubio has long believed the State Department has too many officials who support engagement with the dictatorships in Cuba and Iran.
As a senator, Rubio joined Mast in criticizing the State Department and USAID. They issued a 2023  
Zoom out: USAID is the world's premier foreign assistance agency and manages as much as $40 billion in appropriations.
It's the keystone of U.S. "soft power" in fostering relations in developing nations. It's also a target for Republicans who see parts of the agency as a liberal-aligned patronage system that helps Democrats revolve in and out of government and non-governmental organizations.
To try to drive home the administration's distaste for USAID, White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt on Monday  
"Bring USAID to heel and you end the Democrat gravy train," one Rubio ally told Axios.
"The claim is kind of absurd," a former Democratic State Department official said in response. "During Republican administrations, they flood the place with their appointees and priorities."
The big picture: USAID is now the flashpoint for the Trump administration's brash - and potentially unconstitutional - efforts to restructure the U.S. government.
The agency's website was taken down and replaced with a message saying all personnel not assigned to "mission-critical functions" will be put on leave on Friday. Most workers overseas were ordered home within 30 days. The D.C. headquarters was closed Monday. Democratic lawmakers tried to get access and held a press conference after they were turned away.
"This is what the beginning of dictatorship looks like," Rep Ilhan Omar (D-Minn.)  
"We spent the weekend feeding USAID into the wood chipper," Musk  
Between the lines: Musk over the weekend  
The president did, however, make Rubio USAID's acting director. Rubio told  
"They just think they're a global entity and that their master is the globe, and not the United States," Rubio said. "That's not sustainable."
What's next: An administration official familiar with Rubio's efforts said the secretary has no pre-baked plan to root out "Deep State" actors. Rubio, with Musk's team, is reviewing spending as the department pauses foreign expenditures under a Trump executive order.
The State Department abided by Trump's spending freeze, the official said - "just the opposite experience of USAID where people started pushing money out the door against ... the spirit of the executive order. We just had outright rebellion."


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
