




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 22, 2025 Saturday 1:36 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 202 words
Byline: Lauren Floyd
Body


February 21st, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
President Trump on Friday fired Joint Chiefs of Staff Chair   
The big picture: Brown's termination comes amid the Trump administration's mass firings and pushback against diversity, equity and inclusion efforts.
The president has claimed the military's leadership is too heavily focused on diversity issues and signed an executive  
Zoom in: Trump didn't say why Brown was being fired but thanked him for more than 40 years of service to the United States, calling him "a fine gentleman and an outstanding leader" in a Truth Social  
Trump went on to nominate Air Force Lt. Gen. Dan "Razin" Caine for the role, claiming he "was passed over for promotion" by former President Biden.
Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth praised Caine in a  


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 21, 2025


End of Document
