




Fox News FOX HANNITY 9:00 PM EST
February 28, 2025 Friday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7194 words
Byline: Sean Hannity, Bret Baier, Joe Concha, Miranda Devine, Jason Chaffetz
Guests: Victor Davis Hanson, Clay Travis, Chad Wolf
Body


SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS HOST: And welcome to "Hannity".
And tonight, one thing is perfectly clear, if there was ever any doubt American strength on the world stage, it is back. It is back big time. President Trump will always stand up for you the American people. He's going to put America first. We're not going to be disrespected. We will not be swindled. We will not be bullied.
Today, the Ukrainian President Zelenskyy, frankly, in many ways disgraced himself, lost an opportunity of a lifetime to stop the death and destruction of his country, and he did it on the world stage. President Trump graciously invited him to the White House for a key minerals deal that he promised to sign, linking our two countries together with a long- term agreement. President Trump even offered to reset relations after Zelenskyy, we might recall, actually campaigned for Kamala Harris on the campaign trail.
Now, keep in mind, Ukraine has received a steady flow of your hard-earned taxpayer dollars and equipment from the U.S., including under Donald Trump. But under Biden and Harris, hundreds of billions of dollars and not all of it accounted for far more than any other country in the world including far more grants in the entire continent of Europe. But in the Oval Office, while the cameras were rolling, Zelenskyy seemingly ungrateful, combative, entitled and apparently, Zelenskyy's ego seem more important than the war- torn people in his own country. And his behavior is something I'm -- I'm betting he's going to regret for a very long time. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Well, if I didn't -- didn't align myself with both of them, you'd never have a deal. You want me to say really terrible things about Putin and then say, hi, Vladimir, how are we doing on the deal? That doesn't work that way. I'm not aligned with Putin. I'm not aligned with anybody. I'm aligned with the United States of America and for the good of the world.
J.D. VANCE, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: He tried the pathway of Joe Biden, of thumping our chest and pretending that the president of the United States' words mattered more than the president of the United States' actions. What makes America a good country is America engaging in diplomacy, that's what President Trump is doing.
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT: What kind of diplomacy, J.D., you are speaking about? What -- what you -- what you -- what do you mean?
VANCE: I'm talking about the kind of diplomacy that's going to end the destruction of your country.
(CROSSTALK)
VANCE: But, Mr. President, Mr. President, with respect, I think it's disrespectful for you to come into the opal office and try to litigate this in front of the American media. Right now, you guys are going around and forcing conscripts to the front lines because you have manpower problems. You should be thanking the president for trying to bring and end into this conflict. And do you think that it's respectful to come to the Oval Office of the United States of America and attack the administration that is trying to -- trying to prevent the destruction of your country.
ZELENSKYY: A lot of -- a lot of questions. Let's start from the beginning.
VANCE: Sure.
ZELENSKYY: First of all, during the war, everybody has problems, even you, but you have nice ocean and don't feel now. But you will feel it in the future. God bless --
TRUMP: You don't know that.
ZELENSKYY: God bless. God bless, you will not have war.
TRUMP: Don't tell us what we're going to feel. We're trying to solve a problem. Don't tell us what we're going to feel.
ZELENSKYY: I'm not telling you because you're in no position to dictate that.
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: You're not in a good position you don't have the cards right now. With us, you start having cards.
ZELENSKYY: I'm not playing cards.
TRUMP: Right now, you don't -- you're playing cards.
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: You're gambling with the lives of millions of people. You're gambling with World War III. You're gambling with World War III. And what you're doing is very disrespectful to the country, this country.
VANCE: Have you said thank you once --
ZELENSKYY: A lot of times.
VANCE: -- this entire meeting? No, in this entire meeting have you said thank you?
You went to Pennsylvania and campaign for the opposition in October, offer some words of appreciation for the United States of America and the president who's trying to save your country.
ZELENSKYY: Please, you think that if you will speak very loudly about the war, you can --
TRUMP: He's not speaking loudly. He's not speaking loudly. Your country is in big trouble.
ZELENSKYY: Can I have --
TRUMP: Wait a minute, no, no, you've done a lot of talking. Your country is in big trouble.
ZELENSKYY: I know, I know.
TRUMP: You're not winning. You're not winning this. You have a damn good chance of coming out okay because of us.
ZELENSKYY: Mr. President, we are staying in our country, staying strong from the very beginning of the war. We've been alone and we are thankful. I said thanks in this cabinet.
TRUMP: You haven't been alone. You haven't been alone.
We gave you through a stupid president $350 billion.
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: We gave you military equipment, and your men are brave but they had to use our military. If you didn't have our military equipment, if you didn't have our military equipment, this war would have been over in two weeks.
ZELENSKYY: In three days, I heard it from Putin.
TRUMP: I gave you the javelins to take out all those tanks. Obama gave you sheets. You got to be more thankful because let me tell you, you don't have the cards. With us, you have the cards but without us you don't have any cards.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Given a chance today, he had a chance to sign a mineral deal that would lead to a very strong relationship with the U.S. After that, hopefully a ceasefire, then a negotiated settlement that would have been in the Ukrainian people's best interest and should have been the president of Ukraine's goal.
Instead, too much arrogance, the president of Ukraine seemingly ungrateful for the hundreds of billions of U.S. tax dollars used to fund this war. Coming in, he wanted to dictate to the U.S. how he wants the more aid to come in further, how President Trump should take his side which would only drag all of this out and that would mean more death more destruction and a risk to the entire continent of Europe.
As a result, Ukraine's president was then booted out of the White House by the national security adviser Michael Waltz and Secretary of State Marco Rubio. Ukraine's ambassador to the U.S. held her head in shame, lunch was cancelled, a joint press conference also cancelled, the signing of the minerals deal is off the table for now.
The State Department has even already terminated funding for Ukraine's energy grid, restoration, and President Trump instructed Zelenskyy to come back when he's ready for peace. And by the way, if there is a next time, you might want to put on that suit, it is the White House. Take a look..
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Why don't you wear a suit? Why don't you wear a suit? You're the highest level in this country's office, and you refuse to wear a suit. Just want to see if you do you own a suit.
ZELENSKYY: Yeah, you have problems?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: A lot of Americans have problems with you not respecting this office.
ZELENSKYY: I don't have such -- I will wear costume after this war will finish.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Okay.
ZELENSKYY: Yes, maybe, well --
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Maybe something like this.
ZELENSKYY: Maybe something like yours, yes. Maybe some something better, I don't know. We will see, maybe something cheaper than -- yeah.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you.
ZELENSKYY: Thank you.
REPORTER: President --
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Now you need to keep in mind historically this is not the first time that Zelenskyy has disrespected the U.S. You might recall, Joe Biden reportedly lost his temper with Zelenskyy because of his insulting behavior, his lack of gratitude. Apparently, the president of Ukraine needed a wake call. This isn't Europe. Donald Trump was able to do something that Biden and Harris were not able to do, and that is bring Vladimir Putin to the table.
He has stated publicly he wants peace and this war to be over as did President Zelenskyy.
So today was a golden opportunity for Ukraine, all of Europe and Vladimir Putin and Russia to stop all the death, all the destruction and that opportunity passed over today.
And by the way, the U.S. has now demonstrated over and over again under Donald Trump, we can and we will defend ourselves, regardless of what happens in Ukraine. And for the record the oceans are not our only protectors. We have the most powerful military the world has ever seen. We own the sky. We own the seas. We own outer space, and President Trump is dedicating -- dedicated to producing the next generation of weaponry including as he often speaks about an iron dome that will one day perhaps save millions of lives and our logistics are unmatched.
We don't need Ukraine. They do rely on us and they have been as successful as they have been because of the hundreds of billions of dollars of your money that has been spent on this war that has ended right now in a stalemate. If the American people stop paying that money, they will be in an awful position. You have generously supported them financially, militarily. We've offered humanitarian aid.
And this, of course, in their brave fight against a truly malignant Vladimir Putin. Nobody disputes that. If this keeps going, there's not going to be a country left.
So let's be clear, Zelenskyy's behavior today at the White House, it's unacceptable but don't take my word for it, on X, one of Ukraine's biggest supporters, in Washington, Senator Lindsey Graham posted this: Unfortunately, America was disrespected and the deal is off. I have never been more proud of President Trump, Vice President Vance, for standing up for America first. And then Senator Graham went to the microphones had this to say. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. LINDSEY GRAHAM (R-SC): Most Americans witnessing what they saw today would not want Zelenskyy to be their business partner, including me, and I've been to Ukraine nine times since the war started. I met with him this morning.
President Trump I talked to last night, he was upbeat about the deal. I've never been more proud of President Trump for showing the American people in the world, you don't trifle with this man. And the question for me -- for the Ukrainian people, I don't know if Zelenskyy can ever get you to where you want to go with the United States. Either he dramatically changes or you need to get somebody new.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Wow, powerful words.
Now, feel free to turn off the noise on fake news CNN, MSDNC. In 1986, you may recall, a similar cast of characters they were in a state of panic. Remember, Reagan walked away at the table from Reykjavik in the summit with the Soviet Union over the issue of SDI, strategic defense, mocked by the media, star wars. Maybe now, we'll call it the iron dome.
Ultimately, Reagan's tough negotiations led to a peaceful end to the Cold War. And now, Zelenskyy is already trying to clean this disaster up on X, writing, quote: Thank you, America. Thank you for your support. Thank you for this visit. Thank you to the president of the United States, Congress, the American people and Ukraine needs just and lasting peace and we are working exactly for that.
Apparently, he even tried to come back to meet with Trump at the White House. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: I want anybody that's going to make peace. If he's capable of making peace, which he may or may not be, but I want somebody that's going to make peace. Again, he doesn't have the cards. When we sign up, he's got all of the cards. That doesn't mean he can fight. He's got to stop the fighting, stop the death.
Well, he says he wants it now. He wants to come back right now but I can't do that.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Meanwhile, Zelenskyy did sit down with our very own Bret Baier on "Special Report", and this is what he had to say.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: So I'm not hearing from you, Mr. President, a thought that you owe the president an apology.
ZELENSKYY: No, I respect president and I respect American people and if -- I don't know if -- I think that we have to be very open and very honest, and I'm not sure that we did something bad. I think maybe sometimes some -- some -- some things we have to discuss out of -- out of media with all respect to democracy and to a free media, but there are things that where we have to understand the position of Ukraine and Ukrainians. And I think that is the most important thing.
Yes, we are partners. You know, we're very close partners. We have to be fair. We have to be -- we have to be very free.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Here now with more, the host "Special Report" our friend Bret Baier is with us. By the way, great interview tonight.
BAIER: Thanks, Sean.
HANNITY: That to me was the $1 billion or $200 billion or $300 billion question. What do you think of the answer?
BAIER: I tried three times to make sure he was understanding exactly what I was saying. It was Marc Thiessen it was like watching a man drowning who was not taking the life preserver.
He did not apologize. He regretted that it happened. He said it was bad, and that it was bad for the Ukrainian people that that happened in front of the media. But he did not read the room. He didn't read the room here in the interview and he didn't read the room in the Oval Office.
Maybe he thought it was similar to negotiating with President Biden and talking like he was talking to President Biden. Obviously, President Trump is a much different president and Vice President Vance is a much different vice president. And the fact that it happened in front of cameras I think, you know, really was a bad moment for -- for everybody.
HANNITY: I don't think it was necessarily --
BAIER: Not a bad moment for the president but bad moment for Zelenskyy.
HANNITY: For Zelenskyy, for Europe. I think it was terrible. I mean -- however, he -- President Trump was the only guy that was would be able to get Putin to the negotiating table.
Now, I know before this meeting that 10 U.S. senators met with Zelenskyy and they told him this is going to be a three-step process. You're going to sign the mineral deal today, you're going to be appreciative of the mineral deal, that'll ensure U.S. presence in your country, that will help you.
The president will advocate for European troops, that will be there for part security reasons. That was discussed this morning as well. The second phase of this would hopefully be a ceasefire and maybe that could have possibly maybe happened today.
And then after that, a negotiated settlement which would have been the hardest part. So it's not like he went in there today not knowing what the agenda was.
BAIER: And I asked him specifically that because I had the same intel that the not only did the senators say that, including Senator Graham, but also the White House and in their interactions with the Ukrainians have been saying it for days and weeks saying that this is a step in the process. You do the minerals deal first and then we talk about the negotiation going forward, what the security guarantee looks like, and that's really what he wanted to talk about again and again which was the security guarantee which, you know, listen he said it probably five, six, seven times in my interview.
HANNITY: What -- now, I'm kind of asking you to give a little analysis based on everything that you know and your exclusive interview tonight. What happens if the U.S. stops providing money to Ukraine? I don't think Europe is going to step up and put in and make up the difference because they've been unwilling to do so up to this point.
So at that point that there will be more death, more destruction and there will be more dominance by Russia, that would be the worst case scenario for everybody involved in my humble opinion. I'd like to see the death stop. I'd like to see the destruction stop.
The better part of the mineral deal is okay, we're going to help them extract these -- these rare earth minerals, that will help give them the money, provide them the money to begin to rebuild their country. What an opportunity that was missed.
BAIER: Yeah. You know, listen, I talked to French President Macron earlier in the week. He said -- he's trying to get Europe to do more, including France. They're at just over 2 percent as far as defense spending and NATO.
I talked to the U.K. Prime Minister. They want to do more, said they'll do peacekeepers. They're at about 2.5 percent. You know, these are numbers where they they're -- they're low as far as what they're contributing individually, not only to NATO, but into Ukraine comparatively.
Now, as Europe, they've -- they've put in about $140 billion. That said, it's not enough if the U.S. steps aside, if the weapons stop, if the U.S. stops its support, you're right, Europe probably can't do it alone despite their encouraging words that they tweeted out today. And that's why today was so detrimental to the entire picture.
The -- all of the leaders, Macron, Starmer, Zelenskyy even, acknowledged that this would not happen without President Trump, he is the only person with this catalyst to change the paradigm that maybe -- maybe there could be peace, and that's why it was so screwed up what happened in the Oval Office.
HANNITY: And you gave him every opportunity I thought to fix it, and you're right, I think you -- you kept throwing him a lifeline, you might want to go here and to make sure that he understood, and I -- that was a fascinating interview on what was an incredible day.
Bret Baier, "Special Report", we appreciate you being with us. Thanks, Bret.
BAIER: Sure, Sean.
HANNITY: All right. Here now with more analysis, senior fellow at the Hoover Institute, Victor Davis Hanson.
Victor, I want to step back. If you recall, when Putin was amassing troops on the border with Ukraine, remember that famous moment when Biden was asked what if they invade, what are you going to do? Now, I would argue prior to that had Joe Biden been a strong president, he would have started some type of negotiation and diplomacy, he did not.
And then he was asked, what will you do if he invades? And I thought it was inevitable people that would say, oh, he's not going -- I thought were nuts, and he said -- well, it depends if it's just a minor incursion and at that moment I realized that that to me was a green light to go in.
Then, you know, 2 -- $300 billion I don't know how much money we ultimately put in, a fortune of us money, it -- it seems to me to have evolved into a proxy war between the U.S. and Russia, and we became the main source of defense the -- for Zelenskyy, he didn't seem to appreciate that today.
VICTOR DAVIS HANSON, HOOVER INSTITUTION SENIOR FELLOW: No, I think his problem, Sean, is that the people he feels most comfortable with and akin to have no power to help him and that's Europe and the out of power Democrats, and the people who can help him he doesn't feel comfortable with and that's Donald Trump.
The second thing is he thinks that our interests are exactly the same as him. They're -- they're similar to his but we are a superpower and we have obligations. We don't want China to align with Russia, two nuclear powers. We don't want a proxy war on the doorstep of a nuclear power that go to de con to like we saw in with Cuba.
And you know the tragedy, Sean, is we were that close because all of the main issues had basically been resolved by Trump. They were not going to be in NATO. They were not going to be militarily able to recapture Crimea and Donbas.
The only two issues were how far could Donald Trump force Putin back to his 2022 point -- borders and how would he be deter it and he came up with this idea of making a commercial corridor to get prosperity and also it was a tripwire so there would be Westerners there that Putin would not want to dare you know bother.
I think you know just to finish, Sean, he should take a notebook from Benjamin Netanyahu -- the Biden administration was very hostile to him they ordered him to have a ceasefire. They ordered him to have a wartime cabinet. They warned him about collateral damage.
They didn't do any of that to Zelenskyy and yet when Netanyahu came over there, he knew there was a hostile administration. He was gracious. He understood that he was a client and talking to a patron as a guest to a host and he was able to weather that and deal with the Biden administration.
HANNITY: Yeah.
HANSON: And all good things happened. But he didn't do what Zelenskyy did.
HANNITY: I think that's a great analogy, Victor Davis Hanson. I really do.
I predict Zelenskyy -- he's going to be back. He has to be back.
You know, how much more death and destruction will -- will it take for him to come back?
HANSON: Yes and he -- he -- Donald Trump has worked very hard. He's not Putin's puppet. Putin is afraid of Donald Trump because he's unpredictable. He proved that in his first administration. Zelenskyy knows that.
Donald Trump is this close to getting a deal and Zelenskyy, if he's wise, he'll call Trump up, he will apologize, he'll get right back over here and resume it and it will be in everybody's interest, and I think he'll have to do that, and I hope he does.
HANNITY: I hope he does. He -- he had an opportunity with Bret Baier tonight and I was shocked. When I interviewed him --
HANSON: I know.
HANNITY: -- I told him this is going to be a negotiated settlement. I said that some mineral deal is going to be made with the U.S. and you'd pay back the U.S. for all the money that they' given you. I said you're not going to be in NATO and there's you're probably going to have to give up land. He never answered any of my questions one time and it became a little frustrating to me but -- it's sad. More people will be dead.
HANSON: I don't think he understands the irony.
HANNITY: Yeah.
HANSON: His friends can't help him and the people he -- he was hostile to can really help him, and that's Donald Trump because Donald Trump alone can deter Putin and get a deal and the Europeans and the left here in the United States cannot do that.
HANNITY: All right. Well said. Victor Davis Hanson, great to have you. Thank you.
When we come back, the media mob, they -- after all these years -- they do not understand Donald Trump. They had a meltdown over Donald Trump standing up for the American people and trying to create peace in Europe and around the world. Clay Travis, Joe Concha, next with reaction.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. Predictably, the media mob went into a complete melt down mode over President Trump standing up for America in the Oval Office today. Let's take a look, shall we?
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: They come in the air hours after an Oval Office ambush of an American ally that will reverberate all around the world and stain America's image for years to come. It revealed instead of Donald Trump and a J.D. Vance clearly on an errand for Vladimir Putin.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: They are popping the champagne in Moscow. They're -- they've got their best vodka out and they're doing shots as we speak, there's no question.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I mean, that's exactly the same thought that went through my head.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The propaganda is what's coming out of J.D. Vance's mouth and it's Russian propaganda.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Kaitlan, I want to start with look at her face, I mean, Christiane, hold -- hold that thought for once. Okay, actually, Christiane, please, take it away.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Never in the history of modern diplomacy, war, peace, whatever, have I ever -- ever -- ever seen anything like.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Yeah, that's because you've never had a leader like Donald Trump.
Here with reaction, Outkick founder, our friend Clay Travis, our other friend, FOX news contributor Joe Concha.
The most amazing thing is and I'll start with you, Joe, because this is your wheelhouse, the media, ambush, propaganda for Putin -- he's trying to end a war that is killing hundreds of thousands of people. It is destroying an entire country and America -- they've been using America's hundreds of billions of dollars to fight this war, and it would be in everybody's best interest, but Vladimir wants him to take his side. Okay, he -- you know, not Vladimir -- President Zelenskyy wants him to take his side. Fine, you can ask for that, but that will not bring peace to Europe and peace to your country and your country will continue to be brought to ruins and more of your countrymen will be dead. That's the choice she's facing.
JOE CONCHA, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Yeah, and yet we have our patently dishonest and lazy media again claiming that President Trump is on the side of Russia, to your point, while he's trying to broker a piece that would save Ukraine and end this stalemate that would have otherwise lasted in perpetuity as long as a Democrat administration was in power and in the process drain, what, $350 billion U.S. taxpayer dollars with $100 billion unaccounted for?
For those who need to be reminded of this again, Putin invaded other countries when George W. Bush, Barack Obama, Joe Biden, when they were president. The only U.S. president in office in the 21st century when Putin didn't invade anyone was when Donald Trump was in power.
In this case, just watch the full 46-minute video from today, because it's clear Zelenskyy came in and tried to dictate U.S. foreign policy as if he was holding you know a full house when he doesn't even have a pair of threes.
And to publicly challenge Trump in front of the worldwide media in his own dojo, his own house, that was -- that was 21 flavors of stupid. So perhaps this was the breakup before the makeup. Zelenskyy would be wise to apologize, sign that raw minerals deal, but during his interview with Bret Baier earlier, it appears that's not going to happen.
Overall, Sean, 72 percent of American voters, this is a Harvard-Harris poll, want Ukraine to negotiate a settlement to end this war. So if the media thinks there this groundswell support for Zelenskyy and this war, they're completely disconnected from the public again.
And by the way, would it kill Zelenskyy to wear a suit when he goes to the Oval Office? This guy looked like he was about to go raise the roof at a disco tech in Budapest. You know, show some respect please?
HANNITY: Well, I mean, I brought up the point earlier. Good point. I understand. That's the least of my worries, the clothes that that he's wearing into the Oval Office.
But I will tell you that Harvard-Harris poll, dead on accurate, the American people don't want this.
And here is the m miscalculation I think, Clay, on Zelenskyy's part. He thinks he's holding cards. He said I'm not playing cards. He has no cards to hold and without the U.S. and basically Biden giving -- giving him so much money that it be evolved into a proxy war with the U.S. and Russia, Donald Trump's trying to put an end to it, save lives, help them rebuild their country by doing a business deal with them that would create a us presence in Ukraine and he just blew that up today.
CLAY TRAVIS, OUTKICK FOUNDER: I don't understand what any critic actually wants here. Sean, we know this war is over. Unfortunately, Ukraine lost. I wish that Russia had not invaded. I wish there was no war anywhere in the world.
But what Trump is doing, Joe made a really good point there, the reason why Ukraine got invaded was because Joe Biden came into office. Vladimir Putin had four years to invade Ukraine while Trump was president he didn't. Do you know why? Because he feared how Trump might respond.
Trump has been in office for what, 45 days ish now, and he's already on the precipice of ending this war. Why can we not have an immediate ceasefire?
And for everybody out there who is losing their minds and deciding to criticize Donald Trump, what is your end game scenario here? Ukraine isn't winning. Spring is coming soon. Russia is inexorably advancing closer and closer and taking more and more of Ukrainian territory. The time for a ceasefire is now. The time for pieces is now and the time for Americans to be spending hundreds of billions of dollars in a war that Ukraine cannot win is over.
Trump is being eminently reasonable. He's trying to avoid war. He is the good guy here. I don't want to get fired up.
I wish Putin hadn't invaded. He's a bad guy. Zelenskyy isn't perfect either. Let's just solve it.
HANNITY: Yeah, and that opportunity was blown and President Trump said, come back when you want peace.
TRAVIS: Yes.
HANNITY: All right. We appreciate it. Clay, thank you. And Joe, thank you.
When we come back, another big win for President Trump. Mexico just extradited dozens of notorious cartel leaders to the U.S.
And meanwhile, self-proclaimed activists in L.A. are using bullhorns and sirens to warn against ICE raids. Former acting DHS secretary Chad Wolf will join us with reaction as we continue to what is a busy Friday news night.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. President Trump, his tariffs on Canada and Mexico are only days away but progress is now being made in Mexico. Our neighbor to the south is now extraditing some of its most hardened cartel members right here to the U.S. to face consequences.
Now, this includes one man who is accused of killing a DEA agent back in the `80s who was on the FBI's most wanted list.
White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt said in a statement, quote: The previous administration allowed these criminals to run free and commit crimes all over the world. The Trump administration is declaring these thugs as terrorists because that is what they are and demanding justice for the American people.
But, of course, the leftwing and their dangerous obsession with protecting illegal immigrants and their rights over the safety of American citizens, you have leftwing activists out in California now alerting illegals to ICE enforcement operations. They are blaring sirens and shouting through bullhorns clearly intending to disrupt law enforcement operations.
Here with more, former acting DHS Secretary Chad Wolf.
Is that a crime, Chad?
CHAD WOLF, FORMER ACTING DHS SECRETARY: Well, it certainly could be. Obviously, if they're interfering with law enforcement officers and not allowing them to do their job, I think that could be against the law and that's something obviously the Justice Department should take a close look at.
HANNITY: Yeah, okay. So I -- if you're -- if I were to say, tip off somebody about a raid coming, a police raid, IUCE raid, am I not aiding and abetting in lawbreaking there?
WOLF: I think you certainly could be and look, it's -- it's not just that you're leaking the information to the press so that they can do a story on it, you're putting law enforcement lives in danger, because that's what's happening here. When law enforcement goes out to do an operation, they largely depend on that element of surprise, so that the -- you know, the targets of that operation don't cause them harm.
And so, when you leak that information in any number of ways, you're putting law enforcement officers, you're putting members of that community in harm's way, that's why it's so critically important, this is a big issue.
And whether you're an internal to DHS or the FBI or whoever and you're leaking this information, or you're a leftwing agitator trying to stop ICE from doing this, I think you know the Justice Department and others need to take a hard look at this and hold some of those individuals accountable, and make an example out of them.
HANNITY: Yeah, I think you're right, 100 percent right.
Let -- let me ask you this, because we now have known terrorists in the country. We have cartel members in the country. We have gang members in the country. We have drug dealers in the country. We have, you know, murderers, rapists, known criminals in the country.
You know this job as well as anybody, how is it possible with the estimated 14-plus million people or so unvetted illegals in our country, how do you find all of those bad actors and deport them? I've got to imagine that's going to be a hard job?
WOLF: Undoubtedly, it's a challenging job, but look, President Trump and the team at the Department of Homeland Security and others are up to the challenge. But you've got to do this on a number of fronts. You've obviously got to do it here internally. You've got to work with our foreign partners. You've got to incentivize people to leave voluntarily as well.
There's a number of things that can be done here when it all adds up at the end of the day is that individuals who don't have a legal right to be here need to be repatriated and removed back to their home countries. You need to start with the worst of the worst which they are doing with those hardened criminals. But again, if you don't have a legal right to be here in the United States and you've gone through our justice system which millions have, but they've refused to leave, you need that -- there needs to be a consequence for that and you need to be removed.
HANNITY: I -- I just find this the most preventable national security event in the history of our country, and for four years, the American people were lied to. The border is secured, the border is closed, border secured, borders closed, and Americans with eyes to see, we saw that that was a lie. Now we know about all the murders that taken place.
The Democratic Party seems to have settled on the party that wants to stand up for the rights of men to play women's sports. They want to stand up as the party that wants all of these woke green new deal transgender DEI programs to be spent abroad, outside the country, and they put the rights of illegal immigrants over the rights of law-abiding Americans to keep them safe. Politically, it doesn't seem too viable to me.
WOLF: No. I think that's exactly right, and I think the American people now know that this was a choice, right? President Biden and his and his staff went on TV and anywhere that and everywhere to say, look, our hands are tied. We need Congress to act. This is up to Congress to fix.
But yet, President Trump can fix it on his own. They had the same ability. They just chose not to exercise it and they didn't have the leadership to make those decisions.
HANNITY: All right. Chad Wolf, thank you for being with us.
When we come back, the Democratic Party still in shambles, ah, who does Biden blame for his ouster? We finally know the details, thanks to transparency from -- you got it -- Donald Trump. A Biden insider also says the campaign was gaslighting the American people. Why didn't you tell us ahead of time? Full detail, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: Tonight, the Democratic Party is still in shambles and now new information about infighting prior to Biden's ousters is now being revealed. Oh, if only we knew at the time.
During an interview, President Trump spoke about his Oval Office meeting with Joe Biden following his November victory. He revealed that Biden said he blames Obama and Pelosi. Hmm. Who told you he suspected that? That'd be me.
Take a look.
(BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)
TRUMP: And I asked him, I said, so who do you blame? Because he was very angry, you know, he was very angry guy, actually. And he said, "I blame Barack". And I never think of him as Barack. You know, you always hear Obama. You say you have to think about that for a second, and he said, "And I also blame Nancy Pelosi."
I said, what about the vice president? He said, no, I don't blame her, which was interesting. He didn't blame her. He blamed -- tell me, he blamed those two people.
(END AUDIO CLIP)
HANNITY: And, by the way, in the back of my mind, that jackass, you know, third great actor who thinks he's so great, George Clooney, why do I think -- I know he's friends with Obama. Wonder if he talked to Obama before he wrote that op-ed.
Now keep in mind, former Biden Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre echoed a similar sentiment this week. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: It was a firing squad and I had never seen anything like it before. I'd never seen a party do that in the way that they did and it was hurtful and sad to see that happening, a firing squad around a person who I believe was a true patriot, a person who I believe did everything that he can for this country.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Also this week, a former Biden aide admitted the campaign was, quote gaslighting the American people by dismissing concerns over the president's age. Oh, thank you for sharing. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There are some things that are true. I mean, like the gaslighting. There was a lot of denial of the polling and I will use the term gaslight because that's what they were doing, the -- the campaign, former colleagues, the message to everybody was to make sure that you tell people it's too early, it's too early, these polls don't mean anything.
Well, it came too early and these polls don't mean anything for about a year and a half. The polls -- so the numbers never moved.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Right.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And -- but by denying the data that that was out there publicly, by denying the really insightful journalism that, you know, they were actually demeaning a lot of the people.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Joining us now with reaction, FOX news contributors Miranda Devine, Jason Chaffetz.
It -- it was gaslighting. It was way beyond that. It was a massive cover- up, straight out lying to the American people, Miranda. And you know, I remember I played this week, Lara Trump on with fake Jake Tapper, he's writing a book about the media cover up on this. Meanwhile, he was excoriating her back in 2020 for reporting what I was being you know crucified over in the sense politically, you know, for saying the obvious, stating the obvious. This guy's a mess.
MIRANDA DEVINE, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Well, exactly. I mean, anyone who pointed out that -- but Joe Biden was sort of wandering around the G20, totally lost, kept on forgetting everything and wandering around, was accused of peddling cheap fakes. Do you remember that was their final response?
HANNITY: Yeah.
DEVINE: And you're quite right. It's gas lighting and I think the reason that the blame game is has started is because of as you call him fake Tapper's book, he of all people there now writing a book which claims to be the last word on the cover up of Joe Biden's senility, and they're blaming Joe Biden. They're saying he shouldn't have run for a second term which is correct, he shouldn't have run for a second term but he shouldn't have run for a first term.
And they can blame him each other all they like. The real culprit is their policies and we saw today with what happened in the Oval Office, the manifestation of part of that and Donald Trump trying to clean up their messes.
HANNITY: Yeah. I -- it was so obvious before 2020, we all these truth to be self-evident all men and women are created by the thing, oh, oh, Jason, you know, the thing. That would be god, the creator of everything, and -- but it was more -- it was almost every day before 2020, and then people like me would point out the obvious, play the tape and let people decide and wow, I did a horrible thing.
And then, all of a sudden, now, you know, here we are all these years later. They're going to join on board? Wow, a little late from my liking.
JASON CHAFFETZ, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: It was well beyond gaslighting. It was flat out lying. They were lying at deceiving the American people. They were doing it in unison. They were doing it in masse. It was an out, out, out lie.
And you know what? For fake Jake Tapper to go out and write a book that's published 30 days after the president is sworn in, you all three of us have written books, you have to submit that manuscript well in advance, months in advance in order to get it published, which means he was writing it. He wasn't reporting it.
And that's -- that guy is just -- he just thinks the American people are suckers because he had that story, he didn't run that story, he waited until after the election because he had a -- he had a horse in that race and it was Joe Biden. But I don't blame everybody but Joe Biden. Joe Biden said he was going to pass the torch, and -- and they could have -- they could have stepped out a year before that.
And these people never trusted the Democratic voters. They never trusted them, well, because they actually didn't go through a real process.
HANNITY: Why -- why doesn't he blame Kamala Harris, Miranda? And do you agree with me, I know for a fact, Clooney and Obama are friends. Do you think Clooney did that without prompting from Obama? I have my own personal suspicion.
DEVINE: Oh, it seems pretty obvious that George Clooney doesn't really think for himself. He was doing the bidding of his good friend Barack Obama.
But I don't actually believe Joe Biden's line about he not blaming Kamala Harris because we've seen on a number of occasions now since the election, where both Jill Biden and Joe Biden have iced out Kamala Harris in public occasions. So they're pretty dirty on her.
I think Joe Biden realized halfway through the campaign that Kamala Harris had put up her good friend Loren Jobs to do private polling which she circulated around donors showing that Joe Biden had no chance after the debate and then the donors shut their wallets. And I think Joe Biden has good cause to suspect that Kamala Harris was playing her own game on that.
HANNITY: Yeah. I suspect it. Jason, what about you?
CHAFFETZ: Yeah. Look, I -- I don't think Kamala Harris had it in her. I think the way Joe Biden quickly put Kamala Harris in that position and endorsed her was kind of quite frankly screwing over Barack Obama and Nancy Pelosi and the rest of the Democratic Party because there's no way she would have gotten the nomination by herself. So, it was -- hey, you did this to me, I'm going to do this back to you. That's --
HANNITY: I don't think either one of --
CHAFFETZ: Nobody was going to ever beat Donald Trump, by the way.
HANNITY: I don't think either one their policies failed and you know, when she -- when Kamala went on "The View" and said, she do nothing differently, that was over. When she couldn't do interviews, that was over. When people find out about taxpayer funded sex change operations for illegals, that's over, her radicalism was way out of touch with the American people.
Anyway, guys, we appreciate you coming on this Friday night.
As we continue, more "Hannity" straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. Unfortunately, that's all the time we have left this Friday evening. As always, thank you for being with us. Thank you for making the show possible. Please set your DVR so you never, ever, ever, ever, ever miss an episode of "Hannity".
For news anytime, every time, all the time, foxnews.com, hannity.com.
And in the meantime, let not your heart be troubled. Greg Gutfeld is next. Hope you all have a great weekend. See you Monday.

Load-Date: March 1, 2025


End of Document
