




Newsweek.com
January 31, 2025 Friday 10:02 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 525 words
Byline: Sonam Sheth
Highlight: "More innocent souls lost," the president posted on Truth Social. "Our people are totally engaged."
Body


President  responded Friday night after a jet carrying six people crashed in northeast Philadelphia, triggering a fiery explosion.
The Context
The crash comes days after an  passenger jet carrying 64 people collided midair with an Army Black Hawk helicopter crewed by three soldiers. Trump sharply criticized the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) following the disaster, saying that diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) initiatives at the agency could be responsible.
What To Know
"So sad to see the plane go down in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania," the president wrote on Truth Social. "More innocent souls lost. Our people are totally engaged. First Responders are already being given credit for doing a great job. More to follow. God Bless you all."
The FAA said Friday night that six people were on board. Jet Rescue Air Ambulance confirmed, saying there were four crew members, one pediatric patient and one escort.
Officials told  News that a girl who was returning to Mexico after being treated for a life-threatening illness in the U.S. was among the six aboard the flight.
"At this time, we cannot confirm any survivors," Jet Rescue said. "No names are being released at this time until family members have been notified."
The crash rocked a busy intersection near Roosevelt Mall, an outdoor shopping center, in Philadelphia. The city's emergency management office confirmed roads in the area were closed on Friday night.
The FAA said the jet was traveling to Springfield-Branson National Airport in Missouri when it crashed.
What People Are Saying
Philadelphia Mayor Cherelle Parker said in a statement on X, formerly Twitter: "An aircraft crashed tonight in the vicinity of the Roosevelt Mall on Cottman Avenue. It occurred shortly after 6 p.m. this evening. We have no reports on the number of fatalities. Our prayers are with the families, friends, neighbors and everyone affected by this tragedy. Several dwellings and vehicles were impacted as well."
"We are urging people to stay away from the scene, and for neighbors to stay in their homes if they can," Parker said.
U.S. Secretary of Transportation Sean Duffy posted on X Friday night: "Just briefed the President and from FAA HQ. I offered the full support of the to the Governor and local officials. Investigators are on site.."
Pennsylvania Governor Josh Shapiro said in a statement on X: "I've spoken with @ and my team is in communication with , , and . We are offering all Commonwealth resources as they respond to the small private plane crash in Northeast Philly. We'll continue to provide updates as more information is available."
What Happens Next
Officials have not provided information on the condition of those on the flight. Parker said "this is still an active scene under investigation," adding, "I want to say thank you to our first responders and local, state and federal partners who are working vigorously to make public safety and health a first priority here in our City."
"We will have further briefings as more information becomes available," the mayor said.


Graphic

 
Donald Trump
Ben Curtis/AP
President Donald Trump arrives at Palm Beach International Airport in West Palm Beach, Fla., Friday, Jan. 31, 2025, en route to his Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach.

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
