




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 23, 2025 Thursday 8:53 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 483 words
Byline: Avery Lotz
Body


January 23rd, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
Federal agencies have until Friday to revise their telework policies with a recommended goal of all employees being back within a month after   
Why it matters: The order, which could affect thousands of federal workers, fits into Trump's broad initiative to reshape the  
Trump's Monday  
Driving the news: The Office of Personnel Management, in a  
The memo from Acting OPM Director Charles Ezell said that agency heads should revise their telework policies to instruct employees to work full time at their "duty stations" unless excused due to a "disability, qualifying medical condition, or other compelling reason certified by the agency head and the employee's supervisor."
For employees whose official duty stations are more than 50 miles from an existing agency office, the memo instructs agencies to "take steps to move the employee's duty station to the most appropriate agency office."
What they're saying: "I think a lot of people are scrambling right now," said Jacqueline Simon, the policy director of the American Federation of Government Employees, a union that represents hundreds of thousands of federal employees.
"They've built their lives around a certain schedule that's suddenly been ripped away from them," she added.
She noted that federal employees who are covered by collective bargaining agreements have the right to negotiate over the impact and implementation of changing working conditions.
By the numbers: The majority of federal employees work in-person, according to an August 2024 Office of Management and Budget  
Of the the 2.28 million civilian workers employed by the federal government in May 2024, 46.4% of them were telework-eligible, while 10% served in remote positions.
Reality check: Simon also said agencies will likely have a difficult time accommodating the influx of in-person workers after  
Zoom out: Trump's order will likely give the federal government a tougher time attracting and retaining  
The in-person mandate is one effort in a slew of attacks on the federal bureaucracy.
The administration is also  
Go deeper:  


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 23, 2025


End of Document
