




Newsweek.com
January 28, 2025 Tuesday 7:18 AM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 1152 words
Byline: Amanda Castro
Highlight: The White House ordered a pause on federal grants and loans, potentially halting programs, except Medicare and Social Security. Follow Newsweek's live coverage.
Body


The White House budget office has ordered a temporary freeze on all federal grants and loans, a move that could impact trillions in government spending and halt public programs. The pause, set to begin Tuesday at 5 p.m., excludes Social Security, Medicare, and direct individual assistance.
What to Know:
The  aims to allow the administration to align federal spending with President Donald Trump's priorities.It  financial assistance for foreign aid, NGOs, DEI, and climate initiatives, among other programs.Exceptions may be granted on a case-by-case basis, per the Office of Management and Budget memo.Congressional leaders have expressed strong opposition, citing devastating consequences for communities nationwide.Trump  since entering office on January 20.
Stay with Newsweek as we continue to follow this developing story.
New York Attorney General Letitia James has criticized a pause on federal funding by President 's administration as "reckless and dangerous."
Newsweek contacted the James' office and the White House for comment via email outside regular business hours.
James, a Democrat, has a long history of challenging Trump. During his first term, she launched several lawsuits against his administration, including over his immigration and environmental policies.
She also filed a lawsuit in 2022 alleging that Trump's company deceived banks, insurers and others by overvaluing assets and his net worth on financial paperwork to secure deals and loans. A judge ruled that Trump and other defendants must pay —a sum that has now ballooned with interest to almost $500 million.
Following Trump's electoral victory in November, James signaled that she would continue to be a significant legal challenger in his second term, saying, "I am ready to do everything in my power to ensure our state and nation do not go backwards." She is among more than a dozen Democratic attorneys general  to end birthright citizenship.

General Motors executives are closely watching President Donald Trump's plans to impose 25% tariffs on imports from Canada and Mexico but have not made significant changes to their North American strategy, according to 
Paul Jacobson, GM's chief financial officer, stated the company has an "extensive playbook" of potential responses but will only implement them if tariffs become a long-term reality. "We want to make sure we are prudent and don't overreact," Jacobson said during a Monday call with reporters.
The tariffs, set to begin on February 1, could significantly impact GM and other automakers that rely on vehicle and component production in Canada and Mexico. GM, which produced nearly 900,000 vehicles in Mexico in 2024, primarily for the U.S. market, could see higher costs and vehicle prices.
Despite these challenges, GM highlighted progress in its electric vehicle (EV) business and resilience in North America. The company reported a $6 billion profit in 2024, though down from $10.1 billion in 2023, with nearly all profits stemming from North America.
CEO Mary Barra emphasized the company's commitment to advocating for American manufacturing and advanced technology leadership. GM also announced $14,500 bonuses for 46,000 U.S. workers, reflecting its strong domestic performance.
Taiwan's government emphasized its strong semiconductor partnership with the U.S. on Tuesday, describing it as a "win-win" model. The statement comes after Trump announced plans to impose tariffs on imported chips and other goods to encourage domestic production.
Taiwan, home to TSMC, the world's largest contract chipmaker, plays a vital role in the global tech supply chain for major U.S. companies like Apple and Nvidia. Taiwan's economy ministry highlighted the complementarity between U.S. chip designs and Taiwan's manufacturing capabilities, pledging continued cooperation to support mutual interests.
In 2020, TSMC announced plans to build a $12 billion factory in Arizona, later expanding that investment to $65 billion. While TSMC declined to comment on Trump's latest tariff threats, Taiwan's economy minister recently noted that the country's technological edge minimizes potential impacts from U.S. tariffs.
Taiwan's trade surplus with the U.S. surged last year, driven by record demand for semiconductors and high-tech exports.
Trump  Monday that Microsoft is in talks to acquire TikTok and expressed support for a potential bidding war over the app. TikTok, owned by China's ByteDance, briefly went offline before a law requiring its sale or ban took effect on January 19.
Trump, who delayed the law's enforcement upon taking office, said he is considering offers for the platform and expects to decide its future within 30 days. Microsoft, TikTok, and ByteDance declined to comment.
The talks follow a similar push during Trump's first term, when Microsoft pursued a deal to buy TikTok but later abandoned the effort. Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella called it "the strangest thing" he had worked on.
Other bidders may include AI startup Perplexity AI, which reportedly proposed merging with TikTok and offering the U.S. government a future stake.
President  has ordered all federal agencies to stop issuing federal grants and loans, according to an  sent on Monday.
The new order may impact billions of dollars in funding allocated to state and local governments. The federal government funds thousands of programs, including research projects, housing subsidies and educational grants.
The president  since entering office on January 20. The memo says it applies to prior executive orders for various initiatives, including domestic infrastructure, energy projects, diversity programs, 
"The use of Federal resources to , and green new deal social engineering policies is a waste of taxpayer dollars that does not improve the day-to-day lives of those we serve," read the memo, authored by Matthew J. Vaeth, acting director for the Office of Management and Budget.
"This temporary pause will provide the Administration time to review agency programs and determine the best uses of the funding for those programs consistent with the law and the President's priorities," Vaeth wrote.
The memo continued: "To implement these orders, each agency must complete a comprehensive analysis of all of their Federal financial assistance programs to identify programs, projects, and activities that maybe implicated by any of the President's executive orders."
Newsweek has contacted the White House and the Office of Management and Budget via email for comment outside of regular working hours.



Graphic

 
Trump
Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images
U.S. President Donald Trump signs a series of executive orders in the Oval Office of the White House on January 23, 2025 in Washington, DC. Trump signed a range of executive orders pertaining to crypto currency, Artificial Intelligence, and clemency for anti-abortion activists.

Load-Date: January 28, 2025


End of Document
