




USA Today Online
January 27, 2025 11:18 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Length: 789 words
Body


President Donald Trump meets with Republican House lawmakers. The Super Bowl matchup is officially set. And landslides hit Southern California.
How’s it going? here. I’ve got Monday’s news for you. Let’s keep scrolling.
But first: Would you take a whiff of this?A rare, stinky plant (that smells like dirty feet) dubbed the “Smelliot” 
Trump hosts GOP retreat
President Donald Trump and Republican House lawmakers gathered at the president's golf club in Miami on Monday as part of a GOP retreat to discuss the administration’s top priorities and how they plan on getting them passed. 
Immigration takes center stage: Trump made immigration and border security a top issue coming into the White House. On Sunday, a trade war almost broke out between the United States and the country of Colombia. But Trump held off on  wide-reaching tariffs and sanctions on Colombia after the country's president, Gustavo Petro, agreed to accept U.S. military aircraft deporting Colombian migrants.  
Trump resumes threat to .
Dr. Phil, embedded with ICE,.
Trump to order end to DEI in the military and reinstate .
Eagles vs. the Chiefs – again
Are you getting déjà vu? The Philadelphia Eagles and the Kansas City Chiefs are slated to face off at Super Bowl 59 – a matchup we saw two years ago that ended with the Chiefs coming out on top in the close game.
Third year running: After defeating the Buffalo Bills on Sunday night, the Chiefs will be heading to the Super Bowl for the third year in the row. It’s safe to say they’re hoping to create NFL history by being the first team to win three consecutive Super Bowl titles. 
When’s the game? Mark your calendars. The showdown between the two teams is set for Feb. 9 at the Superdome in New Orleans. .
With the Super Bowl matchup set, the .
Watch: Empire State Building (begrudgingly) .
Who are the Super Bowl 

Real quick
This USA TODAY reporter found her top picks for a dream date. 
Monkeys that escaped a South Carolina facility .
‘Mayhem’: Lady Gaga unveils new album .
Adding to my list: Watch TikTok comedian .
The Year of the Snake. Here's your guide 
Support the Short List and 
Landslides in SoCal; snow to hit New England
While much-needed rain helped firefights contain several blazes in Southern California, it also triggered flooding and landslides to the region – bringing another disaster to the region. And on the other side of the country, winter weather isn’t going away soon.
Closures from weather: Sections of major roads, including portions of the Pacific Coast Highway and Sunset Boulevard, were temporarily shut down because of the flooding and landslides. Malibu-area schools were shut down Monday because of the hazardous travel conditions. ️ 
See map of wildfire evacuations in
Get ready for cold: Gusty winds and snow snow  – and even whiteout conditions – will hit parts of the Midwest and parts of the Northeast this week. Winds of up to 40 mph are expected in areas like eastern Minnesota up the New England coast. Several states, such as New York, parts of Pennsylvania and Ohio, Michigan, Illinois and West Virginia are forecasted to get snow. ❄️ 
Snow here, snow there, snow everywhere! 

A Holocaust survivor urges not to forget horrors
Tova Friedman, 86, who as a child was imprisoned at Auschwitz during the Holocaust, has a message to the world: don’t forget the horrors of the Holocaust. On the 80th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz and International Holocaust Remembrance Day, Friedman recalls her story and hopes her message will reach new generations so that those who suffered and died did not do so in vain.  
See photos from 80th anniversary .

A break from the news
✈️Photos: Delta's planes have a new look and we're among .
Who are the best veterinarians? .
Dough-not miss out: Krispy Kreme unveils new .
Rebecca Morin is a senior national news reporter at USA TODAY. Got thoughts or feedback? Reach out to her at .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: January 27, 2025


End of Document
