




Fox News INGRAHAM ANGLE 7:00 PM EST
February 3, 2025 Monday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6585 words
Byline: Laura Ingraham, Raymond Arroyo, Bret Baier
Guests: Patrick Bet-David, Sean Duffy, Stephen Miller, Anthony Cabassa
Body


BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS HOST: -- meets with President Trump, the first foreign dignitary to meet there. This Sunday, you can watch my exclusive sit-down with the President on Fox during the pre-game coverage of the Super Bowl. We'll also have the rest of that conversation right here on Special Report on Monday, and we'll do it. Fair, balanced, and still unafraid. Here's Laura.
LAURA INGRAHAM, FOX NEWS HOST: Good evening, everyone. I'm Laura Ingraham. This is The Ingraham Angle from Washington tonight. As always, thank you very much for spending some time with us. Turning over the rocks. That's the focus of tonight's Angle.
When President Trump tasked a willing Elon Musk with making the government more efficient, again, it was clear that this exercise wouldn't just be performative, where they review a few programs, make a few cuts and then just declare victory. No. This time, they were serious. And what better place to start than the ongoing foreign slush fund known as USAID.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ELON MUSK, CEO, X: In shutting down, which we're in the process of shutting down USAID. The reason for that, as opposed to simply trying to do, do some minor house cleaning is, is that as we dug into USAID, it became apparent that what we have here is, is not an apple with a worm in it, but we have actually just a bowl of worms.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Yummy, a bowl of worms. And once they started turning over the rocks there, more worms crawled out. USAID should have been disbanded years ago. Now, the agency's top recipient of taxpayer dollars that has been plagued by allegations of massive waste, fraud, and abuse for decades, and these agencies that benefited rushed to settle with the DOJ after Trump was elected. The largest for-profit contractor for USAID agreed to pay the U.S. government 3.1 million, and that was related to fraudulent billing by a Nigerian subcontractor for a global health supply chain project. And now with the USAID offices at least temporarily shut with all the deadweight laid off, just imagine how deep this rot goes.
Now, the Biden years were just an excuse to spread money around radicals here, there and everywhere. In 2023, USAID sponsored scores of DEI events here and abroad, including my personal favorite. I just Googled this and found it today. One was called "Celebrating Women in Waste Management" with panels including USAID staff with these titles, Senior Gender Advisor for Environment and Climate, Social and Behavior Change and Gender Director and Gender Specialist. Well, you get the idea.
This is why it's so critical that DOGE scour every inch of our government, every line of the Federal Register, every penny that goes out the door. Remember, it's your money. You earned it. Don't let anyone else waste it. And also that DOGE notifies the President when staff and spending is unnecessary, when it's duplicative, when it's fraudulent, even destructive, and of course, when it's not specifically required by law then just eliminate it. Yes, and that will inevitably mean entire agencies are zeroed out. Please zero them out.
And with the runaway agendas, the spending of USAID, it's long past time to close down all of it. Congressional oversight, it already found millions of USAID funds going to administrative costs alone.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. JONI ERNST (R-IA): We got all kinds of threats from USAID because I was trying to exercise my oversight capacity in Congress. My staff and I had estimated was that 30 percent to 40 percent of the USAID's awards would go to indirect costs. So their overhead, you know, their rents, employees.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This was hell of a rent. What are they living in? (Inaudible) hall.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: But all but for decades, both the Left and some checked out Republicans let the agency basically just have its way with little to no one looking over the shoulders. And during the Biden and Obama years, the gender, the climate, the race activists, they just went to town.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: They went totally crazy what they were doing and the money they were giving to people that shouldn't be getting it, and to agencies and others that shouldn't be getting, it was a shame. So, tremendous fraud.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: And as anyone who spent time on a farm knows, when you fill the pig trough every day and you fill it with better and better food. Well, the animals, they expect that food, no matter what, and when they don't get their food, especially if they require time, they start squealing.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. ILHAN OMAR (D-MN): We talked about Trump wanting to be a dictator on day one, and here we are. This is what the beginning of dictatorship looks like when you gut the Constitution and you install yourself as the sole power, that is how dictators are made.
REP. JAMIE RASKIN (D-MD): I don't know what Elon Musk's motivations are. I don't know what his purposes are, but they've got nothing to do with what has been lawfully adopted by the people of the United States of America through the Congress of the United States, we're going to defend USAID all the way.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Well, first of all, USAID was actually created in 1961 by JFK via executive order and that was after he signed the Foreign Assistance Act into law. And as the chief executive of our government, Donald J. Trump has the responsibility to safeguard our economic well-being, which is now being jeopardized by these types of fraudulent programs, and they're all across the government, by the way, this is just literally scratching the surface. Of course, actually cutting the fat out of government. Well, that might as well be a war crime, according to the press.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MARGARET BRENNAN, CBS NEWS ANCHOR: You want to authorize purging of State Department personnel. What does that mean exactly?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Well, if you want to take a look at the State Department, where DEI has been a priority over, let's say diplomacy in many accounts, I can give you hundreds of examples --
BRENNAN: What proof do you have of that?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: -- of where you're authorizing. Sure. Let's list them off. Half a million dollars to expand atheism in Nepal. $50,000 to do, let's see a transgender opera in Colombia, $47,000 to do an LGBTQ trans comic book in Peru. $20,000 a pop, to do drag shows in Ecuador. Shall I continue with more examples of where DEI was the priority?
BRENNAN: It certainly seems like there, there could be a review of things.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: You think, Margaret. Of course, Democrats who are in desperate need of a new Boogeyman are trying to shift blame here. So the bad guys to them aren't the ones robbing the U.S. taxpayers by rewarding their buddies with sweetheart deals in far flung places. No, the bad guy is the person reviewing the programs for fraud and abuse. That's Elon Musk.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Elon Musk may get to be dictator of Tesla, but he doesn't, and he may try to play dictator here in Washington, D.C., but he doesn't get to shut down the agency for international development.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Well, that will be for a judge to decide, ultimately, Senator and I imagine on appeal, at the very least, the Trump administration will prevail, including at the Supreme Court.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MUSK: If it turns out we really need such an organization, if you should, we just created, problem solved, by the people, answerable -- and answerable to the people and to the people's elected representatives. That is the way that government is supposed to work.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Yes, it is time for the government to be returned to the people. You are the stewards of the people's money, and it's not the personal piggy bank of government employees who think they answer to no one.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MARCO RUBIO (R), SECRETARY OF STATE: USAID is not an independent, non- governmental entity. It is an entity that spends taxpayer dollars, and it needs to spend it, as the statute says, in alignment with the policy directives that they get from the Secretary of State, the National Security Council and the President. And it's been 20 or 30 years where people tried to reform it, and it refuses to reform, it refuses to cooperate. When we were in Congress, we couldn't even get answers to basic questions about programs. That will not continue, that's not going to continue.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Well, it can't continue. But President Trump, Vice President Vance, Secretary Rubio and Secretary Bessent and Elon Musk, they all know that regardless of what your priorities are, regardless of what you want the government to do for you or for some other foreign country, right now America is on a collision course with a dangerous economic reality, and they know that bold, unconventional, and sometimes very painful measures are going to be needed to avoid the icebergs ahead.
So all those guys, the Trump administration, they're going to be sued, they'll be maligned, they'll be threatened. They'll call dictators. But they're not going to waver. Keep turning over the rocks and clearing the path to common sense, and the people will follow. And that's the Angle.
Joining me now, Stephen Miller, Deputy White House Chief of Staff. Stephen, you get the sense that the Democrats have finally, kind of, I think rallied around a new rallying cry, which is Musk, the dictator, Trump, the dictator, the people are the victims of the new dictatorship. Will that work? They tried it last time.
STEPHEN MILLER, DEPUTY WHITE HOUSE CHIEF OF STAFF: They rallied around the biggest losing rallying cry of all time, which is going to war for a swamp nest of bureaucrats at an agency called the U.S. Agency for International Development, not American Development, not developing East Palestine, Ohio, not developing the forgotten communities in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, not developing the border towns in Texas that have been run over by illegal alien invasion for four years under Biden, but developing countries all over the world except our own.
There's probably no entity in the government that is more of an entrenched power center of unelected bureaucrats with less accountability, less oversight than USAID. They funnel money to their cronies all over the world through a swampy network of NGOs, non-governmental organizations and cutouts, including potentially some very troubling elements of focusing on things like regime change and destabilizing foreign countries.
But this is not about America's interest. Donald Trump is courageously restoring democracy. Article 2 of the executive branch vests all power by the Constitution, sorry, Article 2 of the Constitution vests all power of the executive branch in a president. It's known as the vesting clause. It says the executive power shall be vested in a president, singular, not in the bureaucracy, not an unelected lifetime tenured career civil servants.
Americans voted for one man, Donald J. Trump. They didn't vote for a single bureaucrat at USAID. They voted for Donald Trump to make government accountable to the taxpayer, to make government accountable for them. If the Democrats are saying, as they are, that President Trump cannot implement his agenda at USAID, that Donald Trump cannot fire recalcitrant bureaucrats, what they are saying, what Democrats are saying is they oppose democracy itself. They oppose the idea that the American people can elect a man, in this case, our President Donald Trump, to reform the government according to the will of the people. This is a battle between the will of the people through their President --
INGRAHAM: But Stephen -- yes --
MILLER: -- Donald Trump, and the will of an unelected federal bureaucracy. So we and President Trump are on the side of democracy.
INGRAHAM: What they're saying, their argument, and this is likely what they'll argue in court, is that the President is overstepping his own constitutional authority that Congress allocates the funds and that the funds are spent according to the, you know, the general directive, whatever act or law, act was signed into law by whatever president, and so that's what they're going to argue.
But the problem is, these agencies have enormous discretion that is unchecked, and that's why you have all these runaway programs that go forever, which are never axed out, and there's no, there's literally no -- zero oversight whatsoever over them, but they're going to argue that the constitutional authority here is exceeded by the administration. And to that, you say.
MILLER: Well, here's why they're wrong. There's a lot of reasons why they're wrong. First, the President is at the apex of his powers when he's exercising the foreign policy of the United States. So he has plenary authority to carry out the foreign policy of the United States, so bureaucrats at USAID cannot interfere in the affairs of foreign countries, to prop up regimes, to thwart America's interests, to facilitate mass illegal immigration, nor to facilitate diversity, equity, inclusion policies which violate federal civil rights law. All this DEI B.S. violates the federal civil rights law of the United States. So, the President is at the apex authority here.
Moreover, as you mentioned, Congress doesn't dictate to these agencies how to spend the money. Agencies exercise discretion on these grants, on these contracts. So take, for example, funding to these non-governmental organizations, NGOs that fund open borders, see they funnel tens of billions of dollars to these open borders private sector orgs. Congress never passed a law giving those organizations that money.
President Trump can only pause all those funds. Not only can the agencies pause those funds, but agencies can set if they wanted to give those funds to organizations that support border security, that deport illegal aliens, that find criminal aliens, that provide detention for dangerous illegal immigrants in this country, there's no law passed by Congress that says that we have to funnel money to organizations that traffic children. Quite the opposite, these are crimes. Illegal immigration is a crime. DEI is a crime.
INGRAHAM: Well, Stephen, do you think in the end that this, you know, these moves to shut down agencies, I believe it will pass legal muster, whether or not you get a lousy judge on the district court level, but certainly on appeal, it will and knowing the Supreme Court a little bit, I would imagine it probably will sustain a scrutiny at the court as well. Are, are -- do you have lawyers in place already? Because some people aren't confirmed to handle what will clearly be a crush of litigation here.
MILLER: Yes, the Department of Justice has put together an incredible team of attorneys to deal with all this litigation. But I want to be very clear about an important point. Every agency of the federal government always has and will continue to, unless Congress changes the law, exercise independent discretion about grants. There was the way this process works foreign countries, which is crazy, but foreign countries apply for money, as do domestic organizations. They submit applications. They say, here's why we want your money, here's what we want to do with it. Agencies have always exercised discretion about whether to approve or deny those applications, and will continue to, except this time, these agencies will do so in accord with the policy priorities of Donald Trump that the American people voted for.
INGRAHAM: Well, so is USAID going to stay shuttered?
MILLER: The plan is to remove anyone at USAID who is not supporting the policy plans and directives of the head of Article 2, as the Constitution requires.
INGRAHAM: Right. So it's all being -- it's all within the State Department. But you can just axe out, these things can just be axed out and just dealt with in the normal course of State Department priorities. I mean I think that's what Rubio was talking about.
MILLER: They have a department, or, sorry, they have an agency at state that deals solely with funding. But the bottom line here is USAID has been working against the interests of this country for decades now.
INGRAHAM: Yes, we got to go.
MILLER: And President Trump is executing his duty to align federal funding with our national security issues.
INGRAHAM: Yes, well on Ukraine money that they shoveled money to Ukraine too. We know that story. Stephen, thank you. Great to see you --
MILLER: Zelenskyy say he doesn't even know where half the money is. It is time given the count of how taxpayer dollars are being spent, and Donald Trump is doing it.
INGRAHAM: It's only $100 billion. I mean, you expect Zelenskyy to be able to find that. Come on, Stephen, you're asking too much. All right. Thanks so much. All right. Ahead Democrats attempt to rebuild the brand. How is that going? Plus agitators anti-ICE taking the streets all over L.A. We'll bring it to you.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
INGRAHAM: Now, if you wondered if Democrats had learned anything since their election day shellacking, the program for the DNC leadership election may provide some insight.
(VIDEO PLAYING)
INGRAHAM: Come on. Why offer a substantive agenda when you can just do TikTok videos instead?
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: When your government is doing you wrong, you fight on. Oh, you fight on. We shall overcome.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Well, she's one of the candidates. Apparently there are certain lame excuses, though, they'll never overcome.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I have a show of hands. How many of you believe that racism and misogyny played a role in Vice President Harris's defeat? OK, so that's good. You all pass.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: But they didn't pass the hypocrisy test, because the same people who dismiss concerns about retail theft and crime committed by illegal aliens will not let go of the stolen land narrative.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The Democratic National Committee which is to acknowledge that we gather together to state our values on lands that have been stewarded through many centuries by the ancestors and the descendants of tribal nations and recognize that our country was built on indigenous lands.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: You just have to do that every time at graduation, anywhere you are, you have to say that. And when it came time to choose their new slate of leaders, were the criteria used related to excellence or experience?
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: On this next ballot, you will be able to vote for two candidates of any gender on the next ballot. If two candidates receive, I'm going to turn to Hale (ph) into clarify this last part.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You may vote for two males, two females, two of any gender. OK, no, you can't do that because we've got to balance. You could vote for one of any gender. OK. Non-binary gender, excuse me.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: Gender, gender, anyone. I still can't figure that. I think I listened to it three times. I have no idea what they were saying. But this is the man they chose to lead them to victory. Another nutty Minnesotan. Meet Ken Martin.
(VIDEO PLAYING)
INGRAHAM: He was telling you that Joe Biden was great and Bidenomics was great. Yes, Minnesota, that's all I can say. Who needs Dave Chappelle's Netflix specials when you have this stuff to watch? I mean, we're passing this around all weekend. Well, the good news and laughs for Republicans just keep coming.
(VIDEO PLAYING)
INGRAHAM: Nothing screams, I want to be an American as much as flying the flag of another country. So, thousands of these anti-ICE agitators, really anti-American agitators have shut down streets across L.A. protesting Trump's deportation. So we're going to go live to L.A. now, where independent journalist Anthony Cabassa is standing by. Anthony, I know you've been covering this for a while, tell us what you're seeing. How does it compare to last night when they shut down the freeway, which is always fun out there.
ANTHONY CABASSA, INDEPENDENT JOURNALIST: Thank you so much for having me, Laura. So one of the smart difference is that LAPD is a lot better prepared in talking to local (inaudible) not prepared for the amount of protesters that we're going to be here, gathered by the one of them (inaudible) to get into their -- into the highway (inaudible0 shutdown traffic. You got to remember, we just went through all the fires, and so law enforcement is already spread thin, and so they took a couple hours for them to kind of bring and restore some sense of normalcy into the scene. But right now, they're actually getting ready to (inaudible) see another standoff between police dressed in white here, and they're about to stand off here with some of the protesters.
INGRAHAM: All right, Anthony, it's a little hard to hear you, but I'm going to ask you a question anyway, are the people gathering at these protests? Do you think they themselves are unlawfully present in the United States? Or are they friends of people who are unlawfully present, or are they members of these various NGOs that we've been talking about, non- governmental organizations that get so much money to keep the gravy train of illegals coming into the country. What's your sense about the makeup of these crowds?
CABASSA: Yes, so you're absolutely right. It's a mix of everything. And talking to some of the people, some of them are leaders and some of them are non-profits. Some of the people here have family that are here illegally. I was talking to a gentleman last night, a black African American man whose girlfriend is Latina, and their families have illegal residents. So yes, there is a huge amount of people here that will be directly impacted.
INGRAHAM: Well, guess what? File the law. Don't try to commit fraud upon the United States, and you won't have any trouble, and you can do it the legal way, like millions and millions of other people have done across the decades. Anthony, thank you very much. All right, ahead, Mexico and Canada learned the art of the tariff. Patrick Bet-David reacts next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
LAURA INGRAHAM, FOX NEWS HOST: All it took was a few hours and three phone calls, and lo and behold, President Trump has Canada and Mexico ready to make concessions. The two countries making a new commitment on border enforcement in order to head off Trump's promised tariffs. Now these tariffs are now paused for those countries for 30 days.
Mexico is sending 10,000 troops to help secure the U.S. border. And according to President Trump, Canada is reinforcing its own border by deploying helicopters, new technology and more manpower, they're also appointing a fentanyl czar. And soon the president is expected to have a conversation with China's President Xi Jinping.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DOANLD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: We'll have some good meetings with China. We have meetings planned and we'll see what happens. But that was just an opening salvo. If we can't make a deal with China, then the tariffs will be very, very substantial.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
INGRAHAM: While China's tariffs are up to 10 percent, Mexico and Canada are 25 percent. And the China tariffs are set to go into effect in just a few hours, right after midnight. Joining us now is Patrick Bet-David, founder of Valuetainment. Patrick, great to have you on. So, Mexico and Canada, after all this hot air about, oh, you can't do this, it's going to trade war, they basically just gave up the ghost on this.
But Panama did the same. It promised not to renew a deal that it had with China. How significant are we seeing these moves early on from Trump to exercise U.S. leverage? What a difference a few months make.
PATRICK BET-DAVID, FOUNDER, VALUETAINMENT: I mean, that's what leadership is all about. When you think about Canada and Mexico, there's a number that nobody is really talking about, and here's what it is. U.S. out of our GDP that we have, we spent 3.4 percent of it on our military. Our military expenditure is the highest in the world. So, we spent around $950 billion, give or take, on military expenditure.
Mexico is the lowest in the world, 0.7 percent of their GDP, which is only $12 billion a year, and Canada was only 1.3 percent, which is around $27 billion. Why am I sharing this number with you? They don't need to spend it, because they have America that's so powerful that who the hell is waking up thinking about attacking Canada or Mexico?
So, here's my opinion. I think this 25 percent that they're wanting to remove, I think it needs to stay. Because we're providing you protection, we're providing you safety, there's a reason your military's not that strong, you're using that money to invest into other areas, why are we doing that? If we're doing that to provide safety to you, I think America should at least have a 25 percent tax tariff, if you want to call it, regardless of whatever happens, simply for the protection President Trump and the U.S. provides to Mexico and Canada.
INGRAHAM: Yeah, I'm not too impressed with the Canadian response, frankly. I mean, the fentanyl czar, what is, I don't know, that's going to do. And I guess they'll have a few helicopters flying at the border. I mean, it's not nothing, but they were going to get slapped with 25 percent tariffs and now those are gone for at least 30 days. I'm not sure what's going to happen in 30 days. Maybe some other concessions.
But I think President Trump saw a huge negative reaction to this as I know you predicted, I predicted, from Wall Street, from the markets, from all the establishment types. Do you think he reacted to that or maybe some of his advisors said, whoa, whoa, we got to rethink this?
BET-DAVID: I think President Trump is a guy that, in my opinion, likes to ask people, what do you think, behind closed doors. But at the end of the day, he's a strategist. He's thinking 5, 10, 15 moves ahead. And he knows he has the leverage card. He's going to be pushing his way to run, and he ought to be, because it's about time somebody on America negotiated on our behalf in ways that we're not being taken advantage of.
I love the fact that within a seven-days, five-days, Colombia came out talking as if they're tough. At 3:40 a.m. in the morning, he's sending a tweet, who knows if he was drunk or not. Then you have Panama coming out, now you've got Canada, then you've got Mexico. And then today Zelenskyy is talking about the fact that we only got $77 billion, and President Trump is saying, hey, we're going to need some of those minerals if you want to exchange for the money.
What he's doing is he's negotiating. And this is a beautiful thing when you have somebody that comes from 50 years of free enterprise, free market, everything is negotiation. For decades it's been all about politicians and folks who have not been in business for too much. And maybe not negotiating at the highest level. We've been giving things away.
I'm ecstatic to see our president negotiate on behalf of you and I, as well as our kids.
INGRAHAM: Yeah, he's talking about mineral rights on federal lands, too, And I know all the environmentalists are going crazy on that. But he said, look, we have hundreds of thousands of acres, millions of acres of federal lands. We could be making a huge amount of money off of that. I think you'll see the Commerce Secretary, Lutnick, when he's confirmed, you'll see Besant, Interior Department, all of them working to maximize and protect America.
But that's what Biden was supposed to be doing. He was working so hard though. Maybe he was going to get to that, Patrick. He was going to get to that protecting America thing right after the nap.
BET-DAVID: Yeah, I don't think he was going to do that. Listen, I think from day one we knew he was not going to be doing that. But President Trump's put on a great team together. By the way, I foresee him continuing. Some of these ideas he's talking about, you know, Greenland, oh, you're out of your mind. Hey, Canada, 51st state, you're out of your mind.
Another thing to be thinking about if his camp is watching tonight, we owe Japan $1.1 trillion. That's a lot of money. But we've been having protection for Japan since the 60;s when we signed that treaty. Fifty-four- thousand U.S. soldiers are in Japan right now to make sure they're safe. And we owe them $1.1 trillion? Maybe Japan ought to forgive the $1.1 trillion of debt that we have. And I think that's another thing President Trump can negotiate on behalf of Americans.
INGRAHAM: Yeah, time to negotiate down all that debt. Patrick, come back soon. Love having you on. Thanks so much. All right, new warnings about the air traffic control mess that Biden left behind. Transportation Secretary Sean Duffy, he's had a busy week, he's here next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
INGRAHAM: Early data from the deadly D.C. plane crash last week is now showing conflicting readings on the altitudes of the American Airlines plane and that Army Black Hawk that it crashed into. Now the plane's data recorder showed that it was about 325 feet in the air. But control tower data showed that the Black Hawk was at 200 feet. Obviously, that's not right or they wouldn't have collided.
So, we haven't gotten any explanation yet for that, but investigators say they're still working to get data from the helicopter's black box. And today, crews started pulling pieces of flight 5342 out of the Potomac River, including a piece of the fuselage and a jet engine.
Transportation Secretary Sean Duffy was on that barge about 90 minutes ago. He joins me now. Mr. Secretary, thank you for joining us. That altitude discrepancy is bizarre. What can you tell us?
SEAN DUFFY, TRANSPORTATION SECRETARY: Yeah, listen, if you listen to the press conference, I think that was yesterday. Again, you had the aircraft at 325 feet, I think they said, but the information from inside the control tower on the helicopter, they said that was preliminary.
So, I think we should wait and see when they do the whole analysis, what was the scope inside of the tower leading to the air traffic controller in regard to, not just the aircraft, but also the helicopter. I think that was confusing for everybody.
But I think more data, more information is going to come out that will clarify the perceived discrepancy.
INGRAHAM: Now have you heard any audio yet from the cockpit voice recorder?
DUFFY: I have in regard to the conversation with the American Airlines flight and also with regard to the helicopter. Again, you had air traffic control telling the helicopter to maintain visual sight, which they twice said they had of the aircraft. And then they said they would maintain visual distance.
And the problem, Laura, is this is the policy and procedure inside of the D.C. airspace every single day. These military aircraft say they see aircraft and then say that they will maintain a distance from those aircraft. Well, a couple nights ago, that didn't work.
And I think we have to rethink the policies and procedures inside of our air traffic control towers to make sure we alleviate these kinds of stresses on the system and keep people alive. I don't know if you reported on this, but a few days ago we had a red box put around DCA, so we're going to make sure military aircraft are not in the landing zone of these aircraft coming into the Washington, D.C. airspace.
INGRAHAM: It's shocking that ever took place. But now the New York Times is reporting that more than 90 percent of our air traffic control facilities are short staffed. Seventy-three of those facilities, you know, apparently staffing so low, at least a quarter of the workforce is missing. That's a lot of staff missing. What can you do to close that gap?
DUFFY: Well, so first off, some people might hear those stats and go, the airspace isn't safe and should I fly? Well, listen, if the airspace wasn't safe, the FAA would shut it down. So no, the airspace is safe. Air travel is the safest form of travel in the country. So, you can travel and feel good about it on American airplanes.
But the staffing is too short and we lost a lot of air traffic controllers when schools were shut down during COVID. Also, under the Obama administration -- I'm sorry, the Biden administration, they didn't let these new graduates of the Academy for Air Traffic Control actually train inside of towers.
So, it takes time to train these up, Laura. We have a plan in place. We're going to surge air traffic controllers. We have some ideas on how we can do that quickly, faster than in the past, and get, you know, smart, the smartest men and women in the country in those towers.
That's been the one thing that Donald Trump has said. I want the best. I want the brightest. And I want them in those towers keeping Americans safe. So, in the next couple days, we're going to release that plan. But you can't have this critical part of our infrastructure with vacancies that are so important to making sure airplanes don't hit each other. And we've seen cracks in the system, Laura. There's been these near misses continuously reported. That's a warning time.
So, let's get more air traffic controllers. Let's actually -- yeah, let's upgrade our air traffic control system. We're going to need Congress to give us some money. But this should have been done decades ago. I think everyone's on board to make this happen, Democrats and Republicans. The president wants it done, and so I think this is the time. Let's fix the system and make sure it's even safer and even more efficient. I'm sick of the delays as well. All of the safer, more efficient, less delays can make it work.
INGRAHAM: Mr. Secretary, some people are afraid to fly now. And I'm not saying it's logical because of the statistics, but this rattles people. Would you support President Trump taking a commercial flight as a symbolic gesture of confidence in commercial aviation?
DUFFY: Listen, if that's the decision the president would have to make, but I know his administration, I do, everyone at the FAA, we all take commercial flights because we trust it. And you would see people running for the hills if they didn't trust it.
Again, to your point, Laura, this rattles people. But again, when these crashes happen, they make big news. But again, air travel, way safer than traveling in a car or train. This is the safest mode of transportation. And again, I think we should understand that as a public, but then also demand that we can't stand to have these crashes. These are unacceptable.
And they expect leadership from the Department of Transportation to say, we don't care about DEI, we don't care about social justice, we don't care about the environment, we care about safety. That's the mission. And Donald Trump has said, make sure safety is paramount and drive that through this department, which is what we've been doing.
So, again, so I feel really good about where we're at and where we're going, and the plans we have in place to make sure we even make the system safer and more efficient than it is today.
INGRAHAM: OK. Mr. Secretary, thank you very much. It's great to see you. And it was music's and nudists biggest night, and the stars were brawling in Hollywood. Raymond Arroyo has all the mostly seen, unfortunately, things, next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
INGRAHAM: It's time for Seen and Unseen where we reveal the stories behind the headlines. For that we turn to Fox News contributor, Raymond Arroyo. All right, Ray, must we actually talk about the Grammys, really?
RAYMOND ARROYO, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Well, Laura, there was so little to discuss, Laura. Look, the music was secondary to the costuming. When a woman who wasn't even nominated, Yeezy's wife, Bianca Censori, stole the show by showing everything, you know it's over. There were reports that she could face jail time for indecency, Laura. Yeah, I know that's something you would support.
But the entire Grammys was an exercise in public indecency, Laura. Did you see those barely-there outfits? I wasn't sure if this was the Grammys or an OnlyFans convention. There was so much side boob, I thought we'd wandered into a mammogram clinic. It was horrible.
But Yeezy's wife just completed what these people were promising all night long, basically all these acts were stripped teased with side dancers. So, you know, it's kind of sad to see. But I'm glad that Will Smith's son found a place to lay his head. That's how I felt watching this thing. Yeah, with a little house. It was like, they could stop.
INGRAHAM: But, Raymond, I love that -- all these women who are dressed, you know, it's the pornification of the culture. I said it 20 years ago, whatever, in one of my books. So, it's the pornification of the culture. The pornographers get everything they want.
But the men, do you notice they're just dressed the same as they were basically in 1985? I mean, they looked exactly the same. But the women now objectify themselves. So, I guess that's OK, right? That's the way you do it. But the men have full suits, sometimes they have skirts I guess, but they're basically dressed. And the women are, you know. So, I guess as long as men don't objectify you then it's better.
ARROYO: Well, every award ceremony's red carpet, Laura, looks like the Golden Globes. That's all I'm going to say. I'll leave it there.
INGRAHAM: Yeah. Now what do you make of that, you know, legendary country artist, Beyonce, winning for best country album? Little blowback from among country music fans in the industry.
ARROYO: Some -- yeah, the country artists are not really happy about this. I mean, basically the look on KC Musgraves' face is the look on everybody's today. Because the Grammys, I want to put this in some context, Laura. Dolly Parton has 10 Grammys. Frank Sinatra had 11 Grammys. Beyonce has 35. How is that possibly commensurate with that talent? I mean, come on.
And what people don't know about the Grammys is everybody votes in every genre. You can vote in up to 20 genres. So, basically, Lady Gaga's cat sitter votes for best reggae and best country album. So that's why you get this ridiculous outcome that has nothing to do with the country audience or the country musicians.
INGRAHAM: The best thing was when Gaga and Bruno Mars sang California Dream, and that song written in 1963, and they both had full fully clothed and they both sounded great. That was the greatest moment going back 61 years.
ARROYO: What an innovation. Yeah, I have some other news on the other throw down in Tinseltown. This is Blake Lively and Jason, or Justin rather, Baldoni's battle. It landed in court today. Lively was trying to get Baldoni's attorney essentially silenced, the New York judge refused that request. Brian Friedman, he just opened that text chain on a website, Laura, that runs down all of their text exchanges.
The judge has threatened to move the trial up to March if the battle in the press continues, if the case is litigated there. But I got to tell you, I read a lot of those texts this weekend. It looks like Blake Lively clearly was trying to hijack this movie and did. But it's going to play out. It's going to be ugly. Look out, Johnny Depp and Amber Heard. We got something worse coming.
INGRAHAM: Who is the best publicist? That's my question. How many articles in the Daily Mail?
ARROYO: Right now, my money is on Baldoni.
INGRAHAM: All right, Raymond, thank you. Great to see you. You look very Grammy's. You're all black tonight. All right, that's it for us tonight. Follow me on social media, Instagram, and the rest. Remember, Jesse Watters and the gang, they take it from here.

Load-Date: February 4, 2025


End of Document
