




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 28, 2025 Tuesday 9:46 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 610 words
Byline: Marc CaputoEmily Peck
Body


January 28th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
The White House will issue a memo Tuesday offering to pay federal workers who don't want to return to the office through Sept. 30, as long as they resign by Feb. 6, an  
Why it matters: It's an acceleration in President Trump's already unprecedented purge of the federal workforce.
Zoom in: "The government-wide email being sent today is to make sure that all federal workers are on board with the new administration's plan to have federal employees in office and adhering to higher standards. We're five years past COVID and just 6 percent of federal employees work full-time in office. That is unacceptable," a senior administration official tells Axios.
The White House expects 5% to 10% of federal employees to accept the offer, which would potentially mean hundreds of thousands of people.
The administration projects the buyouts could ultimately save taxpayers up to $100 billion a year.
The offer applies to all full-time federal employees, except for military personnel, the Postal Service, and those working in immigration enforcement or national security.
The big picture: The memo is just the latest step in the White House's unprecedented move to push career federal workers out of their jobs, and, observers say, replace them with loyalists -a return to a patronage system that federal law sought to banish more than a century ago.
On Monday, the administration offered  
The executive order and the guidance is a way to make it easier to fire civil servants and turn what had been career jobs into patronage jobs, said Sharon Parrott, head of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities and a former Office of Management and Budget appointee under Obama.
The moves "will almost surely lead many expert, knowledgeable career civil servants to withhold their best advice," Parrott tells Axios.
Between the lines: Many federal workers are already feeling scared about the administration's crackdown on DEI, its return-to-office policy and the reclassification efforts.
That unease could increase take-up on this new offer.
The offer could also spur the most talented federal employees with the best private-sector prospects to leave, according to Terry Clower, an economist who studies the capital region at George Mason University.
"So how does that work if you're trying to accelerate government efficiency if who you drive away are your best workers?" Clower tells Axios.
What they're saying: The largest federal employee union, known as AFGE, denounced the buyouts.
"Between the flurry of anti-worker executive orders and policies, it is clear that the Trump administration's goal is to turn the federal government into a toxic environment where workers cannot stay even if they want to," its president Everett Kelley said in a statement.
Reality check: The White House claim that only 6% of federal workers are in-person is widely disputed, and contradicted by  
State of play: Earlier on Tuesday, White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt said that the president has the authority to  
More from Axios:



Editor's note: This story has been updated with reactions to the administration's memo.
Cuneyt Dil contributed.


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 28, 2025


End of Document
