




Financial Times (London, England)
January 28, 2025 Tuesday
Edition 1, USA Edition


Copyright 2025 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 8
Length: 1044 words
Byline: STEPHEN FOLEY ; JAMES FONTANELLAKHAN ; JAMIE SMYTH ; TAYLOR NICOLE ROGERS ; CAMILLA HODGSON
Body


The opening days of Donald Trump's second administration have sent businesses rushing to understand obscure provisions in historic laws, shore up legal defences and find ways to shape the radically changing policy landscape.
Trump's early moves have shown he plans to use a broader than expected toolkit to implement his agenda, even as he keeps trading partners guessing about how and when he will enact his threat of punitive tariffs.
After a dizzying week that began with more than 100 executive orders and actions following Trump's inauguration, corporate America's advisers said a window was open to influence policy - but only for those able to keep up.
"The range of policy outcomes is probably as high as it has ever been," said Chris Krueger, strategist at TD Cowen's Washington research group. "The right and left tails are massive, and all roads lead to Trump."
From promoting fossil fuels and expanding tariffs to deporting undocumented immigrants and challenging diversity initiatives, Trump's agenda had been well telegraphed, but some details still caught companies off guard.
A promise to unpick a global minimum tax deal brokered through the OECD, for example, came with a threat to double US taxes on expats and companies from countries that continue to pursue it, under a never-before-used section of the tax code written before the second world war.
"On the one hand, the fact that there was a muscular response was received with broad acclaim" from US multinationals that had long complained about the deal, said Pat Brown, partner in PwC's tax practice. "But one of the questions we got immediately was: 'My CEO is a citizen of a foreign country who happens to live and work here. Do I need to go tell my CEO his tax rate may double?'" Trump advisers had promised to "flood the zone" with executive actions, partly to keep opponents on the back foot. Consultancies, law firms and investment banks built elaborate plans to monitor the orders and isolate salient points for clients.
"Where there's a wealth of information, there's often a poverty of attention," said Kevin Madden, a Republican at consultancy Penta Group. "The challenge for corporate leaders is prioritising all this information and activity."
Nowhere was that more evident than in the energy sector, after Trump invoked emergency powers to clear hurdles to fossil fuel projects and rescinded many of his predecessor's actions.
He also shocked the clean energy industry with a demonstration of how the executive branch could undermine funding apparently mandated by Congress. One order halted loans offered to developers and manufacturers under the Inflation Reduction Act and bipartisan infrastructure law. The means to unlock that money are now unclear and may get tangled up in broader congressional negotiations to revise the IRA.
William Oplinger, chief executive of US aluminium producer Alcoa, said his company's two domestic smelters could be at risk if tax credits were cut.
The support "has allowed those facilities to continue operating in the current environment", he said.
Wind power took a blow as a result of orders that froze leasing approvals and triggered a review of permitting practices, which cover existing projects.
Some companies are racing to appoint Republican-linked lobbying firms. Federal disclosures show renewable energy developers EnergyRe and NextEra hired Polaris Government Relations last month.
Trump's energy orders bore resemblance to a five-point road map proposed last summer by the American Petroleum Institute, the industry lobby group. Mike Sommers, API CEO, said the institute was now moving to influstrategist ence the implementation of policy.
"A lot of these executive orders are directing agencies to do things, but many of these agencies don't even have secretaries now," he said. "What we are trying to do is fill in the blanks for the new department heads, so they know precisely how to implement the president's vision."
While Trump did not fulfil a promise to impose new tariffs on US trading partners on "day one", an executive memo ordered departmental reviews of existing trade practices, with a deadline of April 1. He also indicated that he could hit Mexico, Canada and China with tariffs on Saturday.
Evan Giesemann, an adviser on tax and trade at EY, told clients: "While nothing with President Trump is final until it is implemented ... I can't underscore enough how wide a net this memo casts, showing how serious he is about making structural changes to our trade policies and fairly quickly."
In some quarters, the executive actions crystallised concern that new tariffs, along with the potential deportation of a portion of the US labour force, could stoke inflation and limit the Federal Reserve's room to cut interest rates.
Carole Streicher, deal advisory leader for KPMG, suspected that concern was behind the increase last week in incoming calls from private equity-owned companies about starting a sale process.
"The discussion now is whether there is a short window for the next three to six months where interest rates are going to be at their current level and we need to transact before that window closes," she said.
The executive actions also appear likely to accelerate companies' recasting of diversity, equity and inclusion programmes. Trump ordered government agencies to draw up lists of "the most egregious and discriminatory DEI practitioners in each sector of concern" and propose "up to nine potential civil compliance investigations" of public companies and other organisations.
"They're bullying American employers into backing away from what are otherwise fully lawful efforts," said Jenny Yang, former commissioner at the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, now partner at the consultancy Working Ideal.
Yang said law firms were sending urgent bulletins to clients offering legal audits. The retailer Target on Friday became the latest company to row back on previous DEI commitments.
TD Cowen's Krueger said the executive actions had come "at record speed and with record breadth", with questions unanswered. "But at least now preseason is over," he said. "Now you can start putting pen to paper on policy."
'They're bullying American employers into backing away from what are otherwise fully lawful efforts'

Graphic

 
Trump's orders have hit green energy projects by groups such as Constellation Energy, and diversity programmes at companies such as Target, below Chip Somodevilla/Getty; Kamil Krzaczynski/AFP/Getty

Load-Date: January 27, 2025


End of Document
