




The Independent (United Kingdom)
February 20, 2025 Thursday 11:40 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Independent Print Ltd  All Rights Reserved


Section: BLACK INTEREST NEWS
Length: 601 words
Byline: Alex Woodward
Body


While other agencies and institutions cancel or scale back their own events following his threats to diversity programs,  addressed a  to recognize  despite spending the last month torching  he smeared as "racist" and "dangerous."
Trump, standing next to golfer Tiger Woods, accused Joe Biden's administration of trying "to reduce all of American history to a single year: 1619," referencing The New York Times project examining slavery's foundational role in the United States.
"Under our administration, we honor the indispensable role black Americans have always played in the immortal cause of another date: 1776," Trump said from scripted remarks Thursday.
"Millions of Blacks were brought here in slavery and kept in that evil condition for generations," Trump said from prepared remarks. "But because of the steadfast faith of patriots of all colors, we abolished that horrific institution, expanded civil rights and advanced America's destiny."
The president specifically hailed the work of far-right billionaire , who has allowed hate speech to flourish on his X platform while he dispatches his so-called Department of Government Efficiency crew - including  - to make drastic decisions about the fates of thousands of federal workers. Roughly 18 percent of the federal workforce is Black.
"Should I run again? You tell me," Trump said at one point, pausing to soak in the cheers and applause. "There's your controversy right there. There's your controversy."
He laughed and turned to Woods while the crowd chanted "four more years."
"You're gonna see that tonight Tim, on television," said Trump, looking at South Carolina Senator Tim Scott.

Trump did not mention his executive orders targeting DEI, which threaten to terminate federal funds for any government program, health services and schools that are accused of engaging with diversity, equity and inclusion and accessibility initiatives.
The orders have thrown agencies and other government entities, schools and other institutions into chaos, from forcing layoffs to changing how they can acknowledge civil rights history or accommodate people with disabilities or report demographic data on race and gender.
The orders "reverse decades" of progress and pose an "existential threat" to civil rights, according to the Legal Defense Fund and Lambda Legal, which against the Trump administration this week on behalf of the National Urban League, the National Fair Housing Alliance and the AIDS Foundation of Chicago in an effort to strike down Trump's orders.
Last month, the Defense Department issued guidance declaring "identity months dead" and said Black History Month, Women's History Month and National Disability Employment Awareness Month would no longer be recognized during working hours across the entire agency.
On February 1, the first day of Black History Month, Transportation Secretary Sean Duffy announced the agency "will no longer participate in celebrations based on immutable traits or any other identity-based observances."
Last week, Musk's  group and the Department of Education threatened to revoke federal funding for public schools and universities unless they remove all "diversity, equity and inclusion" programming within two weeks, which could have severe, far-reaching implications for public colleges and universities with programming for minority or disadvantaged students, including student aid and campus clubs and events.

Load-Date: February 21, 2025


End of Document
