




Fox News FOX SPECIAL REPORT WITH BRET BAIER 6:00 PM EST
January 22, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7364 words
Byline: Bret Baier, Christina Coleman, Peter Doocy, David Spunt, Aishah Hasnie, Brit Hume, Rich Edson, Katie Pavlich, Jennifer Griffin, Claudia Cowan
Guests: Annie Linskey, Kevin Walling
Body


JEANINE PIRRO, FOX NEWS LEGAL ANALYST: Wow. OK, check out this hysterical real life Garland. The second floor lazy cat didn't like using the stairs. And so, he got his wish when his owner said, forget it and made him his own custom elevator. He missed the basket, but then he got it. That's it.
BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: That was one sexy eagle, Judge, thank you.
Good evening. Welcome to Washington. I'm Bret Baier.
Senator squabble over a democratic slowdown for President Trump's cabinet confirmations. It could make for long weekends up on Capitol Hill.
A new wildfire in Southern California prompts evacuation orders. We'll bring you there.
And who really is in control of the Panama Canal? Might be named the first 100 hours, President Trump is sending 1,500 active duty troops to the southern border. He wants them there by the end of the month. He's also moving forward with other elements of his immigration policy during a busy first week back in office. Senior White House Correspondent Peter Doocy starts us off live from the North Lawn. Good evening, Peter.
PETER DOOCY, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Good evening, Bret. We've been reading through President Trump's latest executive order. He's using his authority under Article II of the Constitution to forbid anybody that makes it across the U.S. southern border illegally from staying. He is also now sitting down for his first interview as the 47th president.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Only the second time in history somebody didn't have consecutive terms.
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Yes, well, they say it's historically bigger.
DOOCY (voice over): And as promised, the president is closing the border, sending 1500 active duty U.S. troops to the border by the end of this month to join 2500 troops already there as part of an effort to repel, repatriate and remove illegal aliens.
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: President Trump is using every lever of his executive power to secure our nation's borders. This is the number one promise that he made to the American people on the campaign trail.
DOOCY (voice over): President Trump is settling back into the Oval Office, a place J.D. Vance had never been.
J.D. VANCE, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Wow.
DOOCY: This is J.D. Vance's first time to step into the Oval Office.
VANCE: This is incredible.
DOOCY (voice over): Fox News was given an exclusive first look at the handwritten letter President Biden left for President Trump. It says, in part, I wish you and your family all the best in the next four years. May God bless you and guide you as he has blessed and guided our beloved country since our founding.
Things are less civil between Elon Musk and one of the CEOs President Trump celebrated as part of the $500 billion A.I. project Stargate.
Musk tweeted, they don't actually have the money. OpenAI's Sam Altman tried to take the high road, responding, I genuinely respect your accomplishments and inviting Musk, want to come visit the first site already under way. An unimpressed Musk later wrote, Sam is a swindler.
The former president's last minute pardons for siblings are not sitting well with Democrats. Axios quotes, former Obama Chief of Staff Bill Daley is saying, it's disgusting.
TRUMP: This guy went around giving everybody pardons. And you know, the funny thing, maybe the sad thing, is he didn't give himself a pardon. And if you look at it, it all had to do with him.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
DOOCY (on camera): And we're learning that one of the first bills President Trump will wind up signing since coming back to office, will be the Laken Riley Act, that is the one that deports illegal immigrants that get arrested for any reason. Tonight, it easily cleared the House of Representatives. 46 Democrats voted yes. It already passed the Senate. Next stop, the resolute desk, Bret.
BAIER: Peter Doocy live in the North Lawn. Peter, thanks.
You can see the entire interview with President Trump tonight on Hannity, 9:00 p.m. Eastern Time.
The Justice Department is directing prosecutors to investigate state and local officials who may try to thwart the president's new immigration and border policy. Correspondent David Spunt has details tonight.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
DAVID SPUNT, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): The Department of Justice moving full steam ahead, enacting President Trump's efforts to curb illegal immigration.
Acting Deputy Attorney General Emil Bove, Trump's former personal defense attorney sending this memo obtained by Fox News to DOJ attorneys across the country. Bove warns them to carry out the Trump immigration agenda or face consequences.
He writes in part, it is the responsibility of the Justice Department to defend the Constitution and accordingly, to lawfully execute the policies that the American people elected President Trump to implement and all 93 U.S. Attorney offices shall investigate incidents involving any such misconduct for potential prosecution, including for obstructing federal functions.
Meaning, investigate local and state officials if they do not comply with DOJ orders. Local officials are already pushing back.
ROB BONTA, CALIFORNIA ATTORNEY GENERAL: Very expected. No surprise, another scare tactic from the federal administration. We are very well aware of what the law requires us to do and what it permits us to do. We have strong states rights under the 10th Amendment of the United States Constitution.
SPUNT (voice over): The memo was part of a larger push for the DOJ to focus on immigration related matters. Earlier this week, multiple top officials overseeing the immigration court system across the country were pushed out of their positions.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
SPUNT (on camera): Bret, this memo also calls for quarterly reports from U.S. attorneys offices back here to main justice on the status and statistics of investigations, prosecutions, convictions and removals. Bret.
BAIER: Thanks, David.
Only one of President Trump's cabinet nominees has been confirmed by the Senate so far. Secretary of State Marco Rubio sworn in yesterday. Transportation Secretary Nominee Sean Duffy was voted out of committee today. Senate Majority Leader John Thune was forced to file cloture to break filibusters from the Democrats on four other nominees. That delays confirmation votes for at least another day, likely into the weekend.
Now, committees have held hearings for eight other nominees. The Judiciary Committee is expected to vote on Pam Bondi's nomination for attorney general, January 29th.
At least four other committee hearings are scheduled, including next week's hearings to consider Kash Patel as FBI director, Robert F. Kennedy Jr. as HHS Secretary.
Hearings for other potential key positions have not even been scheduled yet due to paperwork and background check delays, they say, in part to recent snow days. We'll see about that.
The Senate has been slower moving on recent -- than in recent years to confirm nominees. At this point in the Bush administration, President Bush had 2000 -- in 2001 had seven officials confirmed. Former President Obama had nine. President Trump, the first time around, had two in his first term. Former President Biden had one.
To speed up this process, President Trump has at least expressed interest in recess appointments if, if they're needed.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Mr. President, is it also true in your conversations with Republicans today that you asked them to consider recess appointments for cabinet officials?
TRUMP: I think, if it's needed.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: Now, if President Trump were to try to make recess appointments, here's how that could happen. The House would have to adjourn, formally adjourn, pass a resolution. The Senate would have to take up an adjournment resolution. If it fails, which it would, President Trump could argue that there's a disagreement between the House and Senate, paving the way for him to adjourn both chambers and make his recess appointments.
Now, the process could continue. It can continue hearings and confirmations, but the recess appointments could go for two years.
It's never been used like that before. It would likely be legally challenged, but it's Article Two, Section Three of the Constitution allows this process to go forward, spells out this very process, so that is a possibility. The House and Senate has to be in recess. Have to both be in recess for longer than 10 days to make recess appointments.
If we look at the legislative calendar, the blue is the House only in recess. The yellow is both of them. The Senate has no extended recess dates on the schedule until mid-March.
However, the house will take its first week long recess next week. But again, one chamber needs to vote officially to adjourn. And whether the House would even do that, or had the votes to do that, is up in the air.
As we mentioned earlier, Senate Majority Leader John Thune is threatening to keep his colleagues working throughout the weekend after Democrats delayed confirmation votes for three of President Trump's nominees so far, and it could be a rocky road for another one tonight.
Senior National Correspondent Aishah Hasnie has details tonight from Capitol Hill.
AISHAH HASNIE, FOX NEWS CHANNEL SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Bret, good evening to you. Fox is told tonight that at least three Republican senators could vote no on Pete Hegseth, the Defense Secretary nominee, and that's Mitch McConnell, Susan Collins and Lisa Murkowski. Possible nos, and that would mean that Vice President J.D. Vance would have to come back here to the Senate and break a tie.
But first, Senate has to get through another nominee who is tied up in what Republicans are calling a Democrat delay tactic.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
SEN. JOHN BARRASSO (R-WY): Democrats chose last minute obstruction.
HASNIE (voice over): Tonight, a full-fledged battle is underway in the Senate over President Trump's nominees, Democrat Senator Chris Murphy holding up a vote for CIA director pick John Radcliffe, by enforcing the 30 hour debate rule.
SEN. CHRIS MURPHY (D-CT): This debate time this day gives all of my colleagues the time to carefully review the record.
HASNIE (voice over): But the Senate Intelligence Committee, which Murphy does not sit on, already debated Radcliffe's qualifications.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I voted for Radcliffe.
HASNIE (voice over): And all but three Democrats voted with Republicans to send him to a confirmation vote.
SEN. TOM COTTON (R-AR): Senator Schumer stood here yesterday talking about how we cooperate on highly qualified, capable nominees with integrity.
HASNIE (voice over): A source familiar tells Fox News, Republicans believed they had an agreement on confirming Radcliffe with Democrat Leader Chuck Schumer and that Murphy may be going rogue.
The delay means Trump's other nominees may not be taken up until at least the weekend.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This can be easy or this can be hard.
HASNIE (voice over): On Tuesday, President Trump asked Senate Majority Leader John Thune and speaker Johnson about recess appointments, forcing the House and Senate to adjourn so that he can swiftly appoint all of his nominees.
The move would blow up the Senate's advice and consent process, and a senior GOP source says the House is not interested in a journey. Even some of Trump's biggest supporters in the Senate say it's not time for the nuclear option yet.
SEN. MIKE LEE (R-UT): I don't know that we're at a point where that's even being discussed. I think everybody involved would prefer to just get them done the regular way.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
HASNIE (on camera): So, Bret, if this delay goes on and on and on, then this is what the vote schedule would look like. We would see a Radcliffe final confirmation vote tomorrow, a Hegseth final confirmation vote sometime late Friday, and then Kristi Noem's final confirmation vote sometime over the weekend, or even bleed into next week.
Again, it's drip, drip, drip, something that President Trump does not want, Bret.
BAIER: Aishah Hasnie live on the Hill. Aishah, thank you.
The founder of the political group Oath Keepers, visited Capitol Hill today. Stewart Rhodes appearance came after President Trump commuted his 18 year prison sentence. Rhodes was convicted in one of the most serious cases brought by the Justice Department over the Capitol riot of January 6th, 2021, his commutation was part of about 1500 such actions by the new president.
Tech stocks lifted Wall Street toward another positive day, the Dow gaining 131, the S&P 500 was up 37, the NASDAQ surged 253 today.
Unfortunately, a new wildfire to report in Southern California, forcing another round of evacuations out there. Correspondent Christina Coleman is in Santa Clarita tonight, with the latest. Good evening, Christina.
CHRISTINA COLEMAN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Hi, good evening, Bret. A giant plume of smoke can be seen for miles as this fast moving fire continues to spread. Just go ahead and take a look behind me. You could see that that is what people are seeing all over L.A. County.
The Hughes fire broke out today around 11:00 a.m. Pacific Time, north of Los Angeles and Santa Clarita near Castaic Lake. The Fire exploded from 50 acres to more than 5,000 acres just within an hour or two, it is currently zero percent contained. The crews with the Los Angeles County Fire Department and Angeles National Forest are battling this wind driven fire that officials say is burning in very dry brush.
The fire has prompted evacuation orders for tens of thousands of people, including local schools and a nearby detention center that is currently evacuating hundreds of inmates to a different part of the facility.
Officials urging residents not to wait as gusty Santa Ana winds fueled the flames at just over 30 miles per hour. Drivers trying to avoid the Hughes fire are running into major gridlock on the five freeway and surrounding roads. The California Highway Patrol closing down a major portion of that interstate.
And this new fire has erupted as crews continue to battle the deadly Palisades and Eaton fires, they've gained a lot of ground on that. But as you can see, we're still dealing with these dry, gusty conditions, and more fires are breaking out, Bret.
BAIER: Bad news. Christina, thank you.
Up next, keeping up with President Trump's first days of his second presidency is not so easy. Lot happening. That with Brit Hume coming up.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
URSULA VON DER LEYEN, PRESIDENT, EUROPEAN COMMISSION: We have entered a new era of harsh geo strategic competition. 400 million Latin Americans will soon be engaged in a privileged partnership with 450 million Europeans.
We will need to work together to avoid a global race to the bottom.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: E.U. Commission president not so veiled threat about a possible trade war with the U.S.
Meantime, the headlines are all about drinking from the fire hose; full throttle for Trump's promised upheaval; business navigates Trump's ticket of orders; E.U. tells Trump's America: We have other options.
Reacting to the headline that Trump delivers fresh tariff threats against the E.U. and China, and that is coming out as using those tariff threats are real with this president.
Let's bring in Fox News chief political analyst Brit Hume. Brit, good evening.
What about this and the reaction from different countries? Some are acting differently to everything that President Trump is saying.
BRIT HUME, FOX NEWS CHANNEL SENIOR POLITICAL ANALYST: Well, I think the way Trump operates, and we've seen this time and again, Bret, is he makes a maximalist demand or threat, and you've seen it over and over again.
He's going to impose these tariffs, he prepared to -- you know, he's prepared to use the military to do that. He is -- and this is the way he always operates.
And we have seen it again and again. He -- once he is done that. And here is a reaction, he negotiate from there. And he will very often settle for less than his original demand. I mean, now, you know, he is talking about annexing Greenland, the taking over charge of the Panama Canal.
My guess is that true to form, he would settle for some adjustments down on the Panama Canal to alleviate worries about China's influence there, and he would probably end up settling for new arrangements with Greenland that further our interests there. That's sort of how he operates.
And so, I think the people in the E.U. are all worked up about a big trade war. But let this thing play out a little bit and see what happens.
BAIER: Yes, a lot of business leaders are quoted in various media outlets, saying tariffs are horrible, will be horrible for the American people, but a popular CEO on Wall Street, JPMorgan Chase Jamie Dimon said this in Davos.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JAMIE DIMON, CHAIRMAN, JPMORGAN CHASE: I look at tariffs, they are an economic tool. That's it. They're an economic weapon. You know, depending how you use it and why use it, stuff like that. And, you know, people argue is it inflationary non-inflationary? I would put in perspective if it's a little inflationary, but it's good for national security, so be it. I mean, get over it.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: Get over it, he says, Brit. And listen, the fast and furious executive orders. There are now businesses and banks like JPMorgan Chase that have whole departments that are trying to digest the impact as it's coming at us in these first days.
HUME: Well, they are, and with good reason, because he is obviously trying -- we're seeing it happening kind of before our eyes in the federal government to dismantle the government's DEI bureaucracy.
And if that -- and if that unfolds and as new policies put in place by his executive orders toward this issue come into play, these companies that have these big departments of diversity, equity, and inclusion, and, you know, we're very well-paid staff and all that, they are going to have to deal with that because they're not going to need them anymore. And in fact, it'd probably e impermissible for them to have them.
So, they have got work to do, and I guess they're setting about doing it'll keep lawyers busy for a while. I'm sure of that, Bret.
BAIER: And journalists too. Brit, as always, thank you.
Up next, Secretary of State Rubio's on the job and shaking things up the state department and beyond. We'll have a live report from there.
First, "BEYOND OUR BORDERS" tonight. Yemen's Houthi rebels say they have released the crew of the vehicle carrier sized in -- carrier -- a vehicle carrier, seized in November of 2023 at the start of their campaign in the Red Sea corridor. The rebels say they freed the sailors after mediation by Oman.
Today, President Trump redesignated the Houthis as a terror organization.
China's navy commissions a new generation frigate, as competition rises with the U.S. and other regional powers. Beijing says the ship will play a vital role in enhancing the overall combat effectiveness of its forces.
China already has the world's largest Navy in terms of the number of hulls, although its technology is sometimes seen as lagging.
And this is a live look at Dublin. Dublin, Ireland, courtesy of EarthCam. One of the big stories there tonight. Veteran politician, Micheal Martin becomes Ireland's prime minister for a second time.
Lawmakers formally approved him as head of a coalition government. The confirmation comes almost two months after an election in which Martin's won the vote -- the most seats, but not enough to govern alone.
Just some of the other stories "BEYOND OUR BORDERS" tonight. We'll be right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BAIER: Police say a male student at Nashville High School killed a female student, injured another, and then, killed himself today.
Antioch High School is about 10 miles southeast of downtown Nashville. Today's incident comes nearly two years after a shooter opened fire at a separate Nashville private elementary school, killing six people, including three children.
"FOX WEATHER ALERT" now. Much of the South digging out from what is being called the worst winter storm in more than 120 years.
New Orleans had eight inches of snow. Florida broke its record for largest snow storm ever. Life threatening cold is expected to keep the snow pack in place through at least the end of the week.
Tonight, as mentioned with Brit Hume, the heads of federal agencies and departments are under orders to close all Diversity Equity and Inclusion offices. DEI.
The Federal Office of Personnel Management, gave those leaders until the end of the business day today. They were told to place government workers in those offices on paid leave, at least for the time being.
The nation's new top diplomat, already beginning some major changes to the state department. Secretary of State Marco Rubio, following President Trump's playbook, criticizing the previous administration's emphasis on ideology and social reform.
Senior national correspondent Rich Edson is at the state department tonight.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
RICH EDSON, FOX NEWS SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Secretary of State Marco Rubio is laying out the department's second stint with America first.
MARCO RUBIO, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: There will be changes, but the changes are not meant to be destructive.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Congratulations, Mr. Secretary.
(APPLAUSE)
EDSON: Within hours of his swearing in, Rubio sent a cable to employees detailing the first steps of President Trump's foreign policy overhaul, eliminating symbols of domestic political issues and posts abroad, and reversing climate change policies. Rubio says the department will no longer facilitate mass migration, and that now, quote, "Our diplomatic relations will prioritize securing America's borders, stopping illegal and destabilizing migration, and negotiating the repatriation of illegal immigrants."
In line with President Trump's executive orders, Rubio says the State Department will eliminate DEI programs and offices. At the start of the Biden administration, then Secretary Antony Blinken created a new chief diversity and inclusion officer at State. Blinken asked each bureau to designate one official to oversee diversity and inclusion efforts. The top Democrat on the House Foreign Affairs Committee says, quote, "DEI programs were implemented to give Americans of all background a fair opportunity to serve our nation. Implementing an executive order to rescind these programs is un-American and shameful."
Secretary Rubio has also been asked to comment on domestic issues like the president's January 6th related pardons.
RUBIO: We're going to focus on what makes America stronger and more prosperous and safer. I'm not going to engage in domestic political debates.
(END VIDEO TAPE)
EDSON (on camera): This afternoon President Trump did a little foreign policy on Truth Social, threatening Russia with tariffs, taxes, or sanctions if they refuse to end their war or cut a deal on the war on Ukraine. The U.S. and allies hit Russia with a number of sanctions after it invaded three years ago. Bret?
BAIER: Rich Edson live at the State Department. Rich, thank you.
President Trump insists China is operating the Panama Canal. He says the U.S. needs to regain control down there. Tonight, chief national security correspondent Jennifer Griffin takes a closer look who is really in charge in a vital geopolitical region.
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
JENNIFER GRIFFIN, FOX NEWS NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Panama's government began auditing a Hong Kong company operating ports at both ends of the Panama Canal after President Trump expressed concerns over growing Chinese influence over the canal.
DONALD TRUMP, (R) U.S. PRESIDENT: And we're taking it back.
GRIFFIN: Panama's president, Jose Mulino, was asked about Trump's remarks and the potential for U.S. invasion.
JOSE RAUL MULINO, PRESIDENT OF PANAMA: Be serious, be serious.
GRIFFIN: The Panamanian government submitted a letter of complaint to the U.N. Security Council rejecting President Trump's claims to the Panama Canal, saying it violated the U.N. charter. U.S. officials have warned China may be eyeing the canal through which 40 percent of U.S. container ships traverse each year. The former head of U.S. Southern Command General Laura Richardson had this warning during the Biden administration.
GEN. LAURA RICHARDSON (RET), FORMER SOUTHCOM COMMANDER: I worry about the, you know, they look like civilian companies, or state owned enterprises, and could be quickly changed over to a military capability if they needed that to.
GRIFFIN: At his confirmation hearing last week, the new secretary of state, Marco Rubio, clarified what the president was referring to when he said China is, quote, operating the canal.
RUBIO: Sovereignty over the canal has not been turned over to a foreign power. In reality, a foreign power today possesses, through their companies, the ability to turn the canal into a choke point in a moment of conflict, and that is a direct threat to the national interest and security of the United States.
(END VIDEO TAPE)
GRIFFIN (on camera): From 2017 to 2023, the U.S. did not have an ambassador in Panama. During those five years, Panama signed 47 bilateral agreements with the Chinese, agreed the China's Belt and Road Initiative, and severed ties with Taiwan, succumbing to pressure from Beijing, Bret.
BAIER: And Jen, domestically, what are we learning about troops heading to the southern border?
GRIFFIN: The biggest difference, we're told, is these troops will be armed and are deploying with full combat capability. The marines are treating this deployment as they would any other emergency contingency, evacuating an embassy, deploying to a war zone. As one marine involved in the planning put it, our response will be immediate. We are going in ready to respond. If the cartels shoot at us, we will not stand by. Bret?
BAIER: We are watching that closely. Jennifer Griffin live at the Pentagon. Jennifer, thank you.
Up next, we take out to very first sanctuary city. And later, the panel on another busy day in the Trump administration, we'll take a look at some of the latest actions.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BAIER: The Trump administration seeking to end some research on viruses. It's the same research many experts and Republican lawmakers have blamed for the COVID-19 pandemic. "Wall Street Journal" reporting at this hour the order aims to stop scientists with U.S. funding from conducting gain of function research that could endanger human health.
President Trump is threatening to cut federal funding to sanctuary cities. His border czar has talked about jailing leaders who shield immigrants. Senior correspondent Claudia Cowan reports from Berkeley, California, where the sanctuary movement began more than 50 years ago.
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
CLAUDIA COWAN, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: The birthplace of the free speech movement is also the nation's first sanctuary city. Berkeley, California has been shielding conscientious objectors, asylum seekers, and illegal immigrants for decades. It began in 1971 when Berkeley gave safe haven to a group of American sailors who did not want to be sent to Vietnam.
BENJAMIN GONZALEZ O'BRIEN, SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY: They did not want to be deployed for combat, and so they sought safe harbor. These places of faith in Berkeley offered that safe harbor. That leads the city to pass the first sanctuary resolution.
COWAN: A decade later religious leaders protected people they argued were fleeing political persecution in El Salvador and Guatemala, what the federal government said were economic refugees. After that, Berkeley's sanctuary model took off. San Francisco, Los Angeles, New York, Chicago, and other blue cities began to adopt policies reducing or even prohibiting cooperation with federal immigration officials. City leaders said it was a way to foster trust with local law enforcement and assure immigrants who reported crimes wouldn't be deported.
After the September 11th attacks sparked concerns about national security, federal authorities ramped up efforts to detain and deport people here illegally. In response, some sanctuary cities doubled down and added additional protections for immigrants. With President Donald Trump vowing mass deportations, Berkeley is once again at the forefront.
ADENA ISHII, (D) BERKELEY, CALIFORNIA, MAYOR: I feel it's my responsibility to reassure our residents that they are safe here.
COWAN: Passing a resolution last night to reaffirm its sanctuary status and seal its far-reaching legacy.
(END VIDEO TAPE)
COWAN (on camera): Today, more than 560 cities, counties, and states have passed sanctuary policies in defiance of federal immigration law. Bret?
BAIER: Claudia Cowan live in Berkeley. Claudia, thanks.
Professional golf season is underway. Play began at the Farmers Insurance open today in La Jolla, California. The PGA tour will once again exist in the same universe as the LIV tour which is owned in part by a Saudi Arabian investment fund. The tours are said to be working toward a merger. Tonight, golfer Phil Mickelson says he thinks the two leagues can complement each other. He spoke on FOX Business earlier today.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PHIL MICKELSON, PROFESSIONAL GOLFER: We are trying to become an add value to the golf ecosystem, let's say. And as the old model was not getting the younger players involved, it wasn't a global model. The PGA tour has done a great job for many, many years, but it's kind of a national, U.S.-centric based model, where we're much more global.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: FOX Sports will broadcast the LIV tour's 14 tournament schedule this season beginning next month.
Up next, the panel on pardons and delayed confirmations.
First, here's what a couple of our FOX affiliates around the country are covering tonight. FOX 19 in Cincinnati as indictments against four Chilean men accused of targeting multimillion dollars homes reveal a possible connection to the break-in at the residents of Bengals quarterback Joe Burrow. Troopers reportedly found some items suspected to have been stolen from Burrow's house in a search of the suspect's vehicle during a traffic stop.
And this is a live look at New York. One of the big stories there from FOX 5, our affiliate, Governor Kathy Hochul announces legislation to ban smartphones in schools. It would take effect next school year. It would force students to disconnect from their phones and other personal devices while at school. The proposal would require approval from legislators. New Jersey is looking at it, too.
That's tonight's live look outside the beltway from SPECIAL REPORT. We'll be right back.
(MUSIC)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BAIER: Breaking tonight, we have been talking about the fast and furious pace of what's happening in the Trump administration part two. Just now, the Justice Department freezes all civil rights cases, including police investigations. We're confirming that the Justice Department ordered its civil rights division to halt any litigation leftover from the Biden administration and not pursue any new cases or settlements. We don't know what this means for big cases that were already underway or some reform agreements that had been finalized in recent months, but right now we are confirming the Justice Department is freezing all litigation leftover from the Biden administration when it comes to civil rights.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, (R) U.S. PRESIDENT: We had a great first term, but we're going to have an even better second term. And I think we're going to do things that people would be shocked at.
REP. PETE AGUILAR (D-CA), HOUSE DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS CHAIR: Republicans have failed to show us that they are interested in doing anything that helps working families.
REP. LISA MCCLAIN (R-MI), HOUSE REPUBLICAN CONFERENCE CHAIR: Democrats don't know what to do. My message to them is that it's not too late to join us in restoring America.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: As we said, a lot of things happening all at once. We are digesting it all.
Meantime, Sean Hannity sat down with the commander-in-chief in the Oval Office. Among other things, what it was like to go back into that office again the second time.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, (R) U.S. PRESIDENT: I felt that we shouldn't have had necessarily be here, could have been done. A lot of work could have been -- it would have been over. We wouldn't have inflation. We wouldn't have had the Afghanistan disaster. We wouldn't have October 7th with Israel where so many people were killed. And you wouldn't have a Ukraine war going on. But, with all that being said, I think it's bigger. It's bigger than if it were more traditional.
SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS HOST: Only the second time in history?
TRUMP: Yes.
HANNITY: Somebody didn't have consecutive terms.
TRUMP: Yes. Well, they say it's historically bigger.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: You can see that interview tonight, 9:00 p.m. eastern time.
Let's bring in our panel, Katie Pavlich, news editor at Townhall.com, Annie Linskey, White House reporter for "The Wall Street Journal", and Democratic campaign consultant Kevin Walling.
OK, confirmations, this is really what is being slowed down in the process. Democrats, this is "Punch Bowl," "Thune threatens weekend votes as Democrats stall Trump cabinet picks. Tuesday's proceedings were a preview of how difficult it will be for GOP leaders to expeditiously confirm the rest of Trump's national security nominees. Democrats' delay tactics could prompt Trump to push more aggressively for recess appointments, something the president mentioned during his Tuesday meeting with Thune and Speaker Johnson."
It's a process if they want to do that. And I rolled through it earlier in the show. But it may take a long time.
KATIE PAVLICH, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Well, the Senate has a legitimate role of advise and consent. But Democrats are breaking another norm here. It is perfectly normal for nominees to move over in a decent, timely fashion. Under President Trump, Democrats decided they wanted to start playing games with delay tactics. Getting these nominees confirmed not just at the cabinet level, but at ambassador levels, undersecretary levels during the first term, and then it appears they are trying to do it again as Republicans have a 53-seat majority.
Now, for President Trump's part in this, he wants these people in place because personnel is policy. He signed a lot of executive orders this week, but in order for those things to get put into place, and for things to start getting done, you have to have people in charge of these agencies, especially when it comes to Homeland Security, the intelligence agencies, for these things to get put in place for some results to happen quickly so they can move onto the next problem.
BAIER: How did Democrats push back on this? What did they say in defense of this, Kevin?
KEVIN WALLING, DEMOCRATIC CAMPAIGN CONSULTANT: Yes, Bret, I think, as you rightly pointed out at the outset of the show, we're one for one right now in terms the timing of where Joe Biden was with his cabinet as where Donald Trump is. And you have Democrats that have raised some serious concerns about some of these nominees, and the process should play out.
You have a delay, also, too, in the Senate itself in terms of processing some of these paperwork, as you pointed out, responding to questions from senators, responding to the FBI background check. So I think Democrats are picking and choosing where they can effectively push back on some of these concerns with some of these characters like RFK, maybe Pete Hegseth, Tulsi Gabbard, and others.
BAIER: Yes, well, you have John Ratcliffe that comes out of committee at 14 to three and, yet, he's held up.
So Annie, you know covering the White House, President Trump is about moving things quickly. There is going to be a point where this collision happens, where it's February and there is only a few.
ANNIE LINSKEY, "WALL STREET JOURNAL": Yes, yes. And you know, I would also like it point out that "The Washington Post" editorial page, which is not exactly friendly to the right, came out and had thumbs up for almost all of the Trump's pick, saying, you know, presidents do get to pick their own person. And I spent a lot of time on Monday at the White House, and you are absolutely right about that energy. There is a sense of, like, go, go, go. And it was a distinct change from the last administration. So, I think you can sort of read into some of Trump's comments this week that he is trying to keep that fire under the senators, and you see Thune responding to it.
BAIER: Yes. Meantime, immigration really the biggest impact, perhaps. We're seeing a lot of arrests already, according to Tom Homan, the border czar. DOJ has been instructed to investigate state or local officials who obstruct immigration enforcement, "In the memo, the acting deputy attorney general, Trump's former defense attorney, outlines interim decisions and policy changes pending the confirmation of Trump's nominee for U.S. attorney general Pam Bondi. He said interim changes are necessary as initial response to Trump's executive orders regarding three of the most serious threats facing the American people." In other words, if you stand in the way, we may come after you.
PAVLICH: This is something that Tom Homan has been threatening for months after President Trump was elected, and Pam Bondi, the former attorney general of Florida potentially likely to get confirmed to the attorney general of the United States, has a lot of experience when it comes to this issue, when it comes to working with local law enforcement to take on violent illegal immigrant criminals inside these cities.
And when it comes to officials, you are seeing this break where you have some Democrats, like New York City Mayor Eric Adams, for example, wanting to work with the federal government to get these people out of their communities. But then you have Brandon Johnson, the mayor of Chicago, saying he is going to do everything he can to stop federal immigration authorities from coming into their local jails and their cities, and he will oppose them. And that is actually in violation of federal law, to harbor or help illegal immigrants evade arrest. So Tom Homan has said quite bluntly they are willing to charge these people who do that, including very high profile politicians.
BAIER: How far are those politicians, do you think, willing to go, Kevin? Some of the Democrats talking one way, but going to jail?
WALLING: I think some of them. Some of them are very passionate about this particular issue. Katie mentioned some of those, J.B. Pritzker, for example, the governor of Illinois, has staked out quite a bit on this issue. I think it's -- my advice to Democrats as a Democrat is to work with this president where we can. We just passed the Laken Riley Act, bipartisan in the House.
BAIER: It got 46 Democrats --
WALLING: It was 46 Democrats, similar numbers of terms of the Senate, I think 10 Democrats joined there. Where there are commonsense policies, similar to what we tried to pass in the Senate with that bipartisan immigration bill, let's do that. But you are going to see some Democrats, I think, on the left side of my party really stand up and make a name for themselves pushing back on some of these policies.
BAIER: To make a name for themselves. But they can't look at the election results and say this is what I read from that, can they?
WALLING: Certainly. The same people that elected Brandon Johnson, for example, in Chicago by a large majority, the suburbs of Illinois not so much for the Democrats. But, again, you have that play-by-play with the same constituents represented by both the president and fairly left wing Democrats.
BAIER: Annie?
LINSKEY: Yes. No, I think writ large, it would be very difficult to look at the election results and come away thinking that Democrats have the right message and the right policy on immigration that resonating with the country writ large. You did see the Biden administration move in the very end of the administration towards a more centrist position. And I think that's -- that's certainly a view that even within the White House people had been hoping the president would have gotten to that conclusion a lot sooner. And you might have had a different -- a different -- not necessarily a different result, but I think it maybe would have been closer. I think Democrats really look at that election, and immigration is one reason where they realize they need to do better.
WALLING: Amen.
BAIER: The pardon and commutations of the January 6th rioters has really gotten a lot of media attention. The president has been asked about it, I think six times over the last two days, has answered every time. But the reaction continues to come. Take a listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. JAMIE RASKIN, (D-MD) HOUSE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE: It's absolutely outrageous that the president would pardon en masse such a dangerous group of people.
REP. MIKE JOHNSON, (R-LA) HOUSE SPEAKER: Everybody can describe this however they want. The president has the pardon and commutation authority. The president has made his decision. I don't second guess those.
REP. TED LIEU, (D-CA) HOUSE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE: What the current president did in pardoning these folks who assaulted police officers was massively disrespectful to law enforcement.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: And Katie, he has explained it numerous times, saying they served three years. He believed, the president believed that those sentences were over-the-top. But he is still answering questions about it.
PAVLICH: Still answering questions about it. And I think you have to have a lot of context behind the pardoning here. You have to go back years of leading up to this moment, back to 2020, the riots then. And the Biden administration came in, dropped a lot of the charges against violent rioters who were assaulting federal agents, courthouses across the country, for example.
And then you have the way the Justice Department handled a lot of these cases where they were taking U.S. attorneys and prosecutors off of very serious child trafficking cases all over the country to go after very minor misdemeanors, trying to turn them into felonies, and really putting all the resources at DOJ on this project, not discerning crime versus crime. And so there is a lot of context to that decision, and I think that both sides are trying to get a clean slate so everyone can move forward when it comes to these pardons on this issue.
BAIER: And I don't think we are done, Annie. I think there were two pardons or commutations of D.C. police officers. Tonight, I think the pro- life group that was spending time in jail that's likely going to see that as well?
LINSKEY: Yes, the president is clearly very eager to use his clemency powers. And you saw the outgoing president using his clemency powers.
BAIER: Which is also under criticism.
LINSKEY: Which is also under criticism. I think in both cases, there is a similarity of a lack of confidence in the Department of Justice. And to me, at least, that was one common message that came from both sides of pardons.
BAIER: All right, panel, thanks so much.
WALLING: Thanks, Bret.
BAIER: And finally tonight, a special day.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
(LAUGHTER)
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: A pastor of Saint Catherine of Siena Church just outside New Orleans took advantage of the winter weather by battling three nuns in snowball fight. The pastor put up a valiant fight, but then the nuns just destroyed him, ultimately sent him running, the pastor, for cover. Good job, nuns.
Meanwhile, in the heart of the city, a former minor league hockey player Jay Croop showed off skills on frozen Canal Street which he was using as own personal hockey rink. Do you not see that in New Orleans that much. Stopped for a beignet after a while.
Tomorrow on SPECIAL REPORT, the Senate showdown over President Trump's cabinet nominees, what comes next, how long will it take?
Remember, if you can't catch us live, set your DVR, 6:00 p.m. in the east, 3:00 p.m. on the west coast. You can follow me on Instagram and X @BretBaier.
Thanks for inviting us into your home tonight. That's it for this SPECIAL REPORT, fair, balanced, and still unafraid. It is fast and furious. We've got you covered. THE INGRAHAM ANGLE is now.

Load-Date: January 23, 2025


End of Document
