




Fox News FOX HANNITY 9:00 PM EST
January 27, 2025 Monday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7525 words
Byline: Sean Hannity, Tomi Lahren, Joe Concha
Guests: Tom Homan, Ron DeSantis, Lara Trump, Ashley Byrne
Body


SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS HOST: And welcome to "Hannity" this Monday night.
We start with the FOX News alert. We are awaiting Donald Trump's -- President Trump's arrival at Joint Base Andrews. We'll take you there live as it happens.
It is now week two of the Trump administration, but it would kind of take me the entire monologue and maybe the whole show to list everything that the 47th president has accomplished over the past seven days.
Coming up, we're going to show you how Trump is cracking down on woke insanity in our Department of Defense. Plus, full highlights from Vice President J.D. Vance's schooling, you know the smug, legacy, state-run media mob, in this case, leftwing CBS host Margaret Brennan.
But, first, we turn to an issue that most Americans actually agree on, that is immigration, that is law and order at our border and border security. According to a new "Axios" poll at whopping two-thirds of you, the American people want illegal immigrants deported. Donald Trump made this a central part of his campaign and now as president, he is keeping his promise to you, the American people.
Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: So many people came across the border. Nobody has any idea. I used to say like 325, but we really don't know but we're going to know soon. We're going to know and I tell you, our -- our people are doing a -- Tom Homan and his staff are doing an incredible job getting the bad ones out.
And today in Tijuana, you probably saw they -- they I got a call from Tom Homan and some of the people they said, sir, it's unbelievable. There is nobody -- you have this huge area, it's a gathering area. It's always been packed with these people what they did to our country is so unbelievable. That they could do this to our country is so horrible, but he said there's nobody there.
You saw yesterday, we've made it clear to every country that they will be taking back our people that we're sending out the criminals, that the illegal aliens coming from their countries, we're taking them back and they're going to take them back fast and if they don't they'll pay a very high economic price and we're going to immediately install massive tariffs, it'll be placed on them and other sanctions.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Known terrorists, known cartel members, known gang members, known murderers, rapists, other violent criminals, all allowed into the country.
Now, thankfully, America's back, common sense is back as Donald Trump has now demonstrated over the past week, we can secure our borders, we can hunt down these criminals, we can send them packing back to their home countries, even if those countries don't want them.
As you know, over the weekend, Colombia turned away two repatriation flights full of their own citizens after initially agreeing to take them. President Trump, he responded immediately, he halted visa services at the U.S. embassy in Colombia, threatening a massive 25 percent tariff on Colombian imports, that would double within a week to percent, and then magically within minutes Colombia's far-left president backed down, agreeing to every one of Donald Trump's repatriation terms, even offering his own jet to assist with Donald Trump's operation.
This is not just a huge diplomatic win for the president, but a message to the rest of the world, new sheriff in town. The U.S. has a tremendous amount of leverage. This president is not afraid to use it or its power, especially in this case for the right reason.
Of course, many on the left, they are not happy. Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and others so deeply concerned about the price of coffee and flowers going up over sanctions that are actually needed.
Meanwhile, singer and actress Selena Gomez filmed herself weeping today. She was in a -- well, let's call it a performative fit of hysteria because Donald Trump is deporting violent criminal, illegal immigrants -- people that didn't obey our laws our borders and our sovereignty. Watch this and then I have a question on the other side.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SELENA GOMEZ, SINGER/ACTRESS: I just want to say that I'm so sorry, all my people are getting attacked. The children, they don't understand. I'm so sorry. I wish I could do something but I can't. I don't know what to do.
I'll try everything, I promise.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Now maybe Selena Gomez can answer some simple questions, where were the tears and the posting for the little girl, 12-year-old girl Jocelyn Nungaray, you know, raped, murdered by -- allegedly by two illegal immigrants from Venezuela? Where were the tears and where were the -- when -- why weren't you crying for Laken Riley, a 22-year-old nursing student murdered on a jogging trail by another unvetted Harris-Biden illegal immigrant from Venezuela? Where were the tears for Rachel Morin, the young mother of five raped, murdered on a hiking trail in Maryland, allegedly, again by an unvetted Harris-Biden illegal immigrant from El Salvador now charged with her death?
And where were you, Selena, you know, where were your tears for the thousands of Americans killed, raped, including children or assaulted by people that entered our country illegally, unvetted under Harris and Biden, where were those tears? Why didn't you make social media postings then?
We have been scrolling the names of victims for years on this program but apparently in her ivory tower, you know, behind her mansion walls and private security, Selena Gomez I guess never noticed, but just so we are clear, here are just a few of the many criminals Donald Trump is deporting. For example, this is a fugitive from El Salvador with connections to terrorist organizations, and this is a Haitian gang member as you can see there on your screen who has been charged and convicted 17 times in the past years, another recent ICE arrest was a Dominican man who beat his pregnant wife to death.
In Colorado, 50 Tren de Aragua gang members were rounded up at a makeshift night - nightclub. Other ICE raids busting child rapists, suspected ISIS terrorists.
Only someone truly unhinge would have a problem with these deportations and if you're going to be angry at anybody or shed tears, shed it for the family and shed it for our country because there will be more victims, I hope I'm wrong, but I'm probably right, as a result of unvetted Harris- Biden illegals.
But anyway, right on cue, if you turn over to MSDNC, well, here's Nicolle Wallace this time. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
NICOLLE WALLACE, MSNBC HOST: Families that are in hiding on this harrowing anniversary of -- Holocaust anniversary does have a really eerie echo to something that I think people thought how could that happen and that could never happen again? We are now on live TV talking about administration in live interviews with their faces showing that says proudly that schools are not off limits.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Right. I mean, Tom Homan is engaged in cosplay. He wants to be Bull Connor for our current days, is that right?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: I have bad news for the Trump haters on MSDNC, fake news CNN, all the legacy state-run media mob, you are now screaming into a void. Nobody's watching. Nobody cares what you have to say.
You have lied. You have peddled your conspiracy theories for so long, nobody believes you except maybe, you know, a few crazy left-wing lunatics that might trust you.
The American people voted for border security, a return to sanity and common sense, that's what Donald Trump and his borders czar Tom Homan are going to deliver. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
HOST: How can you possibly afford to deport all of those people?
TOM HOMAN, BORDER CZAR: Well, I leave up the Congress. You know, I think Congress, the president has a mandate. This is the number one issue, the people voted. I think Congress has a mandate to give us money we need.
How much -- what price you put on national security?
HOST: More detention centers?
HOMAN: What price you put on -- what price you put on all these young ladies have been raped and murdered and burned the alive, what price you put on that? What price you put on Laken Riley's life? What price you put on national security like I just explained?
When you have a surge like this, we don't secure that border, that's when national security threats under the country, that's when sex trafficking goes up, that's when -- you know, that's when the fentanyl comes in that killed a quarter million Americans. I don't put a price in that.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: What about the price you put on free housing, food, health care, education, sex change operations funded by taxpayers? By the way, tonight, we already seeing results.
According to our very own Bill Melugin, quote, Border Patrol recorded just 582 illegal crossings at the southern border, yesterday with not a single one of the nine sectors hitting 200. I've never seen anything this slow in all of my border coverage. A major shift, major progress after only one week and the Trump administration now is just getting started.
We're looking at Joint Base Andrews where Donald Trump is expected to get off Air Force One any moment now.
But here first with more is Trump border czar Tom Homan.
First, I guess I got to ask your reaction to Selena Gomez. I didn't see any postings of tears for all of the women and American citizens murdered, all the people that were raped, including children, all the other victims of violent crime, the American taxpayers putting out billions of dollars. I didn't see any tears on any of those issues. What was that all about?
HOMAN: Look, that was the best monologue I heard you do in years. That was your straight on -- I can't say it better myself. We got a -- we got a quarter million Americans dead from fentanyl across the open border. Where's the tears for them?
I've met with hundreds of angels moms and dads who were separated from their children because they buried them, because they're killed by illegal aliens. We got a half a million children were sex trafficked into this country, put -- separated from their families, put in the hands of criminal cartels to be smuggling in the country.
This administration can't find over 300,000. Where's the tears for them.
Excellent monologue, I agree with you 100 percent.
HANNITY: Yeah. I mean, how many children do we think are missing now? Some 350,000? How many known terrorists do we know in this country or do we even know?
How many known cartel members are in the country or do we even know, or gang members? Do you know?
HOMAN: We have no idea. We got 2.2 million known gotaways. We know -- we know because they're on video, drone traffic, and sensor traffic, 2.2 million people across the border, we don't know who they are, where they came from, or why they're here. But they paid more to get away. They didn't want to turn themselves in and get a free airline ticket to the city of their choice, a free hotel room, three meals a day, free medical care.
They paid more not to be fingerprinted. Not to be vetted that just scared the hell out of everybody. It scares the hell out of me.
HANNITY: Yeah. By the way, we're looking at joint base Andrews, Donald Trump departing on Air Force One. Sometimes, occasionally, the media is there. If he does take any questions, looks like he's going straight to Marine One or maybe walking past it, I'm not really sure. If he goes to the microphones, we will cover that live.
You know, I'm -- I'm watching you being interviewed and it's a little bit surprising to me that, you know, they're worried about the cost. Well, how much does it cost to feed and house and offer health care and education and Kamala Harris wanted to give taxpayer funded sex change operations to illegal immigrants. How much did that cost, Tom Homan?
HOMAN: We're spending multiple billion dollars every year on free hotel rooms, free plane rides, and health care, our school systems, our hospitals, our trauma centers, our social services, and that's in perpetuity for probably 20 million illegal aliens.
This operation is going to be expensive, but at the end of it, we're going to save the taxpayers billions of dollars. Plus, we're going to protect our national security.
Plus, overdose of fentanyl is going to drop. Illegal alien crime is going to drop. Sex trafficking women children is going to drop. It's worth the investment.
It's a one-time cost to secure this nation and make America safe again.
HANNITY: My biggest fear and I've asked you this question before is we do have these known terrorists and cartel members and gang members in the country. We do know they're here. We don't know where they are. We don't know where a lot of them are. It was good to see that -- that your guys were able to get the Tren de Aragua, 50 of those guys this past weekend, I believe in Colorado.
However, I've got to imagine with people from over 200 countries, those known terrorists are they -- wouldn't -- is it safe to assume they're plotting they're planning and scheming an attack on our homeland?
HOMAN: Absolutely. Now, we already call eight from Tajikistan planning a terrorist attack. Luckily, the intelligence community caught them on a chatter, but intelligence community is not perfect. They missed Afghanistan, they missed 9/11, they're not perfect. So I agree with Christopher Wray, even though I have no respect in Christopher Wray, me and him agree on one thing, what they've done on southern borders the biggest national security vulnerabilities this nation ever seen. We see more red flags than ever before, something's coming.
And I hope President Trump's in the Oval Office when something does come because he'll take control of it.
HANNITY: I've been saying it's a matter of when not if, and I pray to God that I'm wrong.
What do you know about the Border Patrol agents exchanging gunfire with Mexico drug cartels from earlier?
HOMAN: They're taking -- they've taken gunfire, and it's going to get worse, Sean, because President Trump's going to seal that border. He's going put the cartels out of business. He declared them a terrorist organization.
We got the whole of government is going to dismantle these people and wipe them off the face of the earth. They're not going to go -- they're not going to go lightly. We we're taking them out the trafficking business. We're taking them on the smuggling business, we're taking them out the dope business. There's going to be more violence on the southwest border. That's why Trump committed to calling the terrorist organization he has. That's why the entire United States government is going to take care of those people and abolish them.
We're going to attack them not just in Mexico but in the 42 countries that Jalisco Cartel currently are residing in. The Trump administration is going to take them on just like he did the caliphate and we're going to destroy them.
HANNITY: All right. Tom Homan, great job, first week on the job, terrific. We really appreciate your time and putting up with the crazy media. And if you want to get your message out to the American people directly, it's clear they support the president's policies. Thank you.
All right. Here with more is Florida Governor Ron DeSantis, my governor here in the free state of Florida.
Governor, I -- I looked at what you put forward and your proposal to help the president with law enforcement complaints, criminal penalties for illegal entry, state immigration enforcement officer, unauthorized alien transport program, gang enforcement program, educational and voting reforms, am I reading this right? In -- in my state of Florida where you're my governor that you have to fight a Republican legislator to pass those common sense measures?
GOV. RON DESANTIS (R), FLORIDA: Can you imagine? I mean, I got reelected by a record margin running strong on immigration. Donald Trump won a historic landslide, a big win in Florida, running on the strongest immigration platform in the history of the United States. All these legislators ran bashing Biden for four years. So, now, we have a chance, the president gets sworn into office, he's doing what he said he's going to do. He's issuing these executive orders.
So we have a special session of the legislature to say Florida's going to be in this fight. We can be a force multiplier.
And here's the thing, Sean, the -- Homan and these guys are doing great. They don't have enough resources when you talk about all the people that have come in. You got to have local and state supplementing the federal government. We're the ones that are interacting with illegals, you know, traffic stops. If you have gang members at some apartment complex local, cops should get them and then alert ICE.
We've got to work together. So that's what we're trying to do, but you know, there's swampy politics everywhere, and so some of the legislative leaders, they foisted a different bill on the -- on the legislature today that guts all of the things you just said. It guts that and actually takes power away from me as governor and gives it to the commissioner of agriculture which agriculture is not exactly known for immigration enforcement because right now, I'm -- yeah, it's ridiculous and it's unconstitutional.
I've got highway patrol working with Trump's administration now. I've got National Guard. I am totally happy to do all I can. This actually takes the power away that I'm currently exercising now.
So we've got to be strong. We got to be strong as possible. We've got to get this right once and for all. This is a historic moment.
HANNITY: Do you agree with me -- and I've been saying it for a long time now and I've spent a lot of time on this program scrolling the names of people, names most Americans never heard of, people that were murdered, people that were raped, including known children -- young children. We have known terrorists in the country, cartel members in the country, we have gang members in the country.
That means they're also in the state of Florida. As I asked Tom Homan, I have to imagine and assume that a known terrorist is plotting an attack on the homeland. I would imagine that our state of Florida is a target. Donald Trump spends a lot of time down here. Am I wrong?
DESANTIS: Look, Sean, I don't have any specific intelligence but you cannot possibly have four years of a wide-open border and not have those types of people seek refuge in this country and then plot. So, absolutely, I think that there are terror cells throughout the country. I know that there are cartel cells. Donald Trump did the absolute right thing by designating the cartels to be foreign terrorist organizations and I think you're going to see some conflict there which -- which is probably a long time coming, but all of these things I think just underscore the urgency of what the Trump administration is trying to do we've got to get these people out of our country, the state of Florida wants to be there, we want to work hand in hand at the city level, at the county level and at the state level to help get the job done.
HANNITY: Now Donald Trump back to your call for a special session. He said thank you, Ron, hopefully, other governors will follow. What powers do you have as the governor in the free state of Florida to bypass a legislature that that clearly does not understand how important this is, that this is the biggest n national security threat we're currently facing?
DESANTIS: Well, I can do some of the things I'm doing. Florida State Guard, National Guard, I have highway patrol, Florida Department of Law Enforcement, and we're already integrated. We're working with the Trump administration. Biden's people didn't want to work with us at all. So that's been a breath of fresh air, but that's just scratching the surface. What we need to do is we need the strong enforcement legislation to say we all have duties at every level of government in Florida to cooperate and to work constructively with the Trump administration.
Now, we don't have sanctuary cities. We ban those under my governorship. We're not a sanctuary state, but there's a difference between not sabotaging and actively assisting and we can be the force multiplier. So I'm going to do whatever I can do. I'm already doing that.
You know, Sean, I was the first governor to send people to the border to help Texas back in 2021. We started the transport program which ended up -- the Martha's Vineyard mission was the most famous one of those. So we have been in this fight for a long time but I'll tell you what Donald Trump's allowing to do, he's willing to deputize our state and local officials to exercise immigration authority. So if people show up on the shores of Jupiter from Haiti illegally, I can have local and state people just send them back to Haiti immediately. We would never have been allowed to do that under Biden.
So the president's trying to empower us and we need to take him up on that.
HANNITY: It was -- what you and Governor Abbott did was the greatest political jiu-jitsu move ever I think in the history of politics. That was great. The Martha's Vineyard one does stand out as a particularly good moment. They wanted -- they didn't even stay at Martha's Vineyard for a complete 24-hour period and we checked and there was enough room for all of them.
Oh, yeah, well, send them everywhere but don't send them in my backyard.
Anyway, Governor, appreciate you being with us.
All right. When we come back, Donald Trump is moving at a lightning speed, enacting more huge changes just today. We'll tell you what he did. We'll get reaction.
Lara Trump, as we continue, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: It is a simple phrase that you probably remember from Donald Trump's first term, promises made, promises kept. And after the most productive first week of any president in living memory, it is a phrase that is back again. Once again, Trump has taken a flurry of executive actions, nearly 400 at this point, to reclaim control of the government, get this country back on track.
Let's review. He's now refocusing the military on readiness, building the next generation of weaponry by getting rid of fake pronouns and banning DEI and ending the focus on gender identity and from now on. It's all about whether you can do the job. If you can do the job, you're hired.
Trump is also reinstating all troops who had discharge for refusing to get the COVID vaccine with full restoration of rank and full back pay. Good for them. They deserve it.
In keeping with Donald Trump's promise of transparency, his CIA director just released a Biden error report assessing that yes, in fact, COVID did leak out of that lab in Wuhan. Oh, gee, shocker. By the way, did Anthony Fauci and the NIH did -- they spend your tax dollars through -- spending it through the Eco Health Alliance, knowing that gain of function research happened at that Wuhan virology lab or not? What did Fauci know and when did he know it.
And Trump is standing firmly behind our ally Israel. He is sending them a shipment of bombs that Joe Biden was withholding. You know, the big bunker buster bombs that could be used to take out Iranian nuclear sites. I think that's a pretty strong message to the number one state sponsor of terror.
He's also removing trans women, also known as biological men, from women's federal prisons. He's ending gender reassignment surgery in federal prisons. Again, promises made, promises kept.
Here with reaction, RNC co-chair Lara Trump.
All that hard work is paying off. This is transformational, Lara Trump.
LARA TRUMP, RNC CO-CHAIR: Yeah. Welcome to Donald Trump 2.0. You know, he had four years, Sean, really off of the job and he studied and he made plans and he's executing those plans right now before our eyes. You remember the runway he kind of gave himself into January 20th, talking with world leaders, meeting with all the heads of industries, making sure things were set up properly because he didn't want to waste a second.
He has four years to execute the job the American people sent him to Washington, D.C. to do and, man, is he doing it. I'll tell you, I had incredibly high expectations as to what the first week of the second Trump administration would look like. It's exceeded my expectations. I almost can't believe the things that I have seen happen, but this is the guy -- this is the job he does. He studies things until he masters them and then he does a job.
And I'll tell you, some of it has been very personal for me to watch, to see the first trip that President Trump and our first lady took was to North Carolina, my home state, Sean, a state that in the western part of North Carolina. People just felt like they were forgotten about.
Don't forget, Hurricane Helene decimated the western part of North Carolina. He showed up there to say, guess what? You're not forgotten. I have you. I'm going to take care of it. We're going to make sure you get what you need.
Then he flew out to California, a solid blue state. He went to L.A. specifically where he only won 31 percent of the vote. This wasn't a political trip. This was a trip to show that Donald Trump isn't here just to be a president for Republicans or for people who voted for him. He's here to be the president for every American. He's bringing hope. He's actually bringing solutions, and he's bringing common sense back with some of the things you just talked about like making sure we reinstate our military personnel who were unjustly fired for not wanting to take a mandatory vaccine, giving them back pay, making sure that this country is set on the right track.
I am so impressed and it's only week one. I can't wait.
HANNITY: You know, and think of all the time he gave the media last week, including time with me and him in the Oval Office, which I was very grateful for. He's willing to answer any question from anybody pretty much at any time whenever he has time. I -- he -- I haven't done the math yet, he's probably has answered more questions in a week than Joe Biden has answered in the last two years.
So, he's communicating with the American people, but there's not one trip he's taking that's political because he's never running again. So when he went to North Carolina --
L. TRUMP: Right.
HANNITY: -- it's because the people in North Carolina were abandoned. He didn't have to go to California meet Gavin Newsom and sit in a meeting with L.A. Mayor Bass and tell her how to do her job and he did it fairly politely, but he offered the people of California help. But they got to make -- they got to make changes.
Then he went to Vegas and reiterated -- no tax on tips, no taxes on Social Security, or overtime. Pretty transformational. Why didn't can you think Joe Biden can keep that pace up?
L. TRUMP: Oh, my gosh, you're right to say that. I don't think we saw Joe Biden in front of the media as much as we have Donald Trump in his first week in office, throughout Joe Biden's four years in office. It is really remarkable.
But this is the transparency. This is the piece of it that the American people were desperate to have, transparency with their president, transparency by way of releasing the assassination files on JFK, on RFK, on Martin Luther King. These are things that so many before him said, oh, maybe we'll think of that. Donald Trump is doing it. Promises made, promises kept, Sean.
This is the Donald Trump the American people hoped would show up on January 20th and I actually think as I just said, it's even better. There's so much more to come. Again, he's got four years to do it and he doesn't want to waste a single second.
Look at the people he's surrounding himself with in this administration. I'm happy to see we have Pete Hegseth confirmed. I'm happy to see we have Kristi Noem confirmed. What a job Tom Homan is doing and there's so much more to come.
Let's get these people confirmed. Let's get things moving and let's get this country back on track.
HANNITY: People have to remember. This was Joe Biden. He -- when he do his four question press conferences and predetermined question. Lara Trump, RNC --
L. TRUMP: They tell me I'm supposed to call on this person, yeah.
(LAUGHTER)
HANNITY: They -- exactly, they told me I'm supposed to call that one. Oh, man, oh, memories.
L. TRUMP: Bless his heart, that's what we say in North Carolina.
HANNITY: Bless his heart and our long national nightmare is over. I won't say -- I'm not allowed to say on TV how they said it in New York where I grew up.
All right. Lara, thank you. Appreciate it.
When we come back, J.D. Vance literally schooling a CBS anchor over illegal immigration this weekend. We'll show you the highlights of that tape and we've got reaction from Joe Concha, Tomi Lahren.
Oh, and a "Hannity" shootout tonight. The PETA lady is back. People felt I didn't give her enough time. We ran out of time. It wasn't my fault. I can't extend the program. Greg Gutfeld will get mad and everything, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. Well, the state-run mainstream media mob, the legacy media ever wake up after spending less than four minutes covering Joe Biden's last minute pardons, including those of his own family syndicate. ABC, CBS, NBC, they spent more than 45 minutes talking about Donald Trump's pardons of the January 6 participants. Clear -- clearly, they learned nothing from this election.
Now, aside from his own family, Biden also granted clemency to thousands of convicted federal drug-related crimes, including one man convicted of the murder of an 8-year-old boy and his mother, you know, murdered by a drug gang.
And Anthony Fauci, of course, was pardoned and the January 6 Committee was pardoned, they did all of Joe's bidding, didn't they? They gave a false narrative and then they got rid of all the evidence.
Meanwhile over at CBS, they aired Margaret Brennan and her interview with the VP, J.D. Vance. And the vice president had some very harsh words for the U.S. Catholic bishops condemning ICE entering churches and schools. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
J.D. VANCE, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We are going to enforce immigration law. We're going to protect the American people. Donald Trump promised to do that and I believe the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops if they're worried about the humanitarian costs of immigration enforcement, let them talk about the children who have been sex trafficked because of the wide open border of Joe Biden.
Let's talk about people like Laken Riley who were brutally murdered.
MARGARET BRENNAN, CBS HOST: So, you personally support them going into schools and churches?
VANCE: I support us doing law enforcement against violent criminals whether they're illegal immigrants or anybody else.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: The young children murdered, the young children raped, the young children victims of violent crime, the fentanyl that's killing our kids. Now, that was far from the only topic that they discussed as they clashed over another of issues with the vice president. Coming out on top in every exchange while frankly embarrassing the liberal anchor.
Take a look at some of the highlights. It's pretty entertaining.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BRENNAN: It was a tie, bipartisan opposition, smallest margin since the job was created, you had to break that tie.
If the nominee can't unite your party, how is he going to lead three million people?
VANCE: Well, look, I think Pete is a disruptor and a lot of people don't like that disruption but, Margaret, that disruption is incredibly necessary.
BRENNAN: Does any of this give you pause putting her in charge of the U.S. intelligence community, yes or no?
VANCE: No, Margaret, look, these are publications that attacked Donald J. Trump obsessively, but those publications don't determine who the president is, the American people do, and Donald J. Trump is the person who determines who his cabinet is, not these publications that I think frankly have lost relevance.
BRENNAN: This is a country founded by immigrants.
VANCE: Well this is a country founded by --
BRENNAN: This is a unique country.
VANCE: This is a very unique country and it was founded by some immigrants and some settlers but just because we were founded by immigrants doesn't mean that 240 years later, that we have to have the dumbest immigration policy in the world.
BRENNAN: These people are vetted.
VANCE: Just like the guy who planned a terrorist attack in Oklahoma a few months ago? He was allegedly properly vetted and many people in the media and the Democratic Party said that he was properly vetted. Clearly, he wasn't. I don't want my children to share a neighborhood with people who are not properly vetted and because I don't want it for my kids, I'm not going to force any other American citizens' kids to do that either.
BRENNAN: No, and that was a very particular case. It wasn't clear if he was radicalized when he got here or while he was living here.
VANCE: I don't really care, Margaret. I don't want that person in my country and I think most Americans agree with me.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: All right. Here with reaction, FOX News contributor Joe Concha, the host of "Tomi Lahren is Fearless" on Outkick, and the new FOX Nation weekly special "A Hundred Days with Tomi Lahren".
Welcome both of you.
Tomi, we start with you. You know, for nine years, I look at the media. They threw everything they had at this guy and the American people heard it., They rejected it and they lost. They peddled every lie, they peddled every conspiracy theory, and they lost.
And now,, it's -- see -- now they -- now they've lost their audiences and now they just doubled down on all that they know, hating Trump 24/7, doubling down on stupid which I'm actually fine with because that that increases the odds that my ratings go up.
TOMI LAHREN, OUTKICK HOST: Well, listen, Sean, there's something that the young Gen Z folks say. They say get out and touch grass and that's exactly what some of these legacy media so-called anchors need to do. They need to get out. They need to interact with everyday Americans, maybe come to Tennessee, maybe go to Florida, maybe go somewhere in the Midwest, and actually talk to Americans out there that voted for Donald Trump and are quite pleased with what he's doing.
The approval rating which CNN had to admit to themselves is higher than it's ever been, and that's actually unheard of for a president in his second term and albeit in the second week of his presidency.
So I think also when we're talking about those clips of face the nation, I do hope the American people were tuning into to that segment even if they're not watching that network on a regular basis because what Vice President J.D. Vance did is really school that network and the viewers they have left on the rule of law.
And when she's saying, oh, we don't know if this person was radicalized before they came to our country illegally or after the fact, that reminds me of on ABC News when Martha Raddatz prior to the election said, only a couple of apartment complexes are being taken over by violent criminal alien gangs. It's quite obvious that they don't interact with average everyday Americans, but perhaps they should. It might do them good.
HANNITY: Nine years, they through every lie, every conspiracy theory. They never reported on any of his failures. They lose, Joe Concha, and then they double down on dumb and stupid. Okay, I'm fine with it.
JOE CONCHA, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Yeah, and look at what we've seen over the past seven days, Sean, during the president's first week, I mean, it's been one craptastic narrative after the other. I definitely picked the wrong week to stop sniffing glue.
I mean, first, there were the salute truthers when it came to Elon Musk and that alleged Nazi salute that even the ADL says was no such thing. I mean, Musk only visited Auschwitz last year and denounced antisemitism without ambiguity, but that never made its way into the reporting for some reason.
I guess when you're on the wrong side of every issue and you can't talk policy, these kinds of Hail Marys are all Democrats and are allies in the media have. And then there was a few anchors on cable and broadcast news demanding to know why, including Margaret Brennan, why Trump hasn't lowered the cost of groceries and eggs yet. I mean, after all, it has been a whole days since the inauguration and yet the expectation is that four years of rapid inflation can be fixed with an executive order in one week -- go ahead, I'm sorry.
HANNITY: Hey, no, no, Joe, I want people to know what you're talking about, that literally -- well, you promised on day one, the prices would be down, and I'm like, what are you talking -- these people are so dumb. I'm like, all right, let's get our economic policies in place, yes. Let's get energy prices down, let's produce more and that's their argument at this point?
Donald Trump didn't the price of eggs -- well, we've got you know, the chicken flu, avian flu going on, whatever that is.
CONCHA: Yeah, that's right. It begs the question, Sean -- yeah, that's right, it begs the question. Do stupid people ever hit a point in life when they realize that they're actually stupid?
And finally, speaking of stupid, there was coffee gate that the panic and fearmongering over Trump threatening the country of Colombia with heavy tariffs and then liberals losing their collective minds over their Starbucks being more expensive. Well, after about five minutes of resistance, Colombia's president as we know completely capitulated the threat worked, and the media threw a pie in its own face again. I mean, there's more examples here, Sean, but we only got finite time as you know.
HANNITY: Let me, last word, Tomi, when Donald Trump says tariff, let me interpret this for the media that clearly does not want to understand him, that is the first lobby in the beginning of a negotiation. Am I right or wrong?
CONCHA: Right.
LAHREN: You're exactly right, and it's incredibly effective which is what Joe just discussed. I think it was a couple of hours before we saw a complete reversal. Colombia wanted to be the big dog in the park and then they realized that they weren't, Donald Trump quickly reminded them, probably while he was golfing by the way which is also iconic. They're not doing the Democrat Party any favors, the legacy media, because the Democrat, elected officials and politicians are watching this and they're thinking that they have a chance and they simply don't. Go out and talk to real Americans.
HANNITY: It's actually getting entertaining to be honest, to watch them lose their minds and go right back, revert to form, and go right back to Nazi, Hitler, Stalin, Mussolini, racist. I mean, it's like a broken record, put it on a loop.
All right. Thank you both.
When we come back, all right, first, PETA was coming for college football mascots. Now, they want to put an end to another beloved animal tradition. We'll explain, and they want to put me on a plant-based diet. Let's see if they can convince me, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. The American tradition of Groundhog Day is just around the corner and PETA is pushing to make a major change to the beloved holiday. In a news release last week, the animal rights organization -- organization suggesting that Punxsutawney Phil, that's the groundhog who predicts weather, there will be -- whether it's going to be a long winter or early spring and the star of the show, be replaced by a, quote, weather reveal cake, similar to a popular gender reveal cake trend.
PETA cited that groundhogs are shy animals who actively avoid humans and criticize the exploited use of Punxsutawney Phil as a, quote, a town's once a year fake meteorologist.
Here with more, PETA spokesperson Ashley Byrne.
By the way, last time you were on, we -- we went long in the previous segment. I did not cut you off early as some in the press had said. We're glad to have you back.
(CROSSTALK)
HANNITY: I have a question before we get started -- before we get started, do you support any limitations on abortion?
ASHLEY BYRNE, PETA COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR: You know, PETA doesn't take a stance on abortion any more than Operation Rescue takes a stance on veganism.
HANNITY: Well, wait a minute, but you care about, you know, ethical treatment of animals, do you support any restrictions on late term abortion? This was -- this would be months seven, eight and nine, when a child is viable outside a mother's womb on its own. Do you support -- do you support that practice?
BYRNE: We represent people -- we represent people on both sides of that issue. We are not a political organization. We're nonpartisan.
HANNITY: I didn't ask you. You care so much about animals. I'm wondering you care about human animals?
BYRNE: Of course, we care about humans and we represent humans on both sides of the abortion issue.
HANNITY: So a viable child you don't care that could live outside a mother's womb, you don't care about that person?
BYRNE: You know, Planned Parenthood, Operation Rescue, no one asks them what their stance on animal rights is.
HANNITY: You don't have the courage to say that a viable child inside a mother's womb that could live outside the womb is a life that should be protected but you're worried about a groundhog. That doesn't make sense.
I have another question.
BYRNE: Sure.
HANNITY: So okay my understanding is that you communicate to my staff that you want me to be on a plant-based diet. Is that true?
BYRNE: We would love to send you a plant-based meal so that you could see how delicious vegan be.
HANNITY: What's going to be in it?
BYRNE: You know, I'm not sure.
HANNITY: Juicy steak.
BYRNE: You know, there is actually there is delicious juicy vegan keto steak that we could send you. It's fabulous.
HANNITY: A what steak?
BYRNE: It's a -- it's a vegan steak. You know, Sean, I used to love steak.
HANNITY: A vegan steak. I'm sure it's great.
BYRNE: I used -- I used to love rare bloody steak and the vegan steak now are fantastic.
HANNITY: It's delicious.
BYRNE: It really is.
HANNITY: So, let me ask you a question. i have a serious question.
BYRNE: Uh-hmm.
HANNITY: Is a plant a living -- is -- are plants living?
BYRNE: Of course.
HANNITY: Okay. So you want to send me a murdered plant?
BYRNE: Well, you know, every time you eat an animal, you eat the product of far more murdered plants. You need to feed an animal a lot of plants to get a tiny bit of meat. I love that you care so much about plants rights, but --
HANNITY: Well, I mean --
BYRNE: That's -- it's just basic math.
HANNITY: Listen, one of the reasons they couldn't get California water and this is not a joke is because of a plant they were protecting, that is endangered.
All right. Let's go to the groundhog --
BYRNE: Well, the other reason is the dairy industry which sucks up so much of their water.
HANNITY: All right. Well, I'll tell you what? I'll try your plant-based diet if you eat a medium rare steak that I send you.
BYRNE: You know, Sean, I ate many medium rare steaks in the past. I'm very happy with my vegan steak now, and like I said, we'd love to send you one.
HANNITY: I'll give you one more.
BYRNE: I would never do that because I know that cows picking and screaming to their deaths.
(CROSSTALK)
HANNITY: I eat the steak. --I mean, I'll eat the plant-based steak garbage whatever you're going to send me and you eat my steak.
BYRNE: Sean, a cow goes kicking and screaming to her death to make that steak. I don't want anything to do with that.
HANNITY: You don't want anything to do -- well, how do you know plants don't feel pain?
BYRNE: You know, again, first of all, plants don't have a central nervous system. They don't scream when you cut them. And again you have to feed a lot of plants to an animal to get a very small amount of meat. So if you're concerned about hurt -- if you're concerned about hurting plants, you still want to go vegan..
HANNITY: No, not really I think god gave us dominion over the animals and I believe they were put on this earth for our use, and that's my belief.
All right. Last question --
(CROSSTALK)
BYRNE: Sean, I've been -- I've been -- I've been reading the bible my entire life and don't you think that dominion implies some responsibility as opposed to the way we desecrate God's creation in slaughter houses and on factory farms, living in their own waste --
HANNITY: When Jesus told the apostles to drop the nets and the nets get filled with fish --
BYRNE: Confined so they can't turn around.
HANNITY: -- are you saying Jesus murdered the fish?
BYRNE: I think that Jesus would look at a -- at an animal who can't turn around in a gestation crate and would not be okay with it. It goes against all --
HANNITY: He fed the crowds --
BYRNE: Yes, but --
HANNITY: -- fish and loaves.
BYRNE: But a pig farm is a desecration of God's creation.
HANNITY: I'm out of -- all right, your interpretation of the bible.
More "Hannity" straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. That's all the time we have left this evening. As always, thank you for being with us. Thank you for making the show possible. Please set your DVR so you never, ever, ever, ever miss an episode of "Hannity".
I've got some good news. In the meantime, let not your heart be troubled, Greg Gutfeld is standing by to put a smile on your face. Have a great night.

Load-Date: January 28, 2025


End of Document
