




thetimes.co.uk
January 30, 2025 Thursday 12:01 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 8972 words
Byline: Joshua Thurston | Laurence Sleator | Tom Parfitt | Charles Bremner | Charlotte McDonald-Gibson, Washington
Highlight: President condemns predecessors in press conference while preliminary report finds that air traffic control was understaffed
Body


An American Airlines passenger jet and a Black Hawk helicopter collided in midair on Wednesday night as the plane approached Reagan national airport, where one air traffic control tower was understaffed.
President Trump   under previous presidents were a factor in the Washington air collision. Democrats, meanwhile, attempted to shift the blame on Trump, criticising the early actions he has taken in his new administration.

A mother of two who was killed in the air disaster will leave a “void that can never be filled”, her friends said.
Wendy Jo Shaffer was one of 60 passengers on board American Airlines flight 5342 who died when the plane collided with a military helicopter on its approach to Reagan national airport on Wednesday night. She is survived by her husband Nathan, and two sons aged three and one.
“Her love, kindness, and unwavering spirit touched everyone who knew her, and her absence leaves a void that can never be filled,” friends wrote on a GoFundme page to raise money for the family.
The fourth crew member of the American Airlines regional jet to have died in Wednesday’s midair collision has been identified by her family.
Danasia Elder, was a flight attendant on the flight from Wichita to Washington DC. She is survived by her husband and two children, Kayden and Dallas.
Her brother-in-law, Brandon Payne, told local news network WSOC-TV that she was “full of life”.
“She was a great wife, a great parent, a great friend,” he said. “She was very bright, very smart. She was an entrepreneur.”
Asked whether race or gender had played a role in the crash that has claimed dozens of lives, Donald Trump said that it “may have”.
“Incompetence might have played a role. We’ll let you know that,” Trump told reporters in the Oval Office.
“But we want the most competent people. We don’t care what race they are. We want the most competent people, especially in those positions,” he added.
“You’re talking about extremely complex things, and if they don’t have a great brain, a great power of the brain, they’re not going to be very good at what they do and bad things will happen.”
Donald Trump said he would not reconsider an offer to give voluntary redundancies to government employees after the midair collision in Washington DC that claimed 67 lives.
A preliminary report by the Federal Aviation Authority found that a single air traffic controller was tasked with overseeing landings, departures and communications with other aircraft at Reagan National Airport at the time of the crash.
Speaking from the Oval Office, where he signed a memorandum on aviation safety, the president said a February 6 deadline for workers to decide whether to take the buyout still stood.
He said employees who accepted the offer of up to eight months pay would be replaced by “very competent people”.
Asked about staff shortages at the airport tower, Trump responded: “Well, that’s part of competence right there.”
“They shouldn’t have that happen. Right there is what I’m talking about. Competence would be, you’re not going to have a shortage. But if you had the right people, you wouldn’t need as many people, either,” he said.
A failure by pilots to perform the time-honoured method of “seeing and avoiding” other aircraft appears to lie behind the Washington crash, air traffic and data recordings show. However, they may have identified the wrong approaching airliner, according to initial speculation among pilots.

Brielle Beyer, 12, was killed in Wednesday’s crash alongside her mother, Justyna Magdalena Beyer, family have confirmed.
Brielle, from a Virginia suburb just outside of Washington DC, is the youngest victim to have been identified so far.
Justyna Beyer’s sister, Mariola Witkowska, told NBC News that skating had been Brielle’s “whole life”.
“We’re heartbroken. We’re just in shock,” said Witkowska.
President Trump signed a new memorandum to unwind diversity and inclusion initiatives in the aviation industry during a news briefing in the Oval Office.
Without providing any evidence, Trump repeated the claim that federal DEI programmes had contributed to the midair collision over Washington DC on Wednesday night.
He added that policies of previous Democratic administrations to promote diversity and inclusion were “disgraceful”.
The new memorandum would ensure that “very strong people” were in charge of aviation agencies, he said.
Asked about President Trump’s claim that diversity, inclusion and equity had played a role in the crash, Jennifer Homendy, the chair of the National Transportation Safety Board, said investigators would carefully examine whether human factors were to blame.
“As part of any investigation, we look at the human, the machine and the environment,” Homendy said. “So we will look at all the humans that were involved in this accident.”
Homendy added that investigators were yet to recover flight data recorders from the passenger jet and military helicopter involved in the crash.
“We know they’re there. They are underwater,” she said during a news briefing.
Ben Clatworthy, transport correspondent at The Times, reconstructs the collision in maps, videos and graphics.

Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, the Democratic congresswoman, has responded to President Trump’s claims that diversity, equity, and inclusion initiatives were to blame for the midair crash that claimed 67 lives.
In a post on X, Ocasio-Cortez said that air traffic controllers were among the millions of government employees who were offered voluntary redundancy with up to eight months’ pay by the Trump administration’s cost-cutting Department of Government Efficiency, led by Elon Musk.
Ocasio-Cortez, who represents New York’s 14th Congressional district, added that Trump had “gutted” the Aviation Security Advisory Committee as part of his efforts to trim wasteful spending.
“Air traffic controllers — already understaffed — got Trump’s ‘buyout’ this week with a 1 week ultimatum to decide,” she wrote.
“It’s not DEI — it’s him. And Elon too.”
The head of the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) said investigators would “leave no stone unturned” to determine what caused Wednesday’s midair collision between a military helicopter and a passenger jet.
Speaking at a press conference at Reagan National Airport, Jennifer Homendy, the chairman of the NTSB, said 50 staff members were at the scene of the crash.
“We are all here because this is an all-hands-on-deck event,” said Homendy.
She added that the NTSB had already gathered a lot of information, but would not be speculating on the cause of the crash. She said they would release a preliminary report on its findings within 30 days.
“Our mission is to understand not just what happened but why it happened, and to recommend changes to prevent it from happening again,” she said.
The Black Hawk crew chief who died in the Washington DC crash has been identified as Ryan O’Hara.
O’Hara, 29, originally from Gwinnett County, Georgia, is survived by his wife and one-year-old son.
His death was confirmed by the Parkview High School Marine Corps Junior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps, where he served as a cadet before graduating in 2014.
Three Black Hawk crew members from the 12th Aviation Battalion based at Fort Balfour in Virginia were on a nighttime training mission when their helicopter collided with an American Airlines jet carrying 60 passengers and four crew.
In a Facebook post, the high school’s Marine training corps organisation said O’Hara would be fondly remembered as a hardworking, dedicated individual who was a vital member of the Marine reserve’s rifle team.
Two further victims of Wednesday’s midair crash have been identified.
Ian Epstein, a father of two from Charlotte, North Carolina, was working as a flight attendant on American Airlines Flight 5342 when it collided with a military helicopter over Washington DC’s Potomac River.
His wife, Debi Epstein, confirmed his death in a Facebook post.
Asra Hussain Raza, 26, was among the 60 passengers onboard the flight from Wichita to Washington DC, who died.
She was returning to DC from a work trip to Kansas when the crash occurred.
Her husband, Hamza Raza, told the WUSA9 news station that he had received a text from her onboard the flight to say she would be landing in 20 minutes.
“The rest of my texts didn’t get delivered and that’s when I realised that something might be up,” he said from the airport.
A satellite image shows an overview of the Ronald Reagan National Airport and crash recovery operations in progress in the Potomac River, after a Black Hawk helicopter struck an American Airlines passenger jet, in Washington.
The US army pilots who were onboard a Black Hawk helicopter that collided with an American Airlines plane during a training exercise had experience flying at night in Washington’s congested airspace, a senior official said.
Jonathan Koziol, chief of staff for army aviation, told the Associated Press that the pilot-in-command had logged about 1,000 flight hours, and a pilot who was being evaluated had about 500 hours flight experience.
“Both pilots had flown this specific route before, at night. This wasn’t something new to either one of them,” Koziol said.
“Even the crew chief in the back has been in the unit for a very long time, very familiar with the area, very familiar with the routing structure.”
Pete Hegseth, the defence secretary, and President Trump both cited the helicopter’s flying altitude as being a possible cause for the crash.
Koziol said further investigations were required.
A preliminary investigation by the Federal Aviation Authority has determined that the air traffic control at Ronald Reagan National Airport was understaffed at the time of Wednesday’s midair crash.
An internal report, obtained by The New York Times, found that a single air traffic controller was handling landings, departures and communications with helicopters in the vicinity of the airport. 
Such a workload would usually be covered by two air traffic controllers who could relay vital flight information between aircraft, the report determined.
Air traffic facilities, including the one at the Washington airport, have suffered from chronic staff shortages for some time.
A report to Congress last year found that the airport had just 19 certified controllers in 2023, while the FAA’s target was 30.
Nancy Kerrigan, the former Olympic figure skater, said that the tightknit skating community had been deeply affected by Wednesday night’s crash.
At least six people affiliated with the Skaters of Boston club, of which Kerrigan is a member, died when an American Airlines jet collided with a Black Hawk military helicopter. 
Kerrigan said she had watched coverage of the plane crash on Wednesday night, and only learnt on Thursday morning that members of her club were among the victims.
“Every rink that has skating has some feeling towards this. It’s tragic,” she said through tears at a press conference at the club in Boston on Thursday.
“We’ve been through tragedies before as Americans, as people, and we are strong. And I guess it’s how we respond to it, and my response was to be with people I care about and love.”
Pope Francis sent a personal telegram to President Trump expressing his “deepest sympathies” over the crash that killed 67 people over Washington DC on Thursday.
“In commending the souls of the deceased to the loving mercy of almighty God, I offer my deepest sympathies to the families who are now mourning the loss of a loved one,” the Pope wrote.
“I likewise pray for those involved in the recovery efforts and invoke upon all in the nation the divine blessings of consolation and strength.”
In a break with tradition, the telegram was personally signed by Pope Francis. Typically condolence notes from the Vatican are signed by the secretary of state.
The pilots who died in Wednesday’s midair collision have been identified as Jonathan Campos, the captain, and his first officer Samuel Lilley.
Lilley, 29, had recently become engaged to his fiancée and was due to be promoted to captain, his father, Timothy Lilley, told Mailonline.
“I was so proud when Sam became a pilot. Now it hurts so bad I can’t even cry myself to sleep,” he wrote in a Facebook post. “I know I’ll see him again but my heart is breaking.”
Campos, 34, attended the Epic Flight Academy in Florida where he completed certified flight instructor and pilot training courses in 2017 and 2018.
He had been flying with PSA Airlines, a wholly owned subsidiary of American Airlines, for nearly six years.
Pete Buttigieg, the former transportation secretary, has labelled President Trump’s comments blaming diversity initiatives for Wednesday’s midair crash as “despicable”.
Trump claimed at a press conference on Thursday that DEI hiring policies at the Federal Aviation Administration were in part to blame for the collision.
“As families grieve, Trump should be leading, not lying,” Buttigieg, who ran in the 2020 Democratic presidential primary, wrote on X.
“We put safety first, drove down close calls, grew Air Traffic Control, and had zero commercial airline crash fatalities out of millions of flights on our watch.”
Buttigieg said that one of the president’s first acts in office was to fire some key personnel “who helped keep our skies safe”.
“Time for the president to show actual leadership and explain what he will do to prevent this from happening again.”
A school district in Virginia is in mourning after several former students were killed in Wednesday night’s midair collision between a passenger aircraft and a military helicopter.
Aaron Spence, the superintendent of Loudoun County public schools, said that their “hearts were heavy” as they processed the loss.
“This unimaginable loss has deeply affected our community, and with great sorrow we have learnt that multiple victims were former LCPS students,” Spence said in a statement.
“Many other Loudoun families have also been impacted, and we extend our deepest condolences to all those grieving in the wake of this tragedy.”
Located to the northwest of Washington, Loudoun County is one of the most affluent counties in the United States.
American Airlines has cancelled flights between Wichita, Kansas, and Washington today. 
The airline was contacting the families of the 64 passengers who died onboard flight 5342.
Trump issued an executive order titled “Keeping Americans Safe in Aviation” on his first day in office. It claimed the FAA under the Biden administration had sought to recruit and hire “individuals with serious infirmities that could impact the execution of their essential life-saving duties”.
The order directed the aviation agency to “return to non-discriminatory, merit-based hiring, as required by law”.
Trump said during Thursday’s press conference that he would look at firing any diversity hires who were linked to Wednesday night’s crash.
“I would say the answer is yes, if we find that people aren’t mentally competent,” he said.
President Trump shared several theories on what could have caused the midair collision, including that the Black Hawk helicopter had inadvertently flown into the path of the American Airlines passenger jet as it came into land.
He also claimed that diversity, equity and inclusion hiring policies had played a part.
“The FAA is actively recruiting workers who suffer severe intellectual disabilities, psychiatric problems, and other mental and physical conditions under a diversity and inclusion hiring initiative spelt out on the agency’s website,” said Trump.
He added that the hiring programme allowed for air traffic controller positions to go to people with hearing and vision issues as well as paralysis, epilepsy and “dwarfism”.
“They have to be talented, naturally talented geniuses,” he said. “You can’t have regular people doing their job.”
Pressed again on the claim, Trump said there was no evidence yet that the collision should be blamed on diversity hires. “It just could have been,” he said.
Trump attempted to reassure the public that it was safe to fly after the midair collision that claimed the lives of 67 passengers, crew and US military personnel.
Asked if Americans should be concerned, Trump replied: “I would not hesitate to fly. Flying is very safe.”
Trump is scheduled to fly to Palm Beach, Florida, where his Mar-a-Lago home is located, on Friday, the Federal Aviation Authority said.
Flights resumed landing and departing from Ronald Reagan National airport just over an hour ago.
President Trump targeted the former Democratic presidents Joe Biden and Barack Obama along with Pete Buttigieg, the former transportation secretary, at a media briefing.
“We must have only the highest standards for those who work in our aviation system,” Trump said. “I changed the Obama standards from very mediocre at best to extraordinary,” he added without citing a specific policy.
“And then when I left office and Biden took over, he changed them back to lower than ever before. I put safety first, Obama, Biden and the Democrats put policy first, and they put politics at a level that nobody’s ever seen because this was the lowest level.”
Trump additionally blamed a “diversity push” at the Federal Aviation Administration that focused on “hiring people with severe intellectual and psychiatric disabilities”.
Trump said that the helicopter was in the “wrong place at the wrong time”.
The Black Hawk helicopter had been carrying out a nighttime training mission “on a standard corridor for a continuity of government mission,” Pete Hegseth, the defence secretary, said.
“The military does dangerous things. It does routine things on a regular basis. Tragically, last night, a mistake was made,” Hegseth added.
Trump announced on Thursday that Chris Rocheleau, the former chief operating officer of the National Business Aviation Association, will serve as the Federal Aviation Administration’s acting commissioner in the wake of the midair collision over Washington DC.
Michael Whitaker, the previous FAA administrator, stepped down on January 20th after clashing with Elon Musk, whose company SpaceX is regulated by the agency.
Trump said that Rocheleau was a “highly respected” figure. Rochelau has joined Trump and other senior administration officials in the White House press briefing room.
Trump claims that he increased the requirements for the “psychological well being of air traffic controllers” in his first term.
He read out a series of articles that he claimed backed up his views, and said that Biden had “changed it back” through his push for diversity, equity and inclusion policies.
“You had a confluence of bad decisions that were made, and you have people that lost their lives, violently lost their lives,” Trump added.
David Axelrod, the former senior adviser to Barack Obama, called Trump’s comments “despicable”.
“Even as the hunt for bodies continues, and before an even preliminary probe could be completed, the @POTUS incredibly, despicably appears to blame the plane crash in Washington on DEI programs at the FAA, and turns a moment of national tragedy into a craven political opportunity.”
Trump said that after viewing footage of the midair collision, he believes the helicopter may have been at fault.
“We had a situation where a helicopter had the ability to go up or down, it had the ability to turn, and the turn it made was not the right turn, obviously.
“There was so little time to think.”
He added: “For some reason it just kept going, and made a slight turn at the very end. But by then it was too late.”
Trump had harsh words for Pete Buttigieg, the former transportation secretary in the Biden administration.
He said the former Biden administration official was a “disaster” who had pushed diversity and inclusion hiring policies at the FAA.
“He’s got a good line of bullshit,” Trump said from the White House.
Trump was critical of former presidents Joe Biden and Barack Obama for lowering aviation safety standards.
“I put safety first. Obama, Biden and the Democrats put politics first,” he said.
“Their politics was horrible, and their policies were even worse.”
Trump said that the Federal Aviation Administration had used diversity, equity and inclusion to hire staff.
He said the FAA had hired people with “psychiatric problems”.
Trump said that he would restore “talent” and “geniuses” as flight controllers.
“Brilliant people have to be in those positions.”
Trump said the cause of the flight was unknown, but he would be sharing some opinions on what happened.
“Over the years I’ve watched as things like this happen, and they are always investigating,” Trump said.
“We’ll find out how this disaster occurred and we’ll ensure that nothing like this happens again.”
He said military and civilian investigators were “working tirelessly” to figure out what happened.
Trump begins a press conference by asking for a moment of silence for the victims.
“I speak to you this morning in an hour of anguish for our nation,” Trump said.
“This was a dark and excruciating night in our nation’s history,” he added.
“A night of terrible proportions. We are in mourning,”
He sent his condolences out to victims from other nations on the flight, including a Russia contingent.
“We can only begin to imagine the agony you are all feeling.”
Pete Hegseth, the newly appointed defense secretary, has given an update in the wake of the Washington crash.
Natalya Bolshakova, a friend of Inna Volyanskaya, 58, the figure skating coach and former Soviet ice dancer who colleagues say was on the crashed American Airlines plane, told Russia’s Komsomolskaya Pravda newspaper it was “such a shock” to learn of the tragedy.
“She was so restrained; she kept her emotions to herself,” said Bolshakova, a designer of costumes for figure skaters. “You know, high class. She never said anything bad about anybody, whatever happened… it’s a terrible sorrow for us.”
Russian media reported that Volyanskaya had lived in the United States for a long time and worked as a trainer at Ashburn Ice House, in Ashburn, Virginia.
 She had travelled to the national development camp in Wichita with two of her students, “Everly and Franco”, Komsomolskaya Pravda said.
Everly Livingston and Franco Aparicio have been reported as two of the young skaters on board the plane.
Robert F. Kennedy Jr, Trump’s nomination for health and human services secretary, is appearing before the Senate health committee for a second day of confirmation hearings.
At the start of Thursday’s hearing, Kennedy said he and his wife Cheryl Hines were staying in an apartment in Washington DC overlooking the site of Wednesday’s crash.
The Senate intelligence committee held a moment of silence for the victims of the fatal midair collision between an American Airlines passenger plane and a US Army Black Hawk helicopter at the beginning of a confirmation hearing for Tulsi Gabbard, Trump’s pick for director of national intelligence.
Glenn Youngkin, the governor of Virginia, said that there was nothing to suggest from preliminary investigations that a passenger airplane that collided midair with a US military helicopter had veered off course as it approached Reagan National Airport in Washington DC.
“The initial briefs were that everything was routine going into the approach for landing for American Airlines Flight 5342 and that, in fact, contact had been made with, of course, the military helicopter as well,” Youngkin told CNN.
“But of course, it clearly wasn’t routine, and we had two aircraft in the river with 67 fatalities.”
Youngkin praised the first responders from the Coast Guard, and police forces from Virginia, Maryland and DC that had responded to the crash.
“The families that have woken up this morning to the shocking reality that they have lost a loved one,” he said.
He said he had spoken with Robert Isom, American Airlines chief executive, whose staff were contacting the families of the 60 passengers who had lost their lives.
“They are undertaking the just terrible task of having to call families, families of passengers and families of the crew members.”
President Trump will hold a press briefing on the midair crash that claimed 67 lives at 11am (4pm GMT) crash at the White House, according to press secretary Karoline Leavitt.
In a post on Truth Social a few minutes ago, Trump said he had been fully briefed on the “terrible accident” over the Potomac River in Washington DC on Wednesday night.
“May God bless their souls,” he said.
Trump praised the “incredible work” of the first responders, and said he was monitoring developments.
A Boston skating club has confirmed that it lost two teenage skaters and their mothers, along with two coaches in Wednesday night’s midair collision.
The victims were identified as Spencer Lane, 16, his mother Molly Lane, Jinna Hahn, 16, her mother Jon Hahn by Doug Zeghibe, the CEO of the Skating Club of Boston.
Vadim Naumov and Evgenia Shishkova, two Russian former world skating champions, also died in the crash, Zeghibe said.
“Skating is a very close and tightknit community, Zeghibe said at a press conference.
“These kids and their parents — they are here at our skating facility in Norwood six, sometimes seven days a week. It is a close, tight bond, and I think for all of us, we have lost family,” he added.
The group were returning from a development camp that was held in conjunction with the US Figure Skating Championships in Wichita.
The father of Vadim Naumov, the Russian former figure skating champion who was believed to be on the plane, told the Russian newspaper Komsomolskaya Pravda that he could not contact his son.
“When I last phoned my son I could not get through already,” said Vladimir Naumov, speaking from St Petersburg in Russia. “He had crashed.”
Naumov’s mother, who was not named by the paper, said: “When [Vadim last] called us he was getting ready to fly with the kids to the competition. They were expected to perform well, they were flying to claim victory. They were in a good mood. They were good kids with him. Probably they also died.”
Using his family nickname, she confirmed that her grandson, the US figure skater Maxim Naumov, 23, had escaped the tragedy by flying home earlier than his parents.
“Vadim’s wife [Yevgenia Shishkova] was also with him,” she said. “Thankfully, their son Maksyusha is alive! His events finished earlier. He could have been with them but the difference in events saved him. Now Maksyusha has flown to the site of the crash to find everything out. It all happened at night, it was dark, the whole river was covered in ice. So we are waiting for news.”
Evgenia Shishkova and Vadim Naumov joined the Skating Club of Boston, Massachusetts, in 2017, according to the club website.
Pete Hegseth, the defence secretary, said that the Black Hawk helicopter had been on a night-time training exercise.
Hegseth said that the crew of three service members, from Bravo Company 12th Aviation Battalion based at Fort Balfour in Virginia, were “fairly experienced” and had been wearing night vision goggles.
He said the US army was withholding their ranks and names until next of kin had been notified.
“It’s a tragedy, a horrible loss of life,” Hegseth said in a video posted to X.
A military investigation unit was working on site to establish the cause of the crash, he added.
“We anticipate that the investigation will quickly be able to determine whether the [civilian] aircraft was in the corridor and at the right altitude at the time of the incident.”
Lily Wu, the mayor of Wichita, said that she had been informed that there were no survivors from the crash.
“We mourn with all those who have been impacted,” she said. “This is a terrible tragedy that will unite those in Washington, DC, and Wichita, Kansas, for ever.”
The midair collision over the Potomac is the deadliest airliner accident in the United States in more than two decades.
On November 12, 2001, American Airlines flight 587 crashed in Belle Harbour, New York, killing all 260 people on board and five people on the ground.
The crash occurred two months after the 9/11 terror attacks. Investigators from the National Transportation Safety Board found no evidence of sabotage. They determined the probable cause of the crash was the in-flight separation of the plane’s vertical stabiliser because it was carrying too much weight. It was the highest death toll for a single jetliner crash in US history.
Robert Isom, chief executive of American Airlines, has given some details about the two pilots at the helm of Flight 5342.
Isom said the captain had almost six years of flying experience with PSA Airlines, and the first officer had been with PSA, a wholly owned subsidiary of American Airlines, for nearly two years.
Flight 5342 had four crew and 60 passengers onboard when it collided with a Black Hawk UH-60 helicopter on its descent into Reagan airport on Wednesday night.
Mike Waltz, the national security adviser, told Fox News that the bodies of 30 victims had been recovered from the Potomac River after last night’s midair collision.
Waltz praised the efforts of the emergency responders who went into the frigid waters to search for survivors. “They’re doing everything they can to make sure we don’t have a fuel spillage, and they’ve recovered now over 30 bodies,” he said.
John Donnelly, the Washington fire chief, said earlier that the bodies of 27 people who had been on the passenger flight and one member of the helicopter crew had been recovered from the water.
Asked about the discrepancy, Donnelly said that bodies would only be tallied when they were in the possession of the medical examiner.
“So there may be some fluctuations in numbers that other people would report,” he said.
Reagan airport will reopen at 11am ET (4pm UK time) after the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) determined that it was safe to resume flights.
Jack Potter, president of Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority, said that recovery efforts would continue on a section of the airport that borders the Potomac River.
He said there would be delays owing to the large number of flights cancelled overnight.
Sean Duffy, the transport secretary, said he supported President Trump’s earlier assertion that the accident was preventable.
“We’re going to wait for all the information to come in from this vantage point, but to back up what the President said: from what I’ve seen so far do I think this was preventable? Absolutely.”
The chief executive of American Airlines has suggested that the US army helicopter flew into the path of the commercial flight.
“At this time, we don’t know why the military aircraft came into the path of the PSA aircraft,” Robert Isom told the press conference on Thursday morning. PSA is a subsidiary carrier owned by American Airlines.
Duffy, the transport secretary, said there was “not a breakdown” in communication between the military helicopter, the plane and the air traffic control tower: “Everything was standard in the lead-up to the crash.” 
However, when asked whether the Black Hawk helicopter had been aware of Flight 5342, he said: “I would say the helicopter was aware that there was a plane in the area.”
He did not elaborate further, leaving open the possibility that the army pilots had confused the jet that controllers told them to avoid with another aircraft.
Duffy said that he believed the accident was “absolutely” preventable. 
John Donnelly, the Washington fire chief, said the authorities were working on identifying the victims.
“The district office of the medical examiner has the lead on reuniting these bodies and these people with their loved ones, and we will continue to work to find all the bodies and collect them and reunite them with their loved ones.”
Muriel Bowser, the mayor of Washington, added: “We share in a profound sense of grief.”
The US National Transportation Safety Board, which is responsible for air safety, is now leading the investigation into the crash.
Officials confirmed that Ronald Reagan domestic airport in Washington DC is due to re-open to flights at 11am local time, about three hours from now.
Duffy, the transport secretary, sought to reassure travellers who might be worried after the first fatal crash involving a US commercial airliner in the US since 2009.
“I can tell you with complete confidence that we [the US] have the safest airspace in the world,” he added in response to a reporter’s question.
John Donnelly, the fire chief for Washington DC, said that emergency workers had recovered the bodies of 27 people from the plane and one from the helicopter overnight. 
Donnelly said the authorities were switching from a rescue operation to a recovery operation. “We don’t believe there are any survivors,” he said.
Both the American Airlines passenger jet and the US army helicopter were in a standard flight pattern when the accident occurred, Sean Duffy, the new US transport secretary, has told a press conference.
“This was not unusual,” he said.
“We have located the fuselage of the AA plane. It was inverted, in three different sections, in about waist-deep water, and the recovery will continue today.”
He said that when people flew they expected to reach their destination. “Safety is our expectation. That did not happen last night. President Trump [and government departments] will not rest until we have answers for the [victims’] families.”
There has been a worrying spate of accidents in the past couple of months. So what are the risks?Read more: 
As the sun rises on the crash scene on the Potomac River, rescue teams will be looking at the weather conditions and how they might impact the investigation and recovery.
At the time of the crash on Wednesday night there were gusty winds and water temperatures were just above freezing, creating challenging conditions for the recovery operation.
The winds have subsided and clear sunny skies are expected, offering better conditions than overnight. However more gusts of up to 25mph were expected later in the day, with rain forecast for the evening.
Corey Smedley, head of the Fire and Rescue Service for Montgomery County, just outside Washington, told NBC News that the authorities were monitoring conditions closely.
“It’s a tough event,” he said. Probably the most dangerous incident that we run is on the waterway. It is so unpredictable with the weather, the ice and the wind. But the good news is that we are trained for this, we are prepared for this.”
The pilot who safely landed a passenger plane in the Hudson River in 2009 said that Wednesday night’s crash in Washington came at an “exceptionally safe” moment in aviation history but showed “how vigilant we have to be”.
“We’ve had to learn important lessons literally with blood too often, and we had finally gotten beyond that, to where we could learn from incidents and not accidents,” Captain Chesley B. Sullenberger III, 74, said in an interview with The New York Times.
“I’m just devastated by this,” he said. “We have the obligation to learn from every failure and improve.”
Reagan airport requires additional training for pilots who operate from it, he added. The airport, originally named Washington National, had “not changed much” since it was built in the late 1930s. “Of course, we’ve added technology to it. But a lot of the technology is old.”
He added that visibility for pilots could also be a challenge: “Nighttime always makes things different about seeing other aircraft. Basically all you can do is see the lights on them … You have to try to figure out: Are they above you or below you? Or how far away? Or which direction are they headed?”
A man who witnessed the mid-air collision on Wednesday night described the plane as a ball of fire as it plunged into the Potomac River.
“I heard a loud explosion, I looked to the left, saw just a big ball of fire and then wreckage just falling down toward the river. And my neighbour hollered out: ‘Oh my God, that’s a plane!’” Roy Best told CNN on Thursday morning. “Wreckage just went straight down.” 
Best lives in a block of flats near Reagan airport. “We see the police helicopters. We see the military helicopters going back and forth to the bases, the Pentagon, some different areas. You’ve also got Coast Guard helicopters, so a pretty busy airspace,” he said.
More than 30 bodies have now been recovered from the Potomac River in the aftermath of the crash, according to a US broadcaster.
There has not been any official confirmation of casualties, and search and rescue efforts are continuing. NBC Washington cited two sources familiar with the rescue efforts as providing the updated figure.
It is now nearly 7am in Washington DC and officials are due to hold a press conference shortly.
Maxim Naumov, 23, an American figure-skating champion whose Russian-born parents are thought to have been on the American Airlines flight that crashed, was not on board, another skater has said.
Anton Spiridonov told Russian media that he and Naumov took part in the US championships at the weekend. “Maxim Naumov was not on board, he flew out of Wichita on Monday,” said Spiridonov, 26. “He was at the airport together with me and went through security at the same time.”
Earlier, it had been reported that Naumov’s parents, Yevgenia Shishkova and Vadim Naumov, were on the flight that crashed in Washinton. The married couple won the world championship in pairs figure skating in 1994, and completed at two Winter Olympics: 1992 in Albertville and 1994 in Lillehammer, coming fifth and fourth respectively.
The couple moved to the United States in the late 1990s and worked as coaches at first in Connecticut and more recently in Boston.
Pictures from the scene show recovery teams removing bodies from the site of the crash. The aviation expert Geoffrey Thomas has said that he believes there is little to no chance of any survivors being found.
The prime minister has said that he is shocked by the tragic scenes coming out of Washington DC and expressed his condolences.
He posted on X: “My thoughts are with all those on board and their families desperately waiting for news. I pay tribute to the emergency services for their dedicated work in such challenging conditions and I send the UK’s condolences to the United States at this time.”
About 300 first responders have been on the scene of the crash. Inflatable rescue boats were launched into the Potomac River from a point along the George Washington Parkway just north of the airport, and first responders set up light towers from the shore to illuminate the area. At least half a dozen boats were scanning the water using searchlights.
Hopes are fading that any survivors will be found, however, given the extremely cold water temperatures. Conditions are also hard for the rescue crews.
“It’s a highly complex operation,” John Donnelly, the DC fire chief, told a news conference. “The conditions out there are extremely rough for the responders.”
Abadi Ismail, who lives near the airport, recounts the moment he heard the crash. He says the river is partly frozen and he fears that passengers may have already been carried miles downstream. He says: “Between ice, frozen water and strong currents, it is a very challenging mission.”
Geoffrey Thomas, an aviation expert based in Australia, looks at the circumstances of the crash and says the chances of survival are “remote”.
He says that he believes that the passenger plane was complying with air traffic control instructions to come in for landing and that the army helicopter, which was taking off, made six course changes as it climbed in altitude.

The Kremlin expressed its condolences to the families of Russian citizens who lost their lives in the crash in Washington DC.
“We unfortunately see that these sad reports are being confirmed. Our other fellow citizens were there,” Dmitry Peskov, the government spokesman, said.
When asked whether President Putin planned to offer condolences to President Trump in a phone call, Peskov said there were no plans for high-level contacts for now. 
Inna Volyanskaya, a former Russian pair skater in her late fifties who performed for the Soviet Union, was also on board the crashed flight, according to the Russian news agency Tass. 
After retiring from competition she skated in ice shows, including with the British stars Torvill & Dean and the Russian Allstars.
Earlier it was reported that the former world champions Yevgenia Shishkova and Vadim Naumov were on board.
Lyudmila Velikova, 77, a skating coach and former Soviet ice dancer who worked with the married couple, told Tass: “I don’t want to believe that this has really happened to them. I will hope until the last [that they survived]. We were in touch all the time, we talked before the US championships. Everything was good with them … they had very good, worthy students. Lots of people wanted to work with them.”
The state of air traffic control services, run by the Federal Aviation Administration, will be closely examined after the first fatal US commercial airliner jet crash in the country for 16 years.
For the past two years, a series of near collisions in the US has prompted warnings about the risk of a major aviation accident because of under-staffing. 
In 2023, an investigation by The New York Times found that close calls involving airlines, mostly attributed to human error, were happening multiple times a week. 
Reagan National, then named Washington National, was the scene of a disaster 42 years ago that changed aviation practices. An Air Florida Boeing crashed into a bridge over the Potomac River after a relatively inexperienced crew took off with ice on the plane’s wings. Seventy-four people died. The crash prompted reforms in crew training and de-icing procedures.
The pilots of the military Black Hawk UH-60 helicopter may have identified the wrong approaching airliner when they were warned to avoid it by air traffic controllers, according to initial speculation among pilots (Charles Bremner writes).
Because of the ultra-tight security, the runways at the unusual downtown airport, only three miles from the White House and the Capitol, have challenging approaches. 
Although approaching airliners have powerful landing lights, it can still be hard for other pilots to pick them out at night against a backdrop of urban streetlights. 
Investigators will be looking closely at the height of the airliner and the helicopter to see if either strayed out of a permitted flight path. 
Live images from the Potomac River show the catastrophic damage to the passenger plane that was coming in to land at Reagan airport in Washington DC when it collided with a US army helicopter.
A US figure skater posted a picture from on board Flight 5342 earlier on Wednesday, after confirming that he had been involved in a national development camp for young talent.
Spencer Lane published his view from the aircraft on Instagram as it was about to take off from Wichita, bound for Washington DC. His fate is unknown.
Days earlier he had posted a video on TikTok, with the caption: “Made it to national development camp!”
At least 19 bodies have been recovered so far from the Potomac river, according to US media, citing unnamed sources.
There were 60 passengers and four crew members on board the Bombardier CRJ-701, and three US army personnel on the Black Hawk helicopter.
Washington police said: “There is no confirmed information on casualties at this time.”
Relatives of those on the commercial flight said earlier that they were getting little to no information from officials about the crash.
One woman told an airport official, apparently referring to a passenger: “I don’t know if she got on there or not.” She then collapsed in tears.
US figure skating has confirmed that “several members of our skating community” were on board the crashed jet.
“These athletes, coaches, and family members were returning home from the National Development Camp held in conjunction with the US Figure Skating Championships in Wichita, Kansas,” US Figure Skating said in a statement.
“We are devastated by this unspeakable tragedy and hold the victims’ families closely in our hearts. We will continue to monitor the situation and will release more information as it becomes available.”
The American figure skater Jon Maravilla has suggested that there were more than a dozen skaters on the plane.
He told RIA Novosti, another Russian news agency: “I don’t want to name names but there were about 14 figure skaters on the plane, not counting their parents, and several coaches. Such a tragedy.”
Two Russian former world champion figure skaters are also reported to have been on board the American Airlines plane that crashed in Washington.
Yevgenia Shishkova, 52, and Vadim Naumov, 55, who were married, won the world championship in pairs figure skating in 1994.
Russian state-run TASS news agency reported this morning that they were on board the flight.
The US army helicopter involved in the crash was from the 12th Aviation Battalion, which provides VIP and other helicopter airlift support across Washington DC and the surrounding region.
No VIPs were aboard when it collided with the passenger jet, according to local media.
It was a Sikorsky UH-60 Black Hawk, which has been a mainstay of the US military for decades. Black Hawks are commonly used as a troop transport and are deployed in multiple conflicts, including in Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan.
The 2002 film Black Hawk Down dramatised a 1993 US military operation in Mogadishu, Somalia, when two helicopters were shot down.
New footage has emerged of the moment the American Airlines passenger jet collided with a military helicopter in Washington.
One video, taken from within the perimeter of Reagan airport, shows the helicopter hitting the side of the plane as it comes into land. An immediate fireball then engulfs the sky.
Another video, taken from a car dashboard camera, shows the crash. Gasps can be heard inside the car as they realise what has happened.
A webcam in the Kennedy Center also captures the explosion. In this footage both the plane and the helicopter are seen hurtling towards the ground.
Several coaches and skaters with the United States figure-skating team were reported to be on board the flight from Wichita to Washington.
The skaters were part of the National Development Team, a training programme for young athletes, and were in Kansas for the US National Championships last week.
Luke Wang, a skater with Team USA, posted on X: “Praying for all those on the flight from wichita to dc. Among the passengers were skaters and coaches. absolutely heartbreaking.
“As we hold everybody on board in our thoughts, we will continue to wait for official information to be released.”
Another skater, the Team USA ice dancer Ethan Peal, tweeted: “I am in shock. Praying for families and my skating community.”
Air traffic controllers were also in contact with the army helicopter.
Less than 30 seconds before the crash, an air traffic controller asked the helicopter, using the callsign PAT 25, if it had the arriving passenger jet in sight.
The controller made another radio call to the helicopter moments later: “PAT 25 pass behind the CRJ”, referring to the jet’s model. Seconds after that, the two aircraft collided.
Flight 5342’s radio transponder stopped transmitting about 730m short of the runway, roughly over the middle of the river.
The Federal Aviation Administration has ordered the grounding of all planes at Reagan National airport. It is not due to reopen until 11am (4pm UK time) on Thursday.
American Airlines’ chief executive issued a video statement in which he expressed “deep sorrow”, while the Kansas senator Roger Marshall said the collision was “nothing short of a nightmare”.
The same airport was the scene of a deadly crash in January 1982 when Air Florida Flight 90, a Boeing 737, crashed into the Potomac shortly after taking off. Seventy-eight people died.
The last major fatal US air accident was in 2009, when Continental Flight 3407 from New Jersey to Buffalo, New York, crashed, killing all 49 people on board.
American Airlines Flight 5342 was a Canadian-made Bombardier CRJ-701 twin-engine jet, built to carry up to 70 passengers.
Data from the plane’s radio transponder shows it was approaching Reagan National at an altitude of about 120m and a speed of about 140 miles per hour when it suffered a rapid loss of altitude.
A few minutes before landing, air traffic controllers had assigned the plane to a different runway, with flight tracking sites showing the plane adjust its approach.
A man whose wife was on the crashed plane has spoken to a local television station.
Hamaad Raza told WUSA that his wife had texted him 20 minutes before the plane was due to land. “I’m just praying that someone’s pulling her out of the river,” he said. “I’m just praying to God.”
He said that his texts in reply did not show as delivered. 
Pete Hegseth, the new US defence secretary, said an investigation into the crash had been “launched immediately” by the army and the Pentagon.
The former Fox News host described the crash as “absolutely tragic” in a message on X.
He included a military statement confirming that an army UH-60 “Black Hawk” helicopter was involved in the crash. It had been on a training flight from the Davison Army Airfield at Fort Belvoir, Virginia, 15 miles southwest of Washington, DC.
Witnesses said the airliner looked like a “Roman candle” after the collision with the US army helicopter.
Ari Schulman, who was driving past the airport at the time of the crash, said he saw sparks out of the corner of his eye. “Initially I saw the plane and it looked fine and normal [but] three seconds later … it was banked all the way to the right.
“It was lit up a very bright yellow and there was a stream of sparks underneath it. It looked like a Roman candle — if you ever hold one of those on the Fourth of July — but it was much, much bigger than that.”
Schulman added that he didn’t see the plane hit the ground. “I didn’t see flames or an explosion or smoke. I didn’t see emergency lights. I U-turned on the highway to go back and see … No flames, no crash, no nothing.”
A photograph of what appears to be the tangled wreckage of the crashed airliner in the Potomac River has been posted online. It appears to show a badly damaged fuselage and one wing sticking out of the water, with a harbour patrol boat alongside.
A CNN journalist who posted the image wrote: “Some of the first clear images from the scene. Awful.”
John Donnelly, the Washington DC fire chief, said first responders were working to find the victims and the boats were quick to find the aircraft in the river.
“The water is dark, it is murky, and that is a very tough condition for them to dive in.”
“If you can imagine, the river is a large black spot at night with no lights on it, except for a few buoy lights.”
John Donnelly, the Washington DC fire chief, said it was not clear if there were any survivors from the crash but that the department would “re-evaluate where we are with a rescue operation in the morning when we get a better sense of it”.
“We don’t know if there are survivors.”
Earlier, President Trump issued a statement saying he had been fully briefed on the “terrible accident”.
He then posted on his Truth Social platform: “The airplane was on a perfect and routine line of approach to the airport. The helicopter was going straight at the airplane for an extended period of time. It is a CLEAR NIGHT, the lights on the plane were blazing, why didn’t the helicopter go up or down, or turn.
“Why didn’t the control tower tell the helicopter what to do instead of asking if they saw the plane. This is a bad situation that looks like it should have been prevented. NOT GOOD!!!”
Muriel Bowser, the DC mayor, confirmed: “Both aircraft are in the water.”
“The focus now is rescuing people, and that’s what all of our personnel are focused on,” she said at a news conference.
She declined to comment on recovery efforts.
Reagan National Airport will remain closed until at least 11am on Thursday, Jack Potter, the president and chief executive of the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority, said at a news conference.
Other Washington area airports, such as Dulles International Airport, will not impacted he added.
“We’re praying that our responders are safe, and folks who are on that flight are recovered,” said the Kansas senator John Moran.
Moran said he had flown the route from Wichita, Kansas, to Washington DC “many times myself”, adding: “We’re going to know people on this flight… This is a very personal circumstance.”
The Senator, who sits on the Senate subcommittee for aviation safety, said that the US Congress would be investigating what incident.
Muriel Bowser, the DC mayor, described the crash as “very tragic” at a press conference on Thursday.
Bowser said emergency services were “working diligently” in “very dark and cold conditions” on the rescue efforts in the Potomac River.
John Donnelly, chief of the fire and emergency services department in Washington DC, added: “The conditions out there are extremely rough.”
Donnelly said first responders were at the scene at 8.58pm (01.58am GMT) and found an aircraft in the water after the crash at 8.48pm.
There are 300 responders on the river.
Bowser added American Airlines officials were at the airport to support families and that the company’s leadership was en route to Washington DC.
A US passenger plane carrying 64 people crashed into Washington DC’s freezing Potomac River after a collision with a military helicopter.
American Airlines flight 5342 had been about to land at the nearby Reagan National Airport after flying from Kansas when it hit the Black Hawk helicopter on a nighttime training exercise on Wednesday.
The crash occurred at 8.48pm prompting a major emergency response with divers, fireboats, and helicopters searching for survivors in the frigid water.

Load-Date: March 31, 2025


End of Document
