




MailOnline
January 29, 2025 Wednesday 9:03 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 1491 words
Byline: Emily Goodin, Senior White House Correspondent
Body


READ MORE: Inside Trump's plan to make it easier to fire federal workers
                     President Donald Trump on Wednesday said that federal employees who don't show up to work in their offices next month will be fired.He also said some may have to prove they don't work a second job, threatening employees with two gigs with dismissal. 'We have informed the federal workforce,' he said during the signing of the Laken Riley Act at the White House, 'that if they're working for the federal government, they must show up to the office on time and on schedule.''If they don't agree by February 6 to show up back to work in their office, they will be terminated,' he added.Trump noted he expects some downsizing of the federal work force as a result of his order.'We think a very substantial number of people will not show up to work, and therefore our government will get smaller and more efficient,' he said.His latest threat is part of his continuing effort to purge and downsize the federal government.As a sweetner to his return-to-the-office order, up to two million federal workers will be offered buyouts if they don't want to return to the office.The Trump administration started sending emails to thousands of federal workers Tuesday evening, offering them a chance to voluntarily vacate their government posts while remaining on the payroll for months.The email was linked to Trump's executive order demanding federal employees return to the office. 
A spokesperson for the Office of Personnel Management said the employees who accept the terms were being offered the chance to go on administrative leave through Sept. 30 at full pay. The email said that the last date to accept the offer is Feb. 6, and that employees could do so simply by sending an email from their government account with the word 'resign' in the subject line. It comes as many federal employees eye leaving their jobs amid Trump's takeover in Washington, D.C. White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt reminded reporters gathered in the White House driveway Wednesday morning that only six percent of federal workers in Washington, DC work full time in the office. 'This is a suggestion to federal workers that they have to return to work. If they don't then they have the option to resign and this administration is very generously offering to pay them for eight months,' Leavitt said. 'This government has been wasting millions of dollars on empty office space that is beautiful, I mean look at the beautiful buildings in this city. They're gorgeous, they've been here for decades.'The newly created Department of Government Efficiency, led by billionaire Elon Musk, reminded federal workers that if they took the buyout, they would receive full benefits and pay for eight months.'Can take the vacation you always wanted, or just watch movies and chill, while receiving your full government pay and benefits, the department wrote on social media, sharing guidance from the Office of Management and Budget. Democrats and a powerful union called it an effort to try to dupe employees - or pressure them to leave to make way for Trump loyalists. The American Federation of Government Employees union blasted the offer in a statement by president Everett Kelley.'The number of civil servants hasn't meaningfully changed since 1970, but there are more Americans than ever who rely on government services. Purging the federal government of dedicated career federal employees will have vast, unintended consequences that will cause chaos for the Americans who depend on a functioning federal government,' said Kelley.'This offer should not be viewed as voluntary. Between the flurry of anti-worker executive orders and policies, it is clear that the Trump administration's goal is to turn the federal government into a toxic environment where workers cannot stay even if they want to.'Additionally, Trump is pushing ahead with his plan to make it easier to fire federal employees, blasting past roadblocks Joe Biden put in his path and giving agencies just 90 days to respond to his order.Trump tried to purge the federal work force in his first term but ran out of time. Now the Office of Personnel Management announced a rebranded effort as part of Trump's war on the government.The OPM memo outlined a new designation for federal employees called: 'Schedule Career/Policy.' It is what Trump called 'Schedule F' when he pushed this plan in his first term.And the heads of federal agencies are given 90 days - until April 20th - to review all the positions in their agency to find those that fit into the 'policy-determining, policy-making, or policy-advocating character.'The OPM memo specifically orders employees who 'are not normally subject to change as a result of a Presidential transition' to be reviewed - those are employees who usually have broad protections from being fired or suspended.It could impact hundreds of thousands of federal workers. It is the latest step in Trump's greater plan to purge the federal government of those who disagree with his agenda. Trump wants to have the power to easily fire federal workers, which has brought fears he will fire career employees who have different political ideologies.The OPM memo, however, says Schedule Policy/Career positions 'are not required to personally or politically support the current president or the policies of the current administration.'But they are expected to be loyal to the Trump administration.'They are required to faithfully implement administration policies to the best of their ability, consistent with their constitutional oath and the vesting of executive authority solely in the president,' the memo states. 'Failure to do so is grounds for dismissal.'Already Trump has targeted federal employees who don't agree with him. On Monday, he has suspended dozens of government officials for trying to circumvent his executive order on freezing all foreign aid.He also fired the inspectors general from more than a dozen federal agencies in a Friday night purge. His executive order terminating all federal diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) programs has sidelined 395 government bureaucrats.And he's worked on clearing out Justice Department staff who worked with special counsel Jack Smith, who led the prosecutions against him.Trump has long argued there is a 'deep state' at work in the bowels of the federal government, blaming it for his many woes in his first administration. In 2020, during the final weeks of his first term, Trump issued an executive order creating a new class of federal workers known as Schedule F.Those staffers would be exempt from the country's traditional merit-based civil service program. And opponents argued it was an attempt to hire and fire people based on their political loyalty.Joe Biden, when he came into office in January 2021, rescinded that order.Then-President Biden then took it one step further last spring, when he issued a new rule that strengthens existing rights for career federal workers by making it clear that civil service protections cannot be taken away from employees unless they give them up voluntarily.In other words, Biden tried to make it nearly impossible for Trump to classify current federal employees under a Schedule F type order.But Acting OPM Director Charles Ezell, in the OPM memo, argues President Trump has the constitutional authority to unilaterally rescind regulations governing federal personnel issues.'President Trump used his authority under the Constitution and [Title 5 of the U.S. Code] to directly nullify these regulations,' Ezell wrote. 'Section 4 of [the order] provides that, until OPM effectuates their formal rescission '[these regulations] shall be held inoperative and without effect.' This presidential directive immediately superseded OPM regulations issued using delegated presidential authority.'And he sees the new Trump order applying to a lot of federal workers. Ezell wrote that agencies should consider 'rescheduling' positions involved in:
Directing the work of an organizational unit
Being held accountable for the success of one or more specific programs or projects
Substantive participation and discretionary authority in agency grantmaking including 'evaluation of grant applications
Those publicly advocating for the policies of the agency or the administration, including before the news media or on social media
Currently, federal employees are entitled to notice of a removal, an opportunity to reply, representation by an attorney and a written decision. They can also appeal the removal to the Merit Systems Protection Board or file a grievance under the terms of a collective bargaining agreement. 
And two unions, The American Federation of Government Employees and American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, filed lawsuit against the order, saying it improperly attempted to block the Biden administration rule shielding federal workers.

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
