



USA Today Online
January 21, 2025 12:58 AM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Length: 1440 words
Body


Making good on his campaign pledge to  across the federal government, President Donald Trump threw the weight of the White House behind growing Republican opposition to diversity measures that he says discriminate against white Americans. 
The executive order signed Monday rescinds Biden administration orders that put many of the DEI apparatus in place.
"The previous administration has embedded deeply unpopular, inflationary, illegal and radical practices within every agency and office of the Federal Government. The injection of 'diversity, equity, and inclusion' (DEI) into our institutions has corrupted them by replacing hard work, merit and equality with a divisive and dangerous preferential hierarchy," the  reads.
While the executive order does not address DEI in the private sector, a White House official put corporations on notice.
“More actions” are coming “very soon,” the official said ahead of Trump’s swearing-in ceremony.
The DEI executive order coming on the Martin Luther King Jr. Day holiday drew condemnation from  who say it could undermine hard-fought gains in workplace diversity and economic opportunity for generations.
"Why do we have DEI?'' Rev. Al Sharpton, president of the National Action Network, told a crowd gathered at the Metropolitan AME Church, a historic Black church a few blocks from the White House Monday. "We have DEI because you denied us diversity, you denied us equity, you denied us inclusion. DEI was a remedy to the racial institutional bigotry practiced in academia and in these corporations."

Anti-'woke' push at center of Trump agenda
The push to end  began in earnest during Trump’s first term and  since he’s been out of office.
A top priority of right-wing foundations, think tanks and political operatives in courts and statehouses across the country and on , it will likely gain ground now that it is at the center of the president’s economic and cultural agenda.
In his inaugural speech, Trump vowed to combat efforts to “socially engineer race and gender into every aspect of public and private life” and "forge a society that is colorblind and merit-based."
Already companies have made sweeping changes to align themselves with the Trump administration. Last week,  became the latest in a wave of companies to scale back corporate diversity programs.
“Florida, Texas and other states have already abolished DEI. Private companies, such as Meta, are following suit,” Christopher Rufo, a DEI critic and a senior fellow at the conservative-leaning think tank Manhattan Institute, told USA TODAY. “The time is now.”
Trump has stocked his administration with anti-DEI allies to help him unwind the  of his predecessor − from Vice President JD Vance who, as an Ohio senator, introduced legislation that would prohibit government contractors from using federal funds for DEI initiatives to Trump’s deputy chief of staff for policy, , who filed dozens of legal actions against “woke” corporations. 
“Corporations should be focusing on doing their jobs well, creating their services and products effectively,” said Jonathan Butcher, a senior research fellow with the conservative Heritage Foundation think tank. “Laying down some ideological orthodoxy in regards to racial preferences has not made them more effective and it will not in the future.”
Will Trump Justice Department prosecute companies?
During his first term, Trump took aim at diversity initiatives that Republicans claim focus on race and gender at the expense of individual merit, using executive power to bar the federal government and government contractors from conducting racially  diversity training and starting a tip line for whistleblowers to turn in their employers. 
Trump’s Labor Department also questioned whether diversity initiatives to increase the ranks of Black executives at Microsoft and Wells Fargo . 
This time around, the Trump administration is widely expected to ban DEI in companies that depend on federal funding or hold government contracts. 

With full control of Congress, Trump will likely take even more aggressive steps.
The Justice Department and other federal agencies may launch investigations and file lawsuits over corporate DEI initiatives they suspect of violating anti-discrimination laws.
Trump praised , the lawyer he tapped to lead the Civil Rights Division of the Justice Department and a prominent figure in California GOP politics, for “suing corporations who use woke policies to discriminate against their workers.”
The Civil Rights Division was formed in 1957 to enforce laws to stop discrimination against Black people and other historically marginalized communities.
Dhillon has argued that political conservatives and white men are victims of illegal discrimination. In 2017, she represented  who circulated a memo opposing the tech giant’s DEI policies. She has also represented Robby Starbuck, the .
"Every signal is being sent that they’re going to do a 180 on all these things and they’re going to begin prosecuting companies for violations of civil rights laws,” Silicon Valley venture capitalist and Trump adviser Marc Andreessen  last month.

Democrats fight DEI rollback
With anti-DEI sentiment swelling, some Democrats are mounting a resistance. They say the government-driven push to increase racial diversity in cubicles and executive suites is essential to wiping out decadeslong inequities and ensuring equal opportunity for women and people of color. 
In , more than 30 state elected Democratic officials from around the country . State legislatures have been ground zero for anti-DEI attacks.
“Anti-DEI rhetoric and policy goals are dangerous, destructive and discriminatory. Ultimately, they erect barriers to our American dreams,” the letter read. “As we hold ourselves accountable to defending and extending the benefits of DEI, we also hold you accountable to achieving the same goal.”
As the nation grows more diverse, businesses are working to make their workforces and leadership better reflect the communities they serve.
Proponents say  companies hire and retain diverse talent and create environments that boost innovation.
Parity in the business world is a long way off. A USA TODAY investigation of the nation’s largest companies found that the, while women and people of color are concentrated at the lowest levels with less pay, fewer perks and comparatively little opportunity for advancement.
“DEI initiatives don’t determine who gets hired, they ensure qualified candidates have fair access to consideration,” said Noreen Farrell, a civil rights attorney and executive director of Equal Rights Advocates. “The danger of businesses, schools and government shutting the door to equal access is that they are also shutting the door to solutions and innovation.”
The Trump administration is ignoring “clear evidence” that diverse leadership yields “better business outcomes,” Farrell said. 
RIP DEI in the workplace?
Since the banning the consideration of race in higher education, business leaders have shored up DEI programs to make them less vulnerable to legal challenges and public criticism, backing away from initiatives like hiring targets that conservatives say are illegal quotas and from executive bonuses tied to DEI goals.
Andrea Abrams, executive director of the progressive advocacy group American Pride Rises Network, said some companies may capitulate – or appear to capitulate – but she expects most “will continue to stand firm.” 
More than half of senior executives surveyed by the Conference Board said they had adjusted how they refer to DEI over the past year. Another 20% were considering doing so. A growing number have dropped mentions of diversity goals in shareholder reports.
Costco and Apple were among the companies to recently recommend that shareholders reject anti-DEI proposals, making the case that diversity initiatives are good for business.
“There is nothing illegal about being diverse, being equitable and being inclusive in what you do,” Abrams said.
Contributing: Deborah Barfield Berry and Francesca Chambers
This story was updated to add a video.
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Web Publication

Journal Code: 666052891

Subject: DIVERSITY & INCLUSION (93%); GOVERNMENT & PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (92%); GOVERNMENT BODIES & OFFICES (92%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY & INCLUSION (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (79%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RACE & ETHNICITY (78%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS & CIVIL LIBERTIES LAW (77%); NEGATIVE MISC NEWS (77%); NEGATIVE NEWS (77%); INFLATION (76%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (73%); SOCIAL MEDIA (73%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (72%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (62%)

Company:  METROPOLITAN BANK HOLDING CORP (54%)

Ticker: MCB (NYSE) (54%)

Industry: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); SOCIAL MEDIA (73%)

Person: DONALD TRUMP (89%); J D VANCE (79%); JOE BIDEN (79%); AL SHARPTON (52%)

Geographic: OHIO, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); UNITED STATES (96%); Texas & Ohio; United States; Americas, Northern America

Load-Date: January 21, 2025


End of Document
