




The New York Times
February 9, 2025 Sunday
Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2025 The New York Times Company
Section: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22
Length: 1464 words
Byline: By Karen Yourish, Eric Rabinowitz, Ashley Wu and Lazaro Gamio
Body


Jan. 20 Day 1
Granted clemency to everyone charged in connection with the attack on the Capitol on Jan. 6, 2021 
  Moved to end birthright citizenship
  A president cannot amend the Constitution on his own, and any executive order to restrict or abolish birthright citizenship is almost certain to be challenged in court as a violation of the 14th Amendment.
  Rescinded 78 of Biden's executive orders
  Restored the federal death penalty
  Delayed enforcing a federal ban on TikTok
  Ordered 60-day pause on approvals for all 'renewable energy development' on public lands
  Terminated diversity, equity and inclusion programs across the federal government
  Renamed Gulf of Mexico to 'Gulf of America'
  President Trump also said he would return Denali, North America's tallest peak, which has an Alaska Native name, to its earlier name, Mount McKinley.
  Jan. 21 Day 2
  Ordered diversity efforts to be shut down
  Agencies were ordered to place all D.E.I. staff on paid administrative leave, effective immediately, by 5 p.m. on Jan. 22
  Directed the Federal Aviation Administration to halt D.E.I. hiring practices
  Announced a $100 billion A.I. initiative called Stargate
  Promised to impose tariffs on Canada and Mexico
  Jan. 22 Day 3
  Pardoned creator of Silk Road, a dark web marketplace
  Ross Ulbricht was convicted on charges that included distributing illegal drugs on the internet. He was sentenced to life in prison in 2015.
  Canceled flights for refugees already approved to travel to the U.S.
  Said U.S. would send 1,500 troops to southern border
  Threatened to prosecute local officials who obstruct immigration enforcement
  Jan. 23 Day 4
  Said California should not get federal aid for wildfires
  Mr. Trump said he did not think the state should receive aid unless it changed environmental policies he has criticized. He also suggested he might withhold money from cities that do not cooperate with his immigration crackdown.
  Required trans women to be housed in prisons for men
  Vowed to release records on Kennedy and King killings
  Pledged to retake the Panama Canal
  Jan. 24 Day 5
  Ordered removal of third-gender option on IDs
  The administration ordered the removal of ''X'' as a third-gender option for United States government-issued identification, including passports.
  Suggested that FEMA should be shut down
  Ended government security protection for Fauci
  Fired more than a dozen inspectors general
  The firings defied a law that says presidents have to give Congress 30 days' notice and a written ''substantive rationale, including detailed and case-specific reasons'' before any such removal.
  Jan. 25 Day 6
  Halted global mine-clearing programs
  Insisted the U.S. will acquire Greenland
  Jan. 26 Day 7
  'DoD â‰  DEI*'
  In one of his first directives, Pete Hegseth, the defense secretary, sent a handwritten note on his official letterhead that said: ''DoD â‰  DEI*.'' The asterisk, he added below, denoted ''no exceptions, name-changes or delays. Those who do not comply will no longer work here.''
  Jan. 27 Day 8
  Paused federal grants and loans
  The directive from the White House budget office threatened to paralyze a vast swath of federal programs.
  Reinstated service members dismissed for refusing Covid vaccine
  Moved toward pushing transgender people out of the military
  Ordered development of a missile defense system like Israel's
  Experts immediately raised questions about whether an Iron Dome-style system was feasible for the United States, which is more than 400 times the size of Israel.
  Joked about running for a third term
  Jan. 28 Day 9
  Tried to entice millions of federal workers to resign
  The administration offered roughly two million federal workers the option to resign but be paid through the end of September.
  Removed Milley's security detail and revoked his clearance
  Restricted gender-affirming treatments for minors
  Revoked deportation protections for Venezuelans
  Kristi Noem, the homeland security secretary, repealed an 18-month extension of deportation protections that President Joseph R. Biden Jr. had granted to more than 600,000 Venezuelans already in the United States.
  Jan. 29 Day 10
  Sought to expand access to private school vouchers
  Said U.S. will hold migrants at Guant쎡namo
  Signed the Laken Riley Act into law
  The bill requires the detention of migrants who enter the country without authorization and are arrested or charged with certain crimes.
  Rescinded the freeze in federal grants and loans
  Falsely claimed U.S. sent $50 million in condoms to Gaza
  Jan. 30 Day 11
  Blamed D.E.I. for deadly midair collision over the Potomac
  Mr. Trump cited no evidence that diversity programs had anything to do with the fatal crash of a military helicopter and a passenger jet.
  Jan. 31 Day 12
  Pushed out Treasury official for denying access to Musk's team
  The official refused to let Mr. Musk's team into the government's payment system, part of its bid to choke off federal funding.
  Gave Musk's team access to federal payment system
  Removed thousands of government web pages
  Required federal workers to remove pronouns from email signatures
  Planned possible F.B.I. purge
  Emil Bove, the acting deputy attorney general, ordered acting F.B.I. leadership to compile a list of all agents and F.B.I. staff who worked on Jan. 6 investigations.
  Feb. 1 Day 13
  Punished U.S.A.I.D. officials for denying access to Musk's team
  The agency's two top security officials were put on administrative leave after they refused to give representatives of Mr. Musk access to internal systems.
  Feb. 2 Day 14
  Said U.S.A.I.D. was run by 'radical lunatics'
  Feb. 3 Day 15
  Delayed tariffs on Canada
  Delayed tariffs on Mexico
  Ordered Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to stop most work
  Employees were instructed not to issue or approve any proposed or final rules. They were also instructed not to start new enforcement investigations or work on existing ones.
  Said Canada should become part of the U.S.
  ''I'd like to see Canada become our 51st state,'' Mr. Trump said from the Oval Office.
  Moved to dismantle U.S.A.I.D.
  Proposed a 'sovereign wealth fund' to buy TikTok
  It is unclear how the United States, which already spends more money than it collects in taxes, would finance such a fund.
  Offered assistance to Ukraine in exchange for rare-earth minerals
  Mr. Trump has long voiced reluctance to continue sending billions of dollars in weapons and other equipment to Ukraine, arguing that it costs the U.S. too much.
  Feb. 4 Day 16
  Proposed that the U.S. take over Gaza
  Mr. Trump did not cite any legal authority giving him the right to take over the territory, nor did he address that forcible removal of a population violates international law and decades of American foreign policy consensus in both parties.
  Feb. 5 Day 17
  Disbanded a task force intended to prevent foreign influence in U.S. elections
  The memo, signed by Attorney General Pam Bondi, also limits criminal enforcement of foreign lobbying cases.
  Claimed that Panama had agreed to stop charging fees for U.S. government vessels to traverse the Panama Canal
  The Panama Canal Authority denied these claims.
  Reversed decision to halt deliveries from China and Hong Kong
  The reversal showed how crucial parts of global delivery systems are grappling with sudden changes in U.S. trade policy, sowing confusion among businesses and potentially delaying shipments.
  Offered National Security Agency workers the option to resign
  Three government unions sued the U.S. Office of Personnel Management -- the federal government's human resources division -- to block the effort to persuade roughly two million federal employees to resign from their jobs early.
  Aimed to prevent transgender students from participating in women's sports
  The directive relies on the Education Department -- which Mr. Trump has pledged to eliminate -- to achieve its end, through a revised interpretation of federal civil rights laws.
  Provided an unclassified list of new C.I.A. employees to the Office of Personnel Management
  The spy agency normally would prefer not to put these names in an unclassified system.
  Feb. 6 Day 18
  Planned to reduce the work force at U.S.A.I.D. to 290 from more than 10,000
  Said that more than 40,000 federal workers had accepted the resignation program
  Opened investigations related to executive order on transgender athletes
  Appointed Attorney General to lead a task force to 'eradicate anti-Christian bias' in the federal government
  Mr. Trump also said he would create a new ''presidential commission on religious liberty,'' and he set up a White House faith office.
  Said that CBS should lose its broadcast license
  Mr. Trump claimed that the news program ''60 Minutes'' had edited an interview with Kamala Harris in her favor.



Graphic

 
PHOTOS: The Jan. 6 rioters were pardoned or were given commutations, even those who violently attacked police officers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON ANDREW FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Mr. Trump focused on diversity as the cause of a crash that killed 67 people, and also blamed the Army pilots.
Mr. Trump focused on diversity as the cause of a crash that killed 67 people, and also blamed the Army pilots. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
The agency behind humanitarian aid efforts is at risk. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIERNEY L. CROSS FOR THE NEW YORK TIME)
Pete Hegseth was confirmed despite claims of public drunkenness and sexual assault that imperiled his path. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Each year, $400 billion in trade crosses the Ambassador Bridge linking Detroit and Windsor, Ontario. (PHOTOGRAPH BY IAN WILLMS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A22.               

Load-Date: February 9, 2025


End of Document
