




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 23, 2025 Thursday 6:20 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 583 words
Byline: Rebecca Falconer
Body


January 23rd, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
President  
Why it matters: Trump has signed a   
Trump and others in the GOP have in recent months complained that FEMA's disaster response has been  
Driving the news: "The FEMA is getting in the way of everything," Trump said on Fox News' "Hannity."
"FEMA is a whole 'nother discussion because all it does is complicate everything," he told Fox News' Sean Hannity in the prerecorded interview.
"FEMA has not done their job for the last four years."
Trump gave the example of if Oklahoma were hit by a  
Flashback: After Trump and others    
Between the lines: Trump's suggestion would require a major shakeup in emergency response, given how Congress has expanded FEMA's authority by assigning responsibilities to it, codifying it in various laws.
But given how his administration has moved to crack down on    
   
Zoom in: FEMA employs over 20,000 people nationwide, with headquarters in D.C. and 10 regional offices, as the agency responds to disasters and other emergency situations by   
It was officially created in a 1979 executive order by then-  
Congress passed the legislation in 2006 that established FEMA as a distinct agency within DHS following the devastating  
Zoom out: Trump also discussed with Hannity his planned Friday visits to     
As Southern California faces   
Representatives for Trump did not immediately respond to Axios' request for comment in the evening.
Go deeper:  
Editor's note: This a breaking news story. Please check back for updates.


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 23, 2025


End of Document
