




The Times (London)
February 8, 2025 Saturday
Edition 1, National Edition


Copyright 2025 Times Newspapers Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Pg. 40
Length: 721 words
Byline: David Charter
Body


President Trump was in a reflective mood at the National Prayer Breakfast after a week when his tariff wars with allies and "Riviera" plan for Gaza revived comparisons with the chaos of his first term.
"To get gravitas, you have to be controversial and in many cases, a horrible human being," Trump mused at the Washington Hilton. "But we got rid of woke over the last two weeks. Woke is gonzo, despite the other side stealing hundreds of millions of dollars to promote woke."
The threats to annex Canada, and the blithe disregard for Arab self-esteem with his Gaza proposal, were a reminder that Trump can be his own worst enemy as he brings his no-holds-barred approach to international diplomacy.
Trump said yesterday that he would announce his plan for "reciprocal trade" next week, placing partners on tenterhooks for potential tariffs including the UK, the EU and Japan, even as Shigeru Ishiba, the Japanese prime minister met him for talks at the White House.
Behind the bluster his project to reshape the US moved ruthlessly ahead. While the rest of the world saw the same old outrageous Trump, Americans domestically are experiencing a second term that seems very different and terrifyingly effective.
Trump's administration has "flooded the zone", to take the words of his former strategist Steve Bannon, making it difficult to respond clearly through a deluge of executive orders, intensive audits of government departments and agencies, left-field cabinet appointments, a publicity barrage led by Elon Musk on X and the distraction of Trump's own freewheeling rhetoric.
But at root this was the week when woke died.
Susie Wiles, Trump's chief of staff, was caught in a memorable photo bulging her eyes in a state of apparent shock at his Gaza ideas. She has resolved to "let Trump be Trump" and manage what she can control, leading to the enduring image that Wiles wanted to symbolise the week - Trump surrounded by young female athletes as he signed an executive order to end "biological men" competing in women's sports. "The war on women's sports is over," Trump declared, adding that his administration would block visas to transgender women for the Los Angeles Olympics in 2028.
Across the government dozens if not hundreds of staff involved in delivering diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) have been laid off. This began after
Trump's order Terminating Illegal Discrimination in the Federal Government, which rescinded Lyndon Johnson's 1965 directive forbidding employment discrimination on the basis of race, colour and religion and requiring affirmative action to entrench this. Trump's recalibration extended to the US Agency for International Development (USAID) which had its budget frozen, overseas workers recalled and an announcement that all but 611 of the more than 10,000 staff and contractors would have their jobs terminated.
The crusade against so-called wokeism was at the heart of this evisceration of an agency created by President Kennedy in 1961 as his namesake, Senator John Kennedy, of Louisiana, spelt out while defending the examination of spending by Musk's department of government efficiency (Doge). "He found that we gave $2 million for sex changes in Guatemala," Kennedy told Congress. "He found that we gave $20 million to produce a new Sesame Street show in Iraq.. You think most taxpayers would support that?"
Trump's war on woke is spreading. The NFL replaced the words "End Racism" in the Super Bowl endzone with "Choose Love"; Accenture became the latest company after Meta, Alphabet and Amazon to phase out diversity goals; and legal counsel to the University of North Carolina suspended a DEI course taken by all students, warning that it "jeopardised $1.4 billion in critical federal research funding."
This was the week when Senate committees fell in line by confirming two of Trump's controversial cabinet appointments: the vaccine sceptic Robert F Kennedy Jr as health secretary and the Nato-sceptic Tulsi Gabbard as director of national intelligence. Trump's scorecard looks very different depending on which constituency is grading him. "When he does stuff and it looks a little chaotic, it's not. It's genius," said Peter Navarro, a White House counsellor for trade.
A feminist hero, Janice Turner, page 27 Sanctions and Gaza, letters, page 28 Hail Donald! Tom Holland, Review

Graphic

 
Trump: "You have to be horrible"

Load-Date: February 8, 2025


End of Document
