




Seawanhaka: Long Island University - Brooklyn Campus
February 6, 2025 Thursday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 625 words
Body


On January 21, 2025, President Donald Trump made the controversial decision to sign off on a document rescinding the Equal Employment Opportunity Act of 1972 under the guise of protecting Americans from being "stigmatized, demeaned, or shut out of opportunities because of their race or sex," according to the White House.
The executive order dismantles federal law that allows for race and gender-based affirmative action, and instructs all federal companies to remove any programs seen as discriminatory or illegal. 
This decision sparked public outrage, as this can allow companies to primarily refuse to hire a plethora of minorities based on their backgrounds and features. Additionally, it makes it more difficult for people to determine if they would be discriminated against in a future company since the labor department would no longer be required to search companies for their listed employment practices.
The hastiness that leads to the rebuttal of a monumental milestone in American democracy is a direction that can potentially lead Americans through a treacherous road of harsh unemployment-something that the Equal Employment Opportunity Act sought to end.
The Equal Employment Opportunity Act of 1972 was conceptualized after the creation of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Both of these were made to counteract discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, and national origin-the former counteracting workplace discrimination.
Contrary to popular belief, this framework does not completely leave this act standing alone. According to the former head of the Labor Department Office, Craig Leen, "I think they're going to continue to enforce the non-discrimination... You can't have everyone hired by word-of-mouth and they all happen to be (white) men. That violates Title VII, whether 11246 is here or not."
Furthermore, the White House launched an official fact sheet that also clearly states, "It requires simple and unmistakable affirmation that contractors will not engage in illegal discrimination, including illegal DEI."  However, the ambiguity surrounding what constitutes "illegal DEI" has left many questioning the order's true implications.
Nonetheless, Trump's decisions on this executive order and countless others-have sparked swift and vocal responses from the public through protests erupting in major cities across the country. Activists and community leaders have criticized President Trump through his brash decisions since being inaugurated. 
"President Trump continues to use inflammatory rhetoric that is chilling speech and creating a climate of fear and intimidation," Lynn Pasquerella wrote in an email to GBH News, highlighting the widespread concern among advocates for social justice. 
A stack of executive documents (Photo via AP News)
As the nation grapples with the implications of this decision, many are left wondering what the future holds for workplace equality. The Equal Employment Opportunity Act was not just a law; it was a commitment to fostering an inclusive environment where individuals, regardless of their background, could thrive in the workforce.
At the rapid pace that President Trump is currently running through, Americans are holding space for something truly catastrophic to happen in the next four years. Without a system that upholds and respects the rights within the U.S. Constitution and important events in history, it ignites an ongoing debate on American soil.
As discussions surrounding this executive order continue, advocates are calling for renewed efforts to protect and promote workplace equality. The ongoing debate emphasizes that the struggle for equal rights is far from over, and the repercussions of recent actions will resonate throughout society for years to come.

Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
