




thetimes.co.uk
February 1, 2025 Saturday 6:15 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 1224 words
Byline: Matthew Syed
Highlight: A long culture of learning, not blaming, has produced remarkable results. Now politicians are ruining it
Body


I am not sure that even in this squalid era of politics I have seen a spectacle quite so stomach-churning, quite so morally depraved, as a political leader casting around for scapegoats, impugning frontline professionals and implicating political rivals as Donald Trump did last week. His wild speculations as to the cause of the crash between a Black Hawk helicopter and an American Airlines regional jet were proffered before the bodies had been pulled from the wreckage, while grieving families were at their most vulnerable and before the black boxes had been retrieved, let alone evaluated.
Perhaps, given Trump’s track record, we shouldn’t have been surprised. But like so many of his interventions this will have consequences that reverberate for years to come, undermining the hard-won gains in safety made by the aviation industry, which — even taking into account this awful tragedy — remain a wonder of the modern world. For those worried about flying because of fears conjured up by Trump that the skies are overseen by wokesters more interested in political correctness than safety, permit me to note that the death rate for commercial flights is about 1 in 13.7 million passengers — staggering, I hope you’ll agree, when you consider the inherent risks of flying aluminium tubes at high speed through thin air at 35,000ft.
If you surmise from my tone that I’m angry, you’d be wrong. I’m apoplectic. I’ve spent much of my professional life working within the domain of aviation safety — I 

 and remain in close contact with safety directors at the big airlines, regulators and investigators. It’s a remarkable industry and still, to my mind (despite the hugely regrettable scandals at Boeing), the gold standard for achieving continuous improvement at scale. This is partly because of its famous culture of learning from mistakes (near misses and crashes) but also — crucially — because the industry absorbed a lesson early in its history never to prejudge the cause of accidents or scapegoat individuals.
Trump’s intervention — blaming the helicopter crew during a string of erratic public appearances (at one point he questioned their eyesight with the astonishing barb: “I can’t imagine people with 20/20 vision not seeing what’s happening up there”), and then taking to his Truth Social platform to proclaim: “The Blackhawk helicopter was flying too high, by a lot. It was far above the 200 foot limit” — put a dagger through this tradition, not least because other politicians 

, a stampede that shamed Washington. It was appalling — and reprehensibly dangerous.
I couldn’t help thinking of Alphonse Chapanis, a Yale-educated psychologist who was involved in one of the seminal moments in the early history of aviation. He was the man commissioned by the US army air forces in the 1940s to investigate a string of accidents involving the B-17 bomber (the Flying Fortress). These aircraft had been belly-flopping onto the runway when pilots inadvertently pulled the lever to retract the wheels rather than the one to lift the flaps. It looked like incompetence (to use the word brandished by 

 last week), and Chapanis felt an inner voice urging him to castigate these men and dismiss them from service.
But he resisted this urge and looked a little deeper. And he discovered that the two levers — with such critically different functions — were identical and side by side in the cockpit. He realised that these errors were caused not by incompetence but by poor ergonomic design — under pressure of a difficult landing (and associated cognitive overload) even talented pilots were at risk of pulling the wrong switch. So Chapanis designed a fix — a little wheel shape attached to one lever and a flap shape to the other. They now had an intuitive meaning easily grasped under pressure, and accidents of this kind disappeared overnight.
But the lasting significance of Chapanis’s work was not just about the importance of ergonomic design but the imperative of reserving judgment on incidents until a thorough analysis is conducted. For as this cultural tradition strengthened throughout the postwar period, pilots, air traffic controllers and other professionals came to realise not only that they would not be unfairly blamed in the event of an accident but that they could report their errors and near misses, conferring yet more learning at the level of the system. I still think the most beautiful thing about aviation’s safety culture is that the cardinal sin is not to make a mistake (since we all do) but to fail to report it.
What of this culture today? How 

 about admitting mistakes, let alone engaging with accident investigators, when the field has become so acutely politicised? How will they feel about being open and honest when — who knows? — their testimony might be surgically removed from context and weaponised by competing sides in an increasingly rabid political fistfight? Let me suggest that the result will be a movement away from openness and learning and towards secrecy and concealment.
Alert readers will note that I have not yet offered my own opinion on what caused the crash, but I hope you’ll understand why. It might, indeed, have been pilot error, insufficient staffing levels, dangerously congested airspace over Washington or any of the other hot takes being spewed onto social media. It might also be one of 

, since surprises often lurk within the layers of complex, non-linear systems. Have our supposedly advanced societies lost the patience to wait a few weeks for the interim report, let alone the final verdict? Actually, on reflection, don’t answer that question.
And what of DEI, the other explanation being pushed by Trump and chorused by JD Vance, Sean Duffy (a transport secretary with no background in transport, who gained notoriety on reality TV) and the rest of the presidential sycophants? I spoke to contacts with knowledge of recruitment policy in the FAA and most felt DEI was unlikely to be a causative factor, since all staff must reach the same exacting standards, but none ruled it out. This is the open-mindedness I’ve come to so admire in aviation safety culture.
But what they all said — emphatically, almost mournfully — was that to pre-emptively attribute a crash to hiring policies in an attempt to get ahead of the investigation and entrench a favoured political narrative is not just morally reprehensible but freighted with danger to the whole system. As one put it: “How can investigators do their job objectively when they know that if their findings don’t conform to what Trump wants to hear, they might be publicly rebuked?”
It has become common for Maga goons to describe any criticism of their hero as Trump derangement syndrome. I accept no such diagnosis. I support many (although by no means all) of his policies, domestic and foreign. No, the reason I think he’s such an acute danger is not political but psychological. He is a narcissist, a walking moral void willing to napalm any cultural tradition, norm or duty whenever it’s in his interest. It will take a great deal to repair the damage done to aviation after a torrid week. God only knows how we’ll repair the damage to the fabric of democracy after four more years of this exhausting charade.

Load-Date: February 1, 2025


End of Document
