




USA Today
January 22, 2025 Wednesday
1 Edition


Copyright 2025 USA Today All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. A3
Length: 751 words
Byline: By, Shelby Slade, Joey Garrison, Jessica Guynn, Cheryl McCloud, Eduardo Cuevas, Lauren Villagran and Bart Jansen, USA TODAY NETWORK
Body


President Donald Trump signed his first wave of executive orders late Monday after taking the oath of office earlier in the day.
Trump began signing the executive orders around 7 p.m. Monday, after his swearing-in ceremony and a parade, and just before the evening's inaugural balls that stretched well past midnight.
Trump's first actions included rescinding 78 executive orders dealing with greenhouse gas emissions, oil drilling and more, all of which were approved by former President Joe Biden.
Trump also declared a national border emergency, largely laying the groundwork for his promised immigration crackdown.
What executive orders
did he sign?
Trump got busy instituting his promised agenda Monday night after inauguration ceremonies and parties. Here's a roundup of some of the major executive orders he issued or rescinded.
Electric vehicle mandate
Trump ended an Environmental Protection Agency rule that required auto manufacturers to cut greenhouse gas emissions by half in new light- and medium-duty vehicles beginning in 2027.
Paris Climate Agreement
Trump also signed an order withdrawing the U.S. from the Paris Climate agreement, which former President Joe Biden had rejoined after his election four years ago.
Oil and gas production
Trump said on Monday he will declare a national energy emergency aimed at boosting U.S. oil and gas production and lowering costs for U.S. consumers.
Leaving WHO
Trump is pulling the U.S. out of the World Health Organization for a second time, the White House announced late Monday.
The day-one executive order fulfills Trump's campaign promise to reject global institutions. Health experts worry it isolates the U.S. with consequences for pandemic and disease response and diplomatic relations worldwide.
TikTok ban halted
Trump halted the enforcement of the TikTok ban for 75 days. Though the app was shut down for about 12 hours on Sunday, it was being restored in the U.S.
National border emergency
Trump on Monday declared a national border emergency and ordered the U.S. armed forces to repel "forms of invasion" at the U.S.-Mexico border, including illegal migration and drug trafficking.
The executive orders appeared to lay the groundwork for Trump's promised crackdown on immigration, including ending birthright citizenship for the children of some foreigners.
Changing names
Trump said during his inauguration address, minutes after being sworn in, he would sign an executive order to rename the Gulf of Mexico to Gulf of America.
The executive order would direct the secretary of the interior to change the name to "Gulf of America" for use on official maps and throughout the federal government.
Trump also said he wanted to make another name change: changing the name of Alaska's Mount Denali to Mount McKinley.
Only 2 genders recognized
Trump followed through on promised first-day action taking aim at rights for transgender people, including making it the official policy of the U.S. government to recognize only two genders: males and females.
Rolling back DEI
Trump signed an executive order on Monday rescinding Biden administration orders that put many of the DEI apparatus in place.
"The previous administration has embedded deeply unpopular, inflationary, illegal and radical practices within every agency and office of the Federal Government. The injection of 'diversity, equity, and inclusion' (DEI) into our institutions has corrupted them by replacing hard work, merit and equality with a divisive and dangerous preferential hierarchy," the order reads.
Federal workers
In other actions, Trump implemented a freeze on creating new federal regulations and a separate freeze on hiring new federal workers. He also directed federal employees to return to in-person work.
Inflation
Trump, who campaigned on lowering costs for consumers, also signed a presidential memorandum on inflation, which White House officials said would begin an "all of government approach" to bring down consumer prices.
Pardon 1,600 charged over Jan. 6
Trump pardoned nearly all the 1,600 people charged in the Capitol attack Jan. 6, 2021, fulfilling a campaign pledge critics said would "endorse attacks on democracy."
The total includes hundreds of people convicted of felonies for attacking police and temporarily interrupting Congress from certifying the 2020 election victory of former President Joe Biden.
Shelby Slade reports for the Arizona Republic; Joey Garrison, Jessica Guynn, Eduardo Cuevas, Lauren Villagran and Bart Jansen for USA TODAY; and Cheryl McCloud for Palm Beach Post.

Graphic

 
President Donald Trump signs executive orders in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington, D.C., on Monday.
JIM WATSON/POOL/AFP via Getty Images

Load-Date: January 22, 2025


End of Document
