




MailOnline
January 28, 2025 Tuesday 10:56 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:6
Length: 855 words
Byline: Katelyn Caralle, Senior U.S. Political Reporter In Washington, D.C. Natasha Anderson
Body


President Donald Trump is now using the power of the purse to bring diversity, equity and inclusion programs in the federal government to a screeching halt.
The White House budget office ordered federal agencies to freeze 'all activities related to obligation or disbursement of all Federal financial assistance,' which includes grants and loans that do not align with the new administration's priorities.
This is not meant to target any 'assistance provided directly to individuals,' such as Medicare or Social Security.
Rather, the leaked memo from the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) details how agencies must now pause all more widely distributed federal grants, loans and financial assistance programs.
In the interim the agencies are tasked with identify which one Trump would want to slash based on his slew of executive orders signed in his first week back in the Oval Office.
The actions would bring the budget into alignment with the president's push to end the government advancement of 'wokeness,' transgenderism, environmentalism and 'Marxist equity' - or so-called diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) programs.
In Fiscal Year 2024, more than $3 trillion was dolled out for federal financial assistance, much of which the new administration feels was a waste of taxpayer funds.
The suspension goes into effect Tuesday at 5 p.m. EST, according to the OMB memo.
Agencies are given until February 10 to submit detailed information on any programs, projects or activities subject to the pause. 
By this cutoff date, OMB will likely be run by Trump's incoming nominee for the office's director, Russ Vought - a man known for wanting to slash government spending. 
The memo, signed by acting OMB director Matthew Vaeth, directed federal agencies to halt all activities associated with open notices of funding opportunities.
'In the interim, to the extent permissible under applicable law, federal agencies must temporarily pause all activities related to obligation or disbursement of all federal financial assistance,' Vaeth wrote.
Vaeth called on all government agencies to 'identify and review' all federal financial assistance programs and supporting activities to ensure that spending is consistent with the Trump Administration's priorities. 
Democrats are already expressing rage over the memo, with lawmakers claiming it's not a legal action to pause the funding.
'Congress approved these investments and they are not optional; they are the law,' Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer wrote in a Monday evening statement.
It does appear, however, the president holds the power to pause spending as long as it is subject to review.
Trump also made clear before his reelection that he believes laws curbing a president's power to withhold congressional spending are 'unconstitutional.'
Impoundment is an act by a U.S. president of not spending money that Congress appropriated.
Congress passed the Impoundment Control Act of 1974, which Trump now wants repealed or overturned by the Supreme Court.
The memo suggests the pause is in line with the executive orders Trump already signed, including those seeking to dismantle programs related to DEI advancements or hiring practices.
The pause applies to all 'other relevant agency activities that may be impacted by the executive orders, including, but not limited to, financial assistance for foreign aid, nongovernmental organizations, DEI, woke gender ideology, and the green new deal'.
The White House has not yet commented on the leaked document. DailyMail.com has approached the Administration for comment.
Since returning to office last week, the Trump administration has reassigned or fired hundreds of workers in several agencies, aiming to fulfill Trump's vow to remake a federal bureaucracy he believes was hostile to him during his 2017-2021 presidency. 
Trump put on leave about 60 senior career officials at the US Agency for International Development (USAID).
The Administration on Saturday urged USAID staff to help transform how Washington allocates aid around the world in line with Trump's 'America First' policy and threatened 'disciplinary action' for any staff ignoring its orders.
An internal memo sent to USAID employees on Monday evening said the new leadership identified several actions in the agency that 'appeared to be designed to circumvent the President's Executive Orders and the mandate from the American people.'
'As a result, we have placed a number of USAID employees on administrative leave with full pay and benefits until further notice while we complete our analysis of these actions,' Acting Administrator Jason Gray said in the memo, reviewed by Reuters.
The administration's actions threaten billions of dollars of life-saving aid from the world's largest single donor. In fiscal year 2023, the US disbursed $72billion in assistance. 
It provided 42 per cent of all humanitarian aid tracked by the United Nations in 2024.
Hours after taking office, Trump ordered a 90-day pause in foreign aid to review if it was aligned with his foreign policy priorities. On Friday, the State Department issued a stop-work order worldwide even for existing assistance.

Load-Date: January 28, 2025


End of Document
