




telegraph.co.uk
February 6, 2025 Thursday 8:56 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: US; Version:1
Length: 485 words
Byline: By David Millward, US Correspondent
Highlight: US president says his relationship with religion has changed after two unsuccessful attempts on his life during election campaign
Body


A “religious office” is being created in the White House to “target anti-Christian bias” within the federal government.
Announcing the move at a “National Prayer Breakfast” in Washington DC, Donald Trump said his relationship with religion had changed after   during the election campaign.
Having launched his campaign  , the US president, a self-described non-denominational Christian, stepped up his efforts to solidify his support among conservative Christian Evangelicals.
“The mission of this task force will be to immediately hold all forms of anti-Christian targeting and discrimination within the federal government, including at the DOJ, which was absolutely terrible, the IRS, the FBI and other agencies,” he said.
Towards the end of his first administration, Mr Trump engaged in what proved a controversial photo-call, when he marched across Lafayette Square from the White House and posed with a Bible outside St John’s Church after demonstrators had been swept out of the way.
In 2020 he became the first US president to change denomination since Eisenhower after he described himself as non-denominational, having previously identified as a Presbyterian.
“My suspicion is that the type of bias they are talking about are policies that are friendly to LGBTQ employees,” Christopher Galdieri, professor of politics at Saint Anselm College in New Hampshire told The Telegraph.
“I think it’s part of the anti-DEI efforts, where conservative religious folks object to recognising non-Christian faith, even like wishing a happy Diwali.”
The move could risk a legal challenge from secular groups who argue that it breaches the US Constitution’s First Amendment, which banned Congress making any laws “respecting an establishment of religion”.
                     ‘Lemon test’                   
This was a view held by Thomas Jefferson, America’s third president, who said the federal government should have nothing to do with religion and in 1802 refused to proclaim a day of “religious thanksgiving”.
However, constitutional expert Bruce Peabody believed that the current conservative-dominated Supreme Court would be unsympathetic to a challenge.
For more than 50 years courts have judged these cases by what is known as the “Lemon test” – taken from the Lemon v Kyrtzman case in 1971.
In short, it required government measures to have a secular purpose and neither advance nor prohibit a religion.
“We are in a new world where Lemon has been essentially overruled,” Professor Peabody of Fairleigh Dickinson University told The Telegraph.
The courts now give governments considerable leeway, he added, to protect religious expression.
“So, would this Supreme Court invalidate this task force? I wouldn’t bet on it.
“One of the strongest threads of the Roberts Court has been accommodating religion, especially . ”

Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
