




The Daily Telegraph (London)
January 28, 2025 Tuesday
Edition 1, Scotland


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; FRONT PAGE, TEASERS; Pg. 1
Length: 508 words
Byline: Daniel Bates; Benedict Smith
Body


DONALD TRUMP was last night expected to approve an Israeli-style "Iron Dome" system to protect America from hypersonic missile attacks.
An executive order, which was due to be signed by the US president overnight, will begin the process of creating a "next generation" missile defence system.
The order is intended to protect the US against the "catastrophic" threat from "ballistic, hypersonic, advanced cruise missiles and other next generation aerial attacks". Israel's short-range defence system is made up of 10 missile batteries with about four missile launchers in each, which provide cover over 60 square miles. It has been used to defend Israel against barrages by Iran, Hamas and Hezbollah, and according to the Israel Defence Forces (IDF) destroys 90 per cent of the rockets it targets.
US military figures are concerned about similar attacks by adversaries such as China, Russia or Iran using hypersonic missiles, which travel at at least five times the speed of sound and are extremely difficult to intercept.
It came as Robert Brieger, the European
Union's top general, said the bloc should deploy troops to Greenland to send a "strong signal" to Mr Trump, who has threatened to seize the territory from Denmark. Denmark announced it would spend 14.6 billion kroner (£1.64billion) to bolster security in the strategic region, which lies off the coast of the United States.
Mr Trump's Iron Dome decree was among a flurry of orders scheduled to be signed yesterday with the goal of reshaping America's military. The president was expected to limit the use of transgender people in active service roles and to ditch diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) initiatives in the forces. He is expected to sign another executive order allowing the 8,000 military members who were discharged for refusing to get the Covid-19 vaccine to return with full back-pay.
Pete Hegseth, Mr Trump's new defence secretary said they would also receive an apology.
Mr Trump banned transgender people from serving in the military in 2017 during his first administration but the edict was rescinded by Joe Biden in 2021. Shortly after being sworn in, Mr Trump revoked Mr Biden's executive order but his new one goes further. According to CNN, it will dictate new rules regarding gender pronouns and will state that transgender people cannot serve because they are not combat-ready.
The fact sheet accompanying the executive order states: "It can take a minimum of 12 months for an individual to complete treatments after transition surgery, which often involves the use of heavy narcotics. During this period, they are not physically capable of meeting military readiness requirements and require ongoing medical care. This is not conducive for deployment or other readiness requirements."
The order on DEI in the military will prohibit any "discriminatory" practices and comes after all diversity officers in the federal government were placed on leave. Report: Page 11
'This will protect America against advanced cruise missiles and other next generation aerial attacks'

Load-Date: January 28, 2025


End of Document
