




The Daily Caller
January 21, 2025 Tuesday 01:51 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: POLITICS
Length: 671 words
Byline: Reagan Reese, White House Correspondent, 
Reagan Reese is the White House Correspondent for the Daily Caller. She previously served as an education reporter at the Daily Caller News Foundation. Before that, she graduated from Hillsdale College with a degree in Rhetoric, where she played softball. She now serves as a standout outfielder on the Caller softball team.

Body



President Donald Trump wasted no time once being sworn into office, signing over 200 executive actions within his first 12 hours in office spanning from addressing the border crisis to the economy.
Sitting at a desk in the middle of Capital One Arena while surrounded by 20,000 of his supporters, Trump signed various executive orders (EO), including one which  the United States from the Paris Climate Accord. He then went to the White House and entertained reporters for almost an hour, signing more. Among them were EOs undoing former President Joe Biden's electric vehicle mandate, terminating birthright citizenship and enacting a policy that ensures the federal government will recognize only two sexes, male and female, that cannot be changed.

White House Chief of Staff Susie Wiles and White House Deputy Chief of Staff Dan Scavino watch as US President Donald Trump speaks to journalists in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington, DC, on January 20, 2025. (Photo by Jim WATSON / POOL / AFP)

U.S. President Donald Trump gestures after signing executive orders during an indoor inauguration parade at Capital One Arena on January 20, 2025 in Washington, DC. Donald Trump takes office for his second term as the 47th president of the United States. (Photo by Tasos Katopodis/Getty Images)
Trump made his most highly anticipated move on Monday,  the 1,500 Jan. 6 prisoners and commuting 14 sentences.
“I hope they come out tonight,” Trump said in the Oval Office as he signed the order.
Sitting in the Oval Office for nearly an hour after signing the first batch of executive orders in Capital One Arena, the president directed the Office of Management and Budget to coordinate with all other government agencies and terminate all policies and programs focused on diversity, equity and inclusion (an ideology typically focused on prioritizing one's identity over their merit). The executive order also requires facilities that have been named after DEI to be renamed.

US President Donald Trump throws sharpies to the crowd after signing executive orders during the inaugural parade inside Capital One Arena, in Washington, DC, on January 20, 2025. (Photo by ANGELA WEISS/AFP via Getty Images)
The president took heavy action on Monday to address the border crisis, signing 11 executive orders. In addition to declaring a national emergency at the southern border, one executive order included ending birthright citizenship for children who are born in the United States but have illegal immigrants as parents.
“People have wanted to do this for decades,” Trump said about the order.
Trump also signed an executive order that ordered administration officials to begin reconstruction on the southern border wall.
The 78-year-old also signed an executive order ordering all federal workers in the executive branch to return to in-person work. Various other orders signed keep the Chinese social media platform TikTok 75 days to find a United States buyer and another establishes the Department of Government Efficiency as an advisory group to the government.
President Trump on Monday  stripping the security clearances of former intelligence officials who in 2020 signed a letter that said the spread of emails from Hunter Biden's laptop had “the classic earmarks of a Russian information operation.”
 Trump: “What's this one?”
 Staff: Withdrawing from the World Health Organization...
 Trump: “Ooh that's a big one.”
 The president is now signing executive order after executive order in the Oval Office.
 - Philip Melanchthon Wegmann (@PhilipWegmann) 
In addition to ending electric vehicle mandates, Trump also declared a national emergency related to energy costs for American consumers. Another removed the United States from the World Health Organization.
“Ooh that's a big one,” Trump said as he signed away.

Graphic

 
US President Donald Trump holds an executive order he just signed during the inaugural parade inside Capital One Arena, in Washington, DC, on January 20, 2025. (Photo by Jim WATSON / AFP) (Photo by JIM WATSON/AFP via Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
