




USA Today Online
January 21, 2025 5:42 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Length: 502 words
Body


Shortly after declaring an incoming "" for America during his inaugural speech on Monday, President  spent the afternoon into evening signing and declaring 
Trump was sworn into office for a second term shortly after noon ET Monday at  held in the Rotunda of the Capitol due to .
In his speech, Trump promised actions ranging from mass deportation and declaring a national emergency at the southern border to a manifest destiny that expands all the way to outer space.  

"The United States will once again consider itself a growing mission, one that increases our wealth, expands our territory, builds our cities, raises our expectations and carries our flag into new and beautiful horizons, and we will pursue our manifest destiny for the stars watching American astronauts plant the stars and stripes on the planet Mars," Trump said.
With so many executive orders, some of which will most certainly be challenged and possibly shut down, it's hard to keep track. Here is a list of some of the highlights that have been the most talked about thus far. 
Some of the most notable of Trump's executive orders
Trump ordered to .
Signed order that .
Signed an order to .
Signed an order to .
Ended Diverty, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) . He also signed an order demanding federal employees end remote work and 
Ordered that cartels be 
Granted pardons for .
Plans to  to repeal regulations on fossil fuels, emissions and oil drilling. 
Expanding and restoring the , specifically in cases of undocumented immigrants. 
Signed an order  to those born in the U.S. (as this is a direct contradiction to the 14th Amendment of the Consitution, it is expected to be challenged heavily.) 
Declared the government will only 
Trump is also on border security and immigration under the auspices of a national border emergency.  deploying the military to the border, implementing bans on travel and asylum and planning mass deportations. 
Ordering the establishment of the Department of Government Efficiency to implement the alongside Elon Musk. 
Rescinded  executive orders, actions and memoranda, including the Inflation Reduction Act's regulation on prescription drug prices. 
Contributing: Anthony Robledo, USA TODAY 
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: January 21, 2025


End of Document
