




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 28, 2025 Tuesday 10:19 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 559 words
Byline: Sabrina Moreno
Body


January 28th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
The Trump administration's temporary  
State of play: A federal judge  
Federal dollars account for around 40% of the state's non-general fund budget, per  
Millions go to Richmond and surrounding localities, supporting everything from health care, housing and education to disaster response and highway maintenance.
Other programs include mental health, substance use and overdose prevention services.
The latest: It wasn't until just before 4pm Tuesday that Gov. Youngkin  
He called information to the contrary a "partisan stunt" and "dangerous fearmongering."
But as of Tuesday afternoon, the Virginia Department of Education told  
The big picture: The temporary pause, outlined in  
Agencies had until Feb. 10 to submit detailed information on any programs, projects or activities subject to the pause, which applies to financial assistance for "DEI, woke gender ideology, and the green new deal," per the memo.
The memo said the pause "does not include assistance provided directly to individuals" like student loans, financial aid for college, food stamps, Social Security or Medicare.
Yes, but: The Virginia Hospital & Healthcare Association said in a statement Tuesday afternoon that reimbursement for work "performed under federal health care grants has been suspended."
VHHA, which represents many of the state's hospital systems, said it's unknown whether Medicaid reimbursements for patient care are, too.
Virginia's Medicaid agency has not responded to Axios about whether its Medicaid payment systems are down, as has been  
Zoom in: Democratic Sen. Louise Lucas, one of the most senior legislators in the General Assembly,  
Democratic Rep. Jennifer McClellan, who represents Richmond,  
"All of them are confused, fearful for their futures and their livelihoods," McClellan said. "The impact of this absurd move can't be overstated."
Virginia Democratic Sens. Mark Warner and Tim Kaine called it a "reckless and illegal order" and called on the administration to "reverse course."
The other side: Virginia GOP Rep. Morgan Griffith told the  
This is a developing story. Check back for more details.


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
