




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 7, 2025 Friday 9:30 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 711 words
Byline: Zachary BasuDave Lawler
Body


February 7th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
President   
Why it matters: For Trump, results speak loudest. Less than three weeks into office, his administration already has struck deals of varying substance with        
Most were secured through threats of tariffs and other leverage, with Trump's top diplomat, Secretary of State Marco Rubio, occasionally serving as the good cop.
But the headlines obscure a longer-term risk: Trump is gutting key aspects of America's global influence and the workforce that promotes it - leaving a vacuum that  
Zoom in: Trump and Elon Musk's rapid dismemberment of the U.S. Agency for International Development ( 
In an instant, the most impoverished and unstable regions of the world have seen funding dry up for basic food supplies, water, medicine, education, disaster relief - affecting the lives of millions of people.
The New York Times  
Trump and his "America First" allies argue the money should be spent at home, and that USAID is a Trojan horse for spreading destructive leftist ideologies. The governments of    
Data: ForeignAssistance.gov; Map: Axios Visuals
Between the lines: Republicans haven't always held such negative or conspiratorial views of foreign aid.
"Our national interests are inextricably tied to the security and development of our friends and allies," said  
As a senator, Rubio was a fierce defender of foreign aid - and even sent President Biden a letter in 2022 calling for more USAID funding to "counter the Chinese Communist Party's expanding global influence," according to  
"I promise you, it's going to be a lot harder to recruit someone to anti-Americanism, anti-American terrorism, if the United States of America was the reason why they're even alive today," Rubio said in 2017.
Zoom out: Meanwhile, Trump has made clear his disdain for America's network of alliances, which previous presidents have seen as a crucial competitive advantage over adversaries.
Trump threatened Canada with 25% tariffs and has repeatedly suggested turning America's northern neighbor into the 51st state.
He has said the European Union is " 
He wouldn't rule out sending in troops if NATO ally Denmark doesn't hand over Greenland.
And he threatened tariffs on Colombia, historically one of the closest U.S. partners in Latin America, for turning back a flight of deported migrants.
What they're saying: "There's really no better gift to Putin and Xi than for the world to see that the United States is a completely unreliable friend and partner," says Daniel Shapiro, a former U.S. ambassador to Israel who also held senior roles at the Pentagon and National Security Council.
"People will obviously treat us as just one more transactional great power."
What to watch: Rubio announced Thursday that he would boycott a G20 gathering in South Africa after Trump and Elon Musk condemned  
"South Africa is doing very bad things. Expropriating private property. Using G20 to promote 'solidarity, equality, & sustainability.' In other words: DEI and climate change," Rubio  
It's very rare for any member of the club of global powers to skip such a gathering, let alone the U.S.
China, which has invested heavily in soft power through its sprawling Belt and Road Initiative,  
The bottom line: Biden was fond of saying that what mattered was "not the example of our power, but the power of our example."
Trump believes exactly the opposite.


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 7, 2025


End of Document
