




Fox News FOX NEWS @ NIGHT 11:00 PM EST
February 13, 2025 Thursday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7302 words
Byline: Greg Gutfeld, Trace Gallagher, Kevin Corke, Christina Coleman
Guests: Camryn Kinsey, Jayme Leagh Franklin, Elisha Krauss, Rachel Bovard, McClain McGown Rabbi Chaim Mentz, Lisa Daftari, Ellie Cohanim, Sonja Shaw, Jennifer Sey, Terry Schilling
Body


(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Michelle Tafoya, Rich Vos, Timpf, Tyrus, studio audience. "FOX NEWS @ NIGHT" is next. I'm Greg Gutfeld. I love you, America.
TRACE GALLAGHER, ANCHOR, FOX NEWS @ NIGHT: Good evening. I'm Trace Gallagher. It's 11:00 p.m. on the East Coast, 8:00 here in Los Angeles and this is America's late news, FOX NEWS @ NIGHT.
And breaking tonight. President Trump raising tariffs and laying down the gauntlet. U.S. trade could be entering a brand-new chapter that the President says is based on fairness.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP (R) PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: They're charging us in almost all cases, they're charging us vastly more than we charge them. But those days are over.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is not a right or left thing of the Democrat Republican. It's an American thing.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: Meantime, another massive win for MAGA, Kennedy returning to the White House.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ROBERT F. KENNEDY JR., UNITED STATES SECRETARY OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES: Twenty years I've gotten up every morning on my knees and prayed that God would put me in a position where I can end the childhood, chronic disease epidemic in this country. On August, 23rd of last Year, God sent me President Trump.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: RFK Jr. finally confirmed and sworn in. Does it also mark the beginning of a healthier America and the end of a year's long democratic smear campaign?
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: There's been so much money put into the campaign against RFK even this past week. And you know what? Just in spite of all of that money that's been spent to stop our movement, we are unstoppable.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: And DOGE still on the move now, taking a hard look at the Department of Education and the IRS. Imagine an audit for the auditors. Plus this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: Well, the FOX NEWS @ NIGHT Common Sense Department. FOX NEWS @ NIGHT Common Sense Department. Common Sense Department. Common Sense. Common Sense thinks the former most trusted name in news failed to learn the big lesson of last year's election which is when all you do is trash Trump, you go the way of Biden-Harris.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: Well, Common Sense as a new fan, maybe not. The New York Times take me a dig at your favorite department. We are glad they're watching, but they're certainly not listening. Common Sense responds in moments. But first, the senior national correspondent Kevin Corke live in D.C. with more on the Trump tariffs and the IRS getting a taste of its own medicine. Kevin, good evening.
KEVIN CORKE, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Evening to you, Trace. Busy day for the President. Once again, another wide-ranging Q and A in the Oval Office. A lengthy press conference as well with Prime Minister Modi of India, both of which, frankly, had plenty of newsworthy moments. But the story of the day, Trace, was tariffs as in reciprocal tariffs, and while he didn't order them immediately, the President today did order Federal agencies including the Commerce Department to explore just how U.S. tariffs could match those coming in from other countries.
Take for example, auto tariffs between, say, the U.S. and the E.U. Just a simple explanation here, to bring a car into the E.U. from the U.S., well, they charge us 10 percent. But to bring, say, a Mercedes or beamer over from the E.U. to sell it here, we only charge them a 2. percent tariff. So, you can see it's pretty one sided. Totally unfair, says the White House, especially considering in 2022 for example, the E.U. exported into the U.S. over 700,000 vehicles, while the U.S. sent just over 270,000 vehicles to Europe.
Again, just one example of why. The president says it is high time to match tariff for tariff across the globe.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: Jobs are going to go up and prices could go up somewhat short term, but prices will also go down. Let's see what happens? Nobody really knows what is going to happen, other than we know that jobs are going to be produced at levels that we haven't seen before.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CORKE: This as the government began firing hundreds of people at multiple agencies today, continuing the Trump administration's efforts to streamline federal job positions and yes, to cut costs. Termination e-mails have been sent out over the past 48 hours to federal workers, a move that comes after tens of thousands of them accepted buyout offers. Meanwhile, the DOGE team continues to uncover waste, fraud and abuse, with EPA Administrator Lee Zeldin announcing his team had located -- get this, 20 billion in taxpayer funds that the Biden administration had purposely wasted.
Tossing gold bars off the Titanic. As one former Biden appointee put it, this effort to shovel money out the door before Trump took office. More to be found, to say the least, Trace.
GUTFELD: Indeed. Kevin Corke live for us in D.C. Kevin, thank you. Let's bring in a couple of former Trump White House officials, political commentator Camryn Kinsey along with Conservateur founder and CEO, Jayme Leagh Franklin. Thank you both for coming on. Camryn, to you first. Well, let's talk about these reciprocal tariffs, right? The Trump administration is now implementing.
The Commerce Secretary, Howard Lutnick, said the following here. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
HOWARD LUTNICK, COMMERCE SECRETARY NOMINEE: But remember, if they drop their tariffs, prices for Americans are coming down. Our production is going up, and our costs are going down. Remember, it's a two-way street. That's why it's called reciprocal.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: And I think it's a fair bet, they might very well drop their tariffs. What do you think, Cameron?
CAMRYN KINSEY, POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: I agree. This is about fair trade, not free trade. And what we've seen, you know, America First isn't just a campaign slogan for President Trump. It's being implemented into his economically -- economic policy specifically. And we're seeing this. You know, for the past four years, under the Biden-Harris administration, we saw that they weren't taking this as seriously.
We saw that they weren't demanding that respect on a global stage. And now we have a president who's doing that.
GUTFELD: Yes. Meantime, Jayme, Florida Congresswoman Maria Salazar had a very basic question to the former administrator of USAID. Watch the back and forth and I'll get your comment.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. MARIA SALAZAR (R-FL): So, $25,000 for diversity recruitment events. What is a diversity recruitment event in the middle of the jungle?
ANDREW NATSIOS, FORMER ADMINISTRATOR, USAID: I have no idea.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: I mean, if the administrator doesn't know, Jayme, who does?
JAYME LEAGH FRANKLIN, FOUNDER AND CEO, CONSERVATEUR: I mean, only in Washington can you spend billions upon billions of dollars, and Democrats will apparently defend it. American taxpayers work very hard for their money and we are sick and tired of it going to frivolous programs abroad. It's absolutely ridiculous. That's why we voted in President Trump to root out this corruption and waste within our government. We should be reinvesting in the American people and keeping taxpayer dollars in our pockets.
GUTFELD: I want to put this up on the screen because we're talking about illegal immigration here. This is Jose Fernandez Perez, 49-year-old, had previously been charged with three counts of forcible rape of a child, three counts of aggravated rape of a child. The Essex County, Massachusetts Superior Court ignored the detainer and released him on pretrial conditions. As you consider that, consider this.
They finally got him, but of no help from the state of Massachusetts, and now you have Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a U.S. Congresswoman giving these illegal immigrants pointers on how to evade ICE.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ (D-NY): When one of these things comes to your backyard, you can resist. And what that happens over millions of people is that you generate enough friction that they cannot go as fast as they want to go. Make sure that you are slowing down this system.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: They're on the wrong side of this issue, Camryn, but they keep at it.
KINSEY: I know. It's absolutely ridiculous and my heart goes out to these families as well, but she's coaching illegal immigrants on how to evade law enforcement. That is absolutely absurd. Imagine if Republicans held a webinar to evade the IRS the media outrage would be nuclear but AOC and the radical left keep putting illegal immigrants above American citizens.
GUTFELD: Yes. Speaking of question, Jayme, here is Massachusetts Senator Ed Markey questioning Trump's pick for the education secretary. It kind of went like this. A lot of the hearing went like this. But watch this particular moment.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. ED MARKEY (D-MA): Will you oppose any cuts to public education? Yes or no?
LINDA MCMAHON, FORMER UNITED STATES ADMINISTRATOR OF THE SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION: Well, the President is not -- he is not saying that we should cut funding to public education.
MARKEY: Yes, he is. Yes, he is.
MCMAHON: He simply say, well, I would disagree with you there.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: Yes. He wants to cut the Department of Education altogether, Jayme, but he's not talking about taking school funding away from kids.
FRANKLIN: I mean, as President Trump said today in his press conference, America is rated right now number 47 in the world, yet we spend the most money per capita per student. That is absolutely unacceptable. I have a two-year-old daughter, and I want a better America, and I want a better education system for her and the Department of Education has continued to fail American citizens.
And it's time to return it back to the state. And I think Linda McMahon is the right woman to do it. She's a shrewd business woman, and her and President Trump are going to make American education great again.
GUTFELD: And we hope for your two-year-old daughter, the education system is improved, much improved by the time she gets in school. Jayme, Camryn, thank you both.
FRANKLIN: Thank you.
GUTFELD: Well, the FOX NEWS @ NIGHT Common Sense Department made the New York Times today. They even used our Common Sense graphic, if you didn't see it or hear about it, don't worry. The article wasn't meant as a pat on the back for Common Sense. It was meant as a kick in the backside for Fox News. The aim of the piece was to convince readers that recently, Fox News has been parroting the President.
The article reads in part, "The flood of Common Sense comments on Fox News echoes the language Mr. Trump and his new administration have used to justify his policies. Common Sense was entertained by the accusation that we echo the language of Mr. Trump. Echo means repetition of an idea. And those of you who watch this show are well aware the Common Sense Department was cool before Common Sense was cool.
And has been serving up snark and brilliance along with rational and reasonable remarks every night since the show began. So when the Time says, "Common Sense has become a constant refrain on Fox News, maybe they should have continued the sentence to say constant refrain on Fox News for 2-1/2 years. Long enough to sell thousands of Common Sense mugs, hats and T- shirts. Did you get one?
Somebody should tell the New York Times that common sense has actually been around for a while, despite all of their efforts to oppose it.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: The FOX NEWS @ NIGHT Common Sense Department. Common Sense. Common Sense. And FOX NEWS @ NIGHT Common Sense Common Sense Department. FOX NEWS @ NIGHT Common Sense Department. Common Sense thinks if only they could have found some word. Some term that, you know, fit.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: Let's bring in conservative commentator Elisha Krauss and the V.P. of programs for the conservative partnership Institute, Rachel Bovard. Well, it's great to have you both on. I mean, I read this New York Times thing this morning, and I'm thinking, man, could the New York Times at least have done a Google search of the show and known that we've been doing Common Sense for 2-1/2 years?
They act like this all this started, all this Common Sense talk just started a couple of weeks ago. It's senseless.
ELISHA KRAUSS, CONSERVATIVE COMMENTATOR: Well, it's laughable that you would assume that the New York Times would do any research or maybe talk to yourself or somebody that's been on your show for a while, you know. And -- but why would you expect Common Sense from the New York Times, Trace? I think you're giving them -- you're holding them to a much higher bar than they deserve.
GUTFELD: Yes. It's kind of unbelievable. Meantime, NBC claims the following here. They say that Trump is anti-media. They interviewed a law professor. Her name is Rebecca Hamilton, and she said the following here. "I don't know if Trump himself has a game plan, per se, but it is clear that the overall picture is of an administration that disdains the free press." I mean, disdains? He talks to the media, Rachel, almost every single day.
Question after question and the only animosity has about these people who continue to lie about him every day and have lied about him for years.
RACHEL BOVARD, CONSERVATIVE PARTNERSHIP INSTITUTE: Well, not only does he talk to the media every day and in freewheeling unscripted press conferences with Elon Musk in the Oval Office. This administration has thrown open the door to independent media. They have brought in more media than ever before. And by the way, under Joe Biden, over 400 journalists lost their press credentials to the White House.
And I didn't see a peep from NBC News about that, because their friends weren't impacted. But what we're talking about here is, again, one of the most open and accessible administrations. We're only in the middle of mid- February and the number of press conferences we have seen from this president, I think, has dwarfed what we saw from Joe Biden in at least six months. So, I think the phrase anti-media or anti-free press is just, you know, another primal scream from the press, because they're not getting their way with President Trump.
GUTFELD: Meantime, the former Democratic Congressman Dean Phillips, who ran for president himself, said this on CNN about the Democrats opposing DOGE.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DEAN PHILLIPS (D) FORMER MINNESOTA CONGRESSMAN: I was really embarrassed for my Democratic colleagues. This is not playing well around the country. People want the government to work better. They believe that Mr. Musk one of the most extraordinary entrepreneurs in human history who does not fail at just about anything. They want him to do this. Most Americans.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: Most Americans do want him to do this, Alicia. I mean, they want the government to run it and you have all these Democrats who do not want the government to run properly.
KRAUSS: If the Democrats are smart, they would lean into the Dean Phillips's and the John Fettermans of the party instead of the Bernie Sanders and then AOC not to give Democrats too much advice before, you know, they start to plan ahead for the midterms. It is laughable, I think, to the average American like me, who's a small business owner, who's a mom, who's, you know, having to file everything for the IRS, who has to have and live on a budget.
When we look at the federal government, and we look specifically at leftists and Democrats on Capitol Hill, they're like, how dare you be mad about us spending $3 million on an anti-Semitic rapper in Gaza?
GUTFELD: Right.
KRAUSS: No. If we have to budget, you need to too and stop spending our hard-earned tax dollars on this kind of credit.
GUTFELD: And it goes back to the bite we played earlier about the administrator who has no idea what these programs are, much less who is paying former what they for. That's the most disappointing part about this. Former Obama White House policy advisor, Dr. Kavita Patel kind of freaking out about RFKJ, RFK juniorbeing the Health and Human Services Secretary. Watch.
No? We don't have her bite. She says, the -- she says, I can tell you how many career staff have been calling me and trying to understand what's going to happen to them. They're worried that they're on some list or have been put on a list because of some watchdog. So, it's happening right now, Rachel. I mean, who is keeping this list? Where are these lists coming from, and what are they talking about?
BOVARD: The level of histrionics has reached mammoth proportions. I think, you know, from these bureaucrats. And what I really think that they're misunderstanding is, you know, the American taxpayer, we've always wanted to know how our money is being spent and what is -- what's happening inside these agencies. We are finally getting a peek into it, and it's unfortunately, even worse, I think, than a lot of people expected.
This is money, and these are activities that are being spent and done in our name, and we're finally getting a look at it. That's not an invasion of privacy of a bureaucrat. That's the American transparency and the right. We have a Simpsons to know what's being done in our name.
GUTFELD: Yes. Rachel Bovard, Alicia Krauss, thank you both. More now on. RFK Jr. who was officially sworn in today as the Secretary of Health and Human Services after being confirmed by the Senate. Christina Coleman is live with new information and reaction. Christina, good evening.
CHRISTINA COLEMAN, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Hi, good evening, Trace. Yes. That's right. RFK Jr. was confirmed as HHS Secretary today in a 52 to 48 vote, largely along party lines. Former GOP Senate Leader Mitch McConnell was the only Republican to opposes confirmation, citing concerns over his record opposing vaccines. But remember, RFK Jr. says he is not anti-Vax. He also says he wants to focus on helping Americans live healthier lives.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KENNEDY: I'm going to be a disrupter. I'm not going to let the food industry and the pharmaceutical industry run health policy anymore. I'm not going to take away anybody's vaccine. If people are happy with their vaccines, they ought to be able to get them. What we're going to do is give people good signs.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
COLEMAN: Also today, Kash Patel cleared a Senate panel in a party line vote, which advances him to a final confirmation vote to be the next FBI Director sometime next week. Patel says as FBI director, he wants to help restore public trust in law enforcement and lead the agency as it focuses its efforts on cracking down on crime. Meantime, some Democrats still claim Patel is too radical to lead the bureau.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. SHELDON WHITEHOUSE (D-RI): This Patel guy will come back to haunt you. Every piece of evidence shows that, and it is not Democrat evidence. It's his own words.
SEN. CHUCK GRASSLEY (R-IA): Mr. Patel has spent his whole career fighting for righteous causes. He's been a public defender, representing the accused against the power of the state.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
COLEMAN: Also, conservative lawyer Brooke Rollins was confirmed as Agriculture Secretary today and Trump's nominee to head the Department of Commerce. Howard Lutnick is now set for a full Senate confirmation hearing in the coming days. Trace?
GUTFELD: Christina Coleman live for us here. Christina, thank you. Let's bring in motherhood coach, postpartum doula and birth educator McClain McGowan. McClain, great to have you on the show. I mean, I cannot tell you how many moms we've had on this show who literally look at RFK Jr. and say, you know, we love -- we love the man because, because he hears us, right?
MCCLAIN MCGOWAN, MOTHERHOOD COACH AND BIRTH EDUCATOR: Exactly.
GUTFELD: He hears them.
MCGOWN: Yes. And millions of mothers are celebrating tonight. This is a huge victory. This feels like a righteous choice for so many mothers that have felt disenfranchised, unseen, unheard and gas lit for a very long time. So, we are celebrating tonight.
GUTFELD: Yes. It's impressive, because you listen to people (INAUDIBLE) we had Allie Beth Stuckey on the show last night and she posted this on X. "RFK Jr. is further proof that Trump winning in 2024 is even better than Trump winning in 2020. He's not the same person he was four years ago. He's not here to make friends. He's here to disrupt the system in the best, biggest way possible. Let's go because the system needs to be disrupted.
Because, as these moms will tell you, the system needs to be disrupted for their kids, as we had a guest on saying, I have a two-year-old and I want my two-year-old education to be better than my older children's education.
MCGOWN: Exactly. And when did asking questions become so controversial? That's the biggest issue for me as a mom of two, is I have the right to ask important questions concerning education, food, water. Would anything that's put into my body or my children's body?
GUTFELD: Yes. I want to play this sound but because this is RFK Jr. on USAID after being sworn in. He said this today.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KENNEDY: My uncle started USAID in 1961 for humanitarian purposes, to put our country on this side of the poor. It has been captured by the military industrial complex. It has become a sinister propagator of totalitarianism across and war across the globe.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: I mean, you know, they say the pathway to hell is paved in good intentions. This is one thing in 1961. It was set out there for good intentions. It's gone the wrong way and it needs correction. And RFK Jr. is like, Let's correct it. Let's correct some of the food things that we have wrong in this country. Let's correct what's wrong.
MCGOWN: Yes. And I think we'd want transparency at the end of the day. We just want to know what's going on with what we're eating, what we're drinking, we're putting into bodies, and then we can all make informed choices for ourselves.
GUTFELD: Yes. Lastly, Chef Andrew Gruel posted this. He -- it's such a great day having RFK Jr. confirm, but always remember that every Democrat voted against health, clean food and a system free from corporate corruption. Your final thoughts?
MCGOWN: Well, I think RFK Jr. says it best when he says we have to start loving our children more than we hate each other, and that's what it's going to bring our country together.
GUTFELD: Yes. McClain McGowan, great to have you on the show. Thank you. Well, coming up. More promises being kept as the Trump administration continues cracking down on the worst of the worst. Meaning criminal illegal immigrants.
And now a Guatemalan man facing multiple child rape charges is off the streets. But the state of Massachusetts did not make it easy.
And later in The Nightcap.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What is your message to Hezbollah and its backer Iran?
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Don't. Don't, don't, don't.
TRUMP: If all of the hostages are returned by Saturday at 12:00, I think it's an appropriate time. I would say, cancel it. All bets are off and let hell break out. All hell is going to break out.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: Six years ago, the left used to love to say nobody respected Donald Trump. Well, after four years of the world thumbing its nose at Biden, Hamas, Russia and China are all ready to work with the U.S. It now appears Trump is respected. Do you agree or disagree? Let us know. X and Instagram @tracegallagher. We'll read your responses coming up in The Nightcap.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GUTFELD: Breaking tonight. The illegal immigration crackdown by the Trump administration now resulting in several key arrests. ICE announcing the apprehension of several criminal aliens, even though they had been released in sanctuary cities and states after detainer requests were ignored. Among those arrested, a Guatemalan illegal in Massachusetts who was previously charged with multiple counts of aggravated and forcible child rape.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DAVID MENCER, ISRAELI GOVERNMENT SPOKESMAN: If they violate this agreement and do not release our hostages, the government has made clear that it has instructed our armed forces, and we have already amassed forces inside and surrounding Gaza, so if those three are not released, if Hamas does not return our hostages, by Saturday, noon, the ceasefire will end and the IDF will resume intense fighting until the final defeat of Hamas.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: So in his first few weeks in office, the President's foreign policy, actions and words are making waves around the globe, from our allies to adversaries. Let's bring in Rabbi Chaim Mentz from the Chabad of Bel Air here in Los Angeles. The Foreign Desk editor-in-chief, Lisa Daftari and former State Department Deputy Special Envoy, Ellie Cohanim. Thank you all for coming on. We appreciate it.
Rabbi, to you first. I mean, Trump said all hell will break out. Hamas now agrees to release three more. He -- I guess he wants them all on Saturday, but they're agreeing to go back to at least the deal, the framework of the basic deal on. Is it enough to keep all hell from breaking out? And is it - - is it -- is it a gesture in the right -- in the right direction?
RABBI CHAIM MENTZ, SPIRITUAL LEADER, CHABAD OF BEL AIR: It's a gesture in the right direction for Israel, but not for our president. Our president said, straight up, we want all out. I want my American hostages out. I want them all out. This is not going to be drip by drip. He's telling the world I'm going to do something. When Saturday comes 12:00 noon, the world is going to be asking, what now?
Is it still going to go and say to -- our president say we got three. Let's be happy. We can get a few more. Come on. I don't want us going in guns blazing and killing all the other hostages that are there because that's what they're going to do. Or does our president actually have a plan to go and make sure I want every single hostage out, including the Americans.
GUTFELD: But the plan has to be for Israel to go in, because it's not going to be any but Israel, and if Israel for the time being is happy, then the all hell thing kind of goes out the window, at least temporarily.
MENTZ: Israel wants to get every single light that they can back. Any which way they can. They don't want to go in guns blazing because they know that they'll kill those that are still alive.
GALLAGHER: Meantime, the Wall Street Journal, Lisa, writes the following here: "Arab states wake up to the fact that Trump means what he says on Gaza." It goes on to read, "Egypt has launched diplomatic blitz to corral support for an Arab-led and funded initiative to rebuild the Gaza Strip, setting aside old political concerns in hopes of boxing out a Trump plan that is wildly unpopular across the Arab world." In other words, whether Trump does it or somebody else does it, it looks like it's going to get done and that's the fire that Trump lit.
LISA DAFTARI, THE FOREIGN DESK EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: That is all that he wants. He wanted to put their feet to the fire, as you said, and say, enough with the rhetoric, enough with the protection of the Palestinian people verbally only. We need a plan.
Look, I was brought in to help out with the rollout of the Abraham Accords. And if you would have told me that there's something like the Abraham Accords that will be signed by moderate Arab states, I would have told you you're crazy, but it happened.
It's because Trump had an out-of-the-box idea, and it solved the problem of at least getting countries to rally around Israel for the future. Now, we're seeing something else. Trump's saying, here's another idea that's outside the box. If you have something better, do it. But he doesn't care how it starts, he just cares about the results.
GALLAGHER: How it's finished.
DAFTARI: Results-oriented.
GALLAGHER: Meantime, Ellie, the Wall Street Journal again here, putting your State Department hat back on if you would, China tries to play the role of peacemaker in Ukraine. "As President Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin signal they are prepared to start negotiations to end the war in Ukraine, China is pushing to play a role." China remains the biggest concern to the United States. Any general will tell you that, but the fact that she wants to help suddenly is interesting, is it not?
ELLIE COHANIM, FORMER STATE DEPARTMENT DEPUTY SPECIAL ENVOY: Trace, it is indeed interesting and within three weeks of coming into office, President Trump is putting out fires all across the world. He has said that Putin would never have invaded Ukraine under his presidency and he didn't when President Trump was our 45th president. So, right now, President Trump again within three weeks of coming into office he's already got he got Russia on the phone, he got Putin on the phone on the same day that he got Zelenskyy on the phone. And we know that President Trump is already able to de-escalate in Europe and he's working towards a peace plan and really bringing an end to a war that under the Biden administration we just saw no end to it.
GALLAGHER: Yes, and I want to talk to you now, Rabbi, as a peacemaker, because Trump said this about Putin and Zelenskyy and the negotiations going on in Ukraine. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, U.S. PRESIDENT: I think we're going to be able to do something. We're working with President Zelenskyy and with President Putin. And my impression is that they, I know that President Zelenskyy wants to make a deal. And I also feel that I know that President Putin wants to make a deal. I wanted to know that before I began any detailed discussions.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: I mean, we just talked about this the fact that Hamas in Israel are kind of going bit by bit here. Is there enough desire do you think and when you talk about the Zelenskyy, and maybe Xi and Putin kind of getting together. Is there enough desire to end this war?
MENTZ: A hundred percent. I mean, both sides are losing hundreds of thousands of people. I know what's going on in Kyiv because some of my rabbi's live there and they tell me that the disaster what's going on in Kyiv. The number one thing is that right now is our president is telling to everybody, I'm going to be the sheriff and I'm going to go and have everybody sit down and you children are going to figure it out. Xi is now on the outside. He's begging to come in. He's very weak now. And all of a sudden, the president of the United States saying, I don't know if we're going to go and have a summit in China. We may do it in Saudi Arabia. He's calling the shots. But these two children, and I unfortunately call them children because this war never should have been. Putin and Zelenskyy, they're going to have to go and make peace.
GALLAGHER: Are you surprised that diplomatic chips are falling into place the way they are now, Lisa?
DAFTARI: Somewhat. I didn't think it was going to happen this quickly. And I'll be honest, just as a student of foreign policy, you just see as he's coming into office, our friends are taking a step forward, our enemies are taking a step back.
And I did say this before, that he is trying to reinstate the American brand of deterrence, the American way. We don't grab the Houthi missile in the air and pat ourselves on the back for it. We don't allow them to take the first strike.
And the way that he is really re-establishing that, in under a month of being in office, it is surprising that it is working this quickly and that, you know, these dictators around the world are responding in the way that they are.
GALLAGHER: Ellie, I got to go, but what are your big concerns, two big concerns, Israel and Ukraine. What do you worry about over the next several days?
COHANIM: You know, I have to tell you I'm not worried because we've seen with President Trump backing off his peace through strength, and he has taken every step to, again, stabilize the world, put out the fires, and hopefully move us to prosperity in the country, which is his overall goal, and I see us getting there.
GALLAGHER: Ellie, Rabbi, Lisa, thank you all.
Coming up, Democrats spar with Linda McMahon over DOGE as the Trump administration begins dismantling the Department of Education.
And breaking tonight, heavy rain here in Southern California in places still reeling from the devastating wildfires. And an unbelievable video of a kayaker off the coast of Chile as he gets swallowed by a humpback whale. How he survived is next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GALLAGHER: While breaking tonight, heavy rains here in Southern California now prompting evacuation orders in some Los Angeles neighborhoods ravaged by last month's wildfires, and now at high risk for mudslides.
The downpour intensified this evening causing a rock slide in Malibu Canyon and a large debris flow including a report of waste deep mud in parts of the Pacific Palisades, recently burned by those fires.
And how about an amazing moment caught on camera when a kayaker off the coast of Chile gets swallowed by a humpback whale? Adrian Simancas admitted later that he thought he was a dead man, "I thought it had eaten me, that it had swallowed me."
Moments after the whale surfaced, it began to dive deeper, and that's when Simancas and his fellow kayak, or his yellow kayak, somehow got free from the clutches of the whale's jaws, and resurfaced, grateful, as you might imagine, to be alive.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
LINDA MCMAHON, EDUCATION SECRETARY NOMINEE: In many cases, our wounds are caused by the excessive consolidation of power in our federal education establishment. So, what's the remedy? Fund education freedom, not government-run systems. Listen to parents, not politicians. Build up careers, not college debt. Empower states, not special interests. Invest in teachers, not Washington bureaucrats.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: That was Linda McMahon at her confirmation hearing today as Education Secretary as President Trump works to dismantle the Department of Education. Let's bring in Chino Valley, California School Board President Sonja Shaw, XX-XY Athletics Owner, Jennifer Say, and American Principles Project President Terry Schilling. Thank you all for coming on.
To you first, Sonja. The Department of Education press release reads in part the following here, "The U.S. Department of Education Office for Civil Rights today announced directed investigations into the Minnesota State High School League and the California Interscholastic Federation, both of which publicly announced plans to violate federal anti-discrimination laws related to girls and women's sport." They're not going to play by the rules. They want federal money, they just don't want to play by federal rules.
SONJA SHAW, CALIFORNIA SCHOOL BOARD PRESIDENT: Absolutely, Trace, and you know what, we were there at CIF last week. We warned them. We had advocates for faith and freedom with us. They told them that you are going to be held accountable. We're going to come and be just as relentless as you to protect our children and our females, more importantly.
And they doubled down. They put a toolkit out to show the boys how to do this. I mean, they're contributing to a whole mental health crisis for our boys and our girls. And enough is enough. We're going to continue to hold them accountable and keep turning them in until they do the right thing.
GALLAGHER: And I wonder what you think about this, Jennifer Sey, do you think that you know this resistance is going to work or is it something you're like, listen we voted for this?
JENNIFER SEY, XX-XY ATHLETICS OWNER: I think we have a long road, Trace, I really do. Those aren't the only two states. Illinois is also pushing back and I would argue the NCAA which published their sort of new rules and guidelines stating they were going to adhere to the E.O. They aren't at all. Within those guidelines, it says that proof of sex or gender is the term they use can be your birth certificate, but 25 states allow you to change sex on your birth certificate so they're washing their hands of complying as well.
I think we have a very long way to go. We need federal legislation we need state-by-state legislation, and we need the U.S. Olympic Committee and all the individual sport governing bodies to get on board. We, the people, need to stand up so these governing bodies know that they must comply.
GALLAGHER: Yes, meantime, Terry, you were in McMahon's hearing today, her appearance on Capitol Hill, and you say they struggled to pin her down, meaning what exactly, Terry?
TERRY SCHILLING, AMERICAN PRINCIPLES PROJECT PRESIDENT: Well, listen, the Democrats are, and thanks so much for having me, Trace, the Democrats are really tough spot, right? Because they're having to defend two things. They're having to defend the status quo, the system that is producing now two-thirds of young people who can't read or do math proficiently in our schools. They've got to defend that. That's tough, right?
But the other thing that they have to defend and try and go on offense against Linda McMahon is all this waste, fraud, and abuse that's being uncovered, right? Think about what DOGE has uncovered just in the last few weeks, none of it is defensible whatsoever. They're in a tough spot.
Linda McMahon has a very clear message. We're going to empower parents and make them partners in education. It's a winning strategy.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Meantime, the associate -- Fox News writes the following, "DOGE slashes over $100 million in DEI funding at education department. It's a win for every student. You're a school board president. You know what funding is.
You know what you use it for and all these rules you have to go to. Maybe it's time. Maybe it's about time that you let things be based on merit instead of having to pick winners and losers.
SHAW: Absolutely, Trace. And you know, they again weaponized the Department of Ed. They overreached and they require our school districts. I mean, I see firsthand all these requirements that have nothing to do with education. Our kids are failing at reading, writing, and math, and you have districts like ours that are standing up, trying to do the right thing, and look, we're being sued by the state. I mean, it's just clear that education is not the priority.
GALLAGHER: And even though most parents are in your corner on this, the state is still going forward because they're on the wrong side of this issue and they do not care. Jennifer, the Associated Press writes the following here, kind of picking up on your argument in the previous question, a federal judge on Thursday temporarily blocked President Donald Trump's recent executive order aimed at restricting gender-affirming health care for transgender people under the age of 19. Is it a bump in the road or is it worse? Jennifer.
SEY: Like I said, I think we have a fight on our hands. I think first of all, we need to stop calling it health care. It's not health care. It's mutilation and sterilization. But as long as we're using their language, we're conceding to their view of the world. It's not health care.
I think on all of these issues; we have a long way to go. They've sort of co-opted our language, the laws, et cetera, and we just must keep fighting and pushing back. Trump has done what he can with these executive orders. Now the people must stand up and say no more. The states need legislation, and we need to keep pushing forward.
GALLAGHER: Yes, lastly, Terry, Donald Trump said this about the Department of Education. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: I'd like it to be closed immediately. Look, the Department of Education is a big con job. We're ranked, so they rank the top 40 countries in the world. We're ranked number one in one department cost per pupil so we spend more per pupil than any other country in the world it will rank number forty that means something's really wrong, right?
(END VIDEO CLIP) GALLAGHER: And you look at the national report card, Terry, and I mean it is bleak. We are losing kids every single year
SCHILLING: no that's exactly right trace the thing that people need to remember is that the department occasion is relatively new. It was founded in 1980. And here's the other thing to keep in mind with that, is that the test scores and the student progress in education has only gone down. It hasn't even maintained itself. It's gone down. What can we lose? What can we lose? We have to get this done and try some new stuff.
GALLAGHER: Terry Schilling, Jennifer Sey, and Sonja Shaw, thank you all. Well, six years ago, the left would say that no one respected Donald Trump. Now three weeks into his second term, Hamas, Russia, and China all indicating they are ready and willing to work with the United States. It now appears that Trump is greatly respected. Do you agree or disagree? Let us know, X and Instagram, @TraceGallagher. We will read your responses. Coming up in the "NIGHTCAP."
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GALLAGHER: Back with the "NIGHTCAP" crew: Kevin Corke, Chanley Painter, Rabbi Ments, Sonja Shaw, Cameron Kinsey, and Alicia Krauss. Tonight's topic, R-E-S-P-E-C-T. I'd sing it, but no.
Six years ago, the left loved to say that no one respected Donald Trump but just three weeks into his second term Hamas, Russia and China all willing to work with the U.S. It now appears President Trump is greatly respected. Do you agree or disagree Rabbi?
MENTZ: Four years ago, when he did not get into the White House he was plotting for four years. When I get back, I know exactly what I'm going to do and I got my team and I'm telling you it's we are blessed that he's now the president and not four years ago. Very respected.
GALLAGHER: Kevin Corke.
CORKE: I agree with the rabbi. I think he's right on. And I think he's actually feared. And if fear is the other side of the coin from respect, I agree with that too. Yes.
GALLAGHER: Chanley Painter.
PAINTER: I agree with Kevin as well. When you have world leaders lining up to meet with President Trump, that equates to respect.
GALLAGHER: Yes, it really does. I mean, Cameron Kinsey, you look at this and you think, well, something's going on because every time he every time he lays down the gauntlet people like OK.
KINSEY: Yes, I think I think we're doing a lot better than the former president who couldn't string together coherent sentence and with losing an argument to his own teleprompter, so we're doing a lot better.
GALLAGHER: Sonja Shaw.
SHAW: I think he always had the respect from the other countries but that's why it was such a big thing to try to take him away from that because they had a different plan.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Elisha Krauss.
KRAUSS: I would say walk softly and carry a big stick but Trump is not walking softly and I think that that's actually the best thing for the United States at this moment on the world stage.
GALLAGHER: Yes, he's not walking softly at all. Everybody's good. We asked what everybody else thinks.
K. says, "Like him or not they at least know who's running this show."
David says, "I recall they wouldn't take a call from Biden and gloated over it to the world. Now, they and those world leaders are making the phone calls 1-800-TRUMP. Please hold, America is back."
Marla says, "I think they respect him more after everything he's been through and he is standing tall." I think that's part of it as well.
Tom says, "Respected and feared. We have been ripped off for a long time. Trump is dealing international fairness."
Abacus says, "The bar has been set so low, the big guys four years could not compete with Trump's first three days."
Janet, "Agree. Those who don't are delusional and lacking common sense."
Gabe says, "World leaders respect him, but know not to mess with him.
And Karen says, "agree, now if only the Democrats would just respect him as well." Thank you all for joining the "NIGHTCAP," and thank you for watching America's late news, FOX NEWS @ NIGHT. I'm Trace Gallagher in Los Angeles. We'll see you right back here again for a Friday night, FOX NEWS @ NIGHT.

Load-Date: February 14, 2025


End of Document
