




Newsweek.com
January 31, 2025 Friday 5:28 AM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 937 words
Byline: Ewan Palmer
Highlight: Trump hit out at diversity and inclusion initiatives while discussing Reagan National Airport collision that left as many as 67 dead.
Body


President  condemned a Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) initiative to hire people with disabilities in the wake of the Washington, D.C., plane collision, despite a similar initiative being launched during his first term in office.
Newsweek has contacted the White House and the FAA for comment via email outside of regular working hours.
Why It Matters
Trump pushed to remove all diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) initiatives from federal programs upon his return to office. During a Thursday press conference, Trump suggested diversity hiring programs were to blame for the collision between a passenger jet and a military helicopter near Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport, but 
What to Know
A regional passenger jet from Wichita, Kansas, collided with a military helicopter as it was , with both aircraft falling into the Potomac River.
All 64 passengers onboard the PSA Airlines Bombardier CRJ700 jet and the three flying in the Sikorsky H-60 Black Hawk military helicopter are believed to have died in the accident.
Trump blamed the , which he said were put in place during the  and  administrations.
Speaking during Thursday's press conference, Trump read from   article, which he mistakenly said was from this month, about an FAA program to actively recruit people with "severe" disabilities.
However, the FAA launched a similar initiative in 2019 during Trump's first term in office to actively hire people with disabilities.
The FAA announced in April 2019 that it would launch a pilot program to help prepare people with disabilities for careers in air traffic operations.
The FAA stated that those trained under the program would receive the same "rigorous consideration" in terms of aptitude, medical, and security qualifications as those doing standard air traffic controller job applications.
The FAA continued to promote the disability program in the final months of Trump's first term in office.
The policy of actively recruiting people with "severe" disabilities has also existed for more than a decade.
The list of disabilities mentioned in the January 2024 Fox News article and read by Trump on Thursday includes "hearing, vision, missing extremities, partial paralysis, complete paralysis, epilepsy, severe intellectual disability, psychiatric disability, and dwarfism."
This exact wording has existed on the FAA website since at least February 2013, according to fact-checking website It remained on the site throughout Trump's first term.
Trump also suggested at the press conference that the program focused on hiring air traffic controllers, despite the FAA not stating this.
On Thursday, Trump signed an executive order initiating the "Immediate Assessment of Aviation Safety" in the wake of the Reagan National Airport disaster, which includes implementing only merit-based hiring.
The order stated the Biden administration "egregiously rejected" merit-based hiring and specifically recruited individuals with "severe intellectual" disabilities in the FAA.
What People Are Saying
President Donald Trump during Thursday's press conference: "We have to have our smartest people. It doesn't matter what they look like, how they speak, who they are. What matters is intellect, talent. The word talent—they have to be talented, naturally talented, geniuses. Brilliant people have to be in those positions [air traffic controllers], and their lives are actually shortened, very substantially shortened, because of the stress, where you have many, many planes coming into one target, and you need a very special talent and a very special genius to be able to do it."
Trump's Immediate Assessment of Aviation Safety Executive Order: "On my second day in office, I ordered an immediate return to merit-based recruitment, hiring, and promotion, elevating safety and ability as the paramount standard. Yesterday's devastating accident tragically underscores the need to elevate safety and competence as the priority of the FAA."
The American Association of People with Disabilities in a statement: "FAA employees with disabilities did not cause last night's tragic plane crash. DEI hiring did not cause last night's plane crash. Using this tragedy to push the president's anti-diversity hiring agenda is inappropriate and wrong. It does nothing to make Americans safer."
Democratic New York Senator Chuck Schumer, posted on X, formerly Twitter: "I just watched President Trump's news conference on the heartbreaking, horrific accident at DCA, and I have to tell you: It's one thing for internet pundits to spew conspiracy theories. It's another for the president of the United States of America to throw out idle speculation even as victims are still being recovered, and families are still being notified. It turns your stomach."
The FAA said in a statement: "FAA investigators are supporting the NTSB-led investigation of Wednesday night's midair collision near Reagan Washington National Airport. The NTSB is leading the investigation and will provide all updates. We cannot comment on any aspect of open investigations. The FAA will quickly take any actions necessary based on evidence from the investigation."
What Happens Next
Trump has ordered Secretary of Transportation Sean Duffy and top FAA officials  and safety protocol changes made during the Biden administration following Wednesday's aircraft collision.
An investigation to determine the cause of the accident is underway.


Graphic

 
Donald Trump in the White House
Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images
President Donald Trump talks to reporters from the Resolute Desk after signing an executive order to appoint the deputy administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration in the Oval Office at the White House on January 30, 2025 in Washington, DC.

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
