




The Guardian (London)
January 20, 2025 Monday 8:57 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved


Section: US NEWS; Version:46
Length: 23113 words
Byline: Kate Lamb (now); Alice Herman, Chris Stein, Léonie Chao-Fong and Martin Belam (earlier)
Highlight: This blog has closed. You can follow live coverage on our new liveblog here
Body


block-time published-time 5.08am GMT 
 Closing summary  
Thank you for following our live coverage of president Trump’s momentous first day in office. This blog is closing but you can continue to follow live updates on our . 
Here is a summary of the day:
 On day one, Donald Trump set into motion a slew of executive orders seeking to make good on his campaign promises to pardon January 6 defendants, crack down on immigration to the US, deny federal recognition of transgender identities and undo Joe Biden’s executive actions. 
Trump signed multiple executive orders in front of a crowd of his supporters at the Capital One Arena in DC and then signed more during a press conference in the Oval Office. Among other actions, Trump has:
Pardoned about 1,500 January 6 defendants facing prosecution for their role in the 2021 storming of the US capitol. Among those pardoned is Enrique Tarrio, the former leader of the Proud Boys, who was sentenced to 22 years in prison on seditious conspiracy charges. Trump also commuted the sentence of Stewart Rhodes, the founder of the Oath Keepers militia, who had been sentenced to 18 years in prison on sedition charges.Issued an executive order requiring federal agencies revoke the use of “gender” and “gender identity” and instead use a binary definition of “sex” in implementing policy – including in issuing passports, a move that LGBTQ+ rights groups have vowed to challenge in court.Signed an executive order seeking to revoke birthright citizenship – automatic citizenship for people born in the US – for the children of undocumented immigrants. Birthright citizenship is protected by the 14th amendment and the order will almost certainly be challenged in court.Rescinded 78 executive actions enacted by Joe Biden.Signed an executive order to, for a second time, withdraw the US from the Paris climate accords.Issued an executive order to remove the US from the World Health Organization (WHO). “World Health ripped us off, everybody rips off the United States. It’s not going to happen any more,” Trump said at the signing. The withdrawal of the US would dramatically cut funding from the global public health organization.Donald Trump has signed an order to rename the 617,800 sq mile Gulf of Mexico and Alaska’s 20,000ft Denali.  The Gulf of Mexico will be renamed the Gulf of America, and Denali, the highest mountain in North America, will revert to Mount McKinley, which it was called before Barack Obama changed the name in 2015. The order will have no bearing on what names are used internationally.
For a full list of executive orders issued on day one,   :
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 5.09am GMT
block-time published-time 5.02am GMT 
 Reactions to Trump pardons of January 6 defendants and Paris agreement withdrawal  
The Democratic National Committee has released a statement regarding president Trump’s decision to pardon those facing prosecution for their role in the 2021 storming of the US capitol.
“Donald Trump just pardoned the violent insurrectionists he rallied to storm the Capitol on January 6 — rioters who assaulted police officers and attacked our democracy,” said Alex Floyd, the DNC’s rapid response director.
 “On Day One, Trump is already making clear that he’ll follow through on his dangerous campaign promises of revenge and retribution that put violent criminals over law enforcement,” he said in an emailed statement.
 In a one line comment accompanied by pictures of Los Angeles engulfed in flames during the recent wildfires, California governor Gavin Newsom. 
 “If you don’t believe in science, believe your own damn eyes,” he said. 
block-time published-time 4.42am GMT 
 Trump government offers help to find US journalist who disappeared in Syria  
The mother of American journalist Austin Tice said on Monday that the Trump administration had offered support to help find her son, who disappeared in Syria in 2012, the Associated Press reported. Debra Tice made the remarks at a news conference in Damascus on her first visit to the country since insurgents toppled President Bashar Assad last month. She did not present any new findings in the ongoing search.
Austin Tice has not been heard from other than a video released weeks after his disappearance that showed him blindfolded and held by armed men. Tens of thousands are believed to have gone missing in Syria since 2011, when countrywide protests against Assad spiralled into a devastating civil war.
block-time published-time 4.26am GMT 
 World leaders react to Trump’s consequential first day in office  
 International leaders have responded with a mixture of wariness, anger and enthusiasm to Donald Trump’s inauguration as US presiden t, with Panama pushing back on his   and Mexico vowing to defend its people ahead of a crackdown on migrants.
The Guardian’s Helen Livingstone has this   of how global leaders have reacted to Trump 2.0 so far.
Among the most notable of comments was one from Hungarian prime minister, Victor Orbán, who said in a post on X: “Now it’s our turn to shine! It’s our turn to occupy Brussels!” 
block-time published-time 4.16am GMT 
 Trump refugee ban ‘strands Afghans endangered by US withdrawal’  
 Among the flurry of executive orders Trump signed after his inauguration, one is set to impact more than 1,600 Afghans who had hoped to enter the US as refugees. 
Their entry, writes the Guardian’s Andrew Roth, will now be blocked under an executive order signed by Trump on Monday evening that suspends the resettlement of all refugees to the United States for an indefinite period of time.
The decision has led to panic among prospective  , including family members of hundreds of active-duty service personnel and children waiting to be reunited with family members already in the US, according to a leading refugee resettlement activist and a US official who spoke with the Guardian on condition of anonymity.
Read the . 
block-time published-time 3.56am GMT 
 At the Commander in Chief Ball, one of three inauguration day balls that Donald Trump attended on Monday, the president and first lady Melania Trump shared a first dance – an inauguration day tradition. 
The couple danced to Battle Hymn of the Republic, and were joined by JD and Usha Vance. 
block-time published-time 3.48am GMT 
 Summary: what executive orders did Trump sign  
 On his first day in office, Donald Trump set into motion a slew of executive orders seeking to make good on his campaign promises to pardon January 6 defendants, crack down on immigration to the US, deny federal recognition of transgender identities and undo Joe Biden’s executive actions. 
Trump signed multiple executive orders in front of a crowd of his supporters at the Capital One Arena in DC and then signed more during a press conference in the Oval Office. Among other actions, Trump has:
Pardoned about 1,500 January 6 defendants facing prosecution for their role in the 2021 storming of the US capitol. Among those pardoned is Enrique Tarrio, the former leader of the Proud Boys, who was sentenced to 22 years in prison on seditious conspiracy charges. Trump also commuted the sentence of Stewart Rhodes, the founder of the Oath Keepers militia, who had been sentenced to 18 years in prison on sedition charges.Issued an executive order requiring federal agencies revoke the use of “gender” and “gender identity” and instead use a binary definition of “sex” in implementing policy – including in issuing passports, a move that LGBTQ+ rights groups have vowed to challenge in court.Signed an executive order seeking to revoke birthright citizenship – automatic citizenship for people born in the US – for the children of undocumented immigrants. Birthright citizenship is protected by the 14th amendment and the order will almost certainly be challenged in court.Rescinded 78 executive actions enacted by Joe Biden.Signed an executive order to, for a second time, withdraw the US from the Paris climate accords.Issued an executive order to remove the US from the World Health Organization (WHO). “World Health ripped us off, everybody rips off the United States. It’s not going to happen any more,” Trump said at the signing. The withdrawal of the US would dramatically cut funding from the global public health organization.Donald Trump has signed an order to rename the 617,800 sq mile Gulf of Mexico and Alaska’s 20,000ft Denali.  The Gulf of Mexico will be renamed the Gulf of America, and Denali, the highest mountain in North America, will revert to Mount McKinley, which it was called before Barack Obama changed the name in 2015. The order will have no bearing on what names are used internationally.
For a full list of executive orders issued on day one, click here:
 Related:  
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.54am GMT
block-time published-time 3.06am GMT 
 Trump, who made anti-transgender rhetoric a centerpiece of his 2024 campaign, has signed an executive order that seeks to limit legal recognition of trans people in the US. 
The order stipulates that federal agencies use its definition of “sex,” (“an individual’s immutable biological classification as either male or female”) rather than “gender” or “gender identity” in enacting policy.
The LGBTQ+ legal group Lambda Legal   the order could limit trans and intersex people’s “access to essential public facilities, school programs, and the same medically recommended health care that is readily available to their cisgender peers” and has vowed to take legal action to stop its implementation.
The order directs the secretary of state, the secretary of homeland security and the director of the Office of Personnel Management to require official documents like passports to “accurately reflect the holder’s sex” and not their gender identity.
It stipulates that agencies submit a review of the implementation of these policies to the Office of Management and Budget, which will be chaired by Russell Vought, if the president’s nominee for the position is confirmed. Vought, an architect of Project 2025, has used extreme anti-LGBTQ+ rhetoric, including   that “transgender sewage” is “being pumped into our schools and institutions” according to reporting by ProPublica.
 Related:  
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.51am GMT
block-time published-time 2.36am GMT 
 Trump signs order to rename Gulf of Mexico and Mount Denali  
 In a flurry of first-day-in-office penmanship, Donald Trump has signed an order to rename the 617,800 sq mile Gulf of Mexico and Alaska’s 20,000ft Denali. 
The Gulf of Mexico will be renamed the Gulf of America, and Denali, the highest mountain in North America, will revert to Mount McKinley, which it was called before Barack Obama changed the name in 2015.
The order directs the secretary of the interior, nominated by Trump to be North Dakota’s governor, Doug Burgum, to change the change names in federal communications and on official maps. It will have no bearing on what names are used internationally.
“President McKinley championed tariffs to protect US manufacturing, boost domestic production, and drive US industrialization and global reach to new heights,” the order reads.
Mount McKinley was officially named in honor of William McKinley in 1917, 16 years after he was assassinated during a public appearance in Buffalo, New York, though it was unofficially named McKinley in 1896 by a gold prospector.
Obama changed the name to Denali – the name given it by Koyukon speakers of the Koyukon Athabaskans in western interior Alaska.
The name change is said to be of special significance to the new president because he sees a kinship with McKinley. At a rally in December, Trump praised McKinley as “a great president, very good president. At a minimum, he was a very good businessman. He was a businessman, then a governor, very successful businessman.”
Trump discussed the Gulf of Mexico name change earlier this month in a speech on tariffs.
“We’re going to be changing the name of the Gulf of Mexico to the Gulf of America, which has a beautiful ring. That covers a lot of territory, the Gulf of America. What a beautiful name – and it’s appropriate,” Trump declared.
 Related:  
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.09am GMT
block-time published-time 2.14am GMT 
 Trump signs order to end birthright citizenship for millions  
 Donald Trump’s   on birthright citizenship seeks to end automatic citizenship for the children born to undocumented immigrants in the US starting 30 days from today. 
Birthright citizenship, which guarantees automatic US citizenship to people born on US soil, is protected by the 14th amendment and Trump’s efforts to upend the right will almost certainly be challenged in court.
The order specifies that it would limit birthright citizenship if a person’s “mother was unlawfully present in the United States and the father was not a United States citizen or lawful permanent resident at the time of said person’s birth,” or “when that person’s mother’s presence in the United States at the time of said person’s birth was lawful but temporary.”
The order seeks to implement a policy of denying documents recognizing US citizenship for individuals who meet that criteria and are born in the US 30 days after the order was signed.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.08am GMT
block-time published-time 1.55am GMT 
 Former police officers who were stationed at the US Capitol on January 6, 2021 condemned Donald Trump’s move to pardon about 1,500 defendants facing prosecution for their role in storming the Capitol. 
One of the former capitol police officers, Harry Dunn, said in a statement Monday that the pardons amounted to a “betrayal to the officers who were severely injured – and died – as a result of the insurrection,” and called the pardons “a reflection of what abuse of power looks like and what we the people are bound to witness over the next four years”.
 Aquilino Gonell, also a former Capitol police officer, called the pardons a “miserable miscarriage of justice” and said that “the scars of 6 January 2021 are seared in my mind and body, and I will never truly recover from the events of that day”.
Gonell and Dunn, who testified at congressional hearings investigating the January 6 attacks, were themselves granted last-minute pardons by Joe Biden before Trump took office, in anticipation of possible legal retaliation by the new administration.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.08am GMT
block-time published-time 1.53am GMT 
 US to exit WHO, Trump says  
The United States will exit the World Health Organization, Donald Trump said on Monday, saying the global health agency had mishandled the Covid-19 pandemic and other international health crises.
block-time published-time 1.38am GMT 
 Former Proud Boys leader among those to be released, his mother says  
 The mother of Enrique Tarrio – the former Proud Boys leader who was sentenced to 22 years in prison for seditious conspiracy relating to the storming of the US Capitol – claimed in a post on X today that her son would be released from prison. 
According to the New York Times, Tarrio’s lawyer said Tarrio was being processed on Monday for release from the federal prison where he has been held. Since then, Trump signed an executive order granting clemency en masse to January 6 defendants convicted on charges relating to the storming of the Capitol.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.48am GMT
block-time published-time 1.29am GMT 
 Trump, who promised to withdraw the US from the World Health Organization, has signed an executive order he says does just that. 
By leaving the WHO, the US would dramatically cut funding for the global public health organization. 
 Related:  
block-time published-time 1.14am GMT 
 Trump signs TikTok order, saying he has right to sell or close it  
 Donald Trump told reporters on Monday night that an order related to the social media app TikTok gave him “the right to either sell it or close it”. 
It is not immediately clear what Trump’s executive order, which he said would suspend the TikTok ban that went into effect on Sunday, entailed specifically. TikTok went offline in the US briefly before a ban passed by Congress and upheld by the supreme court went into effect on Sunday.
 Related:  
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.49am GMT
block-time published-time 1.08am GMT 
 Trump signs orders on birthright citizenship and immigration emergency declaration  
 Donald Trump has signed executive orders declaring illegal immigration at the US-Mexico border a national emergency, designating criminal cartels as terrorist organizations, and targeting automatic citizenship for US-born children of immigrants in the country illegally, Reuters reports.
The president also signed an order expected to suspend the US refugee resettlement program for four months, although the text of the orders was not immediately available. Birthright citizenship, which guarantees citizenship to anyone born on US soil, is protected by the 14th amendment and any attempt to revoke it will likely bring immediate legal challenges.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.29am GMT
block-time published-time 12.49am GMT 
 Trump pardons 1,500 January 6 defendants, commutes six sentences  
Donald Trump has arrived at the Oval Office, where he has signed more executive orders and says he has pardoned about 1,500 defendants charged in the January 6 attack on the US Capitol and issued six commutations, the Associated Press reports.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.29am GMT
block-time published-time 12.41am GMT 
 Donald Trump has rescinded Joe Biden’s removal of Cuba from the US list of state sponsors of terrorism, undoing one of Biden’s final foreign policy acts as president. 
During Trump’s first hours in office, he moved to undo a slew of his predecessor’s executive actions as president. Biden’s decision to remove Cuba’s status as a sponsor of terrorism was the product of a deal brokered by the Vatican to lift economic sanctions on Cuba in exchange for prisoners held there.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.44am GMT
block-time published-time 12.40am GMT 
 Donald Trump has arrived at the White House.  
After being sworn in as the 47th president of the US inside the capitol rotunda and signing numerous executive orders in front of a crowd of supporters at Capital One Arena in DC, Trump has arrived at the White House. 
block-time published-time 12.28am GMT 
Ruth Ben-Ghiat, a US political commentator and scholar focusing on authoritarianism, has described Elon Musk’s apparent fascist salutes on inauguration day as “a Nazi salute and a very belligerent one too”.
 Related:  
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.44am GMT
block-time published-time 12.21am GMT 
 The cold forced Donald Trump’s inaugural speeches indoors but it didn’t stop Trump from announcing a flurry of executive orders attempting to dismantle much of the work of his predecessor. In this episode of Politics Weekly America, Jonathan Freedland speaks to the commentator Molly Jong-Fast about what a virtual declaration of war against an American ally, a promise to “expand America’s territory” and a couple of declarations of emergency say about what we can expect from the next four years: 
block-time published-time 12.11am GMT 
 Fact check: Trump’s claims about the 2020 election results 
The claim: “The second election was rigged,” said Trump, during his Capital One Arena speech.
The facts: In repeating this charge, Trump doubled down on his longstanding, and long-debunked claim that he unfairly lost the 2020 election – which fueled attempts to overturn Joe Biden’s victory.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.13am GMT
block-time published-time 12.04am GMT 
 Fact check: Trump's claim about the George Floyd protests  
The claim: “In Minneapolis where they burned down the city, nothing happened,” said Trump, claiming that January 6 rioters faced disproportionate punishment. 
The facts: In fact,   10,000 people were arrested in connection with the protests that followed George Floyd ’s murder in 2020, and   faced federal charges.
block-time published-time 11.59pm GMT 
 His signature on a battery of executive orders, Donald Trump has departed Capital One arena in downtown Washington. 
But his supporters are still there, dancing to – you guessed it – 
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.04am GMT
block-time published-time 11.57pm GMT 
 Senate confirms Marco Rubio as secretary of state  
The US Senate has unanimously confirmed Donald Trump’s nominee, former senator Marco Rubio, to serve as secretary of state.
The vote was 99-0. Rubio is Trump’s first cabinet secretary to win confirmation.
block-time published-time 11.54pm GMT 
 Trump signs slew of executive orders targeting Biden policies  
 Donald Trump has now sat down at a desk onstage to sign a pile of executive orders that are intended to undo many Biden administration policies.
An aides is announcing what Trump is signing, then the president picks up the document and shows it to the cheering crowd. What he is signing:
“The first item that president Trump is signing is the rescission of 78 Biden-era executive actions, executive orders, presidential memoranda and others.”“A regulatory freeze, as you announced in your speech, preventing bureaucrats from issuing any more regulations until we have full control of this the government and this administration.”“A freeze on all federal hiring, excepting the military and a number of other excluded categories again, until full control of the government is achieved and we understand the objectives of government going forward.”“A requirement that federal workers return to full-time in-person work immediately.”“A directive to every department and agency in the federal government to address the cost of living crisis that has cost Americans so dearly.”“The withdrawal from the Paris climate treaty,” along with a letter informing the United Nations of the decision.“A directive to the federal government ordering the restoration of freedom of speech and preventing government censorship of free speech, going forward.”“A directive to the federal government ending the weaponization of government against the political adversaries of the previous administration, as we’ve seen.”
“Could you imagine Biden doing this? I don’t think so,” Trump said at one point, as he held up a signed order.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.43am GMT
block-time published-time 11.47pm GMT 
 Executive order to target 'political prosecutions', Trump says  
 Donald Trump revealed more about the executive orders he will soon sign, saying they’ll deal with Joe Biden ’s “political prosecutions”.
“To stop the weaponization of law enforcement that our government, I will also sign an order directing every federal agency to preserve all records pertaining to political prosecutions under the last administration of which there were many, and beginning the process of exposing any and all abuses of power, even though he’s pardoned many of these people,” Trump said.
block-time published-time 11.40pm GMT 
 Fact check: Trump's claims on immigrants causing crime  
 The claim: “ All over the world they’re emptying their prisons into our country,” said Trump while introducing his executive orders, invoking the idea that unauthorized immigration to the US has driven crime in the country, a centerpiece of Trump’s 2024 campaign. 
 The facts: Numerous studies examining crime in the US have found no link between undocumented immigration and overall crime rates. In fact, a 2024   by the National Institute of Justice found undocumented immigrants were arrested and charged with crimes at a lower rate than US-born citizens.
block-time published-time 11.39pm GMT 
 Trump to sign orders targeting IRS, Paris climate deal and regulations  
 Donald Trump is now going through the specifics of all the executive orders he will sign. Here’s what he has announced so far:
“An immediate regulation freeze, which will stop Biden bureaucrats from continuing to regulate.”“A temporary hiring freeze, to ensure that we’re only hiring competent people who are faithful to the American public.”A pause on the hiring of new IRS agents.A requirement that federal workers return to the office.Trump seemed to say he would order an end to tax on tips, though the president was a little unclear, and changes to the tax code are usually done by congressional action.“A presidential memorandum directory directing every member of my cabinet to marshal every power at their disposal to defeat inflation and rapidly bring down the cost of daily life, because your costs have gone through the roof in the last four years.”Trump also vowed to withdraw “from the unfair, one-sided Paris climate accord rip-off”, adding: “The United States will not sabotage our own industries while China pollutes with impunity.”“An executive order to immediately end federal government censorship of the American people.” It’s unclear what sort of censorship he is referring to.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.59pm GMT
block-time published-time 11.33pm GMT 
 Trump says orders will 'revoke nearly 80 destructive and radical' Biden policies  
 Donald Trump still has not crossed the stage to sign the stack of executive actions waiting for his autograph, but continues to tell the crowd at the Capital One arena that he will do so soon.
“We’re going to sign executive orders. First, I’ll revoke nearly 80 destructive and radical executive actions of the previous administration, one of the worst administrations in history,” he said.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.58pm GMT
block-time published-time 11.28pm GMT 
 Trump says: “I’m about to sign some very important executive orders of our new administration.” 
He’s now introducing members of his family gathered on risers behind him. Earlier in the day, he gave a preview of the orders he will issue, in his inaugural address:
 Related:  
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.59pm GMT
block-time published-time 11.24pm GMT 
 Trump says he'll pardon 'a lot of people', including January 6 defendants  
 Donald Trump opened his speech by saying he will publicly pardon January 6 defendants before the crowd gathered for his inaugural parade, then sign more pardons once he gets to the White House.
“So, now the work begins. We won. We won. But now the work begins, we have to bring them home,” Trump said.
“And you know, tonight, I’m going to be signing on the J6 hostages, pardons, to get them out. And as soon as I leave, I’m going to the Oval Office, and we’ll be signing pardons for a lot of people, a lot of people.”
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.27pm GMT
block-time published-time 11.21pm GMT 
 Trump begins delivering remarks at inauguration parade, with executive orders expected  
 Donald Trump is stepping up to the podium to deliver his third speech of the day, to an arena of supporters gathered for his indoor inauguration parade.
He will also soon sign a slew of executive orders.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.21pm GMT
block-time published-time 11.20pm GMT 
 Witkoff wrapped up his remarks by saying family members of people taken hostage on 7 October are in attendance. 
They’ve now walked up to the podium and are speaking to Donald Trump  and JD Vance.
block-time published-time 11.17pm GMT 
 The inaugural parade has wrapped up, and Steve Witkoff, Donald Trump’s special envoy to the Middle East, is at the podium. 
He’s recounted Trump’s Middle East policy, and highlighted the Gaza ceasefire deal agreed over the weekend that brought the release of hostages taken on 7 October.
Witkoff also signaled what may be a shift in the Trump administration’s approach to foreign aid:
We are done carrying the financial burden for nations that are unwilling to fund their own progress. The days of blank checks are over. Partnerships under president Trump’s leadership must be equitable, and contributions must reflect shared commitments to our goals.
block-time published-time 11.13pm GMT 
 From New York to Belgium, protesters took to the streets worldwide as Donald Trump was sworn in as the country’s 47th president. 
See more in . 
block-time published-time 11.09pm GMT 
 The inaugural parade featured marching bands and performers from across the United States. 
Here’s what it looked like:
block-time published-time 11.00pm GMT 
 The US Senate is on the verge of giving final approval to the Laken Riley Act, a bill that targets undocumented immigrants accused of theft-related crimes. 
Republicans are relying on some Democratic support to pass the measure, which will likely be the first bill Donald Trump signs.
The Senate cleared the way for the legislation to advance last week. Despite concerns by immigration advocates and legal experts who worry the bill would trample on immigrants’ due process rights, ten Senate Democrats joined with all Republicans last week to advance it.
If the bill passes the Senate this afternoon, it returns to the House, where an earlier version easily passed with notable Democratic support. It would then go to Trump’s desk for his signature.
 Related:  
block-time published-time 10.57pm GMT 
 The Senate may as soon as this evening vote on confirming Marco Rubio as Donald Trump’s secretary of state, making him the first member of his cabinet to win the official approval of the chamber. 
The former Florida senator is expected to easily be confirmed by the chamber, with several Democrats saying they will support him. He had his confirmation hearing last week:
 Related:  
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.58pm GMT
block-time published-time 10.44pm GMT 
 Senate committee advances Hegseth's nomination to lead Pentagon – report  
The Senate armed services committee has voted to advance former Fox News host Pete Hegseth ’s nomination to lead the Pentagon, . 
The vote was along party lines, with 14 lawmakers in favor and 13 opposed. CNN reports that GOP leaders hope to confirm Hegseth with a Senate vote this week.
Since Trump tapped him to lead the Pentagon after winning re-election, Hegseth has been dogged by a sexual assault allegation, which he denies, as well as stories of public drunkenness, inappropriate behavior and financial mismanagement.
Republicans leading the committee waived a rule requiring a seven-day waiting period before nominees are voted on, citing the urgency of confirming a defense secretary. Democrats, however, believe they wanted the nomination approved before any further stories of bad behavior by Hegseth emerge. Here’s more on his confirmation hearing last week:
 Related:  
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.48pm GMT
block-time published-time 10.33pm GMT 
 Trump is standing on stage next to JD Vance, watching the inaugural parade. 
First up is a group of police, firefighters and medics from Butler county, Pennsylvania, who responded to the assassination attempt against Trump there in July of last year.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.38pm GMT
block-time published-time 10.27pm GMT 
 Donald Trump is now walking into Capital One arena alongside Melania Trump. 
 JD  and Usha Vance walked in a few minutes ago. Both groups got big applause.
The president is carrying a binder, and expected to deliver remarks and sign executive orders.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.32pm GMT
block-time published-time 10.19pm GMT 
 No sign of Donald Trump yet for his inauguration parade and executive order signing ceremony at Capital One Arena in Washington DC, but his family members and allies just filed into seats on a stage set up in its center. 
Elsewhere on the stage is a small desk and chair with a stack of what appear to be the orders he will publicly sign.
Here’s a rundown of what he is expected to do:
 Related:  
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.25pm GMT
block-time published-time 10.14pm GMT 
 January 6 committee thanks Biden for pardons, say they've faced 'harassment, lies and threats'  
 Bennie Thompson, the Democratic former chair of the House committee that investigated the January 6 attack on the US Capitol, and Liz Cheney, the Republican former vice chair of the committee, praised Joe Biden for pardoning members of the panel.
In a statement released on behalf of the committee’s members, they thanked Biden for “recognizing that we and our families have been continuously targeted not only with harassment, lies and threats of criminal violence, but also with specific threats of criminal prosecution and imprisonment by members of the incoming administration, simply for doing our jobs and upholding our oaths of office,” and wrote that they had been pardoned “not for breaking the law but for upholding it.”
Thompson and Cheney issued a warning about Donald Trump’s second term in office.
“We pray that our institutions will prevail over the coming four years, but their survival undoubtedly will require courage by the citizenry, those in elected office and the press. The truth and the constitution must prevail.”
block-time published-time 10.09pm GMT 
 A government website launched by the Biden administration –   – appeared to be down hours after Donald Trump was sworn in for a second nonconsecutive term. 
Trump owes his political rise to the support of anti-abortion voters, and he delivered for them during his first term, establishing a conservative supermajority on the supreme court that eventually led to the fall of Roe v Wade in 2022.
The Biden administration had created the website after the court’s decision to help women navigate the new landscape, including details on ways in which women could access birth control, abortion medication and emergency abortions for women suffering pregnancy-related complications.
Anti-abortion groups have pressed Trump to pursue a federal abortion ban, but on the campaign trail he tried to avoid discussing the issue – his weakest – and insisted that imposing restrictions on the procedure was best left to the states. Reproductive rights advocates, meanwhile, are worried Trump could use his sweeping powers   or strip federal funding from health clinics that administer abortions.
With stories of women dying after being refused immediate care under their state’s abortion laws, Trump will likely be forced to contend with the issue, whether he wants to or not.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.13pm GMT
block-time published-time 9.59pm GMT 
 Here are some images from our photographer Matailong Du showing scenes of Washington DC after Donald Trump’s indoors inauguration. 
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.14pm GMT
block-time published-time 9.47pm GMT 
 Trump arrives at Capital One arena for inaugural parade  
 Donald Trump  has arrived at Capital One arena in downtown DC, where his inaugural parade will be held.
Trump is expected to speak to his gathered supporters, as well as sign the slew of executive orders he promised earlier today. We have not yet laid eyes on Trump, but reporters traveling with him say his motorcade has reached the arena.
The traditional procession usually sees the president travel down Pennsylvania avenue from the Capitol to the White House, but today’s frigid weather has forced it indoors.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.53pm GMT
block-time published-time 9.38pm GMT 
 With the Trump administration poised to launch immigration raids across the US, advocates are encouraging communities to learn their rights. 
The ACLU advises that people apprehended by Ice have the right to remain silent, and not respond to questions about their citizenship status or how they entered the country. People need not to open their doors to immigration officers without proof that they have obtained a warrant. Saying “I do not consent for you to enter my home” could protect people in court, even if Ice agents insist on entering by force.
Across the US, advocacy groups have been hosting “Know Your Rights” events and town halls, preparing communities for a barrage of enforcement. Networks of advocates have also been on alert for immigration agents, organizing systems to alert communities when officers have been spotted, and dispel misinformation and panic when none are present.
block-time published-time 9.27pm GMT 
 Top Trump adviser tells migrants: 'Turn back now'  
 Stephen Miller, an architect of Donald Trump ’s hardline immigration policy, says those attempting to enter the United States without visas should “turn back”.
He   :
All illegal aliens seeking entry into the United States should turn back now. Anyone entering the United States without authorization faces prosecution and expulsion.
Miller is now serving as Trump’s deputy White House chief of staff and homeland security adviser.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.30pm GMT
block-time published-time 9.13pm GMT 
 I was at the Metropolitan AME church in Washington DC earlier today, where a Martin Luther King Day rally was held. 
The Rev Al Sharpton addressed the packed church as Trump was sworn into office just blocks away.
“We decided to hold this rally in DC today because we want to show people the tale of two cities in one district,” said Sharpton.
“While Trump is taking an oath to bring his hero, Andrew Jackson back into the White House, we are here taking our oath to Martin Luther King.”
The crowd erupted in cheers.
He then declared: “We’re not going back!” The crowd enthusiastically chanted and repeated the phrase.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.22pm GMT
block-time published-time 8.57pm GMT 
 Immigration advocates have yet to weigh in fully on the panoply of anti-immigration measures announced by Donald Trump, ahead of the actual executive orders and presidential proclamations expected this afternoon. 
But advocates are already publicly incandescent about the abrupt shutting down a little earlier .  This was brought in during the Trump administration, and extended by  Biden in an effort to stem unlawful border crossings and encourage migrants to seek official permission to enter the US, usually in order to lodge asylum claims and live and work legally while doing so.
“It belies belief that the United States has sunk so low that this new administration feels it is altogether right, just, and moral to renege on promises to 30,000 people who did everything this country asked in order to seek refuge,” Tom Cartwright, refugee advocate with the Witness at the Border organization, told the Guardian via email on Monday.
“You can debate the policy, but there is no debating the callousness and immorality of cancelling existing CBP One appointments,” he said.
About 30,000 people is   of the numbers who had appointments who just had them cancelled.
The US authorities issued a limited number of appointments each day and   in the geofencing zone of Mexico City or at the border itself often pored over their phones for weeks or months trying to get one, rather than cross without authorization.
 This post was amended on 22 January 2025 to clarify that CBP One was introduced under the Trump administration.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.10pm GMT
block-time published-time 8.51pm GMT 
 CBP One was very limited, but was  used by Biden to try to stem unlawful border crossings to lodge asylum claims. 
Thousands have waited in peril on the Mexican side of the border until they got an appointment. Now those who came in that way fear deportation while those waiting south of the border have been thwarted.
The US Customs and Border Protection website   the application is “no longer available, and existing appointments have been cancelled”.
“It’s really concerning because all these people are going to be stranded in danger, and they’re going to be thinking what to do next. And that might come at the expense of probably being kidnapped in border cities, trying to cross through dangerous areas, and perhaps dying,” Jesús de la Torre, assistant director for Global Migration at the Hope Border Institute, a grassroots advocacy organization based in El Paso, Texas, told the Guardian on Monday afternoon.
“As of now, without CBP One, there is almost no access to asylum at the US-Mexico border,” he said.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.26pm GMT
block-time published-time 8.39pm GMT 
 The Trump administration has   use of the CBP One, an app that allowed migrants seeking entry into the US to schedule an appointment at a port of entry. 
The Customs and Border Protection website now states: “Effective January 20, 2025, the functionalities of CBP One that previously allowed undocumented aliens to submit advance information and schedule appointments at eight southwest border ports of entry is no longer available, and existing appointments have been cancelled.”
The Biden administration said the app helped reduce unlawful crossings at the border by giving people a way to schedule an appointment at a legal point of entry. The app was glitchy and the wait time for an appointment was months-long. Still, officials estimate as many as 1 million migrants have used the app.
News of the apps closure stunned those who had appointments that were now canceled.
A Washington Post reporter captured   in Ciudad Juárez, which is located just on the Mexican side of the border, across from El Paso, Texas.
Immigration experts   that the sudden change   confusion and possibly chaos.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.06pm GMT
block-time published-time 8.35pm GMT 
 Far-right Proud Boys march through Washington DC after Trump sworn in  
 About 80 members of the far-right Proud Boys group were seen marching through the streets of Washington soon after Donald Trump was sworn into office. 
They said they were “proud to be back”, and that they had been treated fairly today “so far”.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.25pm GMT
block-time published-time 8.28pm GMT 
 Trump preparing to issue sweeping January 6 pardons, reports say  
 Donald Trump is preparing to issue sweeping pardons to defendants charged in the January 6 US Capitol attack and intends to cut short sentences for people who attacked police, according to multiple outlets.
Trump plans to wipe away convictions for those who did not commit violence during the riot at the Capitol, ABC News is reporting.
Trump is seeking to commute the sentences of those convicted of assaults on law enforcement, a move that could allow supporters currently in prison to be released, according to the report.
The justice department is also expected to move in court to dismiss cases that have not yet gone to trial, CNN is reporting.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.58pm GMT
block-time published-time 8.25pm GMT 
 Donald Trump praised the Republican governor of Texas, Greg Abbott, while talking to those gathered somewhat less formally at the Capitol after his inauguration speech. 
At first Trump thought Abbott wasn’t there, then it became clear that Abbott was in the crowd, and he smiled and waved.
“Now you are going to have a partner who will work with you,” Trump said to Abbott.
He means on anti-immigration crackdowns. Read the Guardian’s analysis from the weekend on how Texas will go from being at loggerheads with the federal government in the Biden administration over policy on immigration in general and the US-Mexico border in particular to working hand-in-hand.
 Related:  
block-time published-time 8.20pm GMT 
 Elon Musk makes gesture resembling Nazi salute  
 Elon Musk appeared to perform a gesture resembling a Nazi salute while delivering a speech at the Capital One arena.
The Tesla CEO pounded his chest and raised his right arm in the air as he thanked Donald Trump’ s supporters for returning the president to the White House.
Here’s a clip:
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.50pm GMT
block-time published-time 8.12pm GMT 
 Elon Musk gave brief comments to Trump supporters at the Capital One arena where he vowed to take his “department of government efficiency” (Doge) “to Mars”. 
“Some elections are, you know, important,” Musk said. “Some are not, but, but this one really mattered.”
“This is what victory feels like. This one really mattered. It’s thanks to you that the future of civilization is assured.”
He pledged to “work my ass off for you guys”, adding: “We’re going to take Doge to Mars.”
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.34pm GMT
block-time published-time 8.05pm GMT 
 Panama’s president, José Raúl Mulino, said the Panama Canal “is and will continue to be Panamanian” after Donald Trump said he wanted the canal back in US control. 
Mulino, in a statement   to X, denied Trump’s comments that other countries were interfering in the canal, which he said his country operated with a principle of neutrality. He said:
I must fully reject the statements made by president Donald Trump regarding Panama and its Canal in his inaugural address. I reiterate what I said in my message to the nation on 22 December: the Canal is and will remain Panamanian.
block-time published-time 7.58pm GMT 
 Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, a Democrat of Rhode Island, warned that Donald Trump‘s inaugural address and his first actions as president could foreshadow a dangerous four years for the country. 
“This was no normal inauguration of an American president,” Whitehouse said in a statement. “President Trump gave a cadre of billionaires seats of honor on the dais, and he is handing them the power of the federal government to loot the hardworking people who pay their taxes and keep this country running.” 
Whitehouse condemned Trump over his launch of a meme coin, which has been intensely criticized for potential ethical violations, and his “massive giveaways to Big Oil billionaires” through policies aimed at supercharging US oil and gas production.  The senator concluded, “Democrats must be vigilant to protect Americans’ civil liberties, our democratic system, and the rule of law, as looters and polluters line up before President Trump to feed themselves at the expense of the middle class and our environment.”
block-time published-time 7.51pm GMT 
Here from the new president’s own lips is the statement during his inauguration speech that, via the   on him at a campaign rally in Pennsylvania last summer: “I was saved by God to make America great again.”
block-time published-time 7.46pm GMT 
 Fact check: Trump claims on 'catch and release'  
 The claim:  Donald Trump, in his inaugural address, said he will issue an executive order to end the practice of “catch and release”.
 The facts:  Trump and his fellow Republicans have focused on what they call “catch and release”, but the term does not refer to one specific law or policy. The details of Trump’s order are unclear.
“Catch and release” is a pejorative term for the practice by which immigrants who present themselves at the border without authorization are released from detention while they wait for their cases to be processed.
Trump tried to end so-called “catch and release” during his first term – but this isn’t something that can be ended by executive fiat. 
The US doesn’t have the capacity to hold every single person presenting at the border, including those seeking asylum. In 2018, a Trump admin memo directed agencies to come up with “additional resources or authorities” needed to detain more immigrants – implicitly acknowledging that it did not currently have hose resources and authorities.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.51pm GMT
block-time published-time 7.36pm GMT 
 Trump signs paperwork to take control of executive branch  
A few minutes ago, congressional leaders gathered around a desk in the Capitol as Donald Trump signed paperwork that will formally put him in control of the executive branch.
Among the documents the president signed was one that made appointments to lead government agencies and departments, as well as a proclamation that says flags shall fly at full-staff on inauguration days. The US government continues to observe the 30-day mourning period following Jimmy Carter ’s death, and flags would normally be at half-staff, but they were raised to full-staff for the day of Trump’s inauguration.
block-time published-time 7.29pm GMT 
 The day so far  
 Donald Trump has been sworn in as the 47th president of the United States at an inauguration ceremony held in the Capitol due to the frigid weather today in Washington DC today. In his first speech since returning to the presidency, Trump   that “the golden age of America begins right now”, and that   “saved by God to make America great again”. He also outlined the executives orders he will sign shortly, which will   and declare a “   ”. The president went on to hope he is remembered as a “   ”, then made clear he wants the United States .  Joe Biden, meanwhile, made the most of his final hours as president,   of several of Trump’s political enemies.  , he commuted the life sentence of indigenous rights activist Leonard Peltier, and pardoned members of the Biden family who could have faced retaliation from Trump.
Here’s a look back at what else happened as Trump returned to the presidency:
Trump  at Biden in his inaugural address, saying his government “cannot manage even a simple crisis at home”.The president’s inaugural address included several false or questionable claims about  ,  ,   and . In unscripted remarks,   “a lot of actions” on January 6 defendants, and criticized Biden’s pardons.The White House, whose website that has been  ,   from the Paris climate agreement.The Bidens  the Capitol by helicopter after Trump’s inauguration, with Kamala Harris  and Doug Emhoff  leaving in a motorcade.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.51pm GMT
block-time published-time 7.22pm GMT 
 JD Vance was sworn in as vice-president of the United States by US  supreme  court  Justice Brett Kavanagh, who was nominated by Donald Trump during his first administration and went through a tough confirmation hearing before his controversial appointment. 
Vance’s beaming wife and young children are right next to him, as Trump looks on. Here’s the video clip.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.10pm GMT
block-time published-time 7.13pm GMT 
 Here is a video clip of Donald Trump taking the oath of office. 
The president was sworn in by the chief justice of the US supreme court, John Roberts, with Melania Trump, JD Vance, Joe Biden and Kamala Harris the closest onlookers amongst those gathered in the Capitol rotunda (where four years ago pro-Trump supporters rampaged after breaking into the Capitol to try to stop the certification of Biden’s victory over Trump in the 2020 election).
block-time published-time 6.56pm GMT 
 Not much has changed with Donald Trump. At his ongoing remarks to supporters at the Capitol, he again repeated his baseless claim that fraud caused him to lose the 2020 election: 
2020, by the way, that election was totally rigged. But … that’s okay. It was a rigged election. You know, the only thing good about it, it showed how bad they are, showed how incompetent and frankly, historically, this is a much bigger event.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 6.56pm GMT
block-time published-time 6.54pm GMT 
 In his inaugural address, Donald Trump reiterated his wish to rename Denali National Park in Alaska after the late US president William McKinley, but that idea has been soundly rejected by a prominent Republican senator. 
Senator Lisa Murkowski,  a Republican of Alaska, intensely campaigned to change the name of the mountain from Mount McKinley to Denali, which   from the language of the Alaskan native Koyukon people.
Murkowski   in 2013, “I have nothing against President McKinley, whatsoever, but I would rather have this peak be called by the name it has gone by for centuries by Alaskans than a man who never set foot in our state.”
The change was made official in 2015, and Murkowski, who will provide a key vote to advance Trump’s legislative agenda in the Senate, has made clear that she has no interest in restoring the name of Mount McKinley.
“You can’t improve upon the name that Alaska’s Koyukon Athabascans bestowed on North America’s tallest peak, Denali – the Great One,” she   last month. “For years, I advocated in Congress to restore the rightful name for this majestic mountain to respect Alaska’s first people who have lived on these lands for thousands of years. This is an issue that should not be relitigated.”
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 7.10pm GMT
block-time published-time 6.43pm GMT 
 Elon Musk’s ‘Doge’ sued minutes after inauguration  
 Elon Musk ’s “department of government efficiency” (Doge) program was sued within minutes of Donald Trump being sworn in.
The 30-page lawsuit,  , challenges the legality of the government advisory committee Trump claims he has created, by alleging it violates federal transparency rules on disclosure, hiring and other practices.
The public interest law firm National Security Counselors says in the claim that Musk’s efficiency panel meets the bar to be considered a “federal advisory committee”, a class of legal entity regulated to ensure the government receives transparent and balanced advice, but fails to have “fairly balanced” representation, keep records of its meetings and be open to public scrutiny, as required by law.
“All meetings of Doge, including those conducted through an electronic medium, must be open to the public”, the lawsuit states.
The anticipated legal challenges of the legitimacy of Doge have also been expected, including by Musk, who argues his opponents in government have used “lawfare” tactics to stymie him and his companies.
The precise nature of Musk’s efficiency project remains unknown, with insiders saying that secrecy is paramount to avoid legal efforts to derail it. Trump has said the effort will drive “drastic change”, though as an advisory committee it has no power to effect government cuts in its own right.
 Related:  
block-time published-time 6.38pm GMT 
 Trump attacks Biden over pardons, promises 'a lot of action' on January 6 prosecutions  
 Donald Trump, who appears to be speaking without prepared remarks, is attacking Joe Biden ’s decision announced earlier today to pardon the new president’s political enemies.
“I was going to talk about the things that Joe did today with the pardons of people that were very, very guilty of very bad crimes, like the unselect committee of political folks,” Trump said, referring to the bipartisan House committee that investigated the January 6 insurrection.
“Why are we doing this? Why are we trying to help a guy like Milley?” he continued, referring to the former chairman of the joint chiefs of staff Mark Milley. “Why are we doing Milley? He was pardoned. What he said, terrible, what he said. Why are we helping some of the people? Why are we helping Liz Cheney? I mean, Liz Cheney is a disaster. She’s a crying lunatic and crying, crying. Adam Kinzinger, he’s a super crime.”
Cheney and Kinzinger are both Republican former House lawmakers who have criticized Trump.
The president also signaled he would pardon people convicted of or facing charges over the January 6 insurrection, though did not offer details: “I was going to talk about the J6 hostages, but you’ll be happy because, you know, it’s action, not words that count, and you’re going to see a lot of action on the J6 hostages.”
block-time published-time 6.27pm GMT 
 Trump began by addressing the one thing that affects us all, no matter who you are: the weather! 
It’s a very cold 26F in Washington DC today, which is why Trump’s inauguration was held in the Capitol rotunda, and not on its west front, as it normally is.
“Look at this beautiful sunny day. We blew it, we blew it, and then I went outside and we were freezing. You would have been very unhappy. The sun was very deceptive. I will tell you, it is cold out,” Trump told the crowd.
“And I’m sort of saying, you know, that was so beautiful today. Maybe they should do it there every four years. Does that make sense? I don’t know. Because, you know, the outdoor thing is really good, but it gets a little cold around this time of the year, some people have noticed, and a lot of times they suffer through it. There was no suffering in that room. It was 72 degrees. It was perfect, with the best, the best, acoustics I think I’ve ever heard in a room.”
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 7.20pm GMT
block-time published-time 6.23pm GMT 
 Trump addresses supporters at the Capitol  
 Donald Trump is set to appear before supporters gathered in an overflow room at the Capitol.
He was introduced by Republican House speaker, Mike Johnson, who will play a major role in getting Trump’s legislative agenda through Congress. “We have the chance to make the next four years, the most consequential period in our nation’s history,” Johnson said
We’ll let you know what the new president has to say.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 7.21pm GMT
block-time published-time 6.14pm GMT 
 Bidens depart Capitol as presidency ends  
 Joe  and Jill Biden have boarded a helicopter at the US Capitol for their flight out of Washington DC, concluding their time in the presidency.
 Donald and Melania Trump walked them to the helicopter. At its steps, Trump appeared to whisper some words into Biden’s ears. 
Together with JD  and Usha Vance, the president and first lady then waved goodbye to the outgoing Democrats.
block-time published-time 6.11pm GMT 
 Kamala Harris and Doug Emhoff are boarding a motorcade that will take them away from the Capitol. 
 JD  and Usha Vance are standing outside on this bright but very chilly Washington day, waving goodbye as former vice-president departs.
 Donald and Melania Trump are also watching, as is Joe and Jill Biden. Now, they are walking towards the helicopter that will take the former president elsewhere.
block-time published-time 6.08pm GMT 
 As we wait for Donald Trump to send off Joe Biden, have a look .  
It has been thoroughly Trumpified.
block-time published-time 6.07pm GMT 
 Fact check: Trump claims on the Panama Canal  
 The claim: Donald Trump pledged to take back the Panama Canal, while repeating a number of false claims including that 38,000 Americans died during the building of the canal. He also claimed that “China is operating” the canal.
 The facts:  The   death toll for the American construction effort behind the Panama Canal stands at about 5,600 people. Although the true number may be higher, the majority of deaths would have   workers from Caribbean islands such as Antigua, Barbados and Jamaica.
The administrator of the Panama Canal has also   Trump’s claim that China was controlling the canal’s operations. He has said that Chinese companies operating in the ports were part of a Hong Kong consortium that won a bidding process in 1997, and US and Taiwanese companies are operating other ports along the canal as well.
block-time published-time 6.01pm GMT 
 Donald Trump and Joe Biden are now headed outside, where the former president will board a helicopter that will take him and Jill Biden out of Washington DC. 
This did not happen in 2021, because Trump skipped the inauguration, though Kamala Harris did have a send off for Mike Pence, who attended.
block-time published-time 5.57pm GMT 
 Trump to withdraw from Paris climate agreement  
 Donald Trump will withdraw the United States from the Paris climate agreement, according to a document circulated by the White House.
United Nations secretary general António Guterres has warned that the agreement to combat the climate crisis would be “crippled” by such a decision:
 Related:  
block-time published-time 5.52pm GMT 
 Fact check: Trump's claim on inflation  
 The claim: Donald Trump claimed that the US experienced “record inflation” that he said was caused by “massive overspending and escalating energy prices”
 The facts:  US inflation peaked at a four-decade high in summer 2022, when it was 9.1%. But the highest inflation rate in the country was 23.7% in June 1920.
The   shows that as of December inflation had fallen to 2.9%.
block-time published-time 5.46pm GMT 
 Fact check: Trump's claim on 2024 voter support  
 The claim: Donald Trump said his 2024 election victory showed “dramatic” increases in support for “virtually every element” of American society.
 The facts:  Trump did improve his margins with Latino voters in 2024. A record 46% of Latinos voted for Trump, a 14-point   from 2020. Asian American support for Trump increased by five points, rising to 39% in 2024 from 34% in 2020.
However Black voter support for Trump sat at 13% in 2024, relatively   from 12% in 2020. Trump   among Black people as past conservative presidents have after Black people largely left the Republican party in the 1960s.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 5.53pm GMT
block-time published-time 5.45pm GMT 
 Trump ended his inaugural address by coming back to his promise of a “golden age” in the United States: 
In recent years, our nation has suffered greatly, but we are going to bring it back and make it great again, greater than ever before. We will be a nation like no other, full of compassion, courage and exceptionalism. 
Our power will stop all wars and bring a new spirit of unity to a world that has been angry, violent and totally unpredictable. America will be respected again and admired again, including by people of religion, faith and good will. We will be prosperous, we will be proud, we will be strong, and we will win like never before. 
We will not be conquered. We will not be intimidated. We will not be broken, and we will not fail. From this day on, the United States of America will be a free, sovereign and independent nation. We will stand bravely, we will live proudly. We will dream boldly, and nothing will stand in our way because we are Americans, the future is ours, and our golden age has just begun.
block-time published-time 5.43pm GMT 
 Fact check: Trump's claim on US healthcare spending  
 The claim: Donald Trump said the US spends more money on health care than any other country in the world.
 The facts:  Trump is correct. The US does spend more on healthcare per capita, almost twice the average of other wealthy countries.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 5.53pm GMT
block-time published-time 5.42pm GMT 
 Just before he declared that the United States will reassert control of the Panama Canal, Donald Trump vowed he will be a “peacemaker” as president: 
We will measure our success not only by the battles we win, but also by the wars that we end, and perhaps most importantly, the wars we never get into. My proudest legacy will be that of a peacemaker and unifier. That’s what I want to be, a peacemaker and a unifier.
Panama’s government has said it will not give control of the canal back to the United States. Trump, meanwhile, has previously refused to rule out using force to take it over.
block-time published-time 5.38pm GMT 
 Trump vows to reclaim Panama Canal  
 Donald Trump made clear that he was serious about reimposing American control over the Panama Canal, accusing the central American country of mismanaging the vital trade route and vowing: “We’re taking it back”.
The president first promised to change the name of the Alaskan mountain Denali back to Mt McKinley, after the former US president William McKinley. He then shifted to his views on Panama:
President McKinley made our country very rich through tariffs and through talent. He was a natural businessman, and gave Teddy Roosevelt the money for many of the great things he did, including the Panama Canal, which has foolishly been given to the country of Panama after the United States, the United States, I mean, think of this, spent more money than ever spent on a project before and lost 38,000 lives in the building of the Panama Canal. 
We have been treated very badly from this foolish gift that should have never been made, and Panama’s promise to us has been broken. The purpose of our deal and the spirit of our treaty has been totally violated. American ships are being severely overcharged and not treated fairly in any way, shape or form, and that includes the United States Navy, and above all, China is operating the Panama Canal, and we didn’t give it to China. We gave it to Panama, and we’re taking it back.
block-time published-time 5.33pm GMT 
 Trump also announced moves to dismantle DEI initiatives in the federal government, and also against what he called “censorship”. 
“After years and years of illegal and unconstitutional federal efforts to restrict free expression, I will also sign an executive order to immediately stop all government censorship and bring back free speech to America,” he said.
In what was likely a reference to diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) efforts, Trump said:
This week, I will also end the government policy of trying to socially engineer race and gender into every aspect of public and private light. We will forge a society that is color blind and merit based.
More promises, regarding gender and Covid-19 vaccinations:
As of today, it will henceforth be the official policy of the United States government that there are only two genders, male and female. This week, I will reinstate any service members who were unjustly expelled from our military for objecting to the Covid vaccine mandate with full back pay, and I will sign an order to stop our warriors from being subjected to radical political theories and social experiments while on duty. It’s going to end immediately.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 5.37pm GMT
block-time published-time 5.30pm GMT 
 Fact check: Trump's claim on California wildfires and Hurricane Helene  
 The claim: Donald Trump said the US can no longer deliver basic services in times of emergency, citing the wildfires in California and flooding in North Carolina.
 The facts:  Trump has repeatedly spread incorrect claims about both of these events. He and other fellow Republicans boosted false claims about the recovery effort in North Carolina after Hurricane Helene, including that the US government   to theories that  , prompting some government officials   to federal emergency workers.
Trump, during the wildfires in California, called on the Democratic governor, Gavin Newsom, to “release the water” from northern parts of the state, despite the state’s water experts   water supply was not an issue, but rather generators to pump the water.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 5.54pm GMT
block-time published-time 5.30pm GMT 
 Trump announces 'national energy emergency', creation of 'external revenue service'  
The president then shifted to the executive orders he will sign today concerning the economy, and particularly his pledges to lower prices and restore manufacturing jobs:
“As Commander in Chief, I have no higher responsibility than to defend our country from threats and invasions, and that is exactly what I am going to do we will do it at a level that nobody has ever seen before,” Donald Trump  declared. 
“Next, I will direct all members of my cabinet to marshall the vast powers at their disposal to defeat what was record inflation and rapidly bring down costs and prices. The inflation crisis was caused by massive overspending and escalating energy prices, and that is why today I will also declare a national energy emergency. We will drill, baby drill.”
He continued:
America will be a manufacturing nation once again, and we have something that no other manufacturing nation will ever have, the largest amount of oil and gas of any country on Earth. And we are going to use it. Let me use it.
We will bring prices down, fill our strategic reserves up again right to the top, and export American energy all over the world.
We will be a rich nation again, and it is that liquid gold under our feet that will help to do it with my actions. Today, we will end the Green New Deal, and we will revoke the electric vehicle mandate, saving our auto industry and keeping my sacred pledge to our great American auto workers. In other words, you’ll be able to buy the car of your choice. 
We will build automobiles in America again at a rate that nobody could have dreamt possible just a few years ago. And thank you to the auto workers of our nation for your inspiring vote of confidence. We did tremendously with their vote.
I will immediately begin the overhaul of our trade system to protect American workers and families. Instead of taxing our citizens to enrich other countries, we will tariff and tax foreign countries to enrich our citizens.
For this purpose, we are establishing the external revenue service to collect all tariffs, duties and revenues. It will be massive amounts of money pouring into our treasury coming from foreign sources. The American dream will soon be back and thriving like never before to restore competence and effectiveness to our federal government, my administration will establish the brand new department of government efficiency.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 5.44pm GMT
block-time published-time 5.26pm GMT 
 Trump announces executive orders imposing hardline immigration policies  
 Donald Trump  then declared he will sign a series of executive orders that will impose strict anti-migration policies across the country, and surely spark legal challenges:
I will sign a series of historic executive orders. With these actions, we will begin the complete restoration of America and the revolution of common sense. It’s all about common sense. 
First, I will declare a national emergency at our southern border. All illegal entry will immediately be halted, and we will begin the process of returning millions and millions of criminal aliens back to the places from which they came. We will reinstate my “remain in Mexico” policy.
I will end the practice of catch and release, and I will send troops to the southern border to repel the disastrous invasion of our country.
Under the orders I signed today, we will also be designating the cartels as foreign terrorist organizations, and by invoking the Alien Enemies act of 1798, I will direct our government to use the full and immense power of federal and state law enforcement to eliminate the presence of all foreign gangs and criminal networks bringing devastating crime to US soil, including our cities and inner cities.
block-time published-time 5.23pm GMT 
 Fact check: Trump's claim on immigration  
 The claim: Donald Trump  said the US has provided sanctuary and protection for “dangerous criminals”, many of who he says come from “prisons and mental institutions” and illegally entered the US.
 The facts:  Trump has made these claims many times before, without offering any evidence. Although some US cities have seen an influx of immigrants, most have arrived legally, with work permits or with authorization to stay while their cases are worked out in the courts.
Overall, immigrants are less likely to commit crimes than the US-born according to multiple studies, including from the conservative . 
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 5.54pm GMT
block-time published-time 5.21pm GMT 
 Trump says he 'was saved by God to make America great again'  
 Donald Trump then cast himself as a heaven-sent savior who will solve America’s problems.
“My recent election is a mandate to completely and totally reverse a horrible betrayal and all of these many betrayals that have taken place, and to give the people back their faith, their wealth, their democracy, and indeed, their freedom. From this moment on America’s decline is over,” he said.
The president continued:
Our liberties and our nation’s glorious destiny will no longer be denied, and we will immediately restore the integrity, competency and loyalty of America’s government. Over the past eight years, I have been tested and challenged more than any president in our 250 year history, and I’ve learned a lot along the way. 
The journey to reclaim our republic has not been an easy one, that I can tell you. Those who wish to stop our cause have tried to take my freedom and indeed to take my life. Just a few months ago, in a beautiful Pennsylvania field, an assassin’s bullet ripped through my ear, but I felt then and believe even more so now, that my life was saved for a reason. I was saved by God to make America great again.
block-time published-time 5.19pm GMT 
 Trump attacks Biden as unable to 'manage even a simple crisis at home'  
 Donald Trump then shifted to criticizing Joe Biden for failing to manage border security and other crises that occurred on his watch.
“We now have a government that cannot manage even a simple crisis at home, while at the same time stumbling into a continuing catalog of catastrophic events abroad. It fails to protect our magnificent, law-abiding American citizens, but provide sanctuary and protection for dangerous criminals, many from prisons and mental institutions that have illegally entered our country from all over the world,” Trump said. 
“We have a government that has given unlimited funding to the defense of foreign borders, but refuses to defend American borders, or, more importantly, its own people.”
He then sought to blame his Democratic predecessor for various natural disasters that have occurred in recent months:
Our country can no longer deliver basic services in times of emergency, as recently shown by the wonderful people of North Carolina, been treated so badly, and other states who are still suffering from a hurricane that took place many months ago. 
Or more recently, Los Angeles, where we are watching fires still tragically burn from weeks ago without even a token of defense. They’re raging through the houses and communities even affecting some of the wealthiest and most powerful individuals in our country, some of whom are sitting here right now. They don’t have a home any longer. That’s interesting. We can’t let this happen.
block-time published-time 5.15pm GMT 
 Trump quickly shifted to airing his own grievances, vowing an end to the “weaponization” of the justice department. 
The president and his allies have used the word to accuse the justice department under Joe Biden of pursuing politicized prosecutions.
“Our sovereignty will be reclaimed, our safety will be restored. The scales of justice will be rebalanced,” Trump said. “The vicious, violent and unfair weaponization of the justice department and our government will end, and our top priority will be to create a nation that is proud, prosperous and free. America will soon be greater, stronger and far more exceptional than ever before.”
block-time published-time 5.13pm GMT 
 Trump declares 'the golden age of America begins right now'  
 Donald Trump immediately struck a nationalistic tone in his inaugural address, vowing to “put America first”.
“The golden age of America begins right now. From this day forward, our country will flourish and be respected again all over the world. We will be the envy of every nation, and we will not allow ourselves to be taken advantage of any longer during every single day of the Trump administration, I will, very simply, put America first,” he said.
block-time published-time 5.10pm GMT 
 Trump delivers second inaugural address  
 Donald Trump has stepped up to the podium in the Capitol rotunda for the inaugural address that will kick off his second term in the White House.
block-time published-time 5.09pm GMT 
 We soon expect Donald Trump to make his second inaugural address. 
The president is expected to shift his tone from the “American carnage” speech he delivered in 2017, when he began his first term. Here’s more:
 Related:  
block-time published-time 5.05pm GMT 
 After being sworn in, Trump shook hands with John Roberts, who has served as chief justice of the high court since 2005. 
The president then shook hands with Joe Biden, who smiled.
block-time published-time 5.02pm GMT 
 Donald Trump sworn in for second term as president  
 Donald Trump has been sworn in for his second term as president of the United States.
Supreme court chief justice John Roberts  administered the oath.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 5.13pm GMT
block-time published-time 5.02pm GMT 
 The rotunda broke into applause after JD Vance was sworn in. 
Trump whispered something into his ear.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 5.11pm GMT
block-time published-time 5.01pm GMT 
 JD Vance sworn in as vice-president  
 JD Vance has been sworn in as vice-president of the United States.
Supreme court justice Brett Kavanaugh, a conservative appointed by Trump in 2018, administered the oath.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 5.05pm GMT
block-time published-time 4.59pm GMT 
 We’re now hearing an invocation from evangelist Franklin Graham. 
“Mr President, the last four years, there are times I’m sure you thought it was pretty dark, but look what God has done,” he said, to applause.
block-time published-time 4.55pm GMT 
 Republican senator Deb Fischer, another member of the inaugural committee, also spoke about the moment: 
Today is our country’s 60th inauguration ceremony. Like all the others before it, it is a celebration of our right to set our uniquely American course. The past several years have been trying at times for many, many Americans, and also for the nations of the free world that we humbly strive to lead. In November, Americans chose again to steer this nation towards greatness, the secure, safe and prosperous future that our founders envisioned for all of us, and today, we celebrate not only their decision to do so, but also the simple right and wisdom of a free people to make their own choice so that their nation might endure.
block-time published-time 4.53pm GMT 
 Democratic senator Amy Klobuchar, who chairs the Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies, gave some brief remarks to the US government leaders, past and present, gathered in the Capitol for Donald Trump’s swearing in: 
There is a reason this ceremony takes place at the Capitol. In other countries, it might be in a presidential palace or a gilded executive office building. Here, it is traditionally held at the Capitol, the people’s house. It is a fitting reminder of the system of checks and balances that is the very foundation of our government: three equal branches of government. 
That is how, for nearly 250 years, our great American experiment, grounded in the rule of law, has endured. So, as we inaugurate a new president and vice-president, let us remember that the power of those in this room comes from the people, the construction workers who build our country, the teachers and health care workers who nurture us, the troops defending our freedoms and yes, the firefighters in Los Angeles putting themselves on the line for us. Our democracy’s strength and grit must match theirs. May God bless our nation.
block-time published-time 4.50pm GMT 
 Biden pardons family members, commutes life sentence of Leonard Peltier  
In what is perhaps his final official action as president, Joe Biden has issued preemptive pardons to members of his family, and commuted the life sentence of jailed Indigenous rights activist Leonard Peltier.
In   regarding his family, Biden said:
 My family has been subjected to unrelenting attacks and threats, motivated solely by a desire to hurt me—the worst kind of partisan politics. Unfortunately, I have no reason to believe these attacks will end.  I believe in the rule of law, and I am optimistic that the strength of our legal institutions will ultimately prevail over politics. But baseless and politically motivated investigations wreak havoc on the lives, safety, and financial security of targeted individuals and their families. Even when individuals have done nothing wrong and will ultimately be exonerated, the mere fact of being investigated or prosecuted can irreparably damage their reputations and finances. That is why I am exercising my power under the Constitution to pardon James B. Biden, Sara Jones Biden, Valerie Biden Owens, John T. Owens, and Francis W. Biden. The issuance of these pardons should not be mistaken as an acknowledgment that they engaged in any wrongdoing, nor should acceptance be misconstrued as an admission of guilt for any offense. 
Of Peltier, Biden said:
The President is commuting the life sentence imposed on Leonard Peltier so that he serves the remainder of his sentence in home confinement. He is now 80 years old, suffers from severe health ailments, and has spent the majority of his life (nearly half a century) in prison. This commutation will enable Mr. Peltier to spend his remaining days in home confinement but will not pardon him for his underlying crimes.  Mr. Peltier is a Native American activist who is currently serving life in prison for killing two FBI agents on the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation and escaping from federal prison. Tribal Nations, Nobel Peace laureates, former law enforcement officials (including the former U.S. Attorney whose office oversaw Mr. Peltier’s prosecution and appeal), dozens of lawmakers, and human rights organizations strongly support granting Mr. Peltier clemency, citing his advanced age, illnesses, his close ties to and leadership in the Native American community, and the substantial length of time he has already spent in prison.
In 2023, Peltier spoke to the Guardian about his hopes for clemency from Biden:
 Related:  
block-time published-time 4.44pm GMT 
 Trump arrives for swearing in  
 Donald Trump has walked into the Capitol rotunda to be sworn in as 47th president of the United States.
He’s being greeted by loud applause and chants of “USA! USA!” Now, he’s standing next to JD Vance, and across the aisle from Joe Biden.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.53pm GMT
block-time published-time 4.43pm GMT 
 JD Vance arrives for swearing in  
 JD Vance just walked in to the Capitol rotunda to be sworn in as vice-president.
He was followed by the Republican and Democratic leaders of Congress.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.50pm GMT
block-time published-time 4.39pm GMT 
 Biden, Harris arrive for Trump's swearing in  
 Joe Biden and Kamala Harris are walking in to the Capitol rotunda for Donald Trump ’s swearing in.
They’re smiling and mouthing “thank you” as the crowd claps.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.48pm GMT
block-time published-time 4.37pm GMT 
 Donald Trump is now in the Capitol crypt, on his way to the rotunda to be sworn in as president. 
He’s walking alone – Melania Trump is right now being escorted into the rotunda.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.37pm GMT
block-time published-time 4.36pm GMT 
 Cameras have caught Joe Biden and Kamala Harris walking through the Capitol crypt on the way to the rotunda for Donald Trump’s swearing in. 
 JD Vance also passed through there, too. No sign yet of the president-elect.
block-time published-time 4.28pm GMT 
 Trump soon to be sworn in as president of the United States  
We’re minutes away from Donald Trump being sworn in as the 47th president of the United States.
Guests are packed into the Capitol rotunda, where supreme court chief Justice John Roberts will administer the oath of office. Trump has not yet arrived in the room, nor have Joe Biden or Kamala Harris.
Follow along as we cover it live.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.50pm GMT
block-time published-time 4.24pm GMT 
 Doug Emhoff and Jill Biden have arrived for the swearing in. 
They’re standing next to Bill Clinton.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.33pm GMT
block-time published-time 4.22pm GMT 
 Members of the Trump family are now arriving in the Capitol rotunda. 
 Laura Trump and Jared Kushner have been spotted, as well as Eric Trump and Donald Trump Jr. The president-elect’s youngest son, Barron Trump, is also there.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.31pm GMT
block-time published-time 4.14pm GMT 
 Supreme court justices arrive for Trump's swearing in  
The supreme court’s justices have arrived in the Capitol rotunda for Donald Trump ’s swearing in.
All nine sitting justices are in attendance, along with retired justice Stephen Breyer. Chief justice John Roberts is to administer the oath to Trump.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.28pm GMT
block-time published-time 4.09pm GMT 
 Former presidents Clinton, Bush, Obama arrive at Capitol  
The Capitol rotunda continues to fill up with guests for Donald Trump ’s swearing in, including the living former US presidents.
 George W Bush, Bill Clinton and Barack Obama have all been spotted walking in. Bush was joined by his wife, Laura Bush, and Clinton by Hillary Clinton, but Obama arrived alone. The former presidents had gathered earlier this month for Jimmy Carter ’s memorial service, and Michelle Obama was not there for that, either.
 Mike Pence, Trump’s former vice-president who has fallen out with him, also showed up solo. His wife, Karen Pence, refused to greet Trump when they crossed paths at Carter’s memorial, though the former vice-president did talk to his former boss, besides   between them.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.26pm GMT
block-time published-time 3.51pm GMT 
 About 800 people are expected to be in the Capitol Rotunda for the inauguration, with an additional 1,300 people in Emancipation Hall and 500 more people in the theater in the Capitol visitor’s center. 
 Elon Musk has been seen taking a seat inside the Capitol alongside some other famous faces.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 5.08pm GMT
block-time published-time 3.40pm GMT 
 Biden and Trump depart White House for swearing-in ceremony at Capitol  
Cameras on the scene have captured Joe Biden and Donald Trump, along with their spouses and vice-presidents, JD Vance and Kamala Harris, leaving the White House.
They’re on their way to the Capitol for Trump’s swearing in.
The two first ladies are sharing a limo, as are Vance and Harris. Trump and Biden are in the same car, too.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.23pm GMT
block-time published-time 3.36pm GMT 
 Vladimir Putin congratulated Donald Trump on taking office just hours before his inauguration in Washington and expressed support for Trump’s “desire to restore direct contacts with Russia.” 
Speaking during a meeting with his security council, Putin said he was open to dialogue with the new US administration on ending the war in Ukraine, based on “equality and mutual respect.”
With Trump set to begin his presidency, both Moscow and Kyiv are preparing for the prospect of peace talks and manoeuvring to secure the best possible position when he takes office.
In what seemed like an appeal to the president-elect’s well-documented fondness for flattery, Putin on Monday described Trump as “courageous,” mentioning the attempted assassination against Trump at a campaign rally in Butler, Pennsylvania, on 14 July.
Putin also claimed that Trump and his family “were constantly subjected to severe pressure” ahead of the elections but that he “achieved a convincing victory”-remarks likely to resonate well with Trump and his inner circle.
While Trump has pledged to swiftly end Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine, a clear path to peace remains elusive. Putin shows no indication of backing down from his maximalist demands, whichwould involve Ukraine not joining Nato, adopting a neutral status and undergoing some level of demilitarisation.
block-time published-time 3.29pm GMT 
 Trump to order Gulf of Mexico renamed to 'Gulf of America' - report  
 Donald Trump will today order the Gulf of Mexico to be renamed the “Gulf of America”, and Alaska’s Mount Denali to be rechristened to Mount McKinley, the New York Post 
The renaming of the two natural features is to honor “American greatness”, according to a preview of the executive orders by the outlet.
Trump declared in a press conference earlier this month that he would rename the Gulf of Mexico as the “Gulf of America, which has a beautiful ring”.
“It’s appropriate. And Mexico has to stop allowing millions of people to pour into our country,” he said.
He has also previously said he wanted to revert the name of Mount Denali back to Mount McKinley, after former president Barack Obama changed the name to Denali in 2015 to reflect the traditions of Alaska Natives as well as the preference of many Alaska residents.
block-time published-time 3.24pm GMT 
 Trump, allies blast Biden's pre-emptive pardons of president-elect's enemies  
 Donald Trump and his congressional allies are not pleased with Joe Biden ’s decision to pardon the president-elect’s enemies as he exits the White House.
Trump   the following thoughts on the Democrat’s pardons for former congresswoman Liz Cheney, retired Gen Mark Milley and Anthony Fauci, among others:
It is disgraceful. Many are guilty of MAJOR CRIMES! DJT
 James Comer, the Republican chair of the House oversight committee who spearheaded the campaign of investigations targeting the Biden administration over the past two years, attacked the outgoing president for pardoning congressman Jamie Raskin. The Maryland Democrat is a member of the House committee that investigated the January 6 attack, and also led the two impeachments of Trump.
Here’s what Comer said:
How appropriate that Joe Biden’s final act is to preemptively pardon Jamie Raskin — the man who was one of the chief advocates for two unjust impeachments of the newly elected 47th President of the United States and a member of the sham January 6th Committee. Jamie Raskin will be remembered for his abuse of power, hypocrisy, consistent dishonesty, and unwavering loyalty to Joe Biden, despite evidence showing that Biden and his family were involved in peddling influence for tens of millions of dollars with our adversaries around the world. Jamie Raskin once claimed that ‘the seeking of pardons is a powerful demonstration of the consciousness of guilt, or at least the consciousness that you may be in trouble.’ It’s clear that the chickens have come home to roost for Jamie Raskin.
Here’s more on Biden’s pardons:
 Related:  
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.11pm GMT
block-time published-time 3.16pm GMT 
 One reporter asked incoming White House advisers about Donald Trump’s planned trade actions on his first day of office, but the advisers on the press call sidestepped the question, instead directing journalists to the Wall Street Journal’s coverage of the issue. 
The Journal   this morning that Trump will issue a broad memorandum directing US agencies to examine trade policies and trade relationships with nations like China later today, but the new president plans to stop short of issuing tariffs on day one of his second term.
Trump had previously   to enact sweeping tariffs against not only China but Mexico and Canada as well, prompting warnings from economists that such a policy could drastically increase prices on everything from automobiles to food supplies.
block-time published-time 3.13pm GMT 
 Trump to declare 'national energy emergency'  
 Donald Trump is set to sign an order declaring a “national energy emergency”, incoming White House officials said this morning, as the new president has promised to “drill, baby, drill” to expand oil and gas production across the United States.
“High costs of energy are unnecessary. They are by design. It is a cause of policy,” an adviser told reporters. “We can address that, but it has been punitive to the American people over the past four years and something that we immediately need to rectify for our nation’s prosperity.”
As of today, the national average cost for a gallon of regular unleaded gas stands at $3.125, .  In comparison, the average hit an all-time high of $5.016 in June 2022. Asked how much they expected oil prices to fall during Trump’s presidency, his advisers declined to offer a specific target.
Trump’s team said that the new president also plans to sign an executive order focused on “unleashing affordable and reliable American energy”.
“Energy prices permeate every single part of our economy,” one adviser told reporters. “It’s also key to restoring our national security and exerting American energy dominance around the world.”
Trump will sign another executive order aimed at increasing Alaskan oil production, as the adviser described the state as “a crucial place from which we could export [liquified natural gas] not only to other parts of the United States but through our friends and allies in the Asia Pacific region”.
block-time published-time 3.08pm GMT 
 Biden welcomes Trump to White House for traditional tea  
 Joe  and Jill Biden have welcomed Donald and Melania Trump to the White House, for tea ahead of the president-elect’s swearing in just before noon.
Tea between the outgoing and incoming president is an inauguration tradition – one that Trump skipped for Biden’s inauguration four years ago, but which the Democrat is observing with his successor.
block-time published-time 2.57pm GMT 
 As we  , Pope Francis has criticized Donald Trump’s plan to deport undocumented people in the US. 
The pontiff said during an interview on Italian TV: “If this is true, it will be a disgrace because it would make the poor unfortunate people who have nothing to pay the unpaid bill. It doesn’t work.”
Here is the video clip …
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.18pm GMT
block-time published-time 2.50pm GMT 
 Outgoing vice-president Kamala Harris and her husband, Doug Emhoff, have been seen welcoming JD Vance and his wife, Usha Vance, to the White House. 
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.13pm GMT
block-time published-time 2.45pm GMT 
 Donald Trump will sign a presidential memorandum on inflation, a major concern for the voters who elected him, but incoming White House advisers declined to offer specifics on how the new administration would lower prices for crucial goods like groceries. 
On a press call this morning, White House advisers pledged that Trump would pursue an “all of government approach to bringing down costs for American citizens,” but they declined to outline concrete steps that the administration would pursue to tackle the issue.
“I don’t want to get ahead of the president here, but I will say that this is going to be an all of government approach here,” one adviser said. 
“It is a crucial issue... that necessitates decisive action as early as possible in the administration, and that’s what the president is doing with this presidential memorandum.”
During Joe Biden ’s presidency, the annual consumer price index (CPI) reached a post-pandemic peak of 9.1%, but it has since   to 2.9% as of last month. 
Although    that the economy and rising prices specifically ranked as top priorities for voters in November’s elections, Americans are split on whether Trump will be able to address the issue. 
According to an   conducted this month, only 21% of Americans are extremely confident in Trump’s ability to lower the costs of food and groceries this year while another 17% are moderately confident he can do so.
block-time published-time 2.40pm GMT 
 We asked the photographer Jordan Gale   showing a US poised and polarised between hope and fear. 
 Related:  
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.18pm GMT
block-time published-time 2.34pm GMT 
 Joe Biden has shared “one more selfie for the road” alongside his wife, Jill Biden. 
“We love you, America,” Biden wrote in a   on X.
enltrOne more selfie for the road. We love you, America. 
 — President Biden (@POTUS) 
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.13pm GMT
block-time published-time 2.32pm GMT 
 Trump to vow to end birthright citizenship and will declare emergency on US-Mexico border  
The incoming Trump administration will attempt to order an end to birthright citizenship for children of migrants and asylum seekers, overriding a constitutional guarantee and setting up a major fight at the supreme court.
The move is part of plans outlined to reporters by Trump officials this morning for 10 executive actions on the border and immigration that the new president .  Other orders will declare a national emergency at the   and direct the defense department to send troops to “erect physical barriers” and complete border wall construction.
“The last four years have created an unconscionable risk to public safety, public health and the national security of the United States due to the Biden administration border policy,” one incoming White House official said on a press call.
Courts have held that the constitution’s 14th amendment grants citizenship to children born on US soil, even if their parents are not citizens, or do not have permission to be in the court. Lawsuits are expected challenging Trump’s executive order, which will likely be decided by the supreme court.
Other major actions expected to come from the Trump administration today include suspending refugee resettlement for at least four months, reinstating the “Remain in Mexico” policy, and pursuing capital punishment for certain crimes committed by unauthorized immigrants.
When pressed on specific military deployment numbers, the incoming White House official said these decisions would be left to the Secretary of Defense. The incoming official also declined to provide details about potential military operations targeting drug cartels, which the administration plans to designate as terrorist organizations.
The threats to immigration are already   on the Mexican side of the border and within the US, including many who followed   pathways.
 Related:  
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.24pm GMT
block-time published-time 2.29pm GMT 
 Russia’s president Vladimir Putin has congratulated Donald Trump ahead of his inauguration, saying he was open to dialogue with the new US administration on Ukraine. 
“We welcome Trump’s desire to restore direct contacts with Russia and prevent world war three,” Putin said in a video call with Russia’s security council on Monday. 
He said he would protect Russia’s interests when negotiating an end to the invasion of Ukraine, adding that any long-term peace would require “resolving the original reasons for the crisis” and “respecting the legal interests of all people who live in the region”.
block-time published-time 2.26pm GMT 
 Trump to end DEI programs and proclaim there are only two sexes - report  
 Donald Trump will declare a national emergency at the US southern border with Mexico on Monday and announce plans to send additional armed forces to help secure the border, Reuters is reporting, citing an incoming Trump administration official.
Trump will also issue an executive order ending “radical and wasteful” diversity, equity and inclusion programs inside the federal government, the official said.
According to Reuters, the official said Trump will also:
Direct the military to prioritize the US border and territorial integrityEnd the “catch and release” policyMove to end birthright citizenshipEnd asylum and close the border to immigrants entering illegallyReinstate “remain in Mexico” policy and building the border wall10 executive orders on the border to be issued on MondaySign an executive order declaring a national energy emergencySign a memorandum on inflation which envisions an ‘all of government response’ to inflationSign an executive order saying that US policy will recognize two sexes: male and femaleWill ensure official government documents, such as passports and visas, reflect sex accuratelyEstablish Department of Government Efficiency (Doge)Restore death penalty in public safetyHas no specific target for the oil priceSign an executive order ending federal government DEI programsWill suspend refugee resettlement for at least four monthsWill put an end to the electric vehicle mandateDesignate criminal cartels as global terrorists
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.36pm GMT
block-time published-time 2.18pm GMT 
 Nigel Farage, who has flown into Washington DC. for Donald Trump’s inauguration with other right wing enthusiasts, has made sure to play down his spat with Elon Musk. 
The Reform UK leader, who has described the president-elect’s victory as heralding the start of a “political tide that is going to sweep across the western world,” said despite their disagreement over jailed far-right activist Tommy Robinson his differences with the multi-billionaire were over.
He was now, he bragged, being reposted by Musk on X, the tech entrepreneur’s social media platform formerly known as Twitter. “Musk is a hero figure when it comes to free speech, and when it comes to dreaming. He is an amazing human being,” Farage said in a podcast interview with the anti-conformist Cypriot MEP Fidias Panayiotou. “He thinks the western world is going to hell and he’s right, that’s exactly how I feel about it.”
Earlier this month the Space X and Tesla mogul in what was seen as a highly embarrassing switch of support for the British politician, called for Farage to be replaced as leader of the Reform UK party saying he “doesn’t have what it takes.”
“The Reform party needs a new leader,” he wrote in a post on 5 January.
But in the interview with Panayiotou, who is also regularly re-tweeted by Musk, Farage put the spat down to the disagreement the two men have over Robinson. “Since then, he has been retweeting me. I don’t see a long-term problem,” he said in the podcast aired hours before his departure for the US.
Robinson, a far right provocateur whose real name is Stephen Yaxley-Lennon, played a leading role in stoking race riots in the UK last August. He is currently serving an 18-month prison sentence for contempt of court.
In another post released after he called for Farage to be replaced, Musk wrote: “Free Tommy Robinson now.”
Farage told the BBC that he hoped Trump’s inauguration would provide the opportunity to “have a conversation with [Musk] on a variety of things” including the jailed activist.
block-time published-time 2.12pm GMT 
 Dr Anthony Fauci said he is “grateful” for   he received from outgoing president Joe Biden  and said he has committed no crime and sees no grounds for prosecution.
“It feels good and I’m grateful to the president for doing it,” he told CNN. 
“I have done nothing wrong. Certainly nothing criminal. No grounds at all.”
block-time published-time 2.04pm GMT 
 Donald Trump will issue a memo on Monday directing agencies to investigate trade deficits and unfair trade practices, but stop short of imposing new tariffs on his first day in office, the Wall Street Journal is 
The presidential memo directs federal agencies to investigate and remedy “persistent trade deficits and address unfair trade and currency policies by other nations”, the outlet writes.
It will direct agencies to assess China’s compliance with its 2020 trade deal with the US, as well as the status of the US-Mexico-Canada agreement (Usmca), it says. 
block-time published-time 1.53pm GMT 
 Trump arrives at St John's Church with Melania  
 Donald Trump and Melania Trump have arrived at St John’s Church for a service ahead of the inauguration.
Trump’s vice president-elect, JD Vance and his wife, Usha Vance, were also pictured arriving at the church.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.55pm GMT
block-time published-time 1.48pm GMT 
 Trump to deploy military to border in slew of executive orders - report  
 Donald Trump will sign 11 border-related executive orders, including one authorizing the deployment of US troops to the border, Fox News 
The outlet reports that in one order, Trump will immediately direct the federal government to resume construction of the border wall, end Biden-era parole policies including the CBP One app, and bring back the so-called   policy, under which asylum seekers were forced to wait in dangerous border cities while their applications were processed.
Another second order will order American troops to be deployed to the border under US Northern Command and “instruct the military to prioritize our own borders and territorial integrity in strategic planning for its operations,” according to Fox.
A third order will designate international cartels and organizations as Foreign Terrorist Organizations (FTOs) and Specially Designated Global Terrorists (SDGT), which will allow for targeted action against members, including financial penalties.
The orders will be three of the expected 11 border-related executive orders that Trump is expected to sign on Monday, it says. He is expected to announce some during his inauguration address, and others during signings at the White House.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.48pm GMT
block-time published-time 1.32pm GMT 
It is cold and quiet in Casa del Migrante, a shelter in Ciudad Juárez, on the US-Mexico border. A group of men play dominoes, another shoots hoops alone, and a young couple watch their kids play with superhero toys.
“Some people get here and don’t want to go back outside,” said Ivonne López, a social worker. “They’re afraid.”
With Donald Trump ’s return to power, the rules of US immigration are set for drastic change. While border cities like Juárez prepare for possible mass deportations, criminal groups are lying in wait to kidnap and extort migrants – and also offer them a way back across the border.
Besides deportations, Trump wants to  , the app that migrants in Mexico use to arrange US asylum appointments, and to bring back the so-called   policy, under which asylum seekers were forced to wait in dangerous border cities while their applications were processed.
The incoming administration also  , the pandemic-era public health policy that expelled people almost 3m times without letting them request asylum.
Experts say that each of these moves would increase the number of migrants in Mexico’s border cities. Taken together, their effect could be overwhelming.
 Related:  
block-time published-time 1.24pm GMT 
 Donald Trump ’s family have been pictured arriving at St John’s Church in Washington DC for this morning’s service.
block-time published-time 1.14pm GMT 
 Hungary ’s nationalist prime minister, Viktor Orbán, said Donald Trump’s presidency will help set off a second wave of massive right-wing political change in Europe.
“Only a few hours and even the sun will shine differently in Brussels. A new president in the US, a large faction of patriots in Brussels, great enthusiasm,” Orbán told a press conference on Monday, Reuters reported.
So the great attack can start. Hereby I launch the second phase of the offensive that aims to occupy Brussels.
The Hungarian leader and longtime Trump supporter will not be attending today’s inauguration.
block-time published-time 1.00pm GMT 
 Summary of the day so far …  Donald Trump supporters have begun to gather in Washington DC ahead of his inauguration as the 47th president of the USThe ceremony will take place indoors at noon (5pm GMT), with vice-president elect JD Vance taking his oath ahead of TrumpTrump’s address has been billed in advance as “more optimistic” than his 2017 speech which described “American carnage”. He is expected to call for a “revolution of common sense.”The new president is   with immigration, energy, trade tariffs, January 6 pardons and transgender rights in his sightsJoe Biden has pardoned Dr Anthony Fauci, retired Gen Mark Milley and members of the House committee that investigated the January 6 attack on the US Capitol, using the extraordinary powers of his office in his final hours to guard against potential “revenge” by the incoming administrationThe Washington Post reports Elon Musk ’s “Department of Government Efficiency” – DOGE – initiative will face a lawsuit within minutes of the inaugurationMusk will attend the ceremony, alongside Amazon founder Jeff Bezos and Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg. TikTok CEO Shou Zi Chew is also expected to attend, a day after the app thanked Trump for a stay of 
 Related:  
That is it from me, Martin Belam, in London. I am handing over to my colleague Léonie Chao-Fong over in the US
block-time published-time 12.58pm GMT 
 Mark Milley says he is 'deeply grateful' for Biden pardon  
Retired Gen Mark Milley has given a reaction to news that outgoing president Joe Biden has issued him a last minute pre-emptive pardon ahead of the Trump administration taking power again.
In a statement Milley   :
My family and I are deeply grateful for the president’s action today. After forty-three years of faithful service in uniform to our nation, protecting and defending the constitution, I do not wish to spend whatever remaining time the Lord grants me fighting those who unjustly might seek retribution for perceived slights. I do not want to put my family, my friends, and those with whom I served through the resulting distraction, expense, and anxiety.
Biden has pardoned Dr Anthony Fauci, retired and members of the House committee that investigated the January 6 attack on the US Capitol.
 Related:  
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.10pm GMT
block-time published-time 12.53pm GMT 
 Brazilian president Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva said on Monday he hopes US president-elect Donald Trump will have a “fruitful” second term in the White House and maintain his country’s “historic” partnership with Latin America’s No 1 economy. 
“On our side, we do not want to get into any fight with the US or with Venezuela, China, India, Russia,” Reuters reports Lula said. “We want peace, harmony, and relations in which diplomacy is the most important thing.”
block-time published-time 12.43pm GMT 
 French prime minister Francois Bayrou warned on Monday that France and Europe as a whole would have to stand up to US president-elect Donald Trump and his policies, or face being “crushed”, Reuters reports. 
“The US has decided to embark upon an extremely domineering form of politics, via the dollar, via its industrial policy, via the fact that it can capture the world’s investments and the world’s research,” Bayrou told reporters, as he held a New Year’s address in the city of Pau.
“And if we don’t do anything, our fate is very simple – we will be dominated. We will be crushed. We will be marginalised,” he also said.
block-time published-time 12.33pm GMT 
 Italy's Meloni expected to be only European leader at inauguration  
Angela Giuffrida is the Guardian’s Rome correspondent
 Giorgia Meloni is thought to be the only European prime minister attending the inauguration, which Manlio Messina, an MP from her far-right Brothers of Italy party, said “reiterated Italy’s role in strengthening relations between Europe and the US”. 
He added: “Meloni’s ability to build a privileged dialogue with the White House makes our country a central player in the main international dynamics.”
Daily Italian newspaper, La Repubblica, reported that Meloni might even snatch a one-to-one meeting, albeit a brief one, with Trump before the event. “Therefore overtaking Keir Starmer, the British prime minister, who by tradition is received first by the White House plenipotentiary at the start of a [presidential] mandate, and who was not even invited,” the newspaper said.
Meloni is a longtime supporter of Trump who travelled to some of his political gatherings before she came to power in October 2022. She has also forged close relations with his billionaire ally, Elon Musk.
The Italian leader   in Florida earlier this month, during which Trump described her as “a fantastic woman” who is “really taking Europe by storm.
Observers have said that common views on issues ranging from immigration to abortion, alongside the links with Musk, could result in Meloni becoming Trump’s main interlocutor in 
Hungary’s nationalist prime minister, Victor Orbán, another Trump supporter, was invited but will not be attending.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.56pm GMT
block-time published-time 12.28pm GMT 
 Elon Musk’s DOGE to be sued within minutes of Trump inauguration – reports  
 The Washington Post reports that Elon Musk’s “Department of Government Efficiency” – DOGE – initiative will face a lawsuit within minutes of Donald Trump’s inauguration later today. 
Jeff Stein   :
In a 30-page complaint obtained by the Washington Post ahead of its filing, the public interest law firm National Security Counselors says that the nongovernmental DOGE panel is breaking a 1972 law that requires advisory committees to the executive branch to follow certain rules on disclosure, hiring and other practices.
block-time published-time 12.24pm GMT 
 Biden issues pre-emptive pardons to Milley, Dr Fauci and Jan 6 committee members  
 US president Joe Biden on Monday issued pre-emptive pardons for Gen Mark Milley, Dr Anthony Fauci and members of the January 6 congressional committee and witnesses, saying they “do not deserve to be the targets of unjustified and politically motivated prosecutions.” 
“Our nation relies on dedicated, selfless public servants every day. They are the lifeblood of our democracy,” Biden said in a statement. “Yet alarmingly, public servants have been subjected to ongoing threats and intimidation for faithfully discharging their duties.”
More details soon …
 Related:  
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.42pm GMT
block-time published-time 12.05pm GMT 
 CNN’s Evan Perez reports that the incoming Trump administration has still not carried out some important duties before taking over today. 
Perez   :
While this Trump transition has been less chaotic than 2017, the current Trump transition has been slow to do the basic things needed to take the reins of government.
[That is] potentially a problem today if there’s a national security emergency and someone needs to be ready to sign . 
As of last night, the incoming Trump team still had not told Department of Justice who the new acting attorney general would be.
At noon, the last person authorized to sign Fisa warrants will leave without having someone to hand off to.
block-time published-time 11.49am GMT 
Deborah Cole is the Guardian’s Berlin correspondent
 Germany’s centre-left-led government has been largely frozen out of the inauguration festivities, with only Berlin’s ambassador to Washington, Andreas Michaelis, among the official guests. 
 Jürgen Hardt, foreign affairs spokesperson for the parliamentary group of the conservative opposition Christian Democrats, frontrunners ahead of next month’s general election, also accepted an invitation.
That paucity contrasts with several invitations sent to members of the far-right Alternative für Deutschland. Although the party’s candidate for chancellor, Alice Weidel, bowed out citing campaign commitments, at least three AfD officials are attending including co-leader Tino Chrupalla.
He told ZDF public television from Washington it was important to   but that his nationalist party would push back against any attempts by Trump to impose tariffs that would hit German industry hard.
“We don’t want to open up a trade war,” he said. “Let’s see what Trump implements in the first 100 days. But it’s a bad idea to voice prejudice and hasty judgements now … let’s see what tariffs he even has in mind. What is clear is that he wants to protect his economy and that’s what the Germans and the Europeans need to do too.” 
block-time published-time 11.29am GMT 
 Pope Francis offers prayers and warnings ahead of Trump's second term  
 Pope Francis has offered prayers in a message to Donald Trump ahead of the inauguration, pointedly saying he hopes that the US will build a society “where there is no room for hatred, discrimination or exclusion.” 
In a message, the pope said:
On the occasion of your inauguration as the 47th president of the US, I offer cordial greetings and the assurance of my prayers that Almighty God will grant you wisdom, strength, and protection in the exercise of your high duties.
Inspired by your nation’s ideals of being a land of opportunity and welcome for all, it is my hope that under your leadership the American people will prosper and always strive to build a more just society, where there is no room for hatred, discrimination or exclusion.
At the same time as our human family faces numerous challenges, not to mention the scourge of war, I also ask God to guide your efforts in promoting peace and reconciliation among peoples.
With these sentiments I invoke upon you, your family, and the beloved American people an abundance of divine blessings.
On an Italian chatshow on Sunday night, the pope had reacted to the suggestion that the Trump administration would herald the mass deportation of immigrants as “a disgrace”.
Trump has made clear that two of the priorities of his incoming administration will be mass deportations and the rolling back of diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) programmes and initiatives.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.55pm GMT
block-time published-time 11.21am GMT 
Lisa O’Carroll in Dublin
 Irish Mixed Martial Arts fighter Conor McGregor was among those who attended the Donald Trump victory rally in Washington DC last night. 
McGregor, who recently lost a civil court action taken by a woman in Dublin who alleged he had sexually assaulted her, is a huge star in the US after winning previous Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) belts.
Among those speaking at the event were UFC chief Dana White.
McGregor was pictured with Reform UK leader Nigel Farage and Pete Hegseth, Trump’s nominee for the justice portfolio.
Asked by a TV reporter if he was considering running for president of Ireland, McGregor responded: “We will see. We will see. We will see”.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.41am GMT
block-time published-time 11.08am GMT 
Writing for political website The Hill, Niall Stanage this morning outlines why Donald Trump appears to be opting for an immediate blitz of executive orders to attempt to force a range of his policies through on day on.   :
The incoming president and his allies are signaling the general thrust of his intentions clearly, even if much is yet to be revealed when it comes to specifics.
The advantage in the “shock and awe” approach, especially for an incoming president as controversial as Trump, is that it could leave his opponents uncertain what to focus on – and struggling to bring sustained opposition to bear on any one proposal.
It would also reassure the Trump base that their decision to re-install the most disruptive figure in the nation’s politics was likely to pay off – even as the very same dynamics would likely outrage Democrats and liberals.
Back in November’s election, roughly one-quarter of voters said they wanted “complete and total upheaval” in the nation.
block-time published-time 11.06am GMT 
Country star     “America the Beautiful” at today’s inauguration ceremony.
CNN   telling the news network:
I love our country and am honored to have been asked to sing at the inauguration and to be a small part of this historic event. I am humbled to answer the call at a time when we must all come together in the spirit of unity and looking to the future.
block-time published-time 10.57am GMT 
Andrew Sparrow in London
The UK prime minister Keir Starmer is expected to travel to Washington “within the next few weeks” to meet president Trump, David Lammy, the UK’s foreign secretary, said today.
I think that when you look at past prime ministers, it’s taken between a week or up to a month to come to Washington. The importance is the strength of the relationship and the serious discussions that we have.
In the end, we have war in Europe, we have a ceasefire in the Middle East, but it’s incredibly fragile, and there are important malign actors like Iran that we’ve got to discuss with the United States and, of course, our growing trade relations with the United States.
So, lots to discuss, and I’m very confident that Keir Starmer will be discussing this with Donald Trump within the next few weeks.
When Trump was first elected president, Theresa May, who was then the UK’s prime minister, became the first foreign leader to meet him in the White House, arriving a week after the inauguration.
This time UK government sources have briefed that Starmer is not competing to be the first foreign leader through the door – amid reports that the Trump administration is minded to make him wait anyway because Starmer’s Labour party are not ideological allies with Trump’s Maga Republican wing.
block-time published-time 10.48am GMT 
Rachel Leingang, Dharna Noor and Adria R Walker report for the Guardian today:
 Prominent leftwing activists across the US say a second   demands new tactics to achieve their goals, amid expectations the huge protests that marked both the Biden and first Trump presidencies won’t materialize in the same way. 
As many as   attended Women’s Day marches in the US the day after Donald Trump’s first inauguration. The Saturday before Trump was inaugurated for a second time,   in Washington DC and in cities around the country as part of the People’s March, this year’s version   – though the turnout was much smaller than in 2017.
“The novelty of mass mobilization has kind of worn off,” said Jamie Margolin, who previously led climate group Zero Hour.
“Is the goal to demonstrate you are an activist and to self-actualize, or is the goal to actually affect change?” said Ezra Levin, the co-founder of Indivisible, a progressive group that emerged in 2016.
They are two of several activists across the country who spoke with the Guardian about their plans. The organizers expressed a need to “get creative” – to find smaller-scale, more impactful means of changing public sentiment and reaching lawmakers.
 Read more here: 
 Related:  
block-time published-time 10.42am GMT 
Angelique Chrisafis in Paris
The French president, Emmanuel Macron, who invited Trump to the reopening of Notre Dame cathedral in Paris last month, will not be at Trump’s inauguration. 
But several French far-right figures said they would be in Washington for the event.
 Éric Zemmour, a former talkshow pundit turned far-right politician who ran for French president in 2022 and scored about 7% of the vote, will be in Washington with his partner Sarah Knafo, a member of the European parliament. Zemmour has several convictions for inciting racial hatred.
Also in Washington is Marion Maréchal, another far-right member of the European parliament. Maréchal is the niece of Marine Le Pen but quit Le Pen’s National Rally party and is part of the European Conservatives and Reformists grouping in the European parliament.
Marine Le Pen and her party president Jordan Bardella will not be present. But three members of Le Pen’s National Rally party, the biggest opposition party in the French parliament, will be in Washington as part of the European parliament group, Identity and Democracy. They include the National Rally’s mayor of Perpignan, Louis Aliot, and the member of the European parliament, Julien Sanchez. 
Le Pen’s party has made sure it will be represented in Washington but has been discreet about this back home in France.
Bardella told French TV, France 2, on Monday why he wasn’t going himself: “We can appreciate the patriotism of Trump without necessarily wanting France to be a vassal to the US. I wanted to maintain a balanced position.” He said he had to think of French farmers and wine-makers who could be affected by potential US tariffs.
Last week Bardella, interviewed by another French TV station, CNews, was critical of French politicians vying for selfies at the event. “One has the impression it’s Walt Disney and it’s a race to take a photo in front of Trump during his inauguration speech. There is party friendship, and respect for great political leaders – and Donald Trump is one – but I don’t feel obliged to be beside him or to chase after him.” 
block-time published-time 10.14am GMT 
 Trump to call for 'revolution of common sense' in address – reports  
 The Wall Street Journal has   what it has labelled an exclusive in the last few minutes which includes a short extract of what Donald Trump is expected to say later on today at his inauguration. 
It reports that the incoming 47th president of the US will say:
I return to the presidency confident and optimistic that we are at the start of a thrilling new era of national success. A tide of change is sweeping the country. My message to Americans today is that it is time for us to once again act with courage, vigor and the vitality of history’s greatest civilization.
The paper also reports that Trump will call for a “revolution of common sense.”
Alex Leary   :
While a combative Trump in his 2017 address lamented “American carnage,” his 2025 speech has been designed to be more optimistic, people familiar with the drafting say, though Trump is known to veer off script. At the same time, the 47th president is expected to dispense with some of the lofty rhetoric of his predecessors and describe in blunt terms what he views as the most pressing national problems and his solutions for them.
Trump’s inauguration is scheduled for noon local time.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.16am GMT
block-time published-time 10.03am GMT 
The New York Times has been reporting on a call held by Stephen Miller and senior Republicans on Sunday evening during which Donald Trump’s incoming homeland security adviser and deputy White House chief of staff set out some of the new administration’s plan for reforming the federal workplace.
Maggie Haberman and Jonathan Swan   :
Miller described, while providing little detail, executive orders to undo actions taken by President Biden to institute “diversity, equity and inclusion” measures in federal agencies, and to roll back protections for transgender people receiving some government services.
Trump also plans to reinstate an order he issued during his first term to create a new category of federal workers, known as Schedule F, that would lack the same job protections enjoyed by career civil servants. That would allow his administration to shift large numbers of federal workers into a new status over which it could keep a much tighter rein, including the ability to hire and fire them more easily.
block-time published-time 9.54am GMT 
My colleague Joseph Gedeon in Washington DC also had this look at what Trump might have planned for day one:
In the grand theatre of American politics, presidential inaugurations typically follow a familiar script: the oath, the speech, a few carefully chosen executive orders to satisfy campaign promises. Franklin D Roosevelt used his first day to .  Barack Obama moved to   (though it remains open).     first term began with a single executive order .  Joe Biden   on his first day in 2021.
But as Trump prepares to return to the White House for round two, he’s promising to tear up the traditional presidential playbook entirely. With more than   reportedly prepared, his agenda represents a new attempt to reshape American governance through sheer executive will.
Areas expected to be targeted by Trump include:
 Mass deportation program Trump has   “the largest deportation program in American history” immediately upon taking office.
 Border emergency declaration Beyond deportations, Trump plans to declare a national emergency at the border.
 North American tariff shock for Canada and Mexico Trump’s most economically significant day one promise is the pledge to impose   on all Canadian and Mexican imports.
 January 6 pardons Trump hasn’t just promised pardons – he’s specified a timeline, saying he’ll begin reviewing cases in “   ” of his presidency.
 Energy sector revolution Trump’s “drill, baby, drill” agenda includes an immediate national energy emergency declaration.
 School funding overhaul Trump promises   federal funding for schools that teach “critical race theory”, maintain vaccine mandates, or enforce mask requirements
 Transgender rights Trump has vowed to institute what observers call the most sweeping rollback of transgender rights in modern American history on his first day in office.
 Electric vehicle mandate reversal While no federal EV mandate actually exists, Trump promised to end what he called “Kamala’s insane electric vehicle mandate.”
 Birthright citizenship challenge Trump plans to sign an executive order ending automatic citizenship for children born to non-citizen parents in the US.
 Cryptocurrency in the bank Trump is reportedly expected to establish a   to go along with his “crypto czar” David Sacks, a former PayPal executive.
 Deep state purge Trump has promised immediate action to “demolish the deep state.”
 Ukraine war negotiations Trump’s most repeated promise   was his pledge to end the Russia-Ukraine war before even taking office – a deadline that has already passed.
 Related:  
block-time published-time 9.50am GMT 
 Russia has been without an ambassador to the US since October 2024, when Anatoly Antonov left his post, but today Reuters is reporting that senior Russian lawmaker Grigory Karasin has said Russia has been told by the US that it has granted approval for the appointment of a successor.
block-time published-time 9.47am GMT 
As a reminder, if you are actually in Washington DC today, there are a large number of travel and transport restrictions in place to deal with the expected influx of visitors and the security arrangements surrounding the presidential inauguration. Details can be found . 
block-time published-time 9.33am GMT 
 Trump inauguration: where to watch it  
The Guardian will   and have a live feed in this blog alongside our commentary and fact-checking of Donald Trump’s speech.
In the US, all major news networks will broadcast Trump’s speech live and .  Coverage starts as early as midnight ET on CNN, with other major networks to begin their programming early in the morning.  ,   and   will carry coverage live on YouTube.
In the UK, the inauguration will be broadcast on BBC One from 3.30pm GMT and .  Sky News, ITV and Channel 4 will also carry coverage of the inauguration.
In Australia, all major free-to-air TV networks will broadcast the inauguration as it happens. Coverage on the ABC, Seven, Nine, Ten and SBS begins between 2.30am and 3.30am AEDT on Tuesday, depending on the channel. Each will also have live streams on their apps and on YouTube via ABC News 24.
  ’s YouTube stream is available in many regions around the world. Or you can watch it on the  , which will provide a globally available live stream.
block-time published-time 9.29am GMT 
Overnight, in Italy, Pope Francis has been critical of Donald Trump ’s reported plans for mass deportations in the US, Associated Press reports.
Speaking on Italian talkshow Che Tempo Che Fa, Francis, who was born in Buenos Aires and is the first Latin American pope, said:
If true, this will be a disgrace, because it makes the poor wretches who have nothing pay the bill for the problem. This won’t do! This is not the way to solve things. That’s not how things are resolved.
In 2016 Francis said that anybody who builds a wall to keep out migrants is “not Christian.”
block-time published-time 9.18am GMT 
 What has Donald Trump promised for 'historic' day one orders?  
 An exultant   has promised to act with “historic speed and strength” when he returns to the White House on Monday, teeing up a barrage of executive orders targeting illegal immigration, transgender rights and other rightwing priorities. 
“Starting tomorrow, I will act with historic speed of strength and fix every single crisis facing our country,” he said on Sunday at a victory rally in a downtown sports arena in Washington DC.
“Every radical, foolish executive order of the   will be repealed within hours of when I take the oath of office. You’re gonna have a lot of fun watching television. Somebody said yesterday, don’t sign so many in one day, let’s do it over a period of weeks. I said, like hell... no, we’re doing them tomorrow.”
“By the time the sun sets tomorrow, the invasion of our country will have come to a halt,” he said. “The border security measures I will outline in my inaugural address tomorrow will be the most aggressive, sweeping effort to restore our borders that the world has ever seen.”
He said: “Tomorrow everybody in this very large arena will be very happy with my decision on the J6 hostages. Very happy. I think you will be very, very happy.”
Trump said he would instruct the military to construct an “iron dome” missile defence system. He also pledged to “get radical woke ideologies the hell out of our military” and played a video intercutting scenes of a bullying drill sergeant in the film Full Metal Jacket with clips of transgender individuals supposedly associated with the Biden-Harris administration.
Roared on by the crowd, Trump said: “We will get critical race theory and transgender insanity the hell out of schools... This will be done tomorrow. We will keep men out of women’s sports.”
Trump further promised to reverse the “over-classification” of government documents, a seeming reference to his federal indictment for retaining classified papers after leaving office.
 Related:  
block-time published-time 9.11am GMT 
If you would like something to listen to as we await the day’s ceremony in Washington DC, Today in Focus features Michael Safi speaking to the Guardian’s Washington DC bureau chief David Smith and senior political correspondent Hugo Lowell about what we should expect from “Trump World 2.0”.
 You can listen to it here: 
 Related:  
block-time published-time 9.06am GMT 
Joan E Greve and David Smith report from Washington
 “We won,” declared an exultant Trump after walking on stage at Washington’s Capital One Arena on Sunday night, accompanied by his signature campaign anthem God Bless the USA.  Vowing to “take our country back”, the soon-to-be 47th president said: “Tomorrow at noon the curtain closes on four long years of American decline and we begin a brand new day of American strength and prosperity, dignity and pride.”
“We’re going to stop the invasion of our borders,” Trump promised. “We’re going to unlock the liquid gold that’s right under our feet... We’re going to bring back law and order to our cities... We’re going to get radical woke ideology the hell out of our military.”
Trump promised that on Monday he would “act with historic speed and strength and every crisis facing our country”.
block-time published-time 9.00am GMT 
 Donald Trump to take oath of office as US braces for vengeful second term  
Joan E Greve and David Smith report from Washington
 The United States was bracing for a new era of disruption and division on Monday with   scheduled to be sworn in as its 47th president, promising a blitz of executive orders and radical shake-up of the global order. 
Trump’s inauguration ceremony has been   to the rotunda at the US Capitol building because of bitterly cold weather. The high sandstone hall at the Capitol’s centre is the same spot where some of his   2021 in an attempt to overturn his election defeat.
Few imagined then that Trump, twice impeached and now a convicted criminal, would set foot inside the White House again. But over the weekend the 78-year-old revelled in his improbable political comeback with supporters of his Maga (Make America great again) movement.
block-time published-time 8.57am GMT 
 Donald Trump to be sworn in as 47th US president  
 Donald Trump takes office today for the second time, as he will be sworn in as the 47th president of the US, the first to take the oath as a convicted felon. 
The official swearing in ceremony begins at noon ET in Washington DC (5pm GMT). 
Vice president-elect JD Vance will take the oath of office first, followed by the president-elect, who will also deliver his second inaugural address.
Trump is then expected to issue a slew of executive orders, setting the tone for four years of his Make America Great Again agenda.
Follow our live blog coverage today as we bring you the latest as it happens …
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.53pm GMT

Load-Date: January 23, 2025


End of Document
