




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 3, 2025 Monday 2:25 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 728 words
Byline: Rebecca Falconer
Body


February 2nd, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
Following reports that Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) representatives accessed the  
The latest:    
When   
The big picture: Senate Democrats said in a  
Congress "established USAID "as an independent agency, separate from the Department of State, to ensure that we can deploy development expertise and U.S. foreign assistance quickly, particularly in times of crisis, to meet our national security goals," they wrote.
"For this reason, any effort to merge or fold USAID into the Department of State should be, and by law must be, previewed, discussed, and approved by Congress," added the  
Zoom in: Democrats told Rubio they've received  
"We understand that the security guards present at the facility were threatened when they raised questions," per the Democrats, who said they hadn't been notified of such a visit.
"Following this incident, the senior management of the Office of Security, which secures USAID personnel and facilities and safeguards national security information, were placed on administrative leave," they added.
"The potential access of sensitive, even classified, files which may include the personally identifiable information (PII) of Americans working with USAID, and this incident as a whole raises deep concerns about the protection and safeguarding of matters related to U.S. national security."
The intrigue: The USAID website appeared to be offline over the weekend, with  returning the message: "This site can't be reached."
What they're saying: Responding to a report that two senior USAID officials had been placed on administrative leave, Musk  
He did not immediately provide evidence of crimes committed.
What we're watching: The Democrats requested "an immediate update" on the incident, including whether the DOGE representatives were "authorized to be there and by whom," whether those who accessed classified spaces had the required security clearances and what they were seeking to access.
They also want to know whether "any PII of American citizens was breached, and whether any review is underway regarding potential unauthorized access to sensitive personnel information and classified materials."
Zoom out: Republican Rep. Brian Mast (Fla.), who chairs the House Foreign Affairs Committee, suggested on CBS Sunday "purging" State Department personnel, which he said he's working on with Rubio.
Mast said on CBS' " 
When CBS' Margaret Brennan asked for clarification, Mast said: "If you want to take a look at the State Department, where DEI has been a priority over, let's say, diplomacy on many accounts."
Representatives for the State Department and the White House did not immediately respond to Axios' request for comment.
Read the letter, via  

Go deeper:  
Editor's note: This article has been updated with new details throughout.


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 3, 2025


End of Document
