




telegraph.co.uk
February 1, 2025 Saturday 6:54 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: WORLD NEWS; Version:2
Length: 6190 words
Byline: By Connor Stringer, Deputy US Editor and Andrea Hamblin and Roland Oliphant, Senior Foreign Correspondent and Chris Price, Business Live Blogger
Body


Canada, China and Mexico have moved to take retaliatory action against Donald Trump after the US President ordered steep tariffs against the three countries. 
Mr Trump on Saturday signed an executive order placing 25 per cent tariffs on goods imported from Canada and Mexico and a 10 per cent tax on China, as he demanded an end to illegal migration and drug trafficking.
Energy products from Canada will have only a 10 per cent duty, but Mexican energy imports will be charged the full 25 per cent, officials said.
Mr Trump also declared a national emergency under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act to back the tariffs, which allows sweeping powers to address crises.
“Today’s tariff announcement is necessary to hold China, Mexico, and Canada accountable for their promises to halt the flood of poisonous drugs into the United States,” an announcement from the White House read. 
“There is growing production of fentanyl in Canada, and enough fentanyl was seized at the northern border last fiscal year to kill 9.8 million Americans.
“Additionally, illegal border crossings from Canada reached historic new highs every year for the last four fiscal years.”
Leaders of the three countries targeted in Mr Trump’s executive orders swiftly reacted, with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau warning Americans that they would ultimately be the losers of a trade war. 
“As I have constantly said, tariffs against Canada will put your jobs at risk, potentially shutting down American auto assembly plants and other manufacturing facilities,” Mr Trudeau said, aiming his remarks at Americans.
He added: “We will not back down in standing up for Canadians.”
Canada would impose 25 per cent tariffs on C$155 billion ($106.5 billion) of US goods, Mr Trudeau announced. Goods impacted would include some materials, alcohol, fruit, clothing and appliances. 
China said it “firmly opposes” new tariffs imposed on Beijing by Mr Trump, vowing to take “corresponding countermeasures to resolutely safeguard our own rights and interests”.
Mexican President Claudia Sheinbaum also flagged her government would introduce tariffs on American products as she labelled as “slander” allegations by the White House that her government was aiding the drug traffickers behind a fentanyl crisis in the US.
Mr Trudeau also questioned Mr Trump’s aims, saying that “less than one per cent of fentanyl going into the United States comes from Canada”.
Fewer than one per cent of the US’s illegal migrants had crossed from Canada, he said. 
Mr Trudeau said Canada is addressing Mr Trump’s calls on border security by implementing a CDN$1.3 billion (US$900 million) border plan that includes helicopters, new canine teams and imaging tools.
                     Trump warns he is prepared to go further                   
Prior to the reaction from China, Canada and Mexico, the White House said Mr Trump’s order also includes a mechanism to escalate the rates if the countries retaliate against the US.
The president is preparing more import taxes in a sign that tariffs will be an ongoing part of his second term. 
On Friday, he mentioned imported computer chips, steel, oil and natural gas, as well as against copper, pharmaceutical drugs and imports from the European Union — moves that could essentially pit the U.S. against much of the global economy.
Writing on Truth Social, Mr Trump said: “Today, I have implemented a 25% Tariff on Imports from Mexico and Canada (10% on Canadian Energy), and a 10% additional Tariff on China. 
“This was done through the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA) because of the major threat of illegal aliens and deadly drugs killing our Citizens, including fentanyl. 
“We need to protect Americans, and it is my duty as President to ensure the safety of all. I made a promise on my Campaign to stop the flood of illegal aliens and drugs from pouring across our Borders, and Americans overwhelmingly voted in favor of it.”
The White House officials also said there would be no exclusions from the tariffs. In the case of Canada specifically, they said the “de minimis” US tariff exemption for small shipments under $800 would be cancelled.
The moves follow through on a repeated threat Mr Trump has made since shortly after winning last year’s presidential election and has sparked fears on an international trade war. A model gauging the economic impact of Mr Trump’s tariff plan from EY Chief Economist Greg Daco suggests it would reduce US growth by 1.5 percentage points this year, throw Canada and Mexico into recession and usher in “stagflation” at home.
“We have stressed that steep tariff increases against US trading partners could create a stagflationary shock – a negative economic hit combined with an inflationary impulse – while also triggering financial market volatility,” Mr Daco wrote on Saturday.Mr Trump set the Feb 1 deadline to halt the flow of the opiate fentanyl and precursor chemicals into the US from China via Mexico and Canada, as well as to stop illegal immigrants crossing borders.More than 75 per cent of Canada’s exports go to the US, according to government data. In comparison, 17 per cent of US exports go to Canada.
                     02 Feb 2025-04:08AM GMT                   
                     That concludes our live coverage                    
Thanks for following our blog.
Please check back in later on Sunday for more reaction and analysis. 
                     02 Feb 2025-04:03AM GMT                   
                     Beijing vows to retaliate                   
China said it “firmly opposes” new tariffs imposed on Beijing by Mr Trump, vowing to take “corresponding countermeasures to resolutely safeguard our own rights and interests”.
China’s commerce ministry slammed Washington’s “erroneous practices” and said that Beijing would file a lawsuit at the World Trade Organisation to fight “the unilateral imposition of tariffs” that “seriously violates WTO rules”.
It added that the duties were “not only unhelpful in solving the US’s own problems, but also undermine normal economic and trade cooperation”.
“China hopes that the United States will objectively and rationally view and deal with its own issues like fentanyl, rather than threatening other countries with tariffs at every turn,” the ministry said.
It said Beijing “urges the US to correct its erroneous practices, meet China halfway, face up to its problems, have frank dialogues, strengthen cooperation and manage differences on the basis of equality, mutual benefit and mutual respect”.
                     02 Feb 2025-03:57AM GMT                   
                     Is the US still Canada’s ally?                    
Asked directly about the bilateral relationship, Mr Trudeau said “we will continue to be friends and neighbours”. 
Canada would continue to collaborate with the US, the PM said as he stressed that the two countries have had the world’s most successful “political, military, economic and security partnership”. 
“I have faith in Canadians, but I also have faith in the friendship between Canada and the United States,” he said. 
“This is a friendship that has stood the test of time.”
Mr Trudeau confirmed he did not speak with Mr Trump on Saturday.
                     02 Feb 2025-03:49AM GMT                   
                     Trudeau tells Canadians to avoid US holidays                   
The PM encouraged Canadians to buy local products and holiday at home rather than in the US. 
“We didn’t ask for this but we will not back down,” Mr Trudeau said. 
He added that “we’re not looking to escalate but we will stand up for Canada, for Canadians, for Canadian jobs.” 
                     02 Feb 2025-03:44AM GMT                   
                     Tariffs on beer, wine, fruit                    
Mr Trudeau said tariffs would impact American beer, wine and bourbon, as well as fruits and fruit juices, including orange juice from Mr Trump’s home state of Florida. 
Canada would also target goods including clothing, sports equipment and household appliances.
Mr Trudeau’s government is also considering non-tariff measures, potentially relating to critical minerals, energy procurement and other partnerships. 
                     02 Feb 2025-02:59AM GMT                   
                     Trudeau to Americans: ‘Your jobs are at risk’                   
Jusitn Trudeau said the US should “partner with us, not punish us” as he urged Americans to understand that tariffs would result in them paying more for “food at the grocery store and gas at the pump”.
“As I have constantly said, tariffs against Canada will put your jobs at risk, potentially shutting down American auto assembly plants and other manufacturing facilities,” Mr Trudeau said.
                     02 Feb 2025-02:36AM GMT                   
                     Canada confirms counter tariffs                   
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said Canada would impose 25 per cent tariffs on C$155 billion ($106.5 billion) of US goods in response to the tariffs announced by Donald Trump. 
Mr Trudeau told a news conference that C$30 billion would take effect from Tuesday and C$125 billion in 21 days “to allow Canadian companies and supply chains to seek to find alternatives”.
                     02 Feb 2025-01:46AM GMT                   
                     Mexico: US needs to do more to combat fentanyl crisis                   
Claudia Sheinbaum continued: “If the United States government and its agencies wanted to address the serious consumption of fentanyl in their country, they could, for example, combat the sale of narcotics on the streets of their main cities, which they do not do, and the money laundering generated by this illegal activity that has done so much harm to their population.” 
 “They could also start a massive campaign to prevent the consumption of these drugs and take care of their young people, as we have done in Mexico,” she said. 
“Drug consumption and distribution is in their country and that is a public health problem that they have not addressed. 
“In addition, the synthetic opioid epidemic in the United States has its origin in the indiscriminate prescription of drugs of this type, authorised by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), as demonstrated by the lawsuit against a pharmaceutical company.” 
                     02 Feb 2025-01:39AM GMT                   
                     Mexico president slams ‘White House slander’                   
Claudia Sheinbaum said Mexicans “categorically reject the White House’s slander” following allegations her government has alliances with criminal cartels.
In a fact sheet on the new tariffs, the White House accused her government of having “an intolerable alliance” with drug traffickers and of providing “safe havens for the cartels to engage in the manufacturing and transportation of dangerous narcotics”.
“If such an alliance exists anywhere, it is in the United States armouries that sell high-powered weapons to these criminal groups, as demonstrated by the United States Department of Justice itself in January of this year,” Ms Sheinbaum in a post on X. 
                     02 Feb 2025-01:25AM GMT                   
                     Ontario: ‘Tariffs will lead to inflation’                   
Doug Ford, premier of Ontario in Canada, described the tariffs on the US’ neighbours as “illegal”.
“This is going to hurt Americans. It’s going to hurt Canadians. We’re going to see inflation happen down in the US and in Canada,” he told CNN’s Jessica Dean on her Newsroom programme.
“And it’s unjustified,” he added.
                     02 Feb 2025-01:23AM GMT                   
                     Warnings American families will pay more                   
The US Chamber of Commerce has warned that Mr Trump’s tariffs will only raise prices for American families. 
“The chamber will consult with our members, including Main Street businesses across the country impacted by this move, to determine next steps to prevent economic harm to Americans,” said John Murphy, senior vice president and head of international at the chamber. 
                     02 Feb 2025-01:21AM GMT                   
                     American liquor to be pulled from Canadian shelves                    
David Eby, the Premier of British Columbia, has criticised the tariffs as a betrayal of the long-standing relationship between Canada and the US.
The province would stand firm in the face of the “unprecedented attack,” Mr Eby said at a press conference. 
Among countermeasures he flagged was the removal from shelves of liquor that comes from Republican-led states. 
He said he has directed the province’s liquor distribution branch to immediately stop purchasing liquor that comes from Republican-led states in the US. The alcohol would also be removed from shop shelves. 
“The Americans are bigger, but if we don’t stand up for ourselves, they will just keep coming back for more,” Mr Epy said, explaining why retaliatory action was needed.
                     02 Feb 2025-12:32AM GMT                   
                     East Coast drivers could also feel the crunch                   
The region’s refining capacity meets just about half the daily fuel demand, and the rest is met mainly by the Colonial Pipeline, which pumps over 100 million barrels of fuel daily from the Gulf Coast.But that pipeline is almost always full. In periods of high demand, Irving Oil’s St. John’s refinery in New Brunswick has been the main swing supplier to the East Coast.Those imports will be subject to the 10 per cent levy.
                     02 Feb 2025-12:29AM GMT                   
                     ‘Additional costs pass on to customers’                   
Companies involved in the wholesale fuel market said they have little choice but to pass on the added cost to consumers, especially as the post-COVID surge in fuel margins has faded away amid oversupply and weakening demand growth.”We’re in a kind of hand to mouth situation here,” said Alex Ryan, energy director at Kansas-based Oasis Energy, which operates a travel store and partially owns a fuel retailing convenience store.
Mr Ryan said his team, which also supplies fuel to other markets, is still waiting for feedback from refiners on the estimated cost increase.”Whatever the cost is, ultimately it ends up in the consumer’s lap, and there’s nothing we can do about it,” he said.
                     02 Feb 2025-12:27AM GMT                   
                     Mexican President remains defiant                    
Claudia Sheinbaum said: “When we negotiate with other nations, when we talk with other nations, (it is) always with our heads held high, never bowing our heads”.
Her comments come after Mr Trump announced a 25 per cent duty on all imports from Mexico.
                     02 Feb 2025-12:13AM GMT                   
                     Canada’s largest trade union urges swift retaliation                    
Unifor, which represents workers in the private and public sectors, said Ottawa must retaliate to Mr Trump’s announcement. 
“With the implementation of these tariffs, President Trump has declared a trade war with Canada and with Canadian workers,” Unifor national president Lana Payne said in a press release. 
“Trump’s decision to go to battle with America’s largest trading partner will hurt working people on both sides of the border and inflict real economic damage to both countries.”
                     01 Feb 2025-11:56PM GMT                   
                     Canadian minister: ‘We are prepared to fight’                   
Jonathan Wilkinson, Canada’s natural resources minister, wrote in a post on X that Canada had done “nothing to provoke tariffs” from the US. 
“But I want to reassure each and every Canadian: no matter who you are or where you live, we are prepared and ready to fight for you,” Mr Wilkinson wrote. 
Canadian media has reported, citing senior government sources, that Canada is considering counter-tariffs ranging from $10 billion to $85 billion. 
                     01 Feb 2025-11:53PM GMT                   
                     Trudeau’s warning to Canadians                   
The Canadian Prime Minister has told Canadians that they could be facing difficult times ahead.
Justin Trudeau also announced that Ottawa was prepared to respond with retaliatory tariffs.
Mr Trudeau said Canada is addressing Mr Trump’s calls on border security by implementing a CDN$1.3 billion (US$900 million) border plan that includes helicopters, new canine teams and imaging tools.
                     01 Feb 2025-11:48PM GMT                   
                     Mexico: ‘We have Plan A, Plan B, Plan C’                   
Claudia Sheinbaum, the Mexican president, has stressed that her country has acted to reduce illegal border crossings and the illicit trade in fentanyl. 
While she has emphasised the ongoing dialogue since Mr Trump first floated the tariffs in November, she has said that Mexico is ready to respond, too.
Mexico has a “Plan A, Plan B, Plan C for what the United States government decides,” she said.
                     01 Feb 2025-11:37PM GMT                   
                     Trump says tarrifs intended ‘to protect Americans’                   
Writing on Truth Social, Mr Trump said: “Today, I have implemented a 25% Tariff on Imports from Mexico and Canada (10% on Canadian Energy), and a 10% additional Tariff on China. 
“This was done through the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA) because of the major threat of illegal aliens and deadly drugs killing our Citizens, including fentanyl. 
“We need to protect Americans, and it is my duty as President to ensure the safety of all. I made a promise on my Campaign to stop the flood of illegal aliens and drugs from pouring across our Borders, and Americans overwhelmingly voted in favor of it.”
                     01 Feb 2025-11:24PM GMT                   
                     Trump signs off on tariffs                    
Donald Trump has signed an executive order placing 25 per cent tariffs on goods imported from Canada and Mexico, as well as a 10 per cent tax on China.
“Today’s tariff announcement is necessary to hold China, Mexico, and Canada accountable for their promises to halt the flood of poisonous drugs into the United States,” the White House said on X.
“There is growing production of fentanyl in Canada, and enough fentanyl was seized at the northern border last fiscal year to kill 9.8 million Americans.”Additionally, illegal border crossings from Canada reached historic new highs every year for the last four fiscal years.”
                     01 Feb 2025-06:53PM GMT                   
                     Trump poised to sign off tariffs                   
To recap, Donald Trump is poised to unleash fresh tariffs later on major US trading partners Canada, Mexico and China, threatening upheaval across the world economy.
The President promised 25pc tariffs on Canada and Mexico, pointing to their failure to halt illegal immigration and the flow of fentanyl across US borders.
He also vows a 10pc tariff on imports from China, the world’s second biggest economy, charging that it had a role in producing the synthetic opioid.
Trump has repeatedly expressed his love for tariffs, and has signalled that today’s action could be the first volley in further trade conflicts to come.
Britain’s Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office declined to comment on the tariffs.
Thanks for following the fall-out so far. . 
                     01 Feb 2025-06:25PM GMT                   
                     UK car and chemical industries at risk from tariffs                   
Britain’s car exports and chemicals sectors would suffer the worst hits if Donald Trump decided to impose tariffs on British goods.
The table below shows Britain’s exports by sector in 2023, with machinery and transport (which includes vehicles) more than double the next biggest sector for sales to the US.
                     01 Feb 2025-06:02PM GMT                   
                     Britain’s battle to stay out of Trump’s trade war                   
Whitehall is watching anxiously as the president of the world’s largest economy unleashes tariffs on America’s neighbours, . 
Canadian lumber, Chinese smartphones and Mexican tequila are among the products set to become much more expensive in the US.
Donald Trump also threatened Brussels with “very substantial” tariffs, after imposing 25pc levies on Canada and Mexico and 10pc on China on Saturday.
. 
                     01 Feb 2025-05:39PM GMT                   
                     Oil tariffs risk ‘huge implications’ for energy prices                   
Hiking tariffs on crude oil from countries like Canada and Mexico could bring “huge implications for US energy prices”, according to the Atlantic Council think tank.
Nearly 60pc of US crude oil imports are from Canada, according to a Congressional Research Service report.
Canadian heavy oil is refined in the United States and regions dependent on it may lack a ready substitute.
Donald Trump said he was mulling a lower tariff rate on oil, potentially as low as 10pc, rather than the 25pc announced on the country overall.
He told reporters: “I’m probably going to reduce the tariff a little bit on that. We think we’re going to bring it down to 10pc.”
Canadian producers would bear some impact of tariffs, but US refiners would also be hit with higher costs, said Tom Kloza of the Oil Price Information Service.
The price of oil has fallen in the wake of the tariff announcement, with Brent crude down 0.3pc today to less than $76 a barrel.
                     01 Feb 2025-05:08PM GMT                   
                     US car industry faces blow from tariffs                   
The American car industry is on track to be hit hard by a trade war.
US light vehicle imports from Canada and Mexico in 2024 accounting for 22pc of all vehicles sold in the country, according to S&P Global Mobility.
The research group added that carmakers and suppliers also produce components throughout the region, meaning tariffs will likely increase costs for vehicles.
Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer said: “We should be focused on going hard against competitors who rig the game, like China, rather than attacking our allies.”
He added: “I am concerned these new tariffs will further drive up costs for American consumers.”
                     01 Feb 2025-04:51PM GMT                   
                     Canada and Mexico face recessions over Trump tariffs                   
Canada and Mexico face recessions as a result of the tariffs due to be imposed by Donald Trump, economists have said.
EY chief economist Greg Daco said the trade war would also trigger a period of stagflation in the US, meaning the economy would face low growth with high inflation.
He said US growth could take a 1.5 percentage point hit this year.
Mr Daco said: “We have stressed that steep tariff increases against US trading partners could create a stagflationary shock-a negative economic hit combined with an inflationary impulse-while also triggering financial market volatility.”
                     01 Feb 2025-04:34PM GMT                   
                     Trade tariffs to have ‘little impact’ on UK at this stage, say economists                   
A trade war between the US, China, Canada and Mexico would unlikely have an instant impact on Britain, economists have said.
Sanjay Raja of Deutsche Bank said: “Given that it’s isolated-for now-the UK should see very little indirect impact at this stage.” 
Paul Dales of Capital Economics added: “The UK is not as exposed to US import tariffs as many other economies and we suspect any resulting reduction in UK GDP would be very small.”
He added: “That said, the car and pharmaceutical sectors are the most vulnerable areas of the UK economy.”
                     01 Feb 2025-03:53PM GMT                   
                     Trump’s new tariffs might be his first mistake                   
To date, the second Trump presidency has been everything the Right could have asked for. The grotesque overreach of the American state is being cut back. DEI initiatives are out. Funding for the Left’s political messaging is out too. 
But every victory is bought at a price, and the bill for these early successes is now due.
Trump has   from Canada and Mexico, and 10 per cent on goods from China. 
The EU is also in his sights, with the President promising to “absolutely” impose tariffs on a bloc that he believes has treated the US “terribly”. And other tariffs appear set to be imposed on “all forms of medicine and pharmaceuticals”, steel, and chips.
. 
                     01 Feb 2025-03:29PM GMT                   
                     Scotch whisky makers fear ‘damaging’ Trump tariffs                   
Miles Beale, chief executive of the Wine and Spirits Association, has warned that a “damaging” trade war with the US will “choke up investment” and “exacerbate redundancies” in the sector, writes Mattie Brignal.
Industry insiders believe that the Trump administration will target UK wines and spirits – including Scotch whisky – in the tussle over tariffs. 
A 25pc tariff on American and British exported spirits was imposed by both countries in 2019, in response to a long-running dispute over Boeing and Airbus.
Both sides later agreed to suspend the levies for five years from 2021, but they will return in June 2026 unless a new agreement can be reached between London and Washington.
Mr Beale added: “We are worried that the Trump administration will reapply the same tariffs as the Biden administration suspended. Our expectation is they will be reapplied when the suspension is terminated.
“Wine and spirits are caught up in a war that’s nothing to do with our industry. The impact will be very similar to last time – a drop in demand and supply from both sides of the Atlantic.
“Tariffs choke up investment and any plans for further recruitment. There are already people being laid off in the spirit and wine sector, and a trade war would exacerbate this. 
“We would urge the Prime Minister to please deal with this as soon as you can – don’t stand off and wait. 
“We want the UK Government to already be talking to the US Government, and making the case that it would be damaging to both countries to have a trade war on wine and spirits.”
                     01 Feb 2025-03:12PM GMT                   
                     Target Musk’s Tesla with tariffs, says Canadian PM hopeful                   
One of the candidates running to replace Justin Trudeau as Canada’s prime minister has surged its government to hit back at tariffs imposed by Donald Trump by adding levies on Tesla.
Chrystia Freeland, Canada’s former finance minister, said Ottawa should hit Trump’s “billionaire buddies” such as Elon Musk, the chief executive of the electric car maker who is running the President’s new Department of Government Efficiency.
She said: “Canada must threaten to impose a 100pc tariff on all Tesla vehicles and a 100pc tariff on US wine, beer and spirits if unfair tariffs are imposed on Canadians.”
                     01 Feb 2025-02:48PM GMT                   
                     Borrowing costs surge since Trump takes office                   
The cost of government borrowing has risen in both the UK and the US since Donald Trump returned to the White House.
Both the 10-year UK gilt and US Treasury yields-a benchmark for the return the government promises to pay buyers of its debt has climbed above 4.5pc.
Surging borrowing costs have raised doubts about whether Rachel Reeves can meet her self-imposed fiscal rules without either putting up taxes or cutting public spending.
                     01 Feb 2025-02:33PM GMT                   
                     Mexico has ‘Plan A, Plan B, Plan C’ for Trump, says president                   
Mexico President Claudia Sheinbaum has stressed that her country has acted to reduce illegal border crossings and the illicit trade in fentanyl. 
While she has emphasized the ongoing dialogue since Trump first floated the tariffs in November, she has said that Mexico is ready to respond, too.
Mexico has a “Plan A, Plan B, Plan C for what the United States government decides,” she said.
                     01 Feb 2025-02:03PM GMT                   
                     Dollar strengthens as Trump tariffs loom                   
The dollar has pushed higher after Donald Trump announced tariffs on Mexico, China and Canada.
The US currency was up 0.2pc against the pound to $1.24 today, having been lifted since the President’s election victory in November. 
Sterling and other currencies are expected to weaken against the dollar in the wake of Trump’s tariffs, as it will likely mean the US Federal Reserve will keep interest rates higher to battle inflation.
                     01 Feb 2025-01:31PM GMT                   
                     Trump not being ‘unreasonable’                   
Donald Trump is not “bullying” China, Mexico and Canada with his tariff plans, according to Telegraph readers.
Here is a selection of views from the comment section below, and  :
                     01 Feb 2025-12:57PM GMT                   
                     Tariffs risk higher borrowing costs, warn economists                   
The UK government could face higher borrowing costs if Donald Trump unleashes a global trade war, economists have warned.
Tariffs expected to push the cost of goods higher, which could force the US Federal Reserve to keep interest rates higher to combat inflation.
Julian Jessop of the Institute of Economic Affairs pointed to the risk that this could force up yields on the bond markets.
Yields are the return that governments promise to pay buyers of their debt:
                     01 Feb 2025-12:33PM GMT                   
                     Canadians ‘in no mood to make concessions’, insists Carney                   
Mark Carney said Donald Trump’s decision to announce tariffs was “entirely unjustified” as he suggested Canada would retaliate if he becomes its next prime minister.
The former Bank of England governor said Canada has “a lot of cards” and will “start playing a few” which will match US tariffs “dollar for dollar”.
He told the BBC: “We will target our tariffs on those goods and services that will most affect the United States and least affect Canada.
“To be clear, this will have an impact on the Canadian economy and that impact will be felt quickly and to a greater extent in the US.
“Canadians are in no mood to make any concessions here. This is entirely unjustified and we have many, many other options that we don’t want to deploy but we will if we have to.”
                     01 Feb 2025-12:19PM GMT                   
                     Tariffs are ‘bad idea’ says Senator                   
Democrat Senator Mark Kelly has described Donald Trump’s tariffs as a bad idea. 
Walking through Dallas Fort Worth International Airport, he talks about how tariffs will push up the costs of things like groceries:
                     01 Feb 2025-11:19AM GMT                   
                     Drugs, steel and semiconductor chips face tariffs, says Trump                   
Full details are yet to emerge on what exact items will face tariffs under Donald Trump’s plans.
Announcing the tariffs in the Oval Office, the President said:
                     01 Feb 2025-11:07AM GMT                   
                     Trump tariffs poised to disrupt $2.1 trillion of trade                   
Donald Trump’s tariff announcements overnight against Canada, Mexico and China could potentially disrupting more than $2.1 trillion worth of annual trade.
The President, who is working from his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida this weekend, said on Friday that there was little that the top three US trading partners could do to forestall the tariffs.
On the day he took office last month, Mr Trump had set Feb 1 as a deadline to stop illegal immigrants from crossing southern and northern US borders. 
He also pushed Canada and Mexico to take strong action to halt the flow of fentanyl into the US, as well as chemicals used to make the drug entering the US from China.
During a lengthy White House exchange with reporters, Mr Trump brushed aside the notion that his tariff threats were merely bargaining tools.
He said: “No, it’s not ... we have big (trade) deficits with, as you know, with all three of them.”
He also said that revenue was a factor and the tariffs may be increased, adding: “But it’s a lot of money coming to the United States.”
                     01 Feb 2025-10:47AM GMT                   
                     Britain ‘should be spared’ from Trump tariffs, say economists                   
Britain “should be spared” from Donald Trump’s tariff agenda, according to economists, as the President targets countries with huge trade deficits with the United States.
Julian Jessop of the Institute of Economic Affairs said trade data indicates the EU would be “next in the firing line”.
In 2023, the US trade deficit with China was $279.4 billion, meaning China exports more goods to the US than the US exports to China.
By contrast, according to the Office for National Statistics, the UK had a trade deficit with the United States in goods.
Britain has a trade surplus with the US in services, meaning it has an overall surplus of £71.4bn in trade in goods and services with the US in 2023.
                     01 Feb 2025-10:15AM GMT                   
                     Market reaction muted-so far                   
The Mexican and Toronto stock exchanges both fell by half a per cent in response to the White House announcement. The peso fell by 1 per cent against the dollar, while the Canadian dollar was down about a tenth against its counterpart shortly after the statement.
But the value of the dollar jumped and gold prices hit a new record as investors reacted to Mr Trump’s decision. The reaction was muted, given the president’s intentions had been clear for months.
  since the start of the year, touched a new high above $2,800 an ounce for the first time in history on Friday.
                     01 Feb 2025-10:03AM GMT                   
                     How Canada, Mexico and China have responded                    
The three countries in the cross hairs of Mr Trump’s tariff hikes have all condemned the plans-but with varying degrees of fury.
Justin Trudeau says Canadians could be “facing difficult times in the coming days and weeks” after Donald Trump insisted that he would impose hefty new tariffs of 25 per cent on goods coming across the northern border. 
Mexican President Claudia Sheinbaum has also threatened retaliation, but said she would “wait with a cool head” for Trump’s tariff decision and was prepared to continue a border dialogue with him.
China has been more circumspect about its retaliation plans, but has vowed to respond to defend its trade interests.
China “firmly opposes” Trump’s new duties, a spokesperson for Beijing’s embassy in Washington said, adding: “There is no winner in a trade war or tariff war, which serves the interests of neither side nor the world.”
                     01 Feb 2025-09:49AM GMT                   
                     Canada ‘will retaliate’ against Trump tariffs, say prime ministerial hopefuls                   
Front-runners in the race to replace Justin Trudeau as prime minister have warned Canada will hit back if Mr Trump goes ahead with the tariffs.
Mark Carney, a former governor of the Bank of England and the favourite   Mr Trudeau, told the BBC: “President Trump probably thinks Canada will cave in”.
“But we are going to stand up to a bully, we’re not going to back down.”
“We’re united and we will retaliate.”
Earlier   Mr Trudeau’s former finance minister, said Canada should retaliate by slapping massive levies on Tesla vehicles, a move that would rile Elon Musk, Mr Trump’s close ally.
Miss Freeland and Mr Carney are both running for the leadership of Canada’s Liberal Party. The leadership election is on March 9.
                     01 Feb 2025-09:22AM GMT                   
                     How could a trade war affect the UK?                   
The US is the UK’s largest individual trading partner, although most of Britain’s trade is in services, which would not be affected by higher goods tariffs. The UK accounts for 2 per cent of US goods imports.
However, Britain’s tax on tech giants may yet draw the ire of Mr Trump as Sir Keir Starmer steps up efforts to secure a trade deal.
                     01 Feb 2025-09:22AM GMT                   
                     Trump threatens tariffs on EU too                   
Speaking from the Oval Office on Friday, Mr Trump said: “Am I going to impose tariffs on the European Union? You want the truthful answer or shall I give you a political answer? Absolutely. The European Union has treated us so terribly.”

Load-Date: February 2, 2025


End of Document
