




Fox News FOX NEWS @ NIGHT 11:00 PM EST
February 5, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7158 words
Byline: Greg Gutfeld, Trace Gallagher, Kevin Corke, Christina Coleman
Guests: Kristin Davison, Siaka Massaquoi, Kira Davis, Emily Austin, Danielle Smith, Sia Liilii, Lauren Miller, Aaron Cohen, Ellie Cohanim
Body


GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Tom Shillue, Julia Banderas, Michael Loftus and Kat Timpf, studio audience. "FOX NEWS @ NIGHT" is next. I'm Greg Gutfeld. I love you, America.
TRACE GALLAGHER, ANCHOR, FOX NEWS @ NIGHT: Good evening. I'm Trace Gallagher. It's 11:00 p.m. on the East Coast, 8:00 here in Los Angeles and this is America's late news, FOX NEWS @ NIGHT.
And breaking tonight. The war on women's sports appears to be over. President Trump signing a no men in women's sports executive order today, checking off yet another major campaign promise. And as the war on women's sports ends, the war on DOGE begins. Elon Musk, continuing to expose the jaw-dropping waste inside our government and lifelong bureaucrats in Washington getting a bit jumpy.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Elon Musk, let's be very clear what the (BLEEP) trying to do.
PROTESTERS: Which side are you on? Which side are you on?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We're going to take it to the street.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: And FOX NEWS @ NIGHT hit the streets asking hard questions with mixed reviews.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What about, for example, the $75,000 going towards a DEI musical in Ireland?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I've got $75,000 in my checking account, lady. That's not.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I don't know why our money is going there.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's kind of cool honestly.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Have you seen it?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: But a lot of 75Ks add up to billions.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: OK.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: More from Jillian the DOGE police in moments, but first the senior national correspondent Kevin Corke live in D.C. with more on the cuts infuriating Democrats. Kevin, good evening.
KEVIN CORKE, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: I'm not just going to let that go. If you got 75K in your checking account, you need a better hairdresser. Come on, man. Evening, my friend. I'm just throwing that out there. Clearly, Trace, with all the punches coming from different directions. You know, at a certain point you just have to cover up, hang on and wait for the referee to either call for a break or to call the fight all together.
Now that's what some are suggesting Democrats in Washington are doing tonight, protesting with a barrage of executive actions and proposals all rolling out for the President and his administration. They are nonplussed, and while they haven't been able to land many punches on the president, increasingly, Democrats are now turning their focus and their ire for that matter, toward the head of DOGE the Department of Government Efficiency's Elon Musk, in part, as some have put it, because Musk turned over the large stone in the backyard, revealing the spending over at USAID.
And now the proverbial bugs are on the run. Still, the outrage is palpable. Democrats from coast to coast, including here in Washington, are out for revenge.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. VAN HOLLEN (D-MD): Getting rid of aid makes us all less safe. It is also downright illegal. Elon Musk, he may get to be a dictator at Tesla, and he is trying to play dictator here in our nation's capital.
REP. JONATHAN JACKSON (D-IL): Elon Musk has not been elected to anything. Elon Musk should not have access to our personal financial records. We don't need people running our government that have not gone through security clearance.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
CORKE: Truth be told, Democrats have fairly few actual levers of power at this point at their disposal because, as you know, the GOP already holds control of both houses of Congress and the White House with President Trump back in the Oval Office leaving does the task of shrinking the federal government right on track, one mission, one agency, and as they would tell you tonight, Trace, one line item at a time. Back to you.
GALLAGHER: One at A time. Kevin Corke live for us in D.C. Kevin, thank you. Well, the FOX NEWS @ NIGHT Common Sense Department thinks the left has given itself a pass when it comes to violent rhetoric. Turns out elected Democrats and legacy media believe they have perpetual immunity when it comes to making inflammatory statements. In other words, they think they can lose their minds and say whatever they please about Elon Musk and DOGE without consequences.
So, when a Democrat member of Congress like Lamonica McIver says "we're at war," or when Ilhan Omar says, "we might actually see somebody get killed," or Senator Chris Van Hollen says, "We have to fight this in the streets." They believe it's just riffing. And when Congresswoman Ayanna Pressley fills the daily Hitler comment quota by calling Elon Musk a "Nazi nepo baby, it's just a saying.
But when. Republicans call out the rhetoric. The far-left media site Jezebel says the Liberals are making "standard concerned comments." And the GOP, by the way, a bunch of snowflakes. If Common Sense has this right, when Trump says bloodbath about the auto industry, it's a threat. When the left threatens street violence, it's a comment, kind of like the George Floyd riots were mostly peaceful.
Common Sense thinks the left is still blind, which is why the richest man in the world is eliminating their perks, paybacks and boondoggles right before their eyes.
Let's bring in Axiom Strategies partner Kristin Davison and former L.A. GOP Vice Chair, Siaka Massaquoi. Thank you both for coming on. I mean, Elon Musk, Kristin, had this thing nailed a few months ago. He knew this was coming, and he was right about the opposition. I want to play this sound bite from then and now and get your thoughts.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ELON MUSK, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, TESLA MOTORS: There will be immense opposition, obviously, to making government more efficient.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Shut down the Senate. I am war.
PROTESTERS: Lock him up. Lock him up. Lock him up.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: It seems to me, Kristin, like they got caught, right? And they see their slush fund kind of drying up. And there's a little bit of panic built in here.
KRISTIN DAVISON, AXIOM STRATEGIES PARTNER: Well, exactly. And my advice to Democrats would be, take a breath right this hyperbolic riding in the streets, it's a little much, and let's be honest with what this is really about. Elon is just the shiny target for them to complain about, and catchy, you know, slogan but this is about the fact that they did -- they got caught. They got caught and they got caught with their slush fund that goes to DEI, musicals in Ireland.
And transgender operas in Colombia. Now that millions of dollars will be flowing to their pet projects anymore, and they're throwing a tantrum over. That's what this is. If they had real concerns, they would have been protesting a number of different things over the years. But no, right now, they're lost. They don't know what to do, and their bank account just got shut off.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Meantime, Siaka, we are learning that government agencies are paying for subscriptions to media outlets like Politico and the new White House press secretary had this to say about that.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: So, upon coming out here to the briefing room, I was made aware of the funding from USAID to media outlets, including Politico who I know has a seat in this room and I can confirm that the more than eight million taxpayer dollars that have gone to essentially subsidizing subscriptions to Politico and the American taxpayer dime will no longer be happening.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Isn't it interesting, Siaka, how the money from these types of organizations are always going at least the lion's share of the money is always going to the left, to the left?
SIAKA MASSAQUOI, LOS ANGELES GOP VICE CHAIRMAN: It seems like it happens all the time, Trace. And I think that what we have to understand here with what we're seeing and all those people who are protesting out front is those are the ones that have been benefiting from stealing our tax dollars. And they've been doing this and creating terrorism across the world, but more importantly, leaving infrastructure projects sitting here like what happened in Springfield, Ohio, those things, all the money that's been wasted has cost lives.
We found out, you know, we know different charities that have been helping illegals come over the border, which is helping trafficking, which is helping women, you know, being a sexually assaulted. So there's blood and there's this trauma on the Democrats hands, who have been involved in this for far too long. Imagine where our country would be today with all that money. Imagine what our country would look like with all that money.
Imagine those inner cities that they always cry about, and what exactly would look like with all that money returned back to the people.
GALLAGHER: Meantime, Kristin, the Wall Street Journal, says the following, "Hurricane Musk and the USAID panic." These grants are dumb and wasteful, but some USAID spending may undermine U.S. interests. An analysis by the Middle East Forum says 164 million of the USAID money has supported radical organizations around the world. 122 million of that aid going to groups aligned with foreign terrorist organizations.
I mean, why is government -- I mean, you think the left is calling Elon Musk Hitler now. And you look at this, you think, really, come on?
DAVISON: Well, exactly. And strategically, it doesn't make any sense. We just had an election where 80 million Americans voted for this. This has been the most transparent process I think we've seen ever this. Trump is the first president to ever take this, frankly, this debt crisis on, and it will do exactly that. It's going to cut the waste out and actually send American tax dollars where they could be most beneficial in our country to help Americans.
And aside from that, I mean, the Democrat Party is bleeding support. They're at an all-time low for their favorability and the Republicans at an all-time high. So, I think that if I were a Democrat, I would spend more time trying to figure out why I lost the American people, and less time fighting to send food to organizations linked to terrorist groups.
GALLAGHER: Yes. I think it's fair. And very quickly, Siaka, I want -- I want to get your thoughts on the Trump executive order protecting women's sports from biological males. If you can give me 15 seconds of them.
MASSAQUOI: I mean, you know what, Trace, this is a long time coming. Once again, we see the radical left has gotten into our society and our culture, and it's really dangerous for these young women who have worked their butts off for years and years and years. I mean, what was Title IX about if it wasn't for helping to uplift women and these guys, these hypocrites are showing themselves, and thank God for President Trump and signing that into law today.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Kristin, Siaka, thank you both.
DAVISON: Thank you.
GALLAGHER: Well, the outrage over Elon Musk being a special government employee has the left kind of melting down. But we want to know how residents of the nation's capital are feeling about the world's richest man and the job that he's doing. Here's another FOX NEWS @ NIGHT exclusive as Jilly talks DOGE in D.C.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: President Trump recently paused a lot of aspects of our foreign aid. What do you think about this? Do you think it's a good idea? Bood idea?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Terrible idea.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Hell no, it's not a good idea.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Pretty awful idea.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: He's selfish (BLEEP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's kind of bad.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I think it's reckless.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Do you think it's important that we spend money on some of the things we are like, for example, $20 million going towards a Pakistani version of Sesame Street? Do you think that's a good use of our foreign aid and taxpayer dollars?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Well, I think there's need to, like, reevaluating some of the things.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Isn't that what Trump's doing by putting the pause on?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's basically it.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Good investment of our taxpayer money?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Probably not. No.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Do you think it's a good use?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: No, you don't. It's stupid.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Trump is the one putting an end to that.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes. I am aware of that. I'm aware of that, maybe that's good.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It's actually making us less safe.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: A little bit of a pause to figure out what's in the budget. Isn't that outrageous?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We may have to start a draft.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What about, for example, the $75,000 going towards a DEI musical in Ireland?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I've got $75,000 in my checking account. Lady, that's not --
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I don't know why our money is going there.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's kind of cool, honestly. Have you seen it?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: But a lot of 75Ks add up to billions.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: OK.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What about $20 million going towards a Pakistani version of Sesame Street? It's quite a lot of money.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: So, Pakistan is bad now.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Do you think that helps our national security?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I don't believe you, first of all. Second of all, it does help our national security.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Hold it up. DOGE.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Of course, President Musk needs to be impeached.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What authorization does he have to shut down agencies?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Everyone knew Musk and Trump were partners in the American people -- and the American people still voted for Trump.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Our country has been acquired by X corp. I hope you're happy.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Well, the mainstream media is also expressing outrage over DOGE. Let's bring in Just Listen to Yourself podcast host Kira Davis and RNC Creator and Israel Activist Emily Austin. Thank you both for coming on. Kira, to you first. Politico cofounder Jim VandeHei said this to media. "The left right now, the liberal media has probably never been weaker in my lifetime than right now. There's a lot to work with. You just got to change. The question everybody's asking is, will the liberal media change?
KIRA DAVIS, HOST, JUST LISTEN TO YOURSELF PODCAST: Well, if what I've been observing over the last few days is any indication, absolutely not, they have learned nothing. We've just watched all of these protests outside of the Treasury, all of these complaints. They are still using the old playbook Nazi racism. They're back on their heels now, and these are people who are not -- who are not used to not being in charge.
So, it's mass chaos and every day is going to be more chaos because these are people who are unprepared. Everything's been handed to them, so they don't know how to navigate hard times.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Meantime, Emily, here's some media reaction to Trump's proposal on Gaza.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ (D-NY): It is part of the culmination of what I view to be genocide of the Palestinian people and this was genuinely one of the most horrific humanitarian catastrophes than we've seen in modern history.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's the wackiest idea, hard to say he's ever come up with.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: He thinks that the coastline of Gaza is going to be great for some new hotel.
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN CHIEF U.S. SECURITY ANALYST: It's preposterous and it's illegal.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: It's kind of a pattern, right, Emily? It's deportations, meltdown, tariffs, meltdown in Elon Musk, meltdown. What do you think?
EMILY AUSTIN, RNC CREATOR: I saw AOC and I already saw everything I had to see. But the truth is, the best part about all of it is that Trump has proven nobody can outdo him. His creativity is so unpredictable and in the Middle East, that actually gives him the upper hand. The truth be told, I believe Trump is putting out a bold statement to the entire world. He's showing the other Arab countries.
Look, if you're not going to do something about Gaza, I'm going to do it. And he's actually taking it now upon himself to put his money where his mouth is. There's been two years of this war for any country to come and intervene with help of a Palestinian state, and everyone's taking the back seat, likely due to Hamas' threat. So now I think Trump is just showing them a blueprint of what should be done.
Or not, maybe he develops it, and then we get Mar-a-Gaza, who knows?
GALLAGHER: Or not. Exactly right. Meantime, you have CBS swearing that it's Kamala Harris interview back in the fall was not doctored. It was not deceitful. We're going to play you both, because that's the way it is and we'll let you decide. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BILL WHITAKER, CBS NEWS CORRESPONDENT: But it seems that Prime Minister Netanyahu is not listening.
KAMALA HARRIS, FORMER VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Well, Bill, the work that we have done has resulted in a number of movements in that region by Israel that were very much prompted by or a result of many things, including our advocacy for what needs to happen in the region.
WHITAKER: But it seems that Prime Minister Netanyahu is not listening.
HARRIS: We are not going to stop pursuing what is necessary for the United States to be clear about where we stand on the need for this war to end.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: They say, not doctored, not deceitful. They took the nonsensical era and they made it coherent.
AUSTIN: Did they?
GALLAGHER: I mean -- but --
AUSTIN: Even what they came up with was still made no sense. But we've known this about Kamala forever. She's an idiot. I mean, just -- that's the technical term for it, people. She's an idiot, but she didn't even make it to Iowa the first time. There's a reason for that. There's a reason why she didn't go to Joe Rogan, the most popular podcast in the world. She has nothing to give. This is the problem with California politicians, everybody.
This is the problem America is that they never have any pushback, so they aren't sharpened. They aren't sharp. They don't have thoughts of their -- know how to navigate troubled water.
GALLAGHER: Emily, the media really mean a lot of people. You look at all these polls, the media just continues to kind of lose trust.
AUSTIN: The media has lost its trust a long time ago. The problem was, Trace, calling it out, and never had any consequences because we were under administration where if the false narratives fit their agenda, it was OK with them. I mean, now we see $8 million subsidized to Politico. We are basically using our tax paying money to feed the lies and deceit the American people. And Trump's coming in, and he's saying, this is enough.
Let's let free media be free media. Elon Musk has played a huge role in that with X. Now we're seeing more of the truth come out, and maybe that's what's causing a lot of outrage, is that people are seeing another side that they haven't seen before.
GALLAGHER: Emily, Kira, thank you both.
AUSTIN: Thank you.
GALLAGHER: Meantime, U.S. Army recruiters under a new Trump administration are enlisting soldiers at numbers we have not seen in 15 years. Christina Coleman is live with that story. Christina, good evening.
CHRISTINA COLEMAN, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Hi, good evening, Trace. Yes. The U.S. Army shattered previous recruiting records in December by enlisting nearly 350 soldiers each day that month.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP (R) PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: After years of shrinking force numbers at levels that nobody has ever seen before, four years of this, we went through and missed recruiting targets every single month. It was just announced that in December, the U.S. Army had its single best recruitment in more than 15 years.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
COLEMAN: Army combat veteran and defense secretary Pete Hegseth also noted the success in recruitment writing on X. "Bottom line, America's youth want to serve under the bold and strong America first leadership of President Donald Trump."
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PETH HEGSETH, UNITED STATES DEFENSE SECRETARY: It's the President Trump effect. They want to serve under a commander-in-chief they know will have their backs. That's A, number one. And number two, they're defending our homeland, Laura. I mean, we've spent two decades guarding other people's borders and when you meet these men and women on our border in real time, able to defend their communities, their families, their churches, their school, they love that. They're motivated by that, and they know we will have their back.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
COLEMAN: Talk about a very quick turnaround and recruitment numbers, Trace.
GALLAGHER: So fast. Christina, thank you. Let's bring in former Army physician, Lieutenant Colonel Danielle Smith. Danielle, it's great to have you on the show. In December, the U.S. had its single best recruitment in 15 years. Why?
DANIELLE SMITH, FORMER ARMY PHYSICIAN: Well, thank you for having me, Trace. And it's really a testament to the excitement you can just feel in air in this country with President Trump and Secretary Hegseth. Their, you know, their administration is an inspiration for Patriots and for Americans. They show that they care about us, they're listening to us, and their patriotism is making young people want to fight for America again.
I mean, we watched President Trump take a bullet, jump back up on stage and say, fight, fight, fight. If that doesn't make you want to join the military, I don't know what does. And that's really what a commander-in- chief needs to embody. That's who you want to follow. That's who you want to, you know, take orders for and, you know, defend our country's borders, defend, you know, all enemies domestic and abroad, as our oath says.
GALLAGHER: But, I mean the whole thing, Colonel Smith, Doctor Smith, it's one of those things where you said it yourself is, yes, you've got Trump coming in, but, but a lot of these leaders, these toxic leaders, as you phrased it, are still there. When do they phase out?
SMITH: Well, and that's something that President Trump and Secretary Hegseth are really going to have to do some work on because these leaders, unfortunately, have the character where they may just kind of morph into what this administration wants and lay low, you know, and kind of get past these four years and still get their career and their retirement. So, I think starting with the inspiration of having people join and recruit is what builds up that morale in the military and then will build up our military strength.
I mean, patriotism is what drives recruitment? That's why I joined, however many years ago. So that's really the stepping stone. And the foundation of the military is the service members, is the American people who want to defend our country and fight for President Trump and Secretary Hegseth.
GALLAGHER: And I've only got a few seconds left, but I wanted to kind of clarify. You left the military after 13 years because you refused to take the COVID vaccine. Do you think that we will see in the military this kind of scene play out again sometime in the future?
SMITH: I certainly hope not. I really hope they learned their lesson. You know, they -- the leaders, blatantly ignored their own DoD regulations and branch specific policies to protect religious freedom, to give service members an avenue and our leadership and our military commanders really just turned their back on their service members. So, it was a really difficult situation for those who were declining, but even those who complied.
I mean, it was coercion, defamation, you know, fearmongering, and you know, all service numbers really took a hit, which, again, is what kind of broke that morale and led to the situation we were in.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Danielle Smith, great to have you on the show. Thank you. Best of luck to you.
Well, coming up. President Trump, making good on another promise today to protect women's sports by banning trans athletes. And a look at the new pro-girls sports ad featuring Riley Gaines going viral with millions of views. We'll play it for you.
And later in the "NIGHTCAP."
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: The only reason the Palestinians want to go back to Gaza is they have no alternative. It's right now a demolition site. They instead can occupy all of a beautiful area with homes and safety and they can live out their lives in peace and harmony, instead of having to go back and do it again.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: President Trump sending diplomatic shock waves across the world revealing his proposal to redevelop Gaza into a Riviera of the Middle East owned by the United States. What do you think of Trump's plans to rebuild the enclave? Is this why Americans elected him for his outside the box ideas? Let us know. X and Instagram @tracegallagher. We'll read your responses in The Nightcap. We're coming right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: We're putting every school receiving taxpayer dollars on notice that if you let men take over women's sports teams or invade your locker rooms, you will be investigated for violations of Title IX and risk your federal funding. There will be no federal funding.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Well, it's official, President Trump has now banned biological men from playing in women's sports. That decision expected to have far reaching consequences in schools, colleges, maybe even the Olympics. Let's bring in the University of Nevada, Reno women's volleyball team captain Sia Liilii Lee and professional golfer Lauren Miller. Thank you both for coming on. Sia, to you first. What do you think of the president's order? Been a long time coming. Are you happy?
SIA LIILII, UNIVERSITY OF NEVADA, RENO WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL TEAM CAPTAIN: Oh, I am ecstatic. It was said in his campaign trail that he was going to take men out of women's sports. And he's a man of his word. He did just that with this executive order pulling federal funding from organizations that don't comply, applying the pressure as much needed.
GALLAGHER: Yes. It really is, I think that Lauren, Paula Scanlan, former NCAA athlete, said this on Fox tonight. And I thought it was well thought out. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PAULA SCANLAN, FORMER NCAA ATHLETE: It was the greatest day of my life. But what I will say is the fact that we are even here, Laura is so crazy to me. We have to have a sitting president say, hey, let me sign an executive order that says men do not belong in women's sports. I mean, have we lost our minds that we have to do something like that?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: People have been asking that question for a while now, Laura. I mean, it's one of those things where you have we lost our minds by allowing biological males to do this?
LAURA MILLER, PROFESSIONAL GOLFER: Absolutely. But thankfully today we are starting to see common sense return. Our administration, our president, we are all standing together again, united. We are saying that women and girls' sports matter and they are worth it.
And we will no longer continue to put up with men coming in and invading our spaces. Men and women are different. That's OK. That's wonderful. We need these separate categories. Common sense is coming back, and we are definitely moving back in the right direction.
GALLAGHER: Meantime, the Harry Potter author, J.K. Rowling, retweeted the real girls rock ad, it's by XX-XY. J.K. Rowling said the following, quoting here, "This is the first and likely the last time that I will retweet an ad, but I love it."
And I know that you are in this ad, Sia, along with Riley Gaines and others. I wanted to play part of this because it's worth it, and I think our audience would enjoy it, and then we'll get Sia's opinion on the other side. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'm just going to say it, she's a bigot.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: She's been a massive distraction on the team with her hateful rhetoric.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Sia is not inclusive.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: And males debating her in sports is even a problem as far as I am concerned.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: These female athletes just need to work harder.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: And not blame others for their lack of success.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: As the captain, she is very much responsible for these boycotts which cost her team --
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I guess we'll see how Sia handles all that pressure tonight.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Bam, you know, Sia that's the whole thing is, is that this thing has gone crazy online. A lot of people are retweeting this, and viewing this, and watching it. When you first saw it, what did you think? Is it the kind of ad that you think is necessary at a time like now?
SIA LIILII, RENO WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL TEAM: I think it's very necessary. The ad depicts what people don't see in women's sports, the grind, the process, what athletes don't want to do, but have to do in order to go out there and get wins.
Waking up every day at the crack of dawn, getting into training, getting better every day when everyone is still sleeping. But when males invade women's sports, they start with a disadvantage from the start. We go on to the competition floor where males are faster, stronger, bigger, and it's not fair.
GALLAGHER: No, it's not. And that's the whole thing, Lauren. As you look at an ad like this and it says so much. I mean, Jennifer Sey, who's a friend of the show, who is, of course, one of the owners of XX-XY, was saying, no, we're not going to put this ad in the Super Bowl because, come on, you can't. It's a big ask right here. But the ad is effective and it's getting a lot of play.
MILLER: Absolutely. And why wouldn't it? What an incredible message. Real girls rock. Real women rock. It's what our country needs to hear. It's so true. Standing today in that room and looking around at all of the young women, the women my age, the women older than me, we've all been fighting so hard for this. And I could see the smiles on their face.
Young girls are excited to play sports again. They feel protected. They feel seen. And they cannot wait to continue to compete, knowing that it's going to be only against their peers. It's not going to be against other boys. But they're now seeing that they truly have voice, and that there's strength in numbers, and that we have a lot of influence, and that their careers and their dreams matter.
GALLAGHER: Yes, look, I'm a girl, dad. We have two girls at home. And it's a big day for them as well, both athletes. Lauren Miller, Sia Liilii, thank you both and congrats. All the best of luck to both of you.
Meantime, he may be the president for all Americans, but Trump hinted at who he might be cheering for when he attends the Super Bowl in New Orleans this weekend, saying, "There's a certain quarterback that seems to be a pretty good winner, which many took to mean Patrick Mahomes, whose Kansas City Chiefs, will be going for their third straight Super Bowl victory. Trump will be the first sitting president to attend the big game.
And coming up, an update on the investigation into the D.C. plane crash and the airport workers arrested for allegedly leaking video to the media. And new video coming into Fox News tonight of a Delta Airlines plane and a Japan Airlines plane colliding on the ground in Seattle. The update on that, both the stories, next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GALLAGHER: We are learning more about that fatal midair collision in D.C. that shook the nation just one week ago. Ashley Strohmier is live with the latest on the recovery effort and a new collision in the Pacific Northwest. Ashley, good evening.
ASHLEY STROHMIER: Hi, Trace. Yes, it's exactly one week since that deadly collision between a Black Hawk helicopter and passenger plane near Washington, D.C. And another collision to tell you about. Watch this.
So, a Japan Airlines plane taxiing on the tarmac of Seattle, Tacoma International Airport, apparently struck the tail of a parked Delta aircraft. There were 142 passengers already on board Delta flight 1921 to Mexico, but no injuries were reported. Officials say airport operations were minimally impacted.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PETE HEGSETH, U.S. SECRETARY OF DEFENSE: It appears there was some sort of altitude issue. We're doing both the FAA investigation but also our own internal and when we know you will know. We want to be fully transparent about this.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
STROHMIER: And that was Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth confirming that altitude was a factor in the fatal D.C. collision. Investigators have revealed that the Black Hawk helicopter was flying at an elevation of 300 feet, 100 feet above the maximum altitude for helicopters in the area.
Officials say all 67 victims in the collision have now been recovered. And tonight, government leaders and first responders gathered to hold a candlelight vigil in their honor. Meantime, two employees of the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority have been arrested, accused of leaking official airport footage of the crash.
According to our affiliate, WTTG, the pair apparently leaked the footage to CNN, and the network has not commented on the incident. Those two employees are facing misdemeanor computer trespass charges and officials have not specified how the footage was obtained or distributed. Trace.
GALLAGHER: Ashley Strohmier live for us in New York. Ashley, thank you.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: The bonds of friendship and affection between the American and Israeli people have endured for generations and are absolutely unbreakable.
The historic proposal for the United States to take over Gaza announced by President Trump last night underscores this commitment.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: Well, the Trump administration giving an optimistic view of what the future could look like in the Gaza Strip, but others not so sure about temporary U.S. ownership. Let's bring in Israeli Special Ops Veteran Aaron Cohen, and former State Department Deputy Special Envoy Ellie Cohanim. Thank you both for coming on.
Aaron, to you first, Benjamin Netanyahu sat next to, stood next to the President yesterday, and he likes this plan. What, what does Aaron Cohen think about the U.S. taking over Gaza?
AARON COHEN, ISRAELI SPECIAL OPS VETERAN: I think it's a brilliant strategic move, it's completely outside the box like you said when you set this up, and I'll tell you why.
One, the Palestinians are no longer human shields -- that's the most important piece. It's been an absolute murder festival watching what this terror group has been doing to their own people.
Two, Israel now has more established security because Hamas can be eradicated.
Three, the Americans now have the ability to gain a strong foothold in the Middle East, not having to rely on Qatar and Iraq, where they've been getting hit, because they can put a base right in Gaza. And that gives them a ton of leverage for forward operations for Iran, which I'm sure we'll get into in the coming days.
So, that's a big piece right there. And for decades, the Arabs have used the Palestinians as political pawns, and now their hypocrisy is being called out by Trump. So, I think it's brilliant and I think it's a reset that we need to see.
GALLAGHER: LADU now, the plan, when you hear the president go over this and Benjamin Netanyahu kind of seconding this thing, do you think the plan is to actually go in and reinvent Gaza? Or is this maybe a negotiating tool to be able to get the world more involved in the resurgence of Gaza?
ELLIE COHANIM, FORMER STATE DEPARTMENT DEPUTY SPECIAL ENVOY: Trace, I think President Trump means what he says, and I would tell you that I think President Trump is both humanitarian and visionary in what he's describing.
It's humanitarian because he's first talking about helping 1.7 million Gazans get out of a war zone. And Trace, you know, any other population when they are in a war zone, everybody accepts the fact that they should be treated as refugees, and we should find a new home for them.
Palestinians are the only ones that, as Aaron said, are treated like pawns instead, and so they're expected to stay in this war zone for the next 15 years somehow.
The second part that's so visionary, though, Trace, is that President Trump looks at Gaza and he sees not only what exists now, he sees a future for Gaza, he sees a beautiful piece of land that is on the ocean, and he sees all the possibilities that exist -- a Riviera, truly, in the Middle East.
GALLAGHER: Yep, it's amazing. She's right, she makes a great point where, you know, refugees are constantly in these war zones, are moved to different areas, that's just the way life is.
Nathan Sales said this today on "AMERICA REPORTS."
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
NATHAN SALES, FORMER UNDER SECRETARY OF STATE FOR CIVILIAN SECURITY, DEMOCRACY, AND HUMAN RIGHTS OF THE UNITED STATES: We don't have the best track record of nation building in the Middle East. So, I think the president and his advisors are aware of the limitations of American military power.
And I think what we'll see coming from them is a bit of humility and humbleness about the limits of what we can do and what we can't do. But I think the big picture here is important to keep in mind. We can't go back to business as usual in Gaza.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GALLAGHER: So, he's saying, look, you can't just let Gaza go back to Hamas, but at the same time, you can't put U.S. boots on the ground in Gaza.
COHEN: I agree. And I don't think that's what the president has in mind as far as his vision, I think is let Israeli -- look, once the Palestinians get moved out, if that does in fact happen, because I think this could be some signaling again, Trace.
You know, the president has an ability to put that negotiating out there, send those messages, and all of a sudden, everyone's going, whoa, whoa, whoa. So, I believe that he doesn't see U.S. troops on the ground. I think it's Israel that's going to have to continue to do the heavy lifting.
They're getting weapons coming to them that have just been signed off by Trump. But I think the U.S. presence there afterwards will help maintain that security, but really, it'll be U.S. interest moving forward with Iran and any other further problems in the region. But I think Israel will be able to handle it.
GALLAGHER: Yes, I wanted to ask you this, Ellie, because I know you're a student of Iran. The FoxNews.com quoting here, "Trump reinstates maximum pressure campaign against Iran. President Donald Trump unveiled an executive order reinstating a maximum pressure campaign against Iran on Tuesday, coinciding with a visit from Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to the White House." How does this impact Iran? Is Iran sitting back like what's going on here and what do we do?
COHANIM: Yes, Iran is definitely on their heels right now. Look, they experienced President Trump in his first term. They experienced maximum pressure which left them at the end of President Trump's term broke, and weak, and cornered truly. And so, the Iranians know exactly that President Trump means business. I expect that we would have the same outcome. There's not going to be any longer oil sales from Iran to China.
I think the Iranians know that their economy, which is already taking a big hit is about to sink even further. And so, I believe the Iranians will know that it is in their best interest to come clean, and try to negotiate a deal that President Trump might accept.
GALLAGHER: Ellie Cohanim, Aaron Cohen, thank you both. Well, President Trump revealing his proposal to redevelop Gaza into a Riviera of the Middle East. What do you think of Trump's plans to rebuild the enclave?
Is this why Americans elected Trump for his outside-the-box ideas? Let us know, X, and Instagram, @TraceGallagher. We're back with the "NIGHTCAP" crew, which includes you, next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GALLAGHER: Back with the "NIGHTCAP" crew: Kevin Corke, Ashley Strohmier, Christina Coleman, Aaron Cohen, Kira Davis, and Emily Austin. Tonight's topic, outside the box.
What do you think of Trump's plans to redevelop Gaza? Is this why Americans elected Trump for his unusual ideas, Ashley Strohmier?
STROHMIER: Yes, you know, I mean, I really can't sum it up better than what's Aaron and Ellie did in your previous segment but when you look at the pictures in Gaza, the place is in total ruins and he obviously sees a need to clean that up and he's going to do what he says he's going to do. But if Harris would have won in November, we'd still be in a state of limbo that we're seeing in Gaza for over a year.
GALLAGHER: Emily Austin.
AUSTIN: On the contrary, I really don't see Trump developing Gaza unless, like I said earlier, he wants Mara Gaza. I do think he's using it, though, as a bargaining chip to show the Middle East, wake up, if I can do it, you can do it too, and set up like a blueprint for them to follow.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Christina?
COLEMAN: I appreciate him thinking outside the box. And, you know, Gaza does need to be rebuilt, so it's interesting to see what he says and what happens.
GALLAGHER: Yes. Kira?
DAVIS: Well, President Trump told us at his inauguration, he said, in America, we specialize in the impossible. So, if anyone can rebuild Gaza, it's definitely President Trump.
GALLAGHER: Kevin Corke.
CORKE: I like what Emily said, but I would take it a slightly different direction. I think he's basically letting leaders in the Middle East know, if I don't do it, you guys do it, but if you don't, I will. And that actually might lead to change ultimately.
GALLAGHER: Yes, Aaron Cohen.
COHEN: I agree with Kevin. I think he's right, I think he's signaling, but I just love the disruptive nature of how he puts everything out there. It's, it's amazing to watch. Everybody freaked out, because he's just, he's just Trump. It's a -- I'm enjoying it.
GALLAGHER: And he's not bluffing, that's the whole thing. Trump doesn't bluff, which is why people are so scared. He's going to go through with it. He would go all the way through that, but I don't think it gets that far because it's such a big negotiating tool for him.
We ask what you think.
Andrea says, "I think it's the art of the deal at its best. POTUS floats the concept and it gets the dialogue started with world leaders."
Leo says, "Until the mid-70s, Beirut, capital of Lebanon, was known as the Paris of the Middle East, so it kind of makes sense."
Brett says, "100 percent trust Trump to negotiate whatever solution is eventually reached."
Lynn says, "Love it. It's a real estate development, redevelopment matter, not a military one."
James says, "Interesting idea, but it'll never happen."
Linda, "Not a fan. I think it's a bad idea."
Scott says, "I love it, it's about time someone gave this problem an original thought."
And Michael says, "I like his out-of-the-box ideas, but not this one. America First, please."
A lot of people have said that online today, what happened to America first?
Thank you all for watching America's late news, FOX NEWS @ NIGHT. I'm Trace Gallagher in Los Angeles and we'll see you right back here again tomorrow night.

Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
