




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 20, 2025 Thursday 10:00 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 770 words
Byline: Zachary Basu
Body


February 20th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
President Trump's  
Why it matters: Both groups can agree: The America that  
Like Trump 1.0, the firehose of news, feuds and norm-busting behavior is - and will continue to be - the defining feature of this administration.
Unlike Trump 1.0, the  
Zoom in: Above all else, Trump's first month has been dominated by his war on the federal bureaucracy - and his various efforts to prod, probe and blow through the  
The White House's early attempt to  
  
The    
At the Justice Department - which haunted both Trump's first term and his next four years as a private citizen - the  
Between the lines: Trump and Musk's shock treatment of the U.S. government has overshadowed the two main issues that dominated the 2024 campaign: immigration and inflation.
1. On immigration, Trump has moved with lightning speed to enforce his promise of a sealed border.
Arrests from  
Trump's goal of deporting millions of undocumented immigrants has  
2. "Inflation is back,"  
Despite promising to "end inflation" starting on Day One, Trump is right that the effects of his new policies won't immediately show up in consumer prices.
The danger: Trump's sweeping use of tariffs is injecting deep uncertainty into global markets, and could turn inflation into a long-term feature of the U.S. economy.
What to watch: With the dust still settling on America's new normal, Congress soon will move to  
Trump on Wednesday  
With a razor-thin majority in the House, Trump's vision for "ONE BIG BEAUTIFUL BILL" is a huge gamble - but one that would clear the way for a historic, and enduring, reordering of the American economy.
Zoom out: In the meantime, Trump's return to a  
This week alone, Trump  
Even more shocking was  
The president's aides and allies say his provocations should be viewed through the lens of dealmaking. For now, most foreign leaders are opting to take him at his word.
The bottom line: For all the scar tissue already accumulating in Washington, Trump is only 2% through his four-year term.
If his bets pay off, he'll have rewritten the rules of American governance for generations.
If they backfire, the consequences could be just as historic.


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 20, 2025


End of Document
