




thetimes.co.uk
January 27, 2025 Monday 5:00 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 744 words
Byline: Josie Ensor, US Correspondent
Highlight: ‘Invented’ pronouns will be forbidden in a drive to end diversity policies at the Pentagon
Body


President Trump has signed an executive order banning the use of “invented” pronouns in the US military to rid it of what he called “transgender ideology”.
In his order, Trump claimed “many mental and physical health conditions are incompatible with active duty” and that the US armed forces “have been afflicted with radical gender ideology to appease activists”.
The executive order signed late on Monday lays out military standards on pronouns and gender identity.
It appears to prohibit thousands of transgender service members from serving in the military, citing issues with mental and physical readiness. It is unclear whether serving transgender soldiers will be allowed to stay and, if not, how they would be removed.
“Adoption of a gender identity inconsistent with an individual’s sex conflicts with a soldier’s commitment to an honourable, truthful and disciplined lifestyle, even in one’s personal life,” the order said. “A man’s assertion that he is a woman, and his requirement that others honour this falsehood, is not consistent with the humility and selflessness required of a service member.”
Earlier, at a Republican congressional retreat in Miami, Trump said: “To ensure that we have the most lethal fighting force in the world, we will get transgender ideology the hell out of our military.”

There are no accounts of how many transgender service members are on active or reserve duty, but estimates from 2014 suggested there could be as many as 15,500. Overall America had about 2.5 million active or reserve personnel in 2023.
Transgender rights groups are believed to be preparing a legal challenge against Trump’s order. 
Trump also issued an immediate ban on “discriminatory race or sex-based preferences” by any element of the military, the Department of Defence or the Department of Homeland Security.
Government   (DEI) programmes aimed to promote participation in workplaces by people from a range of minority and underrepresented backgrounds. Trump had been critical, claiming the programmes can themselves be discriminatory, as well as “dangerous, demeaning and immoral”.
Last week, the administration put all federal DEI staff on leave pending review, fired the highest-ranking woman in the military over her “excessive focus” on diversity measures, and ordered the Office of Personnel Management to set up an email account encouraging government employees to report colleagues who promoted “DEI ideology”.
 ’s order directs Pete Hegseth, the newly confirmed secretary of defence, to ban the “use of invented and identification-based pronouns” in the armed forces and prohibit biological males and females from using sleeping, changing and bathing facilities intended for the opposite sex.
“Thank you for your leadership Mr President. We will execute!” Hegseth said on X.
While signing a raft of orders related to the military, Trump also reinstated personnel who were .  In his inauguration speech, Trump said that these service members were “unjustly expelled”.
About 8,000 US military personnel were discharged from service for refusing the vaccines. Only 43 of them were reinstated before the Republicans’ return to the White House.
Hegseth told reporters on Monday,  , that the job of the military was “lethality and readiness and war fighting … Military training will be focused on the readiness of what our troops in the field need to deter our enemies”.

Trump signed another executive order that would begin the process of . 
The order calls for an “Iron Dome” for America, borrowing the name of the vaunted short-range Israeli missile defence system that for years has been used to intercept launches from Gaza and other neighbouring territories. 
“The executive order directs implementation of a next-generation missile defence shield for the United States against ballistic, hypersonic, advanced cruise missiles and other next-generation aerial attacks,” a fact sheet said, calling such potential attacks a “catastrophic threat”.
Defence experts have previously dismissed the idea, pointing out that the US would need to deploy more than 24,700 batteries each costing $100 million to defend the 3.7 million square miles of the continental United States.

Load-Date: March 17, 2025


End of Document
