




USA Today
January 28, 2025 Tuesday
2 Edition


Copyright 2025 USA Today All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. A1
Length: 930 words
Byline: By, Marina Pitofsky, Bart Jansen, Sudiksha Kochi and Phillip M. Bailey, USA TODAY
Body


President Donald Trump addressed House Republicans at his golf club in Miami on Monday as they gathered for a three-day GOP retreat to resolve internal party differences over balancing sweeping tax cuts with significant federal spending cuts.
Trump campaigned for a second term last year on tax cuts totaling $6 trillion over the next 10 years. Simply extending his 2017 tax-cut package, to continue existing policy rather than having the cuts expire at the end of the year, is projected to cost $4 trillion.
Trump has also proposed to eliminate taxes on tips, overtime and Social Security benefits, which could cost another $1.8 trillion over 10 years, according to the nonpartisan Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget. Trump held a rally in Las Vegas on Saturday repeating the 2024 campaign pledge about tips.
One option to pay for the tax cuts is a Trump proposal to set 10% tariffs on imported goods, which could raise $1.9 trillion. But some conservatives oppose raising tariffs.
Republicans currently hold a  218 to 215 majority in the House, so party unity will be key for any contentious issues during the next two years. But if Republicans can agree on budget policy, they can approve tax and spending priorities without support from Democrats.
Immigration and the southern border were also on the agenda. The White House on Sunday said it put on hold wide-reaching tariffs and sanctions on Colombia after the country's president, Gustavo Petro, agreed to accept U.S. military aircraft deporting Colombian migrants.
Cabinet confirmations continue
Meanwhile, Trump this week is pushing to get his top Cabinet officials in place. The Senate on Monday was expected to confirm on a bipartisan vote Scott Bessent, Trump's Treasury Department pick, followed Tuesday with a vote to confirm Transportation secretary nominee Sean Duffy.
Later in the week, some of Trump's most controversial nominees are set to face questions from senators in committee confirmation hearings. That includes Tulsi Gabbard, RFK Jr. and Kash Patel.
So far, four of Trump's nominees have been confirmed: Secretary of State Marco Rubio, Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth, Secretary of Homeland Security Kristi Noem and Central Intelligence Agency Director John Ratcliffe.
Both Ratcliffe and Rubio easily glided through the Senate. Senators confirmed Ratcliffe by a vote of 74-25 on Thursday, and Rubio by a vote of 99-0 on Jan. 20.
Noem was confirmed with a bipartisan vote of 59-34 on Saturday.
Hegseth, who faced sexual assault and excessive drinking allegations, was confirmed  in a 51-50 vote on Friday night. Vice President JD Vance cast the tie-breaking vote.
Iron dome, DEI ban
Hegseth confirmed that Trump's executive orders were coming for the military while speaking to reporters Monday at the Pentagon for his first day on the job.
He announced that the military planned to move forward swiftly with Trump's plan for an iron dome defense strategy on U.S. soil, which would protect against long-range missiles.
Hegseth told USA TODAY during the media event that military training "will be focused on the readiness of what our troops in the field need to deter our enemies," including "more rapid fielding, more rapid opportunity to train as we fight." These comments come after a USA TODAY report on Saturday detailed how the Army is training new soldiers in mindfulness, coping skills and personal boundaries.
"Our job is lethality and readiness and warfighting," Hegseth said.
Hegseth added Monday that another executive order is expected to eliminate diversity, equity and inclusion programs in the Pentagon.
These come a week after Trump signed a flurry of executive orders that shuttered DEI offices in all executive branch agencies and also rolled back historic civil rights actions seeking to end discriminatory hiring practices and creating equal employment opportunities.
Trump is also planning to sign an executive order reinstating U.S. service members who were kicked out for refusing to take a COVID-19 vaccine.
In 2021, then-Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin ordered COVID-19 vaccinations for military troops unless they had secured an exemption, such as for religious reasons. The Pentagon rescinded the order in 2023 upon direction from Congress but not before roughly 8,000 troops had been discharged.
Trump criticized the military's decision during his inauguration, saying those who declined the vaccine were "unjustly expelled from our military."
Senate Dems decry J6 pardons
On Capitol Hill on Monday, Senate Democrats were looking to make political hay out of Trump's pardon of violent Capitol rioters.
One of Trump's first actions upon returning to power was to pardon or commute the sentences of about 1,500 people charged in connection with the Jan. 6, 2021, attack.
A Democratic-led resolution, which seeks to formally denounce letting off people convicted of assaulting and injuring police, isn't likely to pass the Republican-controlled Senate. Instead, the hope is to get GOP lawmakers on the record about one of the returning president's more controversial decisions.
Early Monday, a copy of the measure shared on X showed 45 Democratic senator's names (along with two independents who caucus with them) as co-sponsors, with one exception: Pennsylvania's John Fetterman.
Fetterman's name was later added to the resolution, according to NBC News.
Contributing: Cybele Mayes-Osterman
Naturalization investigations
Trump wants to revoke immigrants' citizenship if "unlawfully procured." 3A
Colombia tariffs on hold with deal
South American country OKs deportation flights, averts US trade war. 3A

Graphic

 
Unless extended, President Donald Trump's 2017 tax cuts will expire at year's end.
Leah Millis/REUTERS

Load-Date: January 28, 2025


End of Document
