




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 21, 2025 Tuesday 6:06 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 285 words
Byline: April Rubin
Body


January 21st, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
President  
The big picture: The  
Driving the news: Adm. Linda Fagan was relieved of her duties because of "leadership deficiencies, operational failures and inability to advance the strategic objectives of the U.S. Coast Guard," a senior DHS official said in a statement to Axios.
The statement cites the Coast Guard's role in national border security and the fentanyl crisis, as well as shortfalls in recruitment and the guard's implementation of diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) policies.
The White House did not immediately respond to Axios' requests for comment on the shift. The U.S. Coast Guard referred questions to DHS.
Flashback: Former President Biden tapped Fagan, a four-star admiral, to lead the Coast Guard in 2022 after she served as its second-in-command.
Adm. Kevin E. Lunday, who became the branch's vice commandant in June, is now serving as its acting commandant.
Zoom out: Trump and his Secretary of Defense nominee, Pete Hegseth, have blamed DEI initiatives and what they broadly call " 
In a confirmation hearing earlier this month, Hegseth tried to distance himself from his past  
Go deeper:  


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 21, 2025


End of Document
