




Fox News THE STORY WITH MARTHA MACCALLUM 3:00 PM EST
January 22, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6809 words
Byline: Martha MacCallum, Peter Doocy, Bryan Llenas, Mollie Hemingway
Guests: Mike Pompeo, Karoline Leavitt, Markwayne Mullin, Kimberley Strassel
Body


MARTHA MACCALLUM, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: All right. Thank you very much, Bret and Sandra. Good afternoon, everyone. I'm Martha MacCallum, and this is THE STORY.
So, President Trump with a warning for Vladimir Putin, end the war in Ukraine or face payback and consequences. The president posting on Truth Social a short time ago, I'm going to do Russia, whose economy is failing and President Putin a very big favor. Settle this now. Stop this ridiculous war, he says, or it is only going to get worse. Let's get this war, which never would have started, he says, if I were president over with, we can do it the easy way or the hard way. And the easy way is always better. It is time to make a deal. No more lives should be lost, he says.
With me now, former Secretary of State and CIA Director Mike Pompeo, a Fox News contributor, Secretary Pompeo, always good to see you. Thank you for joining us.
You know, obviously, during the course of the campaign, President Trump said, you know, we can do this very quickly, within days. Now, he's talking about a slightly longer time frame, but wanting to obviously get this negotiation started very quickly. What's your response to what he had to say there?
MIKE POMPEO, FORMER SECRETARY OF STATE: I'm unsurprised, Martha, at that statement. You know, there's always been a story that somehow he was soft on Russia, right, the whole narrative for the first two and a half years with the Russia hoax. The reality was that he didn't -- Vladimir Putin didn't invade Ukraine on our watch because of President Trump, because we had a set of policies that deterred him. And so when I hear President Trump speak today, he's -- that same message, which is, we're going to be serious about this. You're not going to continue to kill innocent civilians in Ukraine. We're going to bring this violence to an end. And the time is now to do that. Or, much as we had done in the first administration, President Trump's very clear, there will be real costs imposed on you when you behave in a way that's inconsistent with America's best interest.
MACCALLUM: Well, obviously, Russia knows that there's a new sheriff in town and they have to readjust their thinking on all of this. And he says - - President Trump says he would like to meet with and talk to Vladimir Putin. He's always been someone and you helped aid in that with discussions with North Korea, who believes that conversation is a good thing even with our adversaries.
Here is the Russian deputy U.N. ambassador response to this. He says, it is not merely a question of ending the war. It is, first and foremost, the question of addressing the root causes of Ukrainian crisis. So, we have to see what does deal mean in President Trump's understanding. How do you read that?
POMPEO: Yes. THE STORY that Putin has told the whole time was this was somehow his fear that NATO was going to invade them, which is ludicrous. That's an echo at least of that. Look, they're going to try and create some space. They do know that there's a new leader in America, and that there will be real consequences, serious consequences, as President Trump, I think, alluded to, to their economy, if they don't bring down the violence and actually bring a settlement.
I think the deputy U.N. ambassador knows exactly what they're up against, and I think he's looking for a little bit of space so they can think about how is it they're going to respond to what President Trump not only said, but what he's prepared to do.
MACCALLUM: I mean, you got to believe that when the deputy U.N. ambassador is the person responding, they're thinking. They're talking and they're thinking, right?
So, you know, in terms of the sanctions that could take place, give us a sense of what the Biden White House did. Because, you know, we all remember the minor incursion, if it's a minor incursion, you know, maybe that would be something we would have to talk about, as I remember, something to that effect. Then there were sanctions against Russia. But they're, you know, selling drones. They're doing all kinds of business. So, what would be tougher? What would you imagine?
POMPEO: So Martha, the sanctions business is serious stuff and you have to both put them in place and enforce them. And the Biden demonstration really was halfway on both. They were afraid they would drive energy prices up because they didn't want to produce energy here in America. President Trump is going to relieve that pressure, that is energy prices, because we're going to drill, baby, drill, right? And so I think the place will start probably as in the energy space. He'll certainly tell secondary purchasers of Russian crude oil no more, can't do that any longer. Those would be the places that we'll get and those will have a real impact on the Russian economy in a way that the Biden administration simply wasn't prepared to engage in.
So, if there's a sanction against accepting Russian oil sales, that's going through a country and then going to the other country, that would be off the list of options, right?
POMPEO: Martha, much as we did with Iran, we will enforce the secondary level sanctions against others who are engaged in that trade.
MACCALLUM: So, big question, what would Volodymyr Zelenskyy's response be to any potential deal?
Here's a quote from what he said at Davos. He says, if Trump is ready to see Ukraine and NATO, we will be in NATO. All the members will be in favor of Ukraine joining NATO. If President Trump is not ready to see us in NATO, we won't be in NATO. And he also said, legally, we won't recognize, no matter what anybody wants, even if the allies of the world unite, we will not recognize occupied territories as Russian. It is impossible. We will not recognize them legally. And we all have seen, obviously, Donetsk, Luhansk, all of these areas, Crimea during the Obama administration, that have been slowly crept into by Russia.
POMPEO: I think what President Zelenskyy said there's exactly right. There's the outlines of an outcome here of a deal here, right? We won't recognize them, but we will get security guarantees. That is, we will make sure that Vladimir Putin is never able to do this again. So, I think you can -- I think you begin to see President Zelenskyy realistically saying, here's what we can achieve. Here's what's possible with President Trump being very clear to the Russians about the fact that they need to back down. I think you can begin to see how president can actually deliver, maybe not in the first 24 hours but much more quickly than if President Biden or a President Harris were in office.
MACCALLUM: Well, that's why you were the head diplomat, because you read into this sentence and see that he's talking about -- he's not necessarily talking about pushing Russia out. He's just saying, well, we will always believe and put forth that that is our territory, even if Russians are all over it.
POMPEO: President Zelenskyy knows that sometimes you have to solve the immediate problem and you can solve the secondary problem another day.
MACCALLUM: Will Ukraine ever be in NATO while President Trump is president?
POMPEO: Oh goodness, it's hard to know. It's possible. I frankly think this depends a lot on what the Europeans do. If the Europeans are prepared to actually step up and do what the United Kingdom says they'll do, what the Germans and the French have promised, if they actually deliver on their commitments to NATO, the world of possibilities begins to open up greatly.
MACCALLUM: Secretary Pompeo, thank you, great to have you here.
POMPEO: Glad to be with you.
MACCALLUM: Thank you. We'll see you soon. Thank you, sir.
So Republican Senator Markwayne Mullin, Molly Hemingway of the Federalist, and White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt, as we wait for what we're I'm getting the impression is, and we're waiting for the outlines of it, a very big executive order that may have to do with what happens at our border and the Pentagon. So, that is to come. We're working on it. We'll bring you in the details when we get them.
We get a first glimpse though of President Trump's exclusive interview with Sean Hannity. We're going to show you that, coming up next.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS HOST: Let's talk about the moment you walked back in this office, this desk, this room, your carpet. How'd you feel?
DONALD TRUMP, U.S. PRESIDENT: Well, it was a lot of work. And as you know, I felt that we shouldn't have had it necessarily be here could have been done a lot of work. It could have been -- it would have been over. We wouldn't have inflation. We wouldn't have had the Afghanistan disaster. We wouldn't have October 7th with Israel, where so many people were killed, and you wouldn't have a Ukraine war going on. But with all that being said, I think it's bigger. It's bigger than it if it were more traditional.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
MACCALLUM: So, as always, these days, we're keeping a close eye on that big, beautiful White House that you see in the middle of your screen. We are waiting for what we are understanding is going to be a very significant executive order that will be regarding the border. We're also getting an exclusive look at the letter that former President Biden left for President Trump inside the Resolute Desk, which, of course, is a fairly longstanding tradition.
White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt joins us in just a moment, but, first, Senior White House Correspondent Peter Doocy reporting live from the North Lawn on what we can expect a short time from now. Hi, Peter.
PETER DOOCY, FOX NEWS SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Martha, we were the first ones who were not elected presidents to see the contents of this letter. It is in President Biden's handwriting, in his cursive, and we can share what it said. It said, Dear President Trump, as I take leave of this sacred office, I wish you and your family all the best in the next four years. The American people and people around the world look to this house for steadiness in the inevitable storms of history. And my prayer is that in the coming years will be a time of prosperity, peace, and grace for our nation.
May God bless you and guide you as he has blessed and guided our beloved country since our founding, Joe Biden won 2025.
That was the first look at the letter. And we also now have our first look at his first television interview just released.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Joe Biden ran and said he would never do preemptive pardons. It was an issue that came up when you were leaving your first time.
TRUMP: He heard that I was going to do it. I didn't want to do it. I was given the option. They said, sir, would you like to pardon everybody, including yourself? I said, I'm not going to pardon anybody. We didn't do anything wrong. And we had people that suffered. They're incredible patriots. We had people that suffered. You had Bannon put in jail. You had Peter Navarro put in jail. You had people that suffered. And far worse than that, they've lost their fortunes. They've lost their -- whatever their nest egg paying it to lawyers. And those people -- and people said, you know what, they wouldn't have even taken -- most of those people, they wouldn't have even taken apart. This guy went around giving everybody pardons.
And, you know, the funny thing, maybe the sad thing, is he didn't give himself a pardon.
And if you look at it, it all had to do with him.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
DOOCY: President Trump had a few more elected Republicans over today. We do expect there could be some more executive orders as soon as later on in your show, Martha, things that he is doing while he waits for Congress to get their act together on the street.
MACCALLUM: Yes, that's another issue we're going to talk about with Senator Mullin in a short time. Peter, thank you very much.
Take a peek at this. Obviously, it's a big moment when the vice president gets a look at the Oval Office for the very first time in his life. House Speaker Mike Johnson shot this video yesterday. You'll hear and watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
J.D. VANCE, U.S. VICE PRESIDENT: Wow.
REP. MIKE JOHNSON (R-LA): This is J.D. Vance's first time to step into the Oval Office. It's incredible.
VANCE: This is incredible.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: I mean, what an incredible story the life of J.D. Vance is and, remarkable, this man who came from poverty and a very troubled childhood. His mother then proudly sitting there yesterday when he took, or two days ago, I guess it is now, when he took the oath of office and never been in the Oval Office before. It's a stunning experience for any of us who have had the privilege to go to the Oval Office. And this was his first time there, of course, obviously since he's been in the Senate. It has been a Democrat-dominated White House. So, this is his first moment taking it all in. You see Margo Martin there who works with the president welcoming him into that space for the first time. So, it is a stunning experience.
Let's bring in Karoline Leavitt, the White House press secretary, who is also getting used to the place.
Karoline, what was it like for you when you walked into that office the first time?
KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: It was an incredibly surreal experience. We are so blessed to be here. And we have hit the ground running, because President Trump is hell-bent on delivering on the promises he made to the American people on the campaign trail.
So he has gotten a ton of work done in the last 48 hours. More than 200 executive actions have been taken. Today the United States military, directed by the Department of Defense, has deployed troops, active-duty troops and National Guards, men and women, to secure our southern border. That is at the direction of President Trump, who has made homeland security the core mission of the Department of Defense.
This is welcome news from the American people. He is delivering on the promises he made to them already.
MACCALLUM: So can you confirm that he's going to sign an executive order that puts another 1,500 troops -- there are already troops there -- at the southern border? And when do you expect to see that happen?
LEAVITT: President Trump took this action his first day here in the Oval Office.
He again directed the Department of Defense to make homeland security the core mission of the agency. And, today, that mission is under way. We have active-duty military personnel, resources and assets off to secure the southern border. And President Trump will continue to take any action necessary to secure our border and also to launch the largest mass deportation operation in American history.
And ICE and the Department of Homeland Security are already working on that as well. In fact, there have been more than 380 arrests in the last 24 hours --
MACCALLUM: Yes.
LEAVITT: -- of known terrorists rapists, murderers and illegal aliens in this country who have committed heinous crimes.
I have the list, looked through it this morning. And President Trump saw those numbers as well. Tom Homan, Stephen Miller, and, of course, we have a secretary of homeland security in Kristi Noem who should be confirmed swiftly by the United States Senate, so she can also get to work on this critical issue.
MACCALLUM: All right, well let me ask you about that since you brought it up. And we're going to talk to Senator Markwayne Mullin in just a minute.
What's the president's reaction to Chris Murphy and a couple others who seem to be tapping the brakes on his confirmation process for his Cabinet?
LEAVITT: President Trump has been unequivocally clear that all Republicans need to stand strong, tough and smart together to confirm these nominees. And Democrats should do that as well.
We saw the Senate unanimously approve Senator Marco Rubio. He's the first to be confirmed. We expect that Pete Hegseth will also be confirmed later this week. And all of President Trump's nominees should be confirmed by the United States Senate because they are exceptionally qualified to do the jobs that he has tasked them with.
These are brilliant individuals. They are outsiders who are coming to Washington with decades of experience in their respective fields to shake up the swamp. That's what the American people elected President Trump to do. And that's what this team will help him do.
MACCALLUM: Karoline, does the president want -- does the president want the Senate to shut down, essentially, to go into recess and push through recess appointments? Is that his directive to the senators?
LEAVITT: I have not heard him give that directly, so I -- directive directly. So, I can't speak to that. But I do know that he believes it's imperative that the United States Senate confirms his nominees, particularly --
MACCALLUM: Got it.
LEAVITT: -- those in the national security space.
As we know, the threats to our homeland have never been greater.
MACCALLUM: Let me ask you. We just heard the contents again of President Biden's letter to President Trump, a very cordial letter asking God to bless the country and his work as he moves forward as the commander-in- chief. I would imagine that's what all of you were expecting to hear a little bit more of at the National Cathedral yesterday. Were you surprised at the tone from Bishop Budde? And did anyone feel that maybe that -- maybe having her speak was going to be a little problematic when everyone walked in there?
LEAVITT: It was supposed to be a unifying and bipartisan church service in the beautiful National Cathedral here in Washington, D.C., and I was there with President Trump.
And everybody there was shocked and mortified by the disturbing comments from this bishop, who chose to weaponize the pulpit. She had an opportunity to pray over the president and the vice president and their families who were sitting in the first pews. And she spoke about truth, which was very ironic, because, words later, she spewed lies.
She said that President Trump has called illegal -- or immigrants criminals. That's not true. He calls illegal immigrants criminals because in fact they are criminals, by definition. If you break our nation's laws, you are a criminal.
She also talked about how LGBTQ people in this country may be disappointed. That's also a lie. In fact, I just saw Scott Bessent in the West Wing of the White House on his way to meet with President Trump and he is the highest-ranking LGBTQ official in United States history appointed by the president in the Oval Office right now.
So the comments by that bishop yesterday were egregious, and she should apologize to President Trump for the lies that she told. It's despicable to say that.
MACCALLUM: I mean, she's all over other channels sort of taking a victory lap, I guess, on The View. So, I don't know if any apology is forthcoming, but it was certainly a very partisan and inappropriate sermon that she gave.
It seemed to become all about her, rather than all about blessing the president on his way in, as it has always traditionally been.
I want to ask you about this, because we heard this massive announcement of Stargate with Larry Ellison and Sam Altman and Masa Son, the head of SoftBank, $500 billion investment, which I think people welcome, that everyone wants, I believe, us to be on the cutting edge of A.I.
But then Elon Musk came out and said SoftBank doesn't actually have the money. SoftBank has well under $10 billion secured. I have that on good authority.
What's the president's reaction to that from Elon Musk?
LEAVITT: Well, President Trump is very excited about this infrastructure announcement in the field of A.I., which is obviously growing and something the United States of America needs to capitalize on, because our adversaries, such as China, are very advanced in this field.
And so that was a big announcement for our country, for our industries here at home, and also for the American people, because this is going to create a minimum of 100,000 jobs here in the United States of America. So the American people should take President Trump and those CEOs' words for it. These investments are coming to our great country, and American jobs are coming along with them.
MACCALLUM: All right, well, it'll be interesting to watch all of that play out.
And Sam Altman, I should point out, went back at Elon Musk and said they absolutely do have the money for this venture, and they have their own bit of back-and-forth on social media that's been going on for quite some time.
I want to ask you about this, Karoline, just crossed the wires. And we were waiting for a new executive order with regard to the border. It says Trump signs -- let me just get it in front of me here -- Thomson Reuters reporting: "Trump signs executive order to suspend physical entry of migrants through the southern border."
Give us a sense of what that means. And I guess the question that comes to mind first is, what happens if someone does physically cross the border? What will happen to that individual under this executive order?
LEAVITT: President Trump is using every lever of his executive power to secure our nation's borders. This is the number one promise that he made to the American people on the campaign trail.
And with this action today and the many actions that he took on day one in the Oval Office, he is delivering on that promise. And he is sending a very clear message to the rest of the world. If you are even thinking for a single second about illegally entering our country and breaking the laws of the United States of America, you will face consequences for doing so. You will be returned to your home country and you will be arrested and you will be prosecuted as well.
One of the actions President Trump took on day one is actually empowering the court system to ramp up the prosecutions of illegal criminals who commit crimes here at home.
And we are not going to tolerate this in sanctuary cities as well across this country.
The only place the United States of America should be a sanctuary for is law-abiding American citizens. That's the new way under this Trump administration. And President Trump will also continue to push Congress to pass border security measures as well to increase funding for Border Patrol and for ICE, for those brave men and women in uniform who have now been finally empowered to do their jobs after four long years under the Harris- Biden administration.
MACCALLUM: Yes. Well, we have heard from Tom Homan that they are elated that they can actually do their jobs.
LEAVITT: Right.
MACCALLUM: And this additional force at the border gives them a little bit more leeway to be able to do the job that they do, rather than some of the things that landed on their lap.
And I think it sends a very strong message to anybody thinking about trying to cross the border, not at a port of entry, but across the border, as our cameras have picked up for the last several years, Karoline, that you will be, according to the language, repelled, repatriated and removed --
LEAVITT: That's right--
MACCALLUM: -- if you try to cross our southern border.
And, obviously, the ports of entry are the places to be processed and to apply to come into this country. And we have just watched people come over the sides of the mountains into California and Arizona and all of our states at the border.
Karoline, thank you very much. Very good to see you. Thanks for joining us today.
LEAVITT: You too, Martha. Thanks.
MACCALLUM: You bet.
All right, so coming up, how Democrats are slow walking, I was just speaking with Karoline Leavitt about this confirmation hearings for some of President Trump's cabinet picks, despite the fact that there is a four-vote margin for Republicans in the Senate and the top response that we are now hearing. We're going to be joined in a moment by Oklahoma Senator Markwayne Mullin, next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
MACCALLUM: All right. Well, President Trump's nominee for Transportation secretary, somebody who's very familiar to Fox watchers, Sean Duffy, advancing to the full Senate vote. He has cleared the Senate Commerce Committee. A date for the full vote is unclear, and that is the situation with several of the nominees at this point.
Meanwhile, Republicans are getting frustrated with what they're calling Democrat stall tactics around certain confirmations or what they see to be certain confirmations here. Senate Majority Leader John Thune railing against the delay for John Ratcliffe, who has obviously been gone through this hearing process and been approved by the Senate in the past. He is currently the nominee for CIA director. Here is the majority leader.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. JOHN THUNE (R-SD), SENATE MAJORITY LEADER: Do we want to vote on these folks on Tuesday or vote on them on Friday, Saturday and Sunday? Because that's what we're going to do. This can be easy or this can be hard. This is a nominee that came out of the Intelligence Committee 14 to 3. It is a bipartisan nomination to the Central Intelligence Agency. This is about America's national security interests and we're stalling.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: Pretty strong talk there from the new majority leader. Republican Senator from Oklahoma, Markwayne Mullin, joins me now. He's an informal adviser to Majority Leader Thune. Senator, thank you very much for being here.
So, you know, for at least a very short honeymoon, it appeared like these nominees were going to get approved fairly quickly. What's going on?
SEN. MARKWAYNE MULLIN (R-OK), Well, unfortunately, what the Democrats have done is they've done exactly what they did in 2017 with President Trump. They are absolutely stalling and not letting the American people's choice actually put his Cabinet in place to get America back on track.
Typically, what you see, anytime it's a former member or current member, say Kristi Noem, Elise Stefanik, John Ratcliffe, Sean Duffy and Marco Rubio, there's a courtesy that's put forth, even the Republicans did this as Democrats, there's a courtesy put forth that they allowed them to kind of hotline through. We still had debate, but they lowered the debate. Instead of 30 hours, it may take two hours. And they let them go through in a facet.
In this case, they're not. John Ratcliffe should have already been taken care of Monday. They have been slow walking, bombarding these nominees with questions that are nothing but stall tactics. And so, what you saw Leader Thune express frustration. And he has said, and he has told President Trump this and he has told all the Republican members, that we are going to stay here, we're going to work through nights and we're going to work through weekends. And they know we got the vote.
So when you take somebody like John Ratcliffe, who came out with all but three votes, voting for him, you had Kristi Noem all but two votes voted for her to come out of committee. They know these are going to pass on the floor, but they still want to play games.
You have Chris Murphy, you have Dick Durbin, you have Hirono, who are just spreading lies all over the internet trying to say that they're radicals. They're not. They know these individuals, they know who they are, and they're doing nothing but obstructing the American people's will.
MACCALLUM: So, you know, with regard to, I've heard President Trump mention the possibility of recess appointments, and I guess there's two ways to do this. My guess is that, if Leader Thune says we're working through the weekend and he does that this weekend, and maybe the following weekend, I would guess that the dam breaks. Most senators like to go home on the weekend. Do you think that's the case and do you think we're going to see recess appointments if it's not?
MULLIN: I do believe that's going to be the case. Right now, we're scheduled to vote possibly on Kristi Noem at 2:30 Sunday morning. And the reason why 2:30 because the clock restarts once you finished person, so we had 30 hours. Everyone has 30 hours to debate. And we want to keep that clock moving so we can get through these people.
MACCALLUM: Yes.
MULLIN: If the Democrats keep this moving forward, then we will have to go possibly to recess. The problem is the recess, we have to be recessed for 10 days. And if we do put them into recess, they cannot get paid and they're only temporary until the next Congress starts. So it's not ideal but it's a possibility.
MACCALLUM: But then as soon as the clock starts, they would get paid, right?
MULLIN: No. They had to be confirmed outside the recess process to be able to get paid. So if they get appointed through recess, they still have to go through confirmation at some point.
MACCALLUM: OK. Senator Markwayne Mullin, thank you very much from Oklahoma --
MULLIN: Thank you, Martha.
MACCALLUM: We're watching all this, reporting on it very closely. Thank you, sir.
So President Trump sharing how he felt about a DC Bishops political sermon. We got a little bit of this from Karoline Leavitt a moment ago, but this was truly an astonishing moment in the National Cathedral at a service that is traditional and meant to bless the incoming president.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What did you think of the service?
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF UNITED STATES: What did you think? Did you like it? Did you find it exciting? Not too exciting, was it? I didn't think it was a good service. No. Thank you very much.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Thank you, Pres. Thank you, Pres.
TRUMP: They can do much better.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: They can do much better, he says. Some people saying perhaps the service should be held at a different cathedral or church in Washington of the president's choosing. But what's done is done on this and he's been asking for an apology. We'll see if we're going to get it next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
MACCALLUM: OK. New anti-Israel protests at Columbia University in New York today. This time inside a classroom as a professor was teaching the history of modern Israel. Watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Why don't you listen, and I'll tell you why I'm here.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Maybe we could do it not during a class session.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I mean, you're here to learn, right?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, from the professor that I'm paying to teach me. Please leave.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: National correspondent Bryan Llenas covering THE STORY for us this afternoon. Hi, Brian.
BRYAN LLENAS, FOX NEWS NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hi, Martha. Well, four masked anti-Israel protesters disrupted the history of modern Israel class at Columbia University yesterday. The class is taught by a visiting Israeli professor, and the students are mostly, if not all, Jewish or Israeli.
The protesters filmed themselves as they covered their faces with keffiyehs and handed out anti-Israel fliers. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Columbia University's normalization of genocide. Why are we listening to this? Nobody wants to hear this.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Please get the hell out of here. Please get out of here.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Take off your mask. Why don't you take off your mask?
LLENAS: The violent flyers read, "burn Zionism to the ground. Crush Zionism and the enemy will not see tomorrow." This incident was part of a larger anti-Israel protest taking place at Colombia on the first day of the spring semester. Here's one of the Jewish students who we spoke to who confronted the protesters in class.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: These protesters have never cared about the war. You know, they are pushing an agenda that is about, you know, supporting the groups that are fighting to eradicate Israel physically in the Middle East and on campuses. I think that what we're seeing and what we've seen is largely a result of a lack of accountability. There is no accountability, and there has been very little accountability at Columbia for previous rule violations.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
LLENAS: Well, the interim president of Columbia University, Martha, strongly condemns this, and they are fully expediting the investigation to try to identify the four protesters. Martha?
MACCALLUM: Bryan, thank you very much. So back to this DC bishop who chose to lecture President Trump and his family from the pulpit, took to "The View," surprise, surprise, today to defend herself, and here's what she said.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SARA HAINES, "THE VIEW" HOST: Do you think your message is being misconstrued and politicized?
MARIANN EDGAR BUDDE, WASHINGTON BISHOP: Well, sure. Yes. But I think if you read what I said, and I mean, how could it not be politicized, right?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: Mollie Hemingway responds next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
MACCALLUM: So President Trump saying that this Washington, DC Bishop owes the public an apology for mixing religion and politics when she stood before him and the vice president, and their families at the National Prayer Service, which has a great tradition offering a blessing for the new president and for the country. But she took the opportunity to say this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BUDDE: In the name of our God, I ask you to have mercy upon the people in our country who are scared now. There are gay, lesbian and transgender children in Democratic, Republican and Independent families, some who fear for their lives. And the people, people who pick our crops and clean our office buildings, who labor in poultry farms and meat packing plants, who wash the dishes after we eat in restaurants and work the night shifts in hospitals. They may not be citizens or have the proper documentation, but the vast majority of immigrants are not criminals.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: OK. Bishop Mariann Edgar Budde defending that moment. She's been on a bunch of -- she was on CNN and then she was on "The View" just a short time ago. Watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BUDDE: I was trying to counter the narrative that is so divisive and polarizing, and in which people, real people are being harmed. I was trying to speak a truth that I felt needed to be said, but to do it in as respectful and kind way as I could.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: OK. With that, we bring in Mollie Hemingway, Editor in Chief of the Federalist and a FOX News contributor. I spoke about this earlier, Mollie, on America's newsroom. But what is your interpretation of what the goal of that moment is and what do you think about the way this bishop chose to use it?
MOLLIE HEMINGWAY, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: I think a lot of people got a vision of what's happening in the Episcopal Church nationwide. We've seen a church that really used to be quite large and dominant in American culture that has lost a lot of membership as it traded a clear teaching on Jesus Christ and his life, death and resurrection for left wing Democrat, usually Democrat Party associated politics, but a particularly left wing fringe version of that.
It's been very, you know, you see this in the results of the membership. But a lot of that tradition of having a prayer service for the incoming administration was built on a past that the Episcopal Church is no longer completely tied to. And so, if she believes that was her intent, I think she should probably know that she failed in that attempt.
And it's not because the church should not speak and plead for mercy from politicians, it absolutely should. But it also should understand the complexity of the situation that it praying for a world leader, for the nation's leader, whose responsibility is actually to the people of this country more than the people of the world. And her failure to understand that or root her criticism, her political view in the teachings of Jesus, I think is why people were so offended.
MACCALLUM: Yes. I mean, I'm trying to imagine a situation where, you know, a Catholic priest or someone would sit up there and scold a Democrat president about the issue of abortion from the pulpit or, you know, one of the things that is very key to the way that a Catholic service is presented is that it relies on the word, the readings, and the gospel and interpretation of the gospel.
And it's not about the person who is speaking. It's not about that. And I feel as though this bishop wanted to make it about her in many ways, about her ability to speak truth to power or whatever she was trying to do there. And I think that -- I think it's unfortunate. Do you think that we should reconsider this tradition?
HEMINGWAY: I do think that because the Episcopal Church has moved so far away from traditional Christian teaching, it doesn't make as much sense to have them host this, particularly the support of transing children and doing that in the name of God, I think is just so at odds with the values of the country that they may have lost the right to hold such a prayer service.
It's also probably a good idea to just have each president who comes in receive a blessing and go to a church that he, himself or she, you know, the president, him or herself, is aligned with, that you should have a pastor with a relationship with the person giving that blessing.
MACCALLUM: Yes. Mollie, thank you very much. Good to have you here today.
So the rapidly approaching DEI deadline set by President Trump, 5:00 PM today, about an hour and eight minutes from now. We will be right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
MACCALLUM: So we're just minutes away now from President Trump's deadline to end government diversity programs. Staffers in those DEI agencies and embedded in other larger agencies will be going on paid leave for now as those efforts are disbanded. Let's bring in Kimberley Strassel, Wall Street Journal Columnist and Editorial Board member. Kimberley, great to have you with us.
This is something the President campaigned on and he is acting on it fairly quickly here. These people -- do you have an understanding of what will happen to these individuals, like how long they're going to be paid for? How many of them are embedded in these agencies?
KIMBERLEY STRASSEL, COLUMNIST, WALL STREET JOURNAL: Well, the number, Martha, we don't have a specific one, but it's probably pretty shocking. It would be shocking to most Americans. I remember reading a report last year from Open The Books, which is a good watchdog group and they did one analysis of the Department of Health and Human Services, where there were nearly 300 people in DEI offices costing American taxpayers close to $40 million a year.
And by the way, on the money front, that's not counting all the money that they oversee, putting out grants to different entities and agencies, attempting to inspire more diversity in certain workforces or environments. We could be looking at hundreds of millions of dollars here, thousands of employees.
In terms of what happens to them, that's partly going to depend on civil workforce rules and that's most likely why they're being put on temporary paid leave while some of those rules are investigated and a look at what then happens to them and their positions.
MACCALLUM: OK. This is Al Sharpton's reaction at the National Action Network on Monday. Watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
AL SHARPTON, MSNBC HOST: You denied us equity. You denied us inclusion. DEI was a remedy to the racial institutional bigotry practiced in academia and in these corporations. Now you want to put us back in the back of the bus, we're going to do the Dr. King, Rosa Parks on you.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: I mean, a lot of these programs really blossomed after the George Floyd situation. And a lot of corporations bent over backwards to get in line with what they were told was expected of them on this front. Your thoughts on that, Kimberley.
STRASSEL: Yes. I mean, Martha, that attitude you just heard there, it's not the dominant view in this country anymore and the people who are lamenting the end of this need to remember how new this is. It was entirely stood up by Joe Biden, who embraced it on the campaign trail after the BLM protests and riots and after choosing Kamala Harris. And he basically enforced it through all arms of the government.
So this is not some longstanding institution. What we're getting back to is equality under the law rather than this manufactured idea of equity that Joe Biden injected into the federal government.
MACCALLUM: Yes. Brendan Carr of the FCC talked about it this morning. I don't have time to play it, but he said that the FCC alone was spending millions and millions of dollars promoting it. And I think the larger point is that, the President wants to return to hiring people based on merit. He also increased the black and Hispanic voters for his candidacy this time around. Quick thought on that, Kimberley.
STRASSEL: Yes, which by the way, this is the way that most Americans increasing number of Americans want to get back to. And also it's just been re emphasized by the Supreme Court in decisions like its racial preferences judgment.
MACCALLUM: Kimberley Strassel, Wall Street Journal. Thank you, Kimberley. Always good to see you.
That's THE STORY for this Wednesday, January 22nd. But stick around, Will Cain is coming up next.

Load-Date: January 22, 2025


End of Document
