




thetimes.co.uk
January 28, 2025 Tuesday 12:00 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 1055 words
Byline: Hugh Tomlinson, Washington
Highlight: White House appears to contradict itself over pause on federal funding
Body


President Trump’s attempt to suspend trillions of dollars in federal funding was thrown into fresh confusion on Wednesday after the White House appeared to rescind the plan, then insisted minutes later it was still in place.
The order to freeze up to $3 trillion in domestic and foreign aid caused chaos in government and prompted a raft of legal challenges, with aid programmes and healthcare assistance for millions of Americans hanging in the balance.
A judge imposed a temporary injunction that blocked the order minutes before it came into force on Tuesday. A terse, two-line notice on Wednesday from the White House’s Office of Management and Budget (OMB) announced that the memo ordering the spending freeze was “rescinded”.

Minutes later, however, Karoline Leavitt, 

 denied that the freeze had been halted. “This is not a rescission of the federal funding freeze”, which remains in “full force”, Leavitt posted on X.
Addressing the controversy as he signed the first legislation of his second term as president on Wednesday, Trump blamed the press for the chaos. Trump said he wanted “to correct any confusion that the media has purposely … created” and said crucial benefit schemes including social security, Medicare and Medicaid “have not been affected”.
The OMB memo had called for the end of “all federal financial assistance” linked to the executive orders that Trump has issued since taking office last week. The freeze would affect allocations previously approved by Congress, prompting Democrats to describe Trump’s move as an illegal attempt to strip control of the federal budget from Congress and gather greater power for himself. 
Matthew J Vaeth, acting director of the OMB, said in the memo the government needed “time to review agency programmes and determine the best uses of the funding for those programmes consistent with the law and the president’s priorities”.
Funding was halted for two big pieces of legislation signed by Joe Biden — the Inflation Reduction Act and a bipartisan infrastructure law — and a 90-day freeze on all foreign aid was set to come into force.
“Financial assistance should be dedicated to advancing administration priorities, focusing taxpayer dollars to advance a stronger and safer America,” Vaeth said. Among the president’s priorities, he added, were bringing down inflation, “unleashing American energy”, ending “wokeness and the weaponisation of government” and “making America healthy again”.
The move would not affect payments for Medicare, social security or direct assistance to individuals. However, several state Medicaid programmes, affecting millions of low-income families, reported being unable to access online portals used to secure federal funding.
Ron Wyden, a Democratic senator for Oregon, wrote on X: “My staff has confirmed reports that Medicaid portals are down in all 50 states … This is a blatant attempt to rip away health insurance from millions of Americans overnight and will get people killed.”
The White House defended the directive. “This is a very responsible measure,” Leavitt told reporters on Tuesday. “It’s incumbent upon this administration to make sure … that every penny is being accounted for honestly. That means no more funding for illegal DEI programmes, no more funding for transgenderism and wokeness across our federal bureaucracy. President Trump is looking out for you by issuing this pause.”
Moments before the order was set to come into force at 5pm ET (10pm GMT) on Tuesday, AliKhan issued the temporary block after legal action from a group of nonprofits which argued that Vaeth and the OMB did not have the authority to unilaterally freeze all government aid.
AliKhan said her ruling was intended to “maintain the status quo” until a federal court hearing in Washington on Monday. The ruling does not bar the Trump administration from suspending funding to new programmes.
Senior Democrats said the freeze could “threaten national security and deny resources to states, localities, families and businesses”. The New York senator Chuck Schumer denounced it as “a heist, done on a national scale” and vowed to fight it “tooth and nail”.
“It’s hard to overstate how destructive this decision is for the country,” Schumer said. “In an instant, Donald Trump has shut off billions, perhaps trillions, of dollars that directly support states, cities, towns, schools, hospitals, small businesses and, most of all, American families.”
Chris Murphy, a senator for Connecticut, said Trump’s attempt to seize control of the federal budget, concentrating even more power within the White House, represented the “gravest, most serious constitutional crisis of our lifetime”.
Government agencies worked throughout Tuesday and Wednesday to determine whether their programmes would be affected by the freeze. The memo from Vaeth exempted “assistance provided directly to individuals” but did not clarify whether programmes such as food aid for low-income families, disability payments or veterans’ benefits would be spared. The directive may affect funding for education, healthcare, student loans, housing assistance and disaster relief.
Stephen Miller, the White House deputy chief of staff, claimed the confusion around the order had been “created by the media”, despite Republican members of Congress admitting they had needed to seek clarification from the Trump administration. Miller claimed that since taking office the Trump team had discovered bureaucrats trying to “funnel money out the door” for “pet projects”, including aid to foreign countries. 

“There were some bureaucrats … who tried to push out money, billions of dollars, for wicked and pernicious purposes that had to be frozen,” Miller told CNN as the deadline approached for the order to come into force. “Either Donald Trump gets political control over this government and ends the waste, abuse and fraud on the American people, or we let bureaucrats autopilot federal spending.”
Democratic attorneys-general from several states signalled that they would pursue legal action. Matt Platkin of New Jersey said his office was reviewing the directive, calling it “reckless and a blatant violation of the rule of law”. He added: “This will harm New Jersey residents and increase costs for working families.”

Load-Date: January 30, 2025


End of Document
