




MailOnline
February 19, 2025 Wednesday 2:52 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 408 words
Byline: Nikki Schwab, Chief Campaign Correspondent For Dailymail.Com In Doral, Florida
Body


Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent already made his mark by becoming the highest-ranking openly gay official in U.S. history. 
But when asked about it by Fox News' Bret Baier, Bessent brushed off it being a big deal.
Speaking outside the Treasury Department building in Washington, D.C., Baier referred to Bessent as the 'highest-ranking gay member of the Cabinet.'
Bessent corrected Baier pointing out that he was actually the 'highest-ranking openly gay official in U.S. history.' 
'But what's important to me,' Bessent continued. 'Is that it's coincidence not causal.' 
'President Trump, I believe, picked me because he believed I was the best person for the job,' Bessent said. 'Not because people with green eyes are better Treasury secretaries, not because of sexual preference.' 
Bessent added that, 'It's a different way of looking at the world.'
Baier noted that Bessent's ascent was 'merit-based.' 
Bessent was a successful hedge fund manager, who previously worked for Democratic super-donor George Soros, before getting picked by Trump to run the Treasury Department. 
The South Carolina native, who until recently owned a home in Charleston called the 'Pink Palace,' had donated to Democrats but grew to become a Trump fan, donating money to his 2017 inauguration and to the 2024 campaign. 
Bessent is worth more than $500 million. 
The Trump administration has butchered so-called DEI programs - diversity, equity and inclusion - across the federal government, which were meant to add diversity to the federal workforce. 
The president and his allies tied DEI programs to liberal 'wokeness,' something Trump branded as 'insanity' and promised to extinguish if voters granted him this second term.
Trump's position on diversity in government stands in deep contrast to President Joe Biden, who championed having the most diverse Cabinet in U.S. history. 
Still, several members of Trump's Cabinet are Latino and Bessent, as well as Ric Grenell, are gay. 
Grenell was nominated to be Trump's presidential envoy for special missions - and so far has traveled to Venezuelan and also been tasked as the Kennedy Center's executive director, as the president has also gone after the cultural center for being too 'woke.' 
Drag shows are among the types of entertainment at the Kennedy Center that are on the chopping block. 
The White House has also sided against trans Americans on a number of issues, including whether trans women should play in women's sports. 

Load-Date: February 19, 2025


End of Document
