




The Independent (United Kingdom)
February 22, 2025 Saturday 1:33 AM EST


Copyright 2025 Independent Print Ltd  All Rights Reserved


Section: EXECUTIVE MOVES NEWS
Length: 485 words
Byline: Phil Thomas
Body


 fired  general Charles Q. Brown as chairman of the  on Friday evening.
The president  saying he was replacing the 40-year veteran with Air Force Lieutenant General Dan "Razin" Caine.
Brown had been in post for 16 months and his term was set to continue until the fall of 2027.

Trump wrote: "General Caine is an accomplished pilot, national security expert, successful entrepreneur, and a 'warfighter' with significant interagency and special operations experience.
"During my first term, Razin was instrumental in the complete annihilation of the  caliphate. It was done in record setting time, a matter of weeks. Many so-called military 'geniuses' said it would take years to defeat ISIS. General Caine, on the other hand, said it could be done quickly, and he delivered."
The president said his new nominee had been "overlooked" by his predecessor in the White House, .

"Despite being highly qualified and respected to serve on the  during the previous administration, General Caine was passed over for promotion by Sleepy Joe Biden. But not anymore! Alongside Secretary Pete Hegseth, General Caine and our military will restore peace through strength, put America First, and rebuild our military. Finally, I have also directed Secretary Hegseth to solicit nominations for five additional high level positions, which will be announced soon. Thank you for your attention to this matter!"
Trump has regularly told stories about "Razin" Caine at his rallies over the years, saying he was one of several senior officers "out of central casting," and claiming Caine advised him on how to beat ISIS.
Caine will have to be confirmed by the Senate.
The president praised the outgoing chief, writing: "I want to thank General Charles 'CQ' Brown for his over 40 years of service to our country, including as our current Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. He is a fine gentleman and an outstanding leader, and I wish a great future for him and his family."
During his first term, Trump nominated Brown to become the Air Force's first African American chief of staff. Biden appointed him to be the second Black chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
In the month since returning to the White House, Trump has launched an assault on DEI - diversity, equity and inclusion. These are policies designed to make sure qualified applicants for jobs are not excluded just for being a woman, Black, disabled or any other minority.
Hegseth had said before his appointment that he wanted to fire any general involved in that "DEI s***."
On Friday, the defense secretary said he would be replacing a number of other senior officers, including Admiral Lisa Franchetti, the first woman to serve as chief of naval operations. General James Slife, a top Air Force officer, will also be replaced.

Load-Date: February 22, 2025


End of Document
