




MailOnline
January 25, 2025 Saturday 11:22 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:2
Length: 662 words
Byline: Will Potter For Dailymail.Com
Body


PODCAST: Listen to Welcome to MAGAland for the latest insider Trump news & gossip
President Trump said he was considering U-turning on his decision to withdraw the US from the World Health Organization days after signing an executive order to do so. 
                     The president told a rally in Las Vegas' Circa Resort & Casino on Saturday that he would 'consider doing it again', but was far from committal. 
'I don't know, they have to clean it up a bit,' he added. 
Trump floated the idea as he said he withdrew from the WHO because he believes the US was being ripped off by the organization, describing the federal government's overpayments over the years as 'onerous.' 
He compared the $500 million the US contributes to the WHO each year to the $39 million China pays, despite China's 1.4 billion population being over four times that of the US. 
                     Trump said withdrawing from the WHO, one of his first executive orders signed within hours of his inauguration on Monday, was due to a 'failure to adopt urgently needed reforms.' 
The move came four years after Trump previously attempted to withdraw from the WHO during the Covid-19 pandemic, a move that was ultimately blocked by Joe Biden after the 2020 election. 
Withdrawing from the WHO was one of a raft of executive orders signed by Trump in his first week, alongside placing all DEI employees in the federal government on leave, rescinding 78 Biden-era executive orders, and releasing classified documents related to the assassinations of JFK and MLK Jr. 
Trump received a hero's welcome on Saturday as he held his rally in Las Vegas, which was notably attended by Stewart Rhodes, founder of anti-government 'militia' the Oath Keepers, who Trump pardoned this week. 
 In his remarks to the crowd, Trump said he intended to carry out another of his campaign pledges in ending taxes on workers' tips. 
'Your tips will be 100% yours, won't that be nice?' he said to cheers. 
After a week of reversing many of his predecessor's actions in the White House, Trump revealed another as he said he was looking to stop Biden's hiring of over 80,000 new IRS agents. 
'They hired, or tried to hire, 88,000 workers to go after you and we're in the process of developing a plan to either terminate all of them,' he said. 
Trump added: 'Or maybe we'll move them to the border.' 
On the wave of executive orders he signed this week, Trump took the opportunity to slam Biden and praise his efforts to rapidly reshape the federal government. 
'This week alone I took nearly 350 executive actions to reverse the horrible failures and betrayals that were inherited from a group of people that didn't know what the hell they were doing,' he said. 
'Our message couldn't be more clear: America's decline is over.' 
The Las Vegas rally came as part of Trump's trip at the end of his first week back in power to the West Coast to survey damage from the devastating Los Angeles wildfires. 
On his way back east, the new president told his crowd of MAGA fans in Sin City that he decided to stop by to thank them for helping him win Nevada in November's election, where he became the first Republican to win the state since 2004. 
'I just came here because I wanted to thank the people of Nevada for giving us such a big win,' he said. 
'The only Republican win of this state in decades... and it was a landslide. We had a big win and an early win... it was a bad signal for the Democrats.' 
There was more good news for Trump as he arrived in Las Vegas on Friday night. Pete Hegseth, his controversial pick for secretary of defense, was confirmed in the post after Vice President J.D. Vance cast the deciding vote in the Senate. 
'He'll be a very good secretary of defense,' said Trump earlier.
He is due to spend the rest of the weekend at his Doral Club in Miami.
For the latest White House gossip and news, listen to new politics podcast, Welcome to MAGAland: Insider Trump's Second 100 Day's. Listen wherever you get your podcasts. 

Load-Date: January 26, 2025


End of Document
