




telegraph.co.uk
February 7, 2025 Friday 12:01 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: POLITICS; Version:2
Length: 1647 words
Byline: By Michael Day
Highlight: The architect of Project 2025 has been confirmed as budget chief – securing his position at the heart of the White House
Body


Most Americans have not heard of him. But the name Russell Vought is already being whispered with a mixture of alarm and dread around Washington’s corridors of power.
Vought, a Right-wing radical dubbed “Trump’s Thomas Cromwell”, aims to demolish his master’s foes in the  , win the culture wars, and place even greater power in the hand of the commander-in-chief.
  has been unimpeded by a Democratic Party in disarray and a Republican Congress in thrall to the 47th president. On Thursday night he was confirmed as Trump’s director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) despite a last-ditch attempt by Democrats to stonewall the appointment in the Senate, where they warned that Vought was Trump’s “most dangerous nominee.”
That will allow him to begin in earnest with plans he forecast in speeches to Right-leaning think tanks before Trump entered the White House – not least by dismissing   who stand in the way of the president’s orders. “We want the bureaucrats to be traumatically affected,” he said in 2023.
Elon Musk, Trump’s efficiency tsar, reportedly pushed for Vought to get the key OMB job, recognising in him someone with the stomach for the battle to pare back the federal government’s 2.2-million-strong civil service.
The OMB will be as unfamiliar to many people as Vought himself. But don’t let that fool you regarding its pivotal role in the US federal government.
Political insiders describe this office as the “central nerve system” of the executive branch.
It plans the president’s budget, promotes his policy priorities and oversees regulation of all government agencies – which Trump believes house the “deep state” of Left-wing, recalcitrant civil servants who want to undermine his populist agenda.
“The OMB’s power to oversee and manage the federal budget is sweeping,” says Thomas Gift, a director of the UCL Centre on US Politics. “As director, Vought will wield enormous authority to impose the president’s agenda from the top down.”
Patricia Crouse, a public policy expert at the University of New Haven, agrees: “Handing Vought the keys to the OMB in essence gives Trump total control over the budget and regulatory processes. Vought will be key to pushing Trump’s agenda through.”
Vought, a bearded and bespectacled 47-year-old, who looks older than his years, worked for the conservative Heritage Foundation think tank before serving as deputy director of the OMB in 2018, and as director in 2020 during Trump’s first term. Trump repeatedly praised Vought then for doing an “incredible” and “fantastic” job.
Vought later wrote a chapter of the 900-page Project 2025 policy document, published by the Heritage Foundation in 2023 as a blueprint for a second Trump term. In the document, Vought described the OMB as the “president’s air-traffic control system”, which he said should be “involved in all aspects of the White House policy process,” becoming “powerful enough to override implementing agencies’ bureaucracies”.
Now, all signs point to Vought becoming “Trump’s Thomas Cromwell [ ], the behind-the-scenes fixer who enables his master’s goals,” according to Donald Moynihan, a professor of public policy at the University of Michigan.
In the eyes of Trump’s court, the US government agencies, from the FBI and CIA, to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), are the monasteries, the civil servants who staff them are the . 
Vought’s political outlook is not hard to discern. During Joe Biden’s presidency he declared America was “in the late stages of a complete Marxist takeover”. It was Vought who is thought to have devised the initial 180-day plan of radical executive orders and startling announcements that we are now seeing Trump fire off on a daily basis.
Vought was a key mover behind “Schedule F”, a controversial order introduced at the end of Trump’s first term, which would have made it easier to remove civil servants who disobey him. It reappeared on January 20 as an executive order named Schedule Policy/Career.
“What’s becoming increasingly clear is that Trump’s threat to purge what he labels the “deep state” isn’t just rhetoric,” says Prof Gift. “The only way Trump can achieve that goal, however, is with loyal foot soldiers like Russell Vought.”
Vought has   about his ambition to remove politically non-compliant civil servants by any means possible. “When they wake up in the morning, we want them to not want to go to work because they are increasingly viewed as the villains,” he said in a 2023 speech at the Center for Renewing America, a think tank he had founded two years earlier.
“We want their funding to be shut down so that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) can’t do all of the rules against our energy industry… We want to put them in trauma.”
Writing for The American Mind, a journal published by conservative think tank The Claremont Institute, in 2022, Vought said that the Biden administration was “increasingly arrayed against the American people. It is both woke and weaponised. The national security state, with organs like the FBI, NSA, and CIA, are aligned against the American people”.
On February 5 the CIA became the first major national security agency to offer buyouts to its entire workforce. CIA staff have been told if they quit their jobs, they will receive roughly eight months of pay and benefits.
In addition to taking an axe to the civil service, Vought also favours big cuts to welfare, science and environment spending, though not defence. 
Some on the Republican Right have hailed Vought’s desire to rein in government spending. Senator Rand Paul, the chairman of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs committee, said: “We need someone with the strength of character like Mr Vought to put the foot down, put the hammer down and say enough is enough.”
Vought also aims to concentrate more power in the hands of the president. He is vocally opposed to the “impounding” law introduced to limit the president’s ability to syphon money away from Congressionally-approved spending. In January, Vought told the Senate committee considering his nomination that he considers the law an unconstitutional limit on the president’s power.
The Impoundment Act of 1974 was passed in response to the then-president, Richard Nixon, diverting funds that Capitol Hill had already earmarked for specific purposes. It appears that, with Vought’s help, another controversial Republican president might regain these powers.
Tackling sin, or what Vought considers sin, also figures prominently in his political designs. The slogan of his Center for Renewing America is “For God. For Country. For Community.”
Unlike the Tudor éminence grise Cromwell, Vought does not plan to reduce the prominence of the church but to increase it. “He truly believes, even more so than the president, that federal workers constitute a ‘deep state’ that is not only opposed to the president, but actively trying to undermine what he sees as American ideals, such as God, faith, and traditional gender/family relations,” says Todd Belt, a professor of political science at George Washington University. In Vought, adds Belt, Trump will have “not just a loyalist, but a zealot keen on shrinking and redesigning the federal government.”
Vought, who has two daughters with his former wife, Mary Vought, is determined to reverse diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) regulations. In strident language, he has decried the “transgender sewage that’s being pumped into our schools and institutions”.
According to Vought, the protests and riots that followed the police killing of George Floyd in May 2020, were “obviously not about race. It was about destabilising the Trump administration”.
Clearly Trump has spotted the political opportunity in the agenda being prosecuted by Vought. It is not, after all, only the Right in the US that believes that “wokeness” has become too prevalent and gone too far. 
Political strategist James Carville is among the leading Democrats who have warned that excessive political correctness has hurt his party’s performances in recent elections. “What went wrong is just stupid wokeness… I mean, this ‘defund the police’ lunacy… take Abraham Lincoln’s name off schools”, he said during Biden’s time in office.
Vought is a constitutional originalist. He believes the US should abide by the charter as it was originally written 237 years ago. In this, he has the support of other Right-wing figures, including the controversial Supreme Court justice Clarence Thomas.
However, despite his calls for adherence to the US constitution as it was written in 1787, Vought appears to have little time for Thomas Jefferson’s notion that the US was and should remain a completely secular nation. In a Newsweek article in 2021 he suggested that America should be seen as “a Christian nation, where our rights and duties are understood to come from God and where our primary responsibilities as citizens are for building and preserving the strength, prosperity and health of our own country”. While he accepts the “institutional separation between church and state”, that does not mean “the separation of Christianity from its influence on government and society”.
Trump’s Thomas Cromwell has now been confirmed as Washington’s most powerful fixer, regardless. The fears of Trump’s opponents over what comes next were summarised by Chuck Schumer, the Senate Democratic leader, in a speech during Thursday night’s debate. “Confirming the most radical nominee, who has the most extreme agenda, to the most important agency in Washington”, he said, was a “triple-header of disaster for hard-working Americans”.
The only thing a politically polarised United States appears to agree on, other than that Vought’s plans are truly radical, is that he has every chance of seeing them come to fruition.

Load-Date: February 7, 2025


End of Document
