




USA Today Online
January 22, 2025 10:24 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Length: 500 words
Body


Happy Wednesday! It’s Rebecca Morin, senior national news reporter at USA TODAY. It's 20 degrees here in Washington, and I’m really missing warmer days.
Troops to be sent to the United States’ southern border
President Donald Trump signed an order to soon deploy active duty forces to the U.S.-Mexico border, which follows immigration moves he made in the first days of his second term. As many as 1,500 troops have been sent Wednesday to the southern border. There are currently approximately 2,500 members of the National Guard and Army Reserve are already at the border. 
Trump isn’t the first to send troops to the border. Joe Biden did it under his administration. Here’s what to know about Trump’s 
Trump's new DEA chief Derek Maltz a longtime proponent of 
Trump promised to make immigration a top priority while on the campaign trail. And the actions he’s taken in his first days in office show he wants to keep that promise. Trump’s Justice Department is also directing its prosecutors to investigate state or local officials who hinder the president’s crackdown on immigration. 
Justice Department career officials were quickly reshuffled on Monday to advance 
Trump administration authorizes immigration 
Meet the press secretary

A politics pit stop
Diet Coke soda button reinstalled in 
Trump cancels John Bolton's Secret Service 
A bishop told Trump ‘have mercy.’ The president 
Trump says he's aiming for 10% tariff 
What type of pen does Trump use? 
Say goodbye to DEI under Trump
Donald Trump promised to roll back diversity, equity and inclusion efforts. Now, his administration ordered all executive branch agencies to close all “diversity, equity, inclusion and accessibility” offices by close of business Wednesday. 
Trump rolls back DEI across the federal government. 
Will Elon Musk (or another tech giant) save TikTok?
It looks like TikTok may stay alive in the United States. General Atlantic CEO Bill Ford, who is on the board of directors for ByteDance, Tiktok’s Chinese parent company, said Wednesday that a deal could come as soon as the end of the week. The announcement came a day after Donald Trump said he would be open to Elon Musk (or Oracle co-founder Larry Ellison) to buying the company. Some Democratic lawmakers, however, don’t want to see Musk own the mega-popular social media app. 
What Trump said about Musk’s name being 
Who else wants to purchase the 
Got a burning question, or comment, for On Politics?  or send me an email at .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: January 22, 2025


End of Document
