




States News Service
January 22, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 States News Service
Length: 868 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: ARLINGTON, VA 
Body


The following information was released by the Feminist Majority Foundation (FMF):
Marisa Conners
On January 20th, in front of his family, billionaire tech CEOs, and Cabinet members, Donald Trump was once again sworn in as President of the United States. His inaugural speech laid out his extreme policy priorities, ranging from immigration to diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) and more. He has moved quickly to sign a sweeping set of Executive Orders addressing these priorities, many of which closely resemble Project 2025's policy agenda.
Immigration
Several of Trump's inaugural promises have already been upheld due to various Executive Orders, including declaring a national emergency at the southern border, halting illegal entry, starting mass deportations, reinstating the Remain in Mexico policy, planning to send troops to the southern border, ending the catch and release policy (requiring all migrants to be detained), and designating various cartels and gangs as foreign terrorist organizations.
In fact, his Executive Orders went even further by suspending the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program, directing the establishment of a border wall, ending humanitarian parole for migrants from Cuba, Haiti, Nicaragua, and Venezuela, tightening immigration laws, restricting federal funds to sanctuary jurisdictions, and intensifying the screening process for visa seekers. Trump claimed he would close the border, but has not explicitly taken action toward this goal yet.
Climate and Energy
Trump assured his audience that he would declare a national energy emergency, which would later be solved by increasing drilling for oil and gas, strengthening the U.S. economy. To do so, he revoked Biden-era clean energy initiatives and paused the disbursement of funds from the Inflation Reduction Act, which would have invested in domestic clean energy production. This contributes toward two of his inaugural goals, ending the Green New Deal and revoking the electric vehicle mandate.
Although his speech did not mention plans to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and other international climate agreements, suspend leasing of wind energy projects, eliminate restrictions on drilling and extraction in Alaska, or review agency activities that might burden development of domestic energy resources, these policies were also passed by Executive Order on Monday.
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
Additional completed promises focused on "end[ing] the government policy of trying to socially engineer gender and race into every aspect of public and private life" by establishing an official federal policy that there are only two genders, male and female. Under this policy, Trump ordered the removal of gender identity from federal policies, communications, IDs, and more. Despite his inaugural claim that he would achieve Martin Luther King Jr.'s dream of equality, Trump signed an Executive Order hours later terminating all DEI, accessibility, and environmental justice offices and positions in the federal government. He also blocked federal hiring based on race, sex, or religion.
Additional Inaugural Commitments
At the Inauguration, Trump stated that he would establish the External Revenue Service to collect tariffs, duties, and revenues from other countries, take back the Panama Canal, pursue Manifest Destiny onto Mars, reinstate service members expelled from the military for opposing Covid vaccine policies, and stop service members from being being "subjected to radical political theories and social experiments while on duty," although it is unclear what this last point means.
While he has not moved to enact these ideas, other promises like establishing the Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE), bringing back free speech by directing the Attorney General to investigate federal policies on online platform censorship, and changing the names of geographic locations have become reality via Executive Orders. The Gulf of Mexico will now be referred to as the "Gulf of America" in federal settings, although this requirement will not hold locally or globally, and the mountain Denali in Alaska, which was renamed to honor Alaska Natives, has reverted to its previous name, "Mount McKinley," after President McKinley.
Resemblance to Project 2025
Some Executive Orders were not mentioned in Trump's inaugural speech, including various policies making it easier to remove employees who disagree with Trump and ending remote work for federal employees. Both orders closely resemble directives from Project 2025. Despite continuously denying any connection to Project 2025, these are not the only statements or actions that Trump made on Inauguration Day that mirrored its far right agenda. Project 2025 states that oil and natural gas are the "lifeblood of economic growth" and that concern for the environment is unfounded, and Trump paved the way for increased oil and gas extraction. The extreme agenda also outlines a closed border, a definition of sex that means "biological sex assigned at birth," and supports free speech by banning critical race theory and gender ideology from schools and other institutions, all policies and ideas reflected in Trump's statements and actions on Inauguration Day.

Load-Date: January 23, 2025


End of Document
