




The Daily Utah Chronicle: University of Utah
January 29, 2025 Wednesday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 360 words
Body


The Trump administration's executive order to temporarily suspend all federal grants and loans has sparked confusion among researchers at the University of Utah. 
The U's Vice President for Research, Erin Rothwell, released a statement Monday addressing researchers' worries about the directive. She stated the U understands the concerns surrounding the uncertainty of federal funding but encouraged optimism as the situation unfolds.
"We know that these pauses can create ambiguity, particularly for researchers and institutions relying on federal funding," Rothwell said in the statement. "Please know that the University of Utah is committed to supporting our research community through these transitions. We are closely monitoring developments, advocating on behalf of our researchers and will provide updates as more information becomes available."
The federal government funded 65% of the U's $691 million research budget in the 2024 fiscal year. As federal agencies make sense of the directive, the U's Office for Sponsored Projects states that expected grant funding "remains subject to availability of funds and should not be considered guaranteed." The OSP also recommended that grant money earmarked for Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility activities should remain unspent.
The Office for Budget Management's two-page memo states all federal funding"including, but not limited to, financial assistance for foreign aid, nongovernmental organizations, DEI, woke gender ideology, and the green new deal" will be paused as federal agencies send financial data to the OMB for review. This is to ensure program funding is "consistent with the law and the President's priorities."
The funding freeze does not apply to Medicare, Social Security or federal "assistance received directly by individuals." This means the directive will not halt Pell Grants and student loans. 
OMB's memo, meant to go into effect Tuesday, was rescinded by the Trump administration after a federal judge stalled the funding freeze Wednesday. However, the administration said only the memo was rescinded and not the review of federal funding, likely sowing more uncertainty. 

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
