




Daily O'Collegian: Oklahoma State University
January 31, 2025 Friday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 783 words
Body


The federal Office of Management and Budget has ordered all federal grants, loans and assistance programs be paused.
The office distributed a memorandum Monday, which has since been rescinded, citing President Donald Trump's "policies and requirements" as its reasoning. The pause took effect 5 p.m. ET Tuesday, though much confusion remained over the order's exclusions and a federal judge's block on it. 
OSU Vice President for Research Kenneth Sewell said in an email Thursday that a "lack of clarity in the communications coming from the federal government thus far" has made it impossible to predict how many projects the order could affect at OSU. Sewell, who said he was traveling internationally, was not available for an interview. 
"The federal government is a critical partner to universities in advancing scientific research for the benefit of society at large," Sewell said. "Anything that disrupts that partnership can have negative impacts on scientific knowledge and on the additional role that universities play in training the next generation of scientists and innovators."
The move leaves universities and research institutions, such as OSU, with questions about how the pause will impact ongoing and planned projects. 
"This temporary pause will provide the administration time to review agency programs and determine the best uses of the funding for those programs consistent with the law and the President's priorities," the memorandum stated. 
The original memo stated programs "including, but not limited to, financial assistance for foreign aid, nongovernmental organizations, DEI, woke gender ideology and the green new deal" would be affected. The White House on Tuesday afternoon issued a new memo, The Washington Post reported, indicating that only programs involving those areas would be impacted. 
The U.S. Department of Education announced Tuesday morning that the funding freeze would not impact federal student loans or Pell grants, according to The New York Times. U.S. District Judge Loren AliKhan's temporary block on the order will remain until 5 p.m. ET on Feb. 3. Despite this, and following the OMB's rescission of the memorandum, White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt said the order remains. 
"The President's EO's (executive orders) on federal funding remain in full force and effect, and will be rigorously implemented," Leavitt said in a post on X. 
For OSU and its research programs, effects of the order are yet to be seen. In a statement from OSU, the university said it is continuing to follow the situation.
"The university closely monitors and engages on issues related to student success, including the impacts and effects of government actions at all levels," the statement read. "We are closely following the recent announcements from the federal administration regarding pauses in federal aid and grant funding. Financial aid for the Spring 2025 semester has already been issued to OSU students. We continue to analyze and closely monitor the impacts a pause in grant funding may have on the university's educational, research and operational activities."
The university sent an email to students Tuesday evening, reassuring them that financial aid for the semester is secured. It did not, however, make assurances past that. 
"Any future changes that might affect financial aid beyond the Spring 2025 semester will be communicated as soon as the university becomes aware," the email read. 
Student Government Association Senator Christian Jimenez, who depends on federal grants and loans to attend OSU, said he is concerned about the impact the executive order will have on the fall semester. 
"If that (funding) goes away, then obviously I'd have to pay out of pocket, and that would just be a crazy amount of money that I don't have right now," Jimenez said.
OSU is an R1 Research University, which the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education classifies as an institution with "very high research activity." The university has more than 990 faculty and staff conducting research and 30 affiliated research centers and institutions, according to OSU Research's website. Six of the 30 are classified as "core research facilities," including Animal Resources and the High Performance Computing Center. 
Sewell said OSU's status is "a reflection of our longstanding investment in research as a core mission component and in our partnerships with federal funding agencies." 
"I anticipate those investments will continue, ensuring that OSU remains among the nation's top-tier research universities," he said.
All agencies are required to submit detailed information on "any programs, project or activities subject to this pause," by Feb. 10.

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
