




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 29, 2025 Wednesday 11:25 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 361 words
Byline: Mike Deehan
Body


January 29th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
President Trump's move to  
Why it matters: Federal funds are the backbone of the state's budget, providing money that flows into state and local programs covering everything from school meals to public safety.
The White House said the pause will provide time to review federal agency spending and bring it in line with the law and Trump's priorities.
Threat level: Any interruption in federal dollars could destabilize programs many Bay State businesses, health care facilities, schools and programs rely on. Permanent reductions in aid could spell the end for some.
Massachusetts expects to receive around $15 billion in federal reimbursements for the current fiscal year alone.
Gov. Maura Healey warned of "devastating" consequences for the state if federal funds were broadly withheld. "It touches all aspects, which is why I don't understand this," Healey told reporters at the State House.
Driving the news: The Office of Management and Budget issued a memo Monday night directing federal agencies to "temporarily pause all activities related to obligation or disbursement of all Federal financial assistance."
Then, a federal judge Tuesday evening  
A follow-up memo from the White House yesterday clarified that its pause "does not apply across-the-board" and is "expressly limited" to areas like DEI programs targeted by Trump.
The other side: Medford U.S. Rep. Katherine Clark, the second highest-ranking Democrat in the House, on Tuesday said Trump is "stealing from taxpayers" by withholding bipartisan funding approved by Congress.
Clark warned of "higher costs for parents, cuts for first responders, no school lunches for hungry kids, families and veterans without housing, homes without heat and businesses unable to meet payroll," if federal funding isn't released.


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
