




USA Today Online
January 30, 2025 8:43 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Section: US NEWS
Length: 542 words
Byline: Rebecca Morin, USA TODAY
Body


It’s Thursday, folks. Rebecca Morin, senior national news reporter at USA TODAY, here. My heart is with the loved ones of those who tragically died in the plane crash in D.C.
Trump blames Army chopper for plane crash, criticizes ‘DEI’ hiring at FAA
President Donald Trump on Thursday held a moment of silence for the 64 passengers on the American Airlines flight and 3 service members aboard an Army helicopter who were killed in a fatal airline crash at Reagan National Airport. And then, he said the Army helicopter pilot in the fatal crash should have seen the plane and avoided it. Investigators have not drawn conclusions as to what caused the crash. 
Trump brings an unusual approach to the plane crash in the 
Hours after being sworn in, Transportation Secretary Sean Duffy was at the scene of the fatal airline crash. Here’s what to know 
The president also pointed fingers at the Obama and Biden administrations, criticizing his predecessors for what he argued was lowering the hiring standards for air-traffic controllers to consider diversity, equity and inclusion. Trump provided no evidence that the hiring practices or race, ethnicity, gender or ability were related or responsible for the disaster. 

A politics pit stop
Missouri woman pardoned for Jan. 6 riot sentenced 
How an emergent Catholic right is poised to 
Opinion: Can a relationship with 
Education department launches investigation into Denver 
Trump to cancel student visas of 
Trump nominees face high-stakes day at confirmation hearings
Now up to the plate, three of Donald Trump’s most polarizing nominations. Robert F. Kennedy Jr., the nominee to lead Health and Human Services, Tulsi Gabbard, the president's pick to be director of national intelligence, and Kash Patel, the nominee to head the FBI, faced fierce questioning during pivotal Senate confirmation hearings. It was Kennedy’s second day of hearings. While some of Trump’s Cabinet picks have sailed through confirmation – even picking up some bipartisan support – the fate of the three nominees remain unclear. 
What’s happening with other Trump picks? Senate Foreign Relations Committee moves to . Senate Budget Committee also advanced Russell Vought, Project 2025 architect, 
Trump axed support for tribal and Hispanic-serving colleges. They’re not happy.
Under Joe Biden’s presidency, he established a presidential advisory board on Hispanic-serving institutions, which are colleges where at least a quarter of undergraduate students are Hispanic. But Trump rescinded his predecessor’s proclamation on the first day of his second term. Biden's proclamation created the advisor board and also staffed an Education Department office to steer more funding to HSIs. 
Got a burning question, or comment, for On Politics?  or send me an email at .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: January 30, 2025


End of Document
