




USA Today Online
February 28, 2025 10:13 AM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Section: TELECOM NEWS
Length: 1041 words
Byline: Chris Brennan, USA TODAY
Body


President Donald Trump's  serves him two ways. He immediately satisfies his unquenchable thirst for attention and, over time, he can strong-arm his critics into supplication.
, a longtime Federal Communications Commission staffer and commissioner whom Trump , is one of his top generals in this particular battle.
That's why I tuned in Thursday when Carr spoke at a summit hosted in Washington, D.C.,  on restoring trust in news.
Carr, who , is a prime example of the kind of MAGA transformation we so often see now, where previously old-school Republicans who favor deregulation suddenly see federal agencies as tools to target Trump's perceived enemies.
The biggest news Carr made in his interview, to me, was  about an unhinged social media rant that Trump uncorked Sunday against Comcast and its cable news channel MSNBC. It was Trump's typical "fake news" tantrum, name-dropping MSNBC show hosts who criticize him.
"This whole corrupt operation is nothing more than an illegal arm of the Democrat Party," . "They should be forced to pay vast sums of money for the damage they’ve done to our Country."
Comcast's NBCUniversal also operates dozens of local television stations around the country under licenses regulated by the FCC. Are we really supposed to believe that Carr, four days after that post, was still ignorant about Trump's thinking here?
Brendan Carr is using the FCC to do what MAGA does

I spent some time in Washington last weekend,  as well . A phrase I kept hearing when people described Trump's behavior is that it can be "shocking, but not surprising."
So I'm not surprised that Carr used Trumpian tactics here ‒ play dumb when it suits a purpose. He kept talking about the FCC following the law and making sure television and radio broadcasters serve the public interest.
That's not what Carr has been using the FCC for of late. Just two weeks ago, he sicced , demanding an investigation because the company dared to state on its website that "."
Opinion: 
DEI, as it is known, is one of Trump's favorite boogeymen. He uses it to suggest that treating all people the same is somehow unfair to white guys like him. Carr is clearly on board with that sort of deceitful demagoguery.
Another favorite MAGA tactic is projection ‒ accuse critics of the kinds of behaviors that they are criticizing. Three former FCC chairs took issue last week with Carr targeting broadcasters who have upset Trump. So Carr .
Trump and Carr push a media double standard
Trump  on the complaint that the network's "60 Minutes" show edited an aired interview with then-Vice President Kamala Harris ahead of the presidential election. 
During a Cabinet meeting at the White House on Wednesday, Trump said he was  to settle the lawsuit. But then he played dumb when asked if his lawsuit was linked to the FCC review of Skydance Media's pending , Paramount.
Opinion: 
"I don’t think it’s linked, but probably the lawyers look at it, you know, because I know it’s going along,"  as "a very competent person."
Let's review: Trump, who appeared in  in October, called for CBS News to lose its broadcast license for editing  that same month. 
Carr picked up Trump's banner in that fight. And Paramount might just pay up in Trump's lawsuit to let a larger business deal go through.
Should media fight Trump's attempt to control news coverage?

Semafor's summit included interviews with Bret Baier, the chief political anchor at Fox News, and his former colleague Megyn Kelly, who now has a show airing on SiriusXM and YouTube. That provided a striking contrast between caution and capitulation when it comes to Trump.
Baier, who has interviewed Trump and     , warned about the unforeseen implications of precedents being set now in Trump's constant conflict with the media, including  from some White House events and  from the White House Correspondents' Association.
"If you do something here," , "it lasts for a long time, no matter (if it is a) Democratic or Republican administration."
Opinion alerts: Get columns from your favorite columnists + expert analysis on top issues, delivered straight to your device through the USA TODAY app. Don't have the app? .
Kelly,  for asking him during a Republican presidential debate about his controversial comments about women, said a year later . 
Kelly in November  at a campaign rally to endorse him.
At the Semafor summit, she knocked Washington Post owner Jeff Bezos as "weak" for "bending the knee" to Trump. Axios on Thursday detailed how Bezos, who founded Amazon, .
Here, Kelly is spot-on correct about Bezos while also is willfully deaf to her own hypocrisy about bending the knee: " you go to him and you tell him I like you." 
That might be the ticket to Trump's affections. But it's not the job of journalists, no matter how hard Carr works the levers of the FCC to generate that sort of submission.
Follow USA TODAY columnist Chris Brennan on X, formerly known as Twitter: 
You can read diverse opinions from our  and other writers on the , on X, formerly Twitter,  and in our .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: February 28, 2025


End of Document
