




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 1, 2025 Saturday 8:59 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 710 words
Byline: Natalie Daher
Body


February 1st, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
Chart: Axios Visuals
Trump world 2.0 is moving at a pace that can be hard to follow - and  
The big picture: Donald Trump's second week in office included a surprise federal funding freeze Tuesday that prompted nationwide confusion and a  
As  
Over in Congress, three of Trump's most   
Go deeper:  
Federal funding freeze and worker buyouts
On Tuesday, the Trump administration announced a surprise, temporary pause of federal grant, loan and other financial assistance programs, effective 5pm ET that same day.
The move - which required agencies to document whether more than 2,000 programs received funding related to abortion, diversity, undocumented immigrants or climate policy -sent states, nonprofits, schools and other programs scrambling in confusion.
By the end of the day, a federal judge had  
The Trump administration also offered Tuesday to pay federal workers who voluntarily resigned a buyout package that includes pay through Sept. 30, Axios' Marc Caputo and Emily Peck also  
Millions of workers received an email with the subject line "A Fork in the Road" -the  
Federal funding freeze
The White House on Wednesday   
White House officials had said the freeze would not affect Medicare, Social Security or other direct assistance that Americans "rely on."
But outages on various websites and the lack of detail or warning itself still caused chaos.
What's next: A federal judge temporarily  
Trump blames DEI for plane crash
️After the deadliest aviation crash the U.S. has seen in decades, Trump held a press conference Thursday at the White House as the cause remained unknown and a recovery mission was underway.
Without evidence, the president blamed diversity, equity and inclusion policies and his Democratic predecessors for what he framed as a lower-quality aviation workforce. He  

The collision between an American Airlines jet and a U.S. Army helicopter over D.C.'s Reagan Airport left 67 people dead across both aircrafts.
Go deeper:  
Tariff merry-go-round
  
Then, they weren't, according to Reuters.
But no, they still are, according to the  
No matter what, the tariffs will likely spark retaliation of an unknown magnitude, risking economic pain for businesses and consumer, Axios' Courtenay Brown  
DEI scrubbing on federal websites
Some federal web pages tracking  
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention sites or datasets were scrubbed of information on ending gender-based violence, contraception for health care providers and AtlasPlus, which housed HIV/AIDS, Hepatitis and STD.

More from Axios:




Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 1, 2025


End of Document
