




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 22, 2025 Wednesday 2:17 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 657 words
Byline: Russell ContrerasEmily Peck
Body


January 22nd, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
President Trump issued a sweeping   
Why it matters: This takes the current pushback on diversity, equity and inclusion into the next stratosphere - abolishing decades of government standards on diversity and equal opportunity, and seeking to crack down on the same in the private sector.
Zoom out: Trump's order revokes one that President Johnson signed on September 24, 1965, more than two years after the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. gave his "I Have A Dream" speech at the Lincoln Memorial.
LBJ's order gave the Secretary of Labor the authority to ensure equal opportunity for people of color and women in federal contractors' recruitment, hiring, training and other employment practices.
It required federal contractors to refrain from employment discrimination and take affirmative action to ensure equal opportunity "based on race, color, religion, and national origin."
The order came more than a year after Johnson signed the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and just months after he signed the Voting Rights Act following violent attacks on voting rights advocates in Selma, Ala.
The intrigue: The reversal comes after five GOP presidents-including Trump during his first term-kept the Johnson executive order in place, while others expanded it through amendments.
Segregationists during Johnson's time opposed the executive order.
Conservatives since have voiced opposition to it, over claims it forced federal contractors to adopt a "quota system" for employees.
It also comes just as Chuck Robbins, the CEO of Cisco and head of the influential Business Roundtable,  
What they're saying: Civil rights advocates were anticipating this move. Rev. William Barber of the  
"It would significantly erode a civil rights enforcement tool that has been essential, in particular for women's progress," Jocelyn Frye, president of the advocacy group National Partnership for Women & Families, told Axios before Trump's order was issued.
"It sends a message and gives a green light to contractors that nobody is watching."
Zoom in: Trump's order directs all "executive departments and agencies (agencies) to terminate all discriminatory and illegal preferences, mandates, policies, programs, activities, guidance, regulations, enforcement actions, consent orders, and requirements."
And it extends out to the private sector: "I further order all agencies to enforce our longstanding civil-rights laws and to combat illegal private-sector DEI preferences, mandates, policies, programs."
"The Federal Government is charged with enforcing our civil-rights laws. The purpose of this order is to ensure that it does so by ending illegal preferences and discrimination."
It goes a step further and orders federal agencies to compile lists of public companies, universities and large foundations for investigations and possible civil action over their DEI programs.
Between the lines: Close Trump allies want to dramatically change the government's interpretation of Civil Rights-era laws to focus on "anti-white racism" rather than discrimination against people of color, Axios' Alex Thompson has  
The bottom line: Corporations had already been rolling back diversity programs and policies in response from attacks from conservative groups -including White House aide Stephen Miller, who filed multiple lawsuits over corporate DEI at his group America First Legal.
While some may push back, expect most to run even harder from those programs now.
Editor's note: This story has been corrected to say Chuck Robbins defended DEI and diversity at Cisco (not in general).


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 22, 2025


End of Document
