




The Daily Telegraph (London)
January 28, 2025 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: FEATURES; Pg. 7
Length: 870 words
Byline: Celia Walden
Body


Is President Trump already having a positive impact on our Government, our thinking and our lives? The man's only been in power eight days, but the second honeymoon effect is in full swing, with optimistic commentators already predicting that "ripples will become waves" - and yesterday brought perhaps the most surprising headline so far from MailOnline: "Will Trump plan save UK gender-neutral loo ban?"
Connecting the dots between the neon-skinned, bloviating leader of the free world and the incomprehensible (semi-skirted, semi-trousered) stick-people that began to appear on our public loo doors around a decade ago is, admittedly, a challenge. But there's solid logic within the piece.
You'll remember that last year, our then-equalities minister, Kemi Badenoch, proposed a law that would halt the growing prevalence of gender-neutral lavatories in public buildings. That law has conveniently been forgotten about by Starmer's Diversity, Equity and Inclusion-loving administration. But now that Trump has so publicly broken away from DEI thinking - declaring in his inauguration speech that he will be scrapping funding in all government departments, and that his administration will henceforth only be recognising two sexes (that's "male" and "female", since you ask, not "astrogender" and "maverique") - might we be about to enjoy a positive ripple effect? Maybe even catch a glimpse of Whitehall backbone?
Don't hold your breath. Plenty of good has come of DEI drives and I'd hope everyone could subscribe to a set of principles that promote equal access and fair treatment for all, but when it comes to the moronic and damaging aspects of what quickly became an ideology - such as gender-neutral loos - we have been more cowardly than most countries. We have toed the line in the most pedestrian way, we have persevered with the most ludicrous concepts, and we have dug our heels in - to the point of national embarrassment. So it follows that, when challenged about the gender-neutral loo law last week, Cabinet Office minister Georgia Gould gave the written answer: "This policy is currently being reviewed? including close consultation with the Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government."
You don't have to speak cowardice to know what that means. They could have done a
Trump, stated that they didn't believe in recklessly endangering individuals for the sake of virtuesignalling and implemented the ban - but no.
Other government-funded bodies are proving to be just as oblivious to the "woke is dead" memo. (Although on that point, I'd say celebrations are definitely premature). Take the police, who made our front page yesterday, thanks to the distribution of yet another DEI reference guide to their officers and staff. I've written about so many of these cretinous handbooks over the years that I'm quite tempted to compile my own spoof version, with the help of Telegraph readers. Think of how much fun we'd have. Only you wouldn't be able to tell the difference between the spoof and the genuine article. And however much we allowed our imaginations to run riot, I'm willing to bet it would be near identical to the one created by Bedfordshire Police and Hertfordshire and Cambridgeshire constabularies.
In the nine-page reference document, police have been urged not to use terms such as "black sheep", "blacklisted" and "black mark" - all together now - in case it causes offence. It goes without saying that gender is "a social construct" and that any kind of "Christian-centric" language should be avoided, despite us being a Christian country. DEI manuals never miss a chance to instil a sense of national shame. Oh, and "pregnant person" should be inserted into as many professional daily interactions as possible (I may be paraphrasing here). "There's a pregnant person shoplifting in Aisle 3." "Can you describe the pregnant person holding the knife - without mentioning their gender?" You'll get the hang of it.
The guide also covers concepts such as "white fragility", which, given its definition as "a state in which some white people are unable to cope with or process the information they receive about racism", is something I suffer from. I cannot and indeed refuse to process information like "the word 'blacklisted' is racist and must not be used". Because, as any linguist will tell you, this is etymologically incorrect. Because employment tribunals have even ruled that the word is not racist. Because there are so many disgusting examples of racism out there that should be being addressed, and to pick something that isn't, is - ironically - offensive. Worst of all, because this kind of stupidity actively encourages racism by reinforcing existing divisions and stoking the anger of the lunatic far-Right.
There will be plenty of unwelcome ripple effects from across the pond over the next four years. Days after Trump's executive order resumed executions in earnest, for example, I've noticed an uptick in procapital punishment, "string 'em up" rhetoric here. But if there's one ripple we should allow to become a wave, it's in the showing of a little backbone when it comes to values. The values we, as a country, believe in. That's if anyone can remember what they are.

Graphic

 
Ripple effect: President Trump signs a raft of executive orders in the Oval Office just hours after his inaugurationAFP WATSON/ JIM

Load-Date: January 28, 2025


End of Document
