




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 10, 2025 Monday 4:29 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 402 words
Byline: Avery Lotz
Body


February 10th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )

The big picture: Trump's sweeping actions have impacted the military since he returned to the White House, including eliminating diversity, equity and inclusion efforts and other initiatives the president has characterized as " 
His moves have already impacted life at U.S. military academies. West Point has shuttered a  
Driving the news: Trump called for new appointees to the Board of Visitors for the Army, Air Force, Navy and Coast Guard in a Monday Truth Social  
"We will have the strongest Military in History, and that begins by appointing new individuals to these Boards," he wrote.
Flashback: Trump isn't the first president to remove board members.
In 2021, then-President Biden told military academy  
The Biden White House  
Context: The four military academies affected by Trump's directive each have a Board of Visitors made up of six appointees from the president, four designated by the Speaker of the House, three from the vice president, a designee (or the chair) from the House Armed Services Committee and a designee (or the chair) from the Senate Armed Services Committee.
According to US  
Current appointees on West Point's  
Presidential appointees on the Naval Academy board   
Members appointed by the president serve for three years.
Go deeper:  


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 10, 2025


End of Document
