




The Daily Telegraph (London)
January 31, 2025 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; FRONT PAGE, TEASERS; Pg. 1,5
Length: 952 words
Byline: Susie Coen; Connor Stringer
Body


DONALD TRUMP blamed a diversity hiring spree for causing a crash between a military helicopter and a passenger plane that killed 67 in Washington DC on Wednesday night.
The US president accused his predecessor Joe Biden of reducing standards at America's aviation agency to the "lowest level", as he spoke to the press about the mid-air collision between a US Army Black Hawk helicopter and an American Airlines flight near Ronald Reagan airport.
Mr Trump vowed to "restore faith in American air travel", revealing that employees with "severe intellectual and psychiatric disabilities" had been hired as air traffic controllers as part of a diversity and inclusion drive.
"I put safety first," Mr Trump said, adding: "Obama, Biden and the Democrats put policy first, and they put politics at a level that nobody's ever seen, because this was the lowest level, their policy was horrible, and their politics was even worse."
The UH-60 Black Hawk struck American Airlines flight 5342 on its approach to a runway at about 8:47pm ET (1:47am GMT), sending both aircraft plunging into the Potomac River.
The American Airlines flight originated from Wichita, Kansas.
Staffing at the Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport tower had not been "normal for the time of day and volume of traffic", according to an internal preliminary Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) report seen by The New York Times.
Mr Trump was asked why he blamed diversity hiring for the crash, to which he responded: "Because I have common sense, OK. And, unfortunately, a lot of people don't."
The FAA had been actively recruiting staff with "severe intellectual" disabilities and psychiatric problems as part of a diversity and inclusion drive, according to now-deleted guidelines from the agency's website. "Targeted disabilities are those disabilities that the Federal government, as a matter of policy, has identified for special emphasis in recruitment and hiring," the FAA's website read.
"They include hearing, vision, missing extremities, partial paralysis, complete paralysis, epilepsy, severe intellectual disability, psychiatric disability and dwarfism," it added.
The guidelines on diversity and hiring were last updated in March 2022, during the Biden administration, according to reports.
Last week, Mr Trump signed an executive order that banned diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) policies and ordered the FAA to return to non-discriminatory, merit-based hiring.
Mr Trump said a "systematic and comprehensive investigation" into the crash, which became the nation's Continued on Page 5 Reports: Page 5
President blames helicopter pilot for 'not doing what he was told'
Continued from Page 1 deadliest in a decade, would be carried out by the FAA, the National Transportation Safety Board and the US military.
Under the Obama administration in 2013, the FAA scrapped a skills-based test and a certification programme for new air traffic controllers, and replaced it with a biographical questionnaire to attract more diverse applicants.
It was later replaced with a "biographical assessment" which critics said was designed to attract more minorities while penalizing other candidates. During Mr Trump's first administration, the FAA spent millions of dollars on its civil rights budget to promote diversity.
Analysis of the agency's budget submission from Mr Trump's first presidency shows the federal government authorised spending nearly $13million on the FAA's office of civil rights in both 2018 and 2019. The FAA also included a page on its website from 2019 stating that it places "special emphasis" on hiring people with disabilities.
The Republican leader, who was facing the first major test of his presidency, also suggested the pilot of the military helicopter had been at fault. He said the helicopter had done "the opposite of what it was told" and could have "done a million different manoeuvres" to avoid the crash.
He added that the American Airlines pilot had been "doing everything right", and questioned why the helicopter and the commercial jet had been flying at the same height.
The pilot of the plane was last night named as Captain Jonathan Campos, 34, who became a certified flight instructor in 2017.
An extensive mission to recover the bodies of the 64 people who had been on board the American Eagle Flight 5342 and the three soldiers on the
UH-60 Black Hawk was under way yesterday. The plane was found broken into three pieces, which were discovered plunged upside down in waistdeep water.
The bodies of all three soldiers who were on board the army helicopter had been recovered, US officials reported.
Last night, their identities remained unknown.
John Donnelly, the district of Columbia fire chief, said yesterday morning 28 bodies had been pulled from the icy water, adding that responders would "work to find all the bodies and reunite them with their loved ones". Among those killed were US and Russian figure skaters who had been in Wichita for a figure skating competition.
At the time of the crash, there had been no official FAA administrator. Mike Whitaker resigned on Mr Trump's inauguration day after serving for just over a year. Yesterday, the president appointed Chris Rocheleau, a US air force veteran who worked at the FAA for more than 20 years, to lead the body.
During his speech, Mr Trump attacked Pete Buttigieg, the former transport secretary, claiming he was a "disaster" who ran the FAA "right into the ground with his diversity". Mr Buttigieg called Mr Trump's comments "despicable" and accused him of "lying" to the public. He said: "President Trump now oversees the military and the FAA. One of his first acts was to fire and suspend some of the key personnel who helped keep our skies safe."

Graphic

 
Donald Trump addressed the press after the deadliest US air crash in more than a decade

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
