




Fox News FOX HANNITY 9:00 PM EST
February 20, 2025 Thursday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7436 words
Byline: Sean Hannity
Guests: James Carville, Ted Cruz, Stephen Miller, Markwayne Mullin, Sean O'Brien
Body


SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS HOST: And welcome to "Hannity".
And tonight, we are nearing the end of a transformational month in the Washington swamp. Now to say President Trump hit the ground running hard, that would be one of the greatest understatements of all time. And not only is Trump fulfilling his promises to all of you the American people, even fake news CNN, our friends, they pointed out Trump has remade the American electorate.
Republicans are now surging in the polls. Democrats are hitting record lows. Congressional Democrats won't poll now at a near 22 percent approval rating, and Americans of all walks of life are finally coming together.
Remember all that unity that Joe Biden promised -- well, President Trump is actually delivering on that promise. Now, even Teamster president Sean O'Brien, the Republican Senator Markwayne Mullin -- well, they' buried the hatchet two years after this wild confrontation. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. MARKWAYNE MULLIN (R-OK): If you want to run your mouth, we can be two consenting adults. We can finish it here.
SEAN O'BRIEN, LABOR UNION LEADER: Okay. That's fine. Perfect.
MULLIN: You want to do it now?
O'BRIEN: I'd love to do it right now.
MULLIN: Well, stand your butt up then.
O'BRIEN: You stand your butt up.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (I-VT): Stop. No, no, sit down.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: I love a good fight, hockey fight, politician fight, whatever.
Anyway, coming up, both Senator Mullin and Sean O'Brien who you saw there will be joining us with more on how President Trump is uniting the country.
Also tonight, buckle up, our old friend, famed Democratic strategist James Carville, he will be here. Democrats, they'd be smart if they listen to people like him. I can predict with a pretty high degree of certainty they are definitely not likely to do so.
Needless to say, we have a lot of questions about the sad state of affairs in his own party. First, why do they keep humiliating themselves in public? This morning, five Democratic lawmakers showed up in front of the FBI headquarters in D.C. for a pathetic looking protest against Kash Patel and after shouting into a microphone to a non-existent audience, Kash Patel was easily confirmed. He is now the FBI director.
Mark my words, Kash Patel, he is the guy that will restore the FBI to once again become the world's premier law enforcement agency and eviscerate the bureau's political weaponization. The left was always powerless to stop this nomination, but like every other performative stunt we're watching in D.C. from the Democratic Party in the past few weeks, this morning's protest was pointless, it was sad, it was pathetic.
So what are the Democrats thinking? Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. JAMIE RASKIN (D-MD): I'm going to try out a new chant for you, all right? How about this one? Hey, hey, RFK, hands off the FDA.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We do have to -- I don't swear in public very well but we have to (EXPLETIVE DELETED) Trump.
SEN. ELIZABETH WARREN (D-MA): Elon Musk is seizing the power that belongs to the American people. We are here to fight back.
CROWD (singing): We'll fight against DOGE, we'll fight Elon Musk.
REP. EMANUEL CLEAVER (D-MO): You get your musty hands off of our money, or go to Moscow, you musty -- moon, moon, moon.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I said (EXPLETIVE DELETED) Trump. (EXPLETIVE DELETED) Donald Trump and Elon Musk.
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): We will win, we will win. We won't rest! We won't rest!
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Welcome back to the 1960s.
Instead of trying to find common ground, work with President Trump, Democrats they just throw in these weird temper tantrums and chanting and opposing everything that Donald Trump's doing and saying. You know, no matter what, as I said last night, if Donald Trump cures cancer, they will still hate him.
A vast majority of Americans want Donald Trump to secure the border, deport criminal illegal aliens. We have known terrorists, rapists, murderers, cartel members, gang members, what? Democrats are against that? Why?
A vast majority of Americans want to ban men from women's sports. Democrats are against that. Why?
A vast majority of Americans want DOGE to clean up waste, fraud, abuse and corruption in the federal government. Democrats are against that.
Americans want smaller, more efficient government, they want a balanced budget. They don't want to steal from their children and grandchildren. Democrats, they're screaming and yelling against these cuts. The list could go on and on.
In fact, just this week, the Democratic Party's rising star, Congresswoman Jasmine Crockett even came out against Donald Trump's proposal to give a portion of the DOGE savings, your money, back to you, the American people.
According to Crockett, $5,000 checks, they're not going to do anything for anybody. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TV HOST: Now, President Trump says he likes the idea of giving some of the savings from DOGE back to Americans as kind of a dividend. Would you support that?
REP. JASMINE CROCKETT (D-TX): Listen, he's just telling a lie. Right now, what they're going to do is say, hey, we want to give you a fun but Congress won't let us because they already know that there's just no money for that. So, no, we are not in the business of giving out money. And honestly, I don't know what $5,000 will do for you if you are unable to find a job because I am telling people we are headed towards a recession.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: We've been in one.
Anyway, I don't know what world she's living in. Americans, $5,000 is a lot of money, over half the country, if that a $1,000 emergency, they don't know how they can handle that. That's scary.
Democrats hate Donald Trump. Now, they hate Elon Musk, so much that they're now furious about the effort to reduce waste, fraud and abuse abroad, not even in our own country. What are they spending the money on? Their radical, you know, green new deal, their woke DEI transgender proms abroad, tens and tens of millions of wasted dollars, that's your money. That's your kids they're stealing from.
Remember, it wasn't long ago, James Carville, his former boss, Bill Clinton, other top Democrats, they vowed to cut government waste and fraud and abuse and run government more efficiently. They even pledged to cut entitlements to illegal immigrants, just like Donald Trump. Let's take a trip down memory late.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
AL GORE, FORMER U.S. VICE PRESIDENT: This report tells us how to cut waste, cut red tape, streamline the bureaucracy, change procurement rules, change the personnel rules, and create a government that works better and costs less.
BILL CLINTON, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT: By paying for these plans first with cuts in government waste and efficiency. Second with cuts, not gimmicks in government spending.
We'll prove that we can spend the money we have in an appropriate way, and stop wasting so much of it.
GORE: But over the next several months, we will be looking at every other agency and program asking the direct question, do we really need this agency? Do we really need this program?
CLINTON: Twenty years into a period in our history where most American wage earners are working longer work weeks for stagnant wages. It is outrageous for the government to have rules and regulations which take those people's money from them and spend it on things that cannot be justified.
BARACK OBAMA, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT: One of the commitments that I made the American people was that we would do a better job here in Washington in rooting out wasteful spending.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: What happen to that Democratic Party? How did they veer that far radical left? How did they manage to adopt every insane position ever proposed in Washington? Because while Democrats are chanting and they're marching and they're screaming into the void, President Trump is getting big things done day after day after day. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We will not allow men to beat up, injure and cheat our women and our girls. From now on, women sports will be only for women.
(CHEERS)
TRUMP: Waste, fraud and abuse that's being in uncovered by DOGE, they're finding levels of fraud and waste and abuse like I think nobody ever thought possible.
MARC FOGEL, AMERICAN TEACHER: I want you to know that I am not a hero in this at all, and President Trump is a hero.
TRUMP: I'll tell you what? I think really reciprocal tariffs those, two words, reciprocal -- reciprocal mixed tariffs really fair.
Here's the good news, we have the most secure border we've ever had right now, as secure and even more secure than I had it four years ago, and the Border Patrol is doing incredible, ICE is doing incredible.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Refreshing. Promises made, promises kept, in record time. This is what you the American people voted for and this is what Donald Trump is delivering on all while the Democratic Party looks pretty unglued pathetic and absurd.
So where did Democrats go from here and will common sense ever return to that party?
Here with more, we call him the raging Cajun himself, Democratic strategist James Carville.
You know, I was telling people today that you're going to be on the show and -- and I was -- I -- on the radio, I was reminding people we would do debates against each other around the country. You're one of the most fun people to ever hang out, but you're also one of the smartest strategists I've ever met. You are and I'm not -- I'm not sucking up.
JAMES CARVILLE, DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST: Oh, man.
HANNITY: Your old boss with Newt Gingrich balanced the budget five times. Hasn't happened since. Now your party is against tens of billions spent abroad for green new deal, DEI, woke agenda and transgenderism. What happened?
CARVILLE: Well, we got to get that $100 million for condoms for Hamas because that's where all the saving. I haven't seen --
HANNITY: Cute answer, because tens of hundreds of millions.
CARVILLE: -- find American for -- for -- all right. You went for 10 minutes.
HANNITY: All right, go ahead, go ahead.
CARVILLE: If he can find -- if he can find the money, great. Give everybody $1,000, but I'll tell you this, more deficit has accumulated under Donald Trump than the other president of American history. But I'm -- I'm glad that you're on the fiscal responsibility bandwagon. I'm glad you're on the bandwagon and Bill Clinton been able to balance the budget and bring unbelievable prosperity to America, but -- and I -- you know, you reading these polls and I'm reading a poll saying the Democrats are 13 points up in the congressional generic that Donald Trump has the lowest approval rating of any president at this point in this presidency in American history.
So your viewers are getting one view, and I'm reading another view. So some -- one of us is right and one of us is wrong. It's that simple.
HANNITY: We put on Trafalgar.
CARVILLE: They got fact checkers at Fox, and --
HANNITY: Well, we do and we put on Trafalgar and Matt Towery and Robert Cahaly and an Insider Advantage. And by the way, for the last three presidential elections, they were the top pollsters in the country, among the top three. So they they're pretty credible to me.
(CROSSTALK)
CARVILLE: -- poke holes that -- again, the lowest -- the lowest approval at this point in history but if your viewers want to believe this, go ahead and believe it. I mean, I can't do anything about it if they want to believe that Donald Trump --
HANNITY: Listen, do you believe or you're telling --
CARVILLE: I'm going congratulate you on good journalism. You --
HANNITY: Thank you.
CARVILLE: -- asked him about Medicaid and that's the most constipated answer I've ever heard in my life, but you did your job. I'm -- I'm going give you credit for being an insightful good journalist.
HANNITY: I appreciate you giving me credit, James, I do. You're -- you're -- you're a fun guy to debate.
Listen, you said -- you want to talk about the polls, you believed -- your polls told you Kamala Harris is going to be president, didn't they? You were predicting she's going to win what happened?
CARVILLE: The polls are tied.
HANNITY: Because my pollsters got it right. They predicted that Trump would win.
CARVILE: So we -- let -- let me back up. We went with our seven string quarterback and we lost by a point and a half and we actually picked up a congressional seat. So if you're asking me, did I think that she was going to win and she didn't win? Yes, all the polling showed it even it turned out to be a point and a half race, but -- and you lost seats but if you have -- and I'm telling the Democrats just sit there, play possum, let them go, let them go, let them go.
Poll numbers are declining. The collapse is already underway. Let's see when it when they put the Medicaid budget, where they put the tax, the 4.5 billion dollar -- trillion dollars of tax cuts to wealthy people, just let the ball come to you. We don't need to be aggressive now. We can just sit back and they're going to have to --
HANNITY: All right. So you trust CBS? Because CBS had him on the positive side, the American people agree with him on immigration, they agree with him on reckless spending, they agree with eliminating waste, fraud and abuse.
What -- what happened -- you know, Bill Clinton and I'll give him credit what credits due. I mean, he -- and I give as much credit to Newt Gingrich to be honest and the fact that he had such a bad first midterm, and the era of big government is over and the welfare as we know it and they balance the budget the two of them together they work together.
I see your party screaming and yelling and acting like lunatics and you're smarter than that because that's not you and you're kind of spinning a little on me because you got your ass kicked in this election and everyone thought you were all going to win.
CARVILLE: I got my -- I lost a point -- I've never -- we lost about point and a half, but all you have to do, you can go to Real Clear Politics there, actually a conservative leaning site, and they run all the poll averages.
HANNITY: I don't agree.
CARVILLE: You can look them up. You can -- it's right there. It's -- this is not some kind of secret thing, all if you go back and you look at -- polling was actually very accurate in the 2024 election. I mean --
HANNITY: It was.
CARVILLE: There was a certain infinite stuff that that you can get that you can get wrong, but yeah, and I -- look, again, 13-point lead in the congressional race the Democrats are almost certain to win the Virginia governor's race. I mean, about no -- not almost -- they are certain to win it, and they're certain to win the House of Representatives back, and that's -- just a fact, that you can look and see and Trump is the lowest rated president at this point of any president in American history. It's a fact.
HANNITY: Well, I'm -- what poll are you citing because I'm citing Matt Towery, Robert Cahaly and the CB --
CARVILLE: I'm citing poling average.
HANNITY: And the CB -- and the CBS poll, so you want me to go to the Real Clear Politics average.
CARVILLE: Look at Trump approval and is the Trump -- go, I'm sorry. Go ahead.
HANNITY: If you look at the CBS poll on topic after topic, the country is agreeing with his agenda, not with your party's agenda.
CARVILLE: What was Trump's job approval in the CBS poll?
HANNITY: I think it was about 50 percent but it was -- I've seen polls where it's 54, 55.
CARVILLE: I think -- I think it was under that, I think it was under that.
HANNITY: I don't think so, but you look, then you break it down by issue - -
(CROSSTALK)
CARVILLE: Ipsos poll is part -- look, I -- it's not going to do any good for us to sit here and argue because your viewers can believe you, they can go to Real Clear Politics and they can actually see it. It's -- it's not like this is some hidden information that people in Washington are passing around each other. It's there. He's the lowest rated president a month into his presidency than any president of the United States' history. That's the fact.
I can be fact checked. They can do whatever they want.
HANNITY: That's fine. We can go back and forth.
You wrote in "New York Times" op-ed, three reasons I am certain that Kamala Harris will win and you laid out your three reasons. And another point, you actually said, I'm -- I'm -- just say I'm doubling down that I think Harris is going to win. You said that, and I'm sure you went by the same polls that you're citing.
Here's my question though, to me, if -- if you want to be the party where the Democrats defend men playing in women's sports, if you want to be the party that stands up for illegal immigrants rights over safety and security of Americans because they let millions of unvetted illegals in this country, including terrorists and cartel members and murderers, if you want to be the party that is going to fight against spending hundreds of billions of dollars in waste, fraud and abuse, I think it's a bad strategy and as you know somebody I respect you, I would think you would agree with me that Democrats should stand with Donald Trump on getting rid of that waste, fraud and abuse.
CARVILLE: Well -- so, I missed an election call, okay? I'm a -- I'm a gambler. I bet against the point spread. I was actually 26-6 publicly in my last 32 picks, but I i missed six, I got 26 right, but I missed six.
HANNITY: Pretty good.
CARVILLE: Okay, I missed an election, for God's sake, because everybody, every -- every political consultant always gets every election exactly right. So let's just say -- I missed the call. I think that -- I think the Republican part is against the minimum wage I think the Republican Party stands for more tax cuts for people making over $400,000 a year, I think the Republican Party wants to get rid of a woman's right to choose, I think the Republican Party wants to destroy Medicaid, I think the Republican Party would like to get rid of Medicare if they possibly can.
I think the Republican Party supports Vladimir Putin. I think the Republican Party is weak when it comes to communist China. So there are a lot of issues of which I have profound and deep disagreements with the Republican Party on. I must tell you that in all honesty.
And there are many things that Democrats want to do that --
HANNITY: So, what you didn't answer though --
CARVILLE: -- that I really believe in.
HANNITY: OK, what you didn't answer is --
CARVILLE: I don't know any Democrat ran for whether women or men playing sports, I don't I know no Democrats --
HANNITY: Oh, they're advocating --
CARVILLE: -- that ran on high school sports.
Well, I haven't and I don't know of them, and if they do --
HANNITY: I hear a lot of Democrats --
CARVILLE: I left the high school athlete --
HANNITY: I hear -- I hear a lot of Democrats standing up for illegal immigrants and they -- they -- they don't want to deport them. They want to have sanctuary states and cities. I don't hear -- I hear a lot a lot of Democrats like Kamala is saying she's against fracking and drilling until she's running for election.
I see a lot of Democrats you know do support men -- men -- their rights to play women's sports, and you're not addressing those key issues that are --
CARVILLE: I don't -- I don't -- is the key issue who -- with the high school athletic association decides who's eligible to play what sport? Is the key issue, are we going to continue to help people with -- with health care, with Medicaid and Medicare? Or the key issues are we're going to retire people -- secure people's retirement security?
The key issue is in this century, under Democratic presidents, 50 million jobs have been created and 1 million jobs under Republicans. I think most Democrats that I know want to create jobs, create opportunity for people and create opportunity for young people. I don't know of anybody that sitting there worrying about who plays in -- in the high school track meet. I really don't.
HANNITY: Well, I -- okay, well, maybe you're not listening to the same Democrats I am. That's fine.
Right now, on the side of our screen, I am -- I am scrolling all of the waste fraud and abuse and this is money that is not spent on this country. They've identified tens and tens and tens of billions of dollars and this is being spent on the radical green new deal, DEI, wokeism, transgenderism, LGBTQ plus.
Except -- with the exception of John Fetterman, I don't hear Democrats saying you know what we ought not be spending the American people's money this way. What say you?
CARVILLE: So I see you got USAID up there.
HANNITY: That's correct.
CARVILLE: They spent $41 billion -- they say $41 billion. The federal budget is $6 trillion. I did the math, Sean. It actually comes to something like 0.014 percent.
So take the $41 billion, put it against the $6 trillion, and see what you've done when your president is responsible for more federal debt than any president in the history of the United States. So I'll spot you to $41 billion.
HANNITY: I'll take it.
CARVILLE: Now, we -- 5 billion, 990 -- billion or whatever you got, okay? I did the math on USAID. You got it right up there.
HANNITY: OK, USAID is --
CARVILLE: $41 billion out of $6 trillion.
HANNITY: But, James, you're smarter than this --
CARVILLE: I'm looking at the screen.
HANNITY: Because I'm -- I'm listening really closely to you and USAID is one percent of what they're finding and they're finding it in every department of government and they're finding all this DEI. I got a whole packet of waste, fraud and abuse.
(CROSSTALK)
CARVILLE: Somebody --
HANNITY: Go ahead.
CARVILLE: I thought against waste, fraud and abuse. I saw $8 billion that they come up with now, but show us the number. I mean --
HANNITY: They have been --
CARVILLE: They have stand up. You be -- you're in control of the Congress. You're in control with the Senate. You're in control with the courts. You're in control with the presidency.
Do it, dude. Go to do it.
HANNITY: Okay.
CARVILLE: Act away.
HANNITY: Right now, we live under Biden and Harris's economy.
CARVILLE: We got all the control in the world.
HANNITY: He's got been an office now in his fifth -- he's been in office his fifth week and I don't know if you saw my interview with Elon and President Trump but this is 1 percent and what's happening is we're seeing the biggest I think corruption, scandal, abuse of taxpayers in my life.
Now I hear you and I hear James Carville circa 1990s, and it's like you don't want to address what Americans seem to say is their are they top priorities, illegal immigration, they want lower energy prices, they want the economy fixed, and you're right, it's going to take a little bit of time. We have to get reconciliation pass, Democrats won't help with any of that. So it'll probably sometime in May, we'll -- we'll begin to get the Trump economy in place.
CARVILLE: Do -- do you know what year had the most domestic energy production in American history? I happen to know.
HANNITY: I have no idea.
CARVILLE: 2024. Fact check. I do -- I do, 2024.
HANNITY: That statement is true --
CARVILLE: Domestic energy --
HANNITY: But here's what's you're missing --
CARVILLE: I'm not looking at USAID, $41 billion out of $6 trillion. Do -- put it on --
HANNITY: That's your math, that's only one -- that's 1 percent of what they're finding.
I'm going to let it go, but I'll say this, one of the reasons we were in the position to get the highest gas production is because Donald Trump for the first time in 75 years in his first term, for first time in 75 years made America energy independent and Democrats have been fighting against that and their EV mandates and there $7 billion for electric vehicles.
But anyway, I don't know, James, I -- I think you need a new playbook. I really do, but I still love you.
CARVILLE: I'm not too worried about -- I'm not too worried about the high school track meet, but I am worried about people having affordable health care and that's the difference between the two parties.
HANNITY: Well, if it's your daughter --
(CROSSTALK)
CARVILLE: -- worry about the high school track meet, I worry -- I worry --
HANNITY: If your daughter is playing, you might be.
CARVILLE: -- about people getting good healthcare, okay? We'll agree to disagree.
HANNITY: We get rid of Obamacare.
CARVILLE: All right, man.
HANNITY: That would be a good start. All right, James. Good to see. God bless you.
CARVILLE: You had a chance. Do it again. You got majority. Thank you, man. Appreciate it. You bet.
HANNITY: All right, brother. Appreciate it.
All right. Coming up, wait until you see the gift Elon must receive before taking the stage at CPAC. Plus, Texas Senator Ted Cruz will weigh in on the Trump administration's effort to cut this government waste, when we come back, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: And earlier tonight, Elon Musk appeared at CPAC. But before he took to the stage, he received a very interesting gift from the president of Argentina. Let's take a look.
(VIDEO CLIP PLAYS)
HANNITY: All right. A gold chainsaw, can't beat it.
Meanwhile, the left continues to fight Donald Trump every step of the way. The administration scoring a big win earlier today when a judge ruled they can continue their mass firings of federal workers and the waste that they're finding keeps adding up.
New EPA Chief Lee Zeldin discovered $2 billion that the Biden administration had stashed away for a Stacy Abrams' link climate group.
And new HUD Secretary Scott Turner canceled $4 million in DEI contracts after launching a DOGE task force.
But the administration, they're only getting started. As I said to James, 1 percent.
According to a new DOGE-inspired initiative, spending at the Department of Education soared a whopping 750 percent despite, quote, downsizing. My next guest had a chance to hold the chainsaw, the golden chainsaw, Elon Musk received at CPAC today -- Texas Senator Ted Cruz.
Senator, great to have you. How cool was that?
SEN. TED CRUZ (R-TX): I got to say the chainsaw is spectacular. It's got spikes on it like Mad Max and Thunderdome, and the pull to start it or brass knuckles, that thing is spectacular. I told Elon, I said he needs to just set it behind his desk and it will send an unmistakable message.
And you want to talk about two rock stars, Javier Milei is doing an incredible job in Argentina and the work Elon Musk is doing, and alongside Donald Trump is extraordinary, and they're delivering -- President Trump is delivering on the promises made to the voters.
HANNITY: So if you listen to James Carville's strategy, play possum. But the Democrats, they are, you know, screaming and chanting and singing, and it's like 1960s bad movie replayed over and over again and it's -- it's like, we'll call Trump, F Trump, Trump's a this, Trump's a fascist, Nazi, he's Mussolini, Hitler, Stalin.
And meanwhile, why wouldn't they go -- why wouldn't they support -- it's not just USAID. It is all throughout the federal government, what will be hundreds of billions of dollars of waste, fraud and abuse. If they want to be that party, I'm okay with that. I'm okay with James Carville staying there. He's -- I always thought he believed in triangulation. I guess not.
CRUZ: Yeah. Look, Carville knows his party's gone bat crap crazy. He's been very explicit about it. And it's -- I got to say, looking at the congressional Democrats, they are in denial. They're walking around in a state of shock. They continue to be captive to the radical leftwing of their party.
I'll tell you, Sean, I've enjoyed, you know, you think about it, we're a month into it. I -- I'll say to my Democrat colleagues in just a deadpan voice well, three years, 11 months to go, and they literally start twitching. It is -- it is incredible what has been accomplished in 30 days, I think in the history of the country, there's never been a president hit the ground running like this, tackle so much.
And I got to say DOGE every day, DOGE has come out now with a list of $3.5 billion in specific waste that they found, that they're cutting and they are just getting started. Look, one of the ones you put up on the screen a second ago, $2 billion to a radical climate group affiliated with Stacy Abrams, this was the EPA just -- as they put it -- as the Biden EPA put it, they were throwing gold bars out the window, $20 billion altogether, they were trying to get to radical climate groups, including two billion for Stacy Abrams group.
It is corrupt and what's amazing is you don't see any Democrats in the Senate saying gosh, this stuff is bad. We made a mistake here. They're just digging in. They're digging in. They're still supporting open borders. They're still supporting boys and girls sports. They're -- they're just -- they hate Trump and they hate Elon Musk.
HANNITY: They keep saying it's a constitutional crisis. You're a legal scholar. Alan Dershowitz says you were one of his best students of all time, national debating champion. I might actually agree with the characterization of a constitutional crisis because of the deception, they hid what they were doing and stealing the people -- the people's money and wasting it abroad this way. That that is a deception and a corruption I've never seen.
CRUZ: Listen, I agree it is a crisis for Democrats, but it's a political crisis. It's a crisis of all of their abuse and their theft is being exposed. You know, today at CPAC, I did my podcast, "Verdict with Ted Cruz", and interviewed Pam Bondi and it was a great interview with Pam Bondi where we talked about her first 15 days as attorney general. And one of things I asked about it, I said look, every day, President Trump does something and some leftwing group, some leftwing AG sues, and you're on the front lines defending all of them. What do you say to all these radicals?
And she smiled and said two words, we're winning.
HANNITY: No, we are, and I'm not sick of it either. Not -- not by any stretch.
CRUZ: Amen.
HANNITY: Senator Cruz, good to see you.
All right. Straight ahead tonight, it has been one month since President Trump took office and his list of accomplishments are miles long. We'll check in with Stephen Miller and he took on the leftwing media mob twice this week, in epic takedowns. And we got the video, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. President Trump has been in office for one month and he's already racked up quite an impressive list of accomplishments. Now, today, at the White House and their press briefing, deputy -- deputy chief of staff, our friend Stephen Miller, had a complete rundown of them all. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
STEPHEN MILLER, WHITE HOUSE DEPUTY CHIEF OF STAFF: No president comes close to what Donald Trump has achieved over just the last 30 days. He has ended all DEI across the federal government. He has also saved women's sports by ending the participation of men in women's sports. He's reestablished the scientific and biological truth that there are only two sexes in this country, male and female.
He has undertaken a historic cost cutting effort across the federal government, launching the first ever Department of Government Efficiency.
Already saving $50 billion in a single year, which over a 10-year period would be $500 billion.
He has renamed the Gulf of Mexico to his correct and proper name, the Gulf of America. He has ended the weaponization of the federal government. He has ended all federal censorship of free speech. He has also restored the death penalty at the Department of Justice.
He has finally created a situation where the federal health agencies in this country will be focused on preventing disease. Border crossings since the day he took office are down 95 percent and he has used the United States military to fully seal the southern border and he did it in under one month.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: By the way, we'll begin our scroll of promises made promises kept like we always do after that.
Stephen Miller got the chance to give the media mob a little civics lesson. Take a look. It's epic.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MILLER: It is true that many of the people in this room for four years failed to cover the fact that Joe Biden was mentally incompetent and was not running the country. It is also true that many people in this room who have used this talking point that Elon is not elected fail to understand how government works. So I'm glad for the opportunity for a brief civics lesson.
The whole will of democracy is imbued into the elected president. That president then appoints staff to then impose that Democratic will onto the government. The threat to democracy, indeed the existential threat to democracy is the unelected bureaucracy of lifetime tenured civil servants who believe they answer to no one.
What President Trump is doing is he is removing federal bureaucrats who are defying democracy by failing to implement his lawful orders which are the will of the whole American people.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Now, all of that, which was amazing, for perfect follow-up to Miller's incredible work on fake news CNN earlier this week. Let's remind you how that went down.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MILLER: This president for the first time in history is committed to restoring accountability at every level of the federal government. You may assert there's no waste in the Pentagon. You may assert there's no waste in Treasury. You may assert there's no waste in HHS.
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST: Well, Stephen, I'm not asserting -- I don't think anyone will assert that, Stephen. Stephen, I don't think anyone --
MILLER: Then, why are you not celebrating these cuts if you agree there is waste, if you agree there is abuse, if you agree there is corruption, why are you not celebrating the cuts, the reforms that are being instituted? Every day that no action is taken, the entire salaries --
KEILAR: Stephen, let's calm down.
MILLER: -- of American workers that are taxed disappear forever.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: I'll never tell Stephen Miller to calm down. Keep going.
Anyway, here with more is White House deputy chief of staff for policy and homeland security adviser, Stephen Miller.
Those were great moments. I love this civic lesson in between. I mean, I know I'm never going to convince Carville. I've known him for years. I've debated him but if he wants to watch that party implode and be the party that is pro-illegal immigrant over the safety of Americans if they want to be the party that stands up for men and women sports and they want to be the party that is supporting this -- the hundreds of billions that we will eventually find all throughout government going abroad for this radical left agenda, I'm -- I'm fine with that because they'll never win another election.
MILLER: That's right and thank you. Thank you, Sean.
Well, it's a very easy job for me to go out and promote what president Trump has done in office these last days because it has been so incredible, so long awaited and so truly transformative in the most amazing way for this country. You mentioned a few of those issues just now and President Trump, while he's winning on these 80-20 issues, Democrats are clinging to these radical losing propositions. Democrats are out there defending the idea that unelected bureaucrats don't have to listen to the will of the electorate, don't have to follow the results of the will of the people expressed through an election, but can do whatever they want.
Democrats are out there saying that we can and should spend tens of billions of dollars on radical left programs all over the world in Bosnia, in Croatia, all throughout the continent of Africa and everywhere else, but not here in America, Democrats are out there saying that we need to have men competing in women's sports and that they're going to fight tooth and nail to ensure that men stay in women's sports, Democrats are out there saying we need to have open borders and unlimited illegal immigration and even keep criminal illegal aliens in this country.
On issue after issue, Sean, Democrats are continuing to show that they're nothing from this election and they are determined to continue their track record of losing to President Trump.
HANNITY: So they're going to call Trump names. They're going to, you know, chant and they're going to sing and they're going to cling to what is hundreds of billions of dollars.
Now, I played earlier in the program -- I played Al Gore and I played Bill Clinton, and I played Barack Obama and they talked about exactly what Donald Trump is actually doing. Many Republicans in the House, the Senate, presidents, they also talked about it. There's one big difference, now it's happen happening, and I think the proof is going to be in the pudding and that's I think the word transformational and consequential come to mind when talking about this first month.
MILLER: Yes, transformational, consequential, and absolutely in every way extraordinary because President Trump is doing exactly what he promised and he's doing what Americans have begged and pleaded for for generations but no one has done. He's not just talking about cutting waste out of government, he's laying off unproductive federal workers who are taking your tax dollars away from you.
He is cutting out government programs that don't work or that worse abuse and hurt the American people.
He's stopping federal censorship. He's stopping weaponized government. He's stopping the use of our intelligence services and our law enforcement services to hurt Americans and he said he's using those powers to protect Americans and American lives.
President Trump is actually following through on every single thing he campaigned on in the record time, Sean.
HANNITY: And we're running out of time but it's not just USAID. It's all across every government agency, isn't it? And Elon thinks it's going to be well over a trillion dollars they find. I mean, that's insane.
MILLER: It's one of the biggest scandals, Sean.
HANNITY: They're stealing from the American people. It's just stealing from us. They're stealing from our kids and our grandkids.
MILLER: Yes.
What President Trump has exposed through the Department of Government Efficiency should outrage every American. This is the theft of your hard work. This is the theft of your life's labor, and President Trump is restoring accountability and he's stopping the taxpayers' wealth from being raided and abused.
HANNITY: By the way, don't ever relax on CNN ever, that's really bad advice. Don't ever --
MILLER: I never will, Sean.
HANNITY: All right. Stephen Miller, thank you. We appreciate it.
When we come back after, they nearly came to blows during a Senate hearing over a year ago, Oklahoma Senator Markwayne Mullin and Teamster's general president Sean O'Brien have formed an unlikely friendship, thanks to President Trump. They'll join us together when we return, straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. It is no secret that congressional hearings can get heated at times. That's the way the games played, but there was one hearing battle that topped them all, one that almost became -- well, violent. It certainly was epic. Right then and there was Oklahoma Senator Markwayne Mullin versus Teamsters general president Sean O'Brien.
Here's a reminder of what happened, this is back in `23.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MULLIN: Tweeted at me two, three, four, five times. And let me read what the last one said. It said greedy CEO who pretends like he's self-made. Sir, I wish he was in the truck with me when I was building my plumbing company myself. Quit the tough guy act in these Senate hearings. You know where to find me, any place, anytime, cowboy.
Sir, this is a time, this is a place, if you want to run your mouth, we can be two consenting adults. We can finish it here.
O'BRIEN: Okay. That's fine. Perfect.
MULLIN: You want to do it now?
O'BRIEN: I'd love to do it right now.
MULLIN: Well, stand your butt up then.
O'BRIEN: You stand your butt up.
SANDERS: Stop. No, no, sit down.
No, you're a United States senator, sit down. Sit down please.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Okay and while they almost came to blows. the two men now are ready to bury the hatchet saying President Trump has brought them together.
Here now to explain more, Oklahoma Senator Markwayne Mullin -- well, I don't think I want to mess with -- he's got some serious octagon time. And also with us, Teamster general president Sean O'Brien.
You know, I'm glad you two are together. We don't need to go back and live the past, but, Sean, you know, my mom was a prison guard. My dad was a probation officer and a waiter on weekends. I -- I worked from the time I was eight, I was 12 years old washing dishes every Friday, Saturday, Sunday night until 2:00 in the morning, busboy, waiter, bartender. That's 10 years in my life, 10 years in construction.
If you think I'm against working men and women, I'm -- I'm a no tax on tips, overtime or Social Security guy.
O'BRIEN: That's great, you know, and listen, I think everybody's embraced the American worker I think. Look, the senator and I have put our differences together. We agree on what we can agree on. There's going to be disagreement and that's the beauty about having dialogue and conversations that, you know, we can maybe come to terms and conditions that work for both people, both sides.
And I think right now, it's crazy. I mean, the -- you know, the senator and I have endorsed senator -- congresswoman -- former Congresswoman Lori Chavez-DeRemer and we are working very hard, both of us, to do what's right for the American worker.
Now, we can agree to disagree on right to work. We can agree to disagree on the PRO Act, but the task at hand right now is getting Lori Chavez-DeRemer confirmed and we're going to work together. And look, we did have a fight, we did have an argument but it is what it is, it's in the past and I'm from Boston, man --
HANNITY: I played hockey, it's fine.
O'BRIEN: Yeah, I was going to give him the Matthew Tkachuk the jersey over the head and just start throwing but, you know, he's a big strong tough guy and he's -- you know, he's -- he's passionate about what he does and I'm passionate about what I do.
HANNITY: Senator, I'm glad you guys have buried the hatchet. And more importantly, I'm glad you're working together. I want the Republican Party to forever be the party of working men and women, people like my parents and my grandparents and me in my early years in life. It's the best thing that that ever happened in my life, working hard.
MULLIN: Well, I totally agree. I -- you know, I grew up obviously in a plumbing truck and have been blessed to have a tremendous amount of workforce of employees doing HVC, electrical and plumbing work for me, and I couldn't agree with you more.
But what this represents -- what Sean and I's friendship represents is President Trump reaching out the outside the norm of the political boundaries that the Republican Party had put on ourselves and brought a coalition together like with Tulsi Gabbard, with Bobby. And even after President Trump and Sean O'Brien sat down and talked, that one of the first phone calls he made was to me and said, hey, Markwayne, I think you guys will get along, you guys need to talk because I think -- I think we got a place for the unions to come in and it starts with Sean. Why don't you guys just sit down and break bread together?
Sean and I broke bread together the first shine. We have truly built a friendship ever since then, and it's about setting our differences aside and looking at what we have in common and when we can get past those differences, and we look at, hey, we're still all in this -- this same together, we're on the same boat, we're trying to roll in the same direction and that's to build a future for the employees that help build the company. But at the same time, the employees don't have a job if the company doesn't exist. So we all got to work together in that matter.
HANNITY: I want to have you guys back for a longer segment because this is too important. And I hope one of the models that comes out of this is that companies let workers enjoy in the profit so they're all pulling in the same direction and they all -- you know, have skin in the game.
Guys, thank you both.
MULLIN: Right.
HANNITY: More "Hannity" straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right. Unfortunately, that is all the time we have left this evening. As always, thank you for being with us. Thank you for making the show possible. Please set your DVR so you never, ever, ever miss an episode of "Hannity". News anytime, every time, all the time, foxnews.com, hannity.com.
And in the meantime, let not your heart be troubled. Greg Gutfeld is coming up next and he will put a smile right there on your face. It'd be great. Have a great night.

Load-Date: February 21, 2025


End of Document
