



Fox News ONE NATION WITH BRIAN KILMEADE 9:00 PM EST
January 25, 2025 Saturday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 7222 words
Byline: Brian Kilmeade, Piers Morgan, Chanley Painter, Charly Arnolt
Guests: Stephen Miller, Devin Nunes, Christopher Rufo
Body


MARK LEVIN, FOX NEWS HOST: You know, even federal judges are legal illiterates that are driven by the ends that justify the means. This is a very, very serious case. The judges need to take it seriously. These so- called legal commentators need to take it seriously, and these so-called hosts on these Sunday shows need to take it very seriously as well. It is a big issue.
I'll see you tomorrow night on "Life, Liberty & Levin."
BRIAN KILMEADE, FOX NEWS HOST: Hi everyone, welcome to ONE NATION. I'm Brian Kilmeade.
Thanks for dating early or dating late. What a show we have for you.
Piers Morgan, the global perspective on Trump 2, the sequel. Devin Nunes the West Coast, why are they not ready for any wildfire ever? And also about his new job with Trump 2, and Charly Arnolt, the Media Moments that Matter Most.
But first, this --
The theme this week, a commander-in-chief on an all-American mission. President Trump came out of the gates on warp speed times 10, bringing in intensity to the Oval Office I've never seen before, have you?
He had two objectives that I could tell, erase Joe Biden and channel Tom Brady.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TOM BRADY, FORMER NFL PLAYER: Let's (bleep) go.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
KILMEADE: Enough said.
Everyone expecting him to start fast, but this fast, he came out firing, and let the press witness the whole thing, signing executive order after executive order.
Example, abolishing DEI policies in government; no men will be allowed to participate in women's sports; no longer government will be allowed to stop free speech; reaching a ceasefire agreement in the Middle East, at least for now; deportation flights have begun following the mass ICE raids, arresting over 500 illegal immigrants in one day; streaming American troops to the US border; and passing the Laken Riley Act. I could go on, but I only have an hour show.
And even though he came out in all-out blitz to right the ship that he clearly thinks that Biden has wronged, this version of Trump is looking different than the model, the 45 model.
Most notable to me is how he's dealing with the friction that inevitably was coming his way. Three words rarely associated with Trump, "calm, cool and calculating."
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: They have their pictures, they have the tape of the shooting, and they don't even go up and you're talking about this.
These people have served years of jail. Their lives have been ruined, and in many -- and in many cases, listen to me for a second, stop interrupting.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
KILMEADE: He didn't yell. He calmly cut him off.
When a bishop stunningly turned a sacred service into the Rachel Maddow show and came out swinging with his entire family in attendance. Instead of blasting the bishop, Trump kind of brushed it off.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REPORTER: Sir, what did you think of the service?
TRUMP: What did you think?
REPORTER Did you like it? Did you find it exciting?
TRUMP: Not too exciting, was it? I didn't think it was a good service. No. Thank you very much.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Thank you press. Thank you press.
TRUMP: They could do much better.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
KILMEADE: Kind of calm, right?
And when his key adviser tried to diminish a $500 billion AI venture with data centers in Texas, I am talking about Elon Musk, he is letting the tech Titans fight each other out, beat themselves up. DJ T sat it out.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REPORTER: Mr. President, does it bother you that Elon Musk criticized a deal that you made publicly, that he said that he tweeted that?
TRUMP: No. He hates one of the people in the deal.
REPORTER: Have you spoken to him since then?
TRUMP: No, no. Well, I spoke with Elon, but I've spoken to all of them, actually. No, no. People in the deal are very, very smart people, but Elon, one of the people he happens to hate, but I have certain hatreds of people, too.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
KILMEADE: So far, Donald Trump, the sequel seems better than the first.
("ROCKY BALBOA" VIDEO CLIP PLAYS)
ROCKY BALBOA, FICTIONAL CHARACTER: But it ain't about how hard you hit, it is about how hard you can get hit and keep moving forward, how much you can take and keep moving forward. That's how winning is done.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
KILMEADE: And that's what he's done so far, and what we're all witnessing is winning.
Joining us now, the host of "Piers Morgan: Uncensored." Piers Morgan -- "Uncensored" I should say, you've never been censored, but Piers, your thoughts about Trump 2.
I'm very curious. You know him personally, and that you're seeing him again be president again. Have you seen a difference?
PIERS MORGAN, FOX NATION HOST: No question, and I'm so glad, Brian, you played that "Rocky" quote, the famous speech to his spoiled brat son, when he tells him to get a grip and tells him what winning is all about and how you do it.
Because actually, what Donald Trump has done is exemplify exactly what Rocky Balboa was saying. Life is not about what you hit, it is about how you can get hit, get back up and keep moving forward, and what an example Trump has been.
I mean, two years ago, he was dead and buried and politically gone. Now, he is the most powerful man in the world again, and he's hit the ground running so hard I thought Usain Bolt have been running this schedule. It's unbelievable.
And watching from London as I am at the moment, I can only tell you the world reaction is kind of shock and awe in a good way, because we have a pretty limp Labour government over here, and obviously in America, you just had a very limp four years with Joe Biden and the Democrats, and suddenly you've got this surge of extraordinary energy.
As somebody who, I think, having spoken to a number of times over the last few months, I think he is feeling a sense of getting a second chance, twice, once in his own life when he survived the assassination attempt; once professionally, to have another go at being president, because the last time in his last year, it got derailed by the pandemic.
And I think you're seeing Donald Trump right now at his absolute ferocious best.
KILMEADE: And that is the perception. Not only is he winning at home, but then he goes into Davos and blisters them, lets them know that there's a new sheriff in town. You didn't like him before, but I'm not looking for your approval now, get on board or be left behind.
But in America, the Democrats, you wouldn't know this, cannot get their footing. AOC and the late night comics desperately trying to take a shot at Trump that people care about. Listen to what she just said. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ (D-NY): He is much more normalized this time around than he was the first time.
You're being ripped off. You're being ripped off, dude.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
KILMEADE: "Dude," thanks for that, but that's what they fear. We're treating him like a human being, that only a small portion of the media was.
MORGAN: You know what's fantastic about that, Brian, I mean a I think that if you're Donald Trump, you want AOC out there all day, every day saying nonsense like that, because that can only help him.
But secondly, how ironic that somebody from a party over the last year, last four years, have gone against normality, who have got increasingly insane, who defied logic, common sense, science, biology that they are the ones who are trying to accuse people of normalizing Trump.
Let me tell you why Trump won, AOC, and why he won so big with so many different categories of people -- Black, White, Jew, Muslim, old, young, you name it, they came and voted for him -- why? Because, as he said this victory speech, he represents a core of common sense in a woke world of insanity that was presided over by Joe Biden and Kamala Harris for four years.
They encouraged, promoted and propagated an absolutely farcical woke mind virus, as Elon Musk puts it. Donald Trump has come along, and he's the antidote to this. He has taken America back very, very quickly to a place of, ironically, normality.
KILMEADE: Right. New Green scam, he brought up right to the people that manifested it at Davos. But if you look at the big picture, he wants the European -- our allies -- to pay their fair share, stop tilting the playing field when it comes to trade. When it comes to defense, don't ask me to watch your back while you do deals with natural gas with Russia and everything else.
In fact, it is mission accomplished, if you see what Macron said, of France: "After the inauguration of the new administration in the US, it is more than ever up to the Europeans to not only spend more for defense, but also how to develop its own industrial foundation, its own capabilities, its own industry."
My goodness, well, however you did -- you need Donald Trump to tell you to be autonomous?
MORGAN: Yes. I mean, listen. I remember in the first time around when Donald Trump was haranguing all the NATO -countries, and saying, you've got to pay your way. Why should America keep paying for all you guys and you expect us to turn up and defend you if you're not paying your basic dues that you're supposed to pay?
And guess what? When he said that, and said, if you don't, NATO will become obsolete. In other words, what's the point of it if you're not going to let members pay your membership fee -- they all started paying up, and that has made Europe a more secure place, because they're now paying more for their defense.
And I think he's right to say they should now be paying more. We've had our first war in Europe for many decades, with Vladimir Putin invading Ukraine. Nobody thought that could happen, but it happened, and the reality is, Europe needs to spend more on defense and Donald Trump knows that.
And he also is right to say that, why should America respond to any begging bowl from a country that isn't prepared to pay what is just basically supposed to pay up as dues? I agree with him, and he's right.
KILMEADE: Yes, buy the weapons from us, friends and family discount, just learn to defend yourselves, and we'll always have your back.
Piers, the last two times you appeared in the show, Donald Trump texted you to tell you what a great appearance. Do you think he'll text you again?
MORGAN: You know I was remembering, actually, that a week after he got shot, he appeared on another rally stage, and I was stunned, and I appeared on your show that night, I phoned in from London that day, came on your show live, and I said, isn't that amazing that he having a week ago, nearly been assassinated, and the way he responded in that moment, standing shouting, "Fight, fight, fight," the most extraordinary act of courage and defiance imaginable.
And then a week later, he's back out there in front of 20,000 complete strangers, mainly, not knowing if there might be another shooter in there. I thought that showed remarkable personal bravery, and I said that on your show.
And he rang me when I got back to my hotel room, and we had a great 20- minute conversation. And I really detected right there and then, this was a slightly changed guy, and that he was going to win the election.
And when he won, I rang him a few hours after he won, the next morning, and I said, you know why you won? I said, obviously, immigration was a huge thing, the economy, but actually, what you said about a core of common sense, that's why you won. You've come to represent an antidote to work and that, thank God, frankly.
KILMEADE: Right. Piers, always great to talk to you. Thanks so much for your time and once again, being our lead guest. Have a great weekend.
MORGAN: Thank you, everyone. All the best.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'm not going back to Haiti. (Bleep) Trump. You feel me? Yo, Biden, forever, bro. Thank Obama for everything that he did for me, bro.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
KILMEADE: There's a new sheriff in town, and the illegal immigrants welcomed with open arms by Biden are not happy because they're being thrown out by Trump.
Incredible scenes as his ICE racks up more than 500 arrests in one day, and it's happening right now. I'm talking about pedophiles, gang bangers, and New York based suspected terrorists. It's a joke that they even got here. We're safer because they're no longer here.
Deportation fights also underway. We sent some of these pictures with illegal immigrants being delivered back to their home countries, hopefully right to prison. The left, no shock here, slamming Trump's actions to close the border and make America safe, I guess.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. ILHAN OMAR (D-MN): We just have to say how inhumane and wrong this is, but it's also just disturbing that he's asking law enforcement to break the law by not getting a warrant to execute some of these raids.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
KILMEADE: Well, joining us now, the man who's helped set up some of these raids and the new policy that's going to be dominating America for the next four years and hopefully picked up by the next president after that.
Stephen Miller, your new title, Deputy Chief-of-Staff for Policy of Homeland Security adviser. Welcome back to the White House. Your thoughts about Ilhan Omar thinks about your policy.
STEPHEN MILLER, DEPUTY CHIEF-OF-STAFF OR POLICY AND HOMELAND SECURITY ADVISER: Well, first of all, Brian, let me just say you and I have been friends for a long time now. It's great to be on air with you --
KILMEADE: Thank you.
MILLER: -- in my new role here at the White House. I want you to know that anytime you want to have me on to talk about what's happening this country, this is where I want to be. So thank you for the invitation, and we're really excited about the next 30 days, 100 days, four years and beyond.
So look, as you mentioned, President Trump has put in place a historic series of actions to secure the southern border and to restore American sovereignty. It's no surprise, of course, that congressional Democrats, as they always have, are complaining about the restoration of our national and territorial sovereignty.
This is the most aggressive action any President has ever taken to secure our southern border. You've seen and you've shown the military planes that are taking off and that are landing illegal immigrants back into their home countries.
We're also re implementing, under President Trump's direction and leadership, remain-in-Mexico. We're re implementing Safe Third agreements, ending catch-and-release, and of course, we are unleashing ICE to perform its mission all across the interior of the United States.
KILMEADE: So that's happening in real time, in that matter of days and hours. Tom Homan told everyone this is going to happen.
You know, I did notice this. You have Ilhan Omar and of course, the squad is always going to be the squad. But Democrats don't really know what to make of this, because if they criticize this, are they pro international criminal? I mean, they're pulling out the worst of the worst embedded in sanctuary cities from Boston to New York to Chicago.
If they come out against you, they're coming out for international criminals.
MILLER: That's exactly right. President Trump is liberating these communities. Look, I think, all across the board, what you've seen as people have said, look, President Trump did more in the first three or four days than most presidents have done in their entire administrations.
Border Security, immigration security, national defense, ending DEI, beginning the process of unleashing American energy, reforming the federal workforce, and tackling inflation, bringing down the cost of living, restoring government accountability, engaging in government transparency, ending weaponization of government, ending federal censorship, ending transgender madness.
So President Trump is implementing this historic slate of reforms all across the US government with a simple, but remarkable message: The American people are in control of their government again.
They elected Donald Trump, and Donald Trump is implementing his mandate. And congressional Democrats, they don't know what to do, they don't know what to say, because they're on the wrong side of 90/10 issues, Brian.
All these issues are 90/10. They are in the 10 percent.
KILMEADE: And 58 percent of the country is for mass deportations. You know Stephen, people are trying to get a hold of the new administration, understand who comes in. They know you.
I thought this tear out from POLITICO was pretty significant for people who don't. It's Stephen Miller's moment, they say. "It is clear, both by his actions and from conversations with people around Trump, that Miller will be an even bigger power center this time around. Given Miller's hot shot status in the West Wing, Trump world dwellers in and outside the White House, all but want to be in his good graces, or at least avoid crossing him."
Bring us behind-the-scenes with your expanded portfolio. What's it going to be like? What did you learn the first four that makes you more confident in this next four?
MILLER: Well, that's very humbling, Brian, and I appreciate it. My job is simple. My job is to implement the orders and directions of the president of the United States, who's been elected by the whole American people.
And to answer your question, and to serve him loyally, to serve him faithfully, and to make sure that the agenda that he campaigned on is implemented loyally and faithfully across the whole US government.
But to answer your question, look, he's assembled a team, and I include myself in this, who have learned how to use the levers of power within the departments and agencies to achieve righteous reform on behalf of the American people.
So you mentioned as an example, we talked about at the beginning at the segment, you have military aircraft carrying out repatriation flights, removal flights for the first time in American history. I mean, just think about that.
You've had presidents over generations, and never once have they used military aircraft to carry out these removals, which increases by tenfold, a hundredfold, our capacity to restore national sovereignty and to defend against invasion.
President Trump was able to turn that on in 24 hours. Normally, Brian, a process like that would involve interagency planning meetings. You would have people who are the associate vice bureau director of X, Y, Z, A, B, C. They'd be talking for weeks and months. Then you get lawyers involved, they have a hundred different opinions, people who worked in the government for 30, 40 years, throwing bureaucracy, throwing red tape, throwing agency handbooks.
President Trump gave the order, and the government snapped to and implemented in 24 hours. That's the team you're looking at now. That's the team that President Trump has assembled.
So I will say to the recalcitrant bureaucrats that are out there, it is not up to you anymore. President Trump is elected, his agenda is going to be implemented.
And I would say to the congressional Democrats who are the wrong side of history for supporting these criminal aliens, it doesn't matter what you think, because this government under President Trump's leadership is going to get these criminal aliens out of the country, and he's going to use FBI, ATF DEA, US Marshals, Homeland Security Investigations, Border Patrol, CBP and ICE and the military to liberate our cities and towns and public safety will be restored, National Security will thrive, and America will be happier and more prosperous than ever before.
And Brian, it's happening right now before our very eyes.
KILMEADE: And it's in the first -- we're still in the first week, it's hard to believe.
Stephen Miller, thanks so much. I hope to talk to you early and often. It's going to be an exciting time.
MILLER: Great to see you, my friend.
KILMEADE: America is on the move.
Stephen Miller, thank you. Congratulations on your new job.
Meanwhile, as we move ahead on this Saturday night, President Trump is giving Russia an ultimatum, make a deal with Ukraine or face sanctions big time. The chairman of the president's Intelligence Advisory Board, Devin Nunes, joins us with more on Trump's reintroduction to the world stage.
You're watching ONE NATION.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
KILMEADE: So Russian President Vladimir Putin seems to be ready to talk. The olive branch coming after Trump, threatened sanctions and tariffs if Vladimir doesn't end the Ukraine war. Trump saying this on Truth Social, his favorite social media site: "Let's get this war which never would have started if I were president, over with. We can do it the easy way or the hard way, and the easy way is always better. It's time to make a deal. No more lives should be lost." And Putin apparently couldn't agree more.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
VLADIMIR PUTIN, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): I couldn't disagree with him that if he had been president, if they hadn't stolen victory from him in 2020, the crisis that emerged in Ukraine in 2022 could have been avoided.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
KILMEADE: I'm sensing a little KGB manipulation, but joining me now, Truth Social CEO and the head of the president's Intelligence Advisory Board, his brand new job, Devin Nunes.
Devin, your thoughts about where we're at because the president is going to dive right in to the Russia-Ukraine War, and these are the toughest words he's had on Vladimir Putin, I think.
DEVIN NUNES, CEO, TRUMP MEDIA TECHNOLOGY GROUP: Yes, you couldn't have said it better than a little bit of KGB action from the Cold War there that Putin was playing.
But the president knows what he's dealing with. He's always been sensible and said from the very beginning, you know, before they ever made up the whole Russia collusion hoax, the president said, look, you've got to get these guys to the table and talk. And that's where the Democrats for years, they were -- they were against the Republicans and what was going on in Iraq, Afghanistan, and they were very critical of it. And they said, what would you say to get to the table and talk?
With Iran, they said, oh, we've got to get to the table and talk. Well with Putin, first of all, when they talked with Iran, everybody else, they gave the farm away, and led to, you know -- and it's led to where we are with Iran today and the situation the Middle East.
But with Putin, they used to love Putin, until Trump got elected, and now, all of a sudden, Putin was the enemy. If you recall from the viewers, it was Hillary Clinton who had the reset button.
So what the president can do now is he can get Putin to the table, which is a hell of a lot better than where we've been the last four years. This is going to be a tough one.
It's going to be a tough one to solve, but if anybody can do it, it'll be President Trump, because he is, at the end of the day, he's just willing to outwork everyone, as you're seeing the action that he's taken over the last week.
KILMEADE: And Devin, there's a lot of leverage he can use and it is going to get a lot worse for Russia if they don't come to the table.
So the other thing you're an expert at is the whole Russia hoax, and what led to it. And you, along with Kash Patel were able to unearth the plot and plan behind the Russian hoax before even the Mueller report took root.
Here is Dick Durbin on the chance of Kash Patel, your buddy, becoming the next FBI director.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. DICK DURBIN (D-IL): I met with him today, and I will tell you, I don't believe he's a man for the job. Thirty thousand employees of the FBI, the largest law enforcement agency in the federal government. This man, Patel, has neither the experience nor the judgment or the temperament for this job.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
KILMEADE: Patel is the nominee. He's going to have his hearing this week. What is Dick Durbin missing?
NUNES: Well, what they're really saying is, is that they're not happy that Kash, along with the rest of our team, we were able to stop the nonsense with the Russia hoax in its tracks. And Durbin doesn't like to admit, they were -- he was in on that. He was in on that with the Clinton campaign and the DNC. So they don't like that Kash helped us uncover all of this.
So what I feel like needs to happen here is American people need to see Kash. The senators need to ask him the tough questions, which they will, but you will see that Kash is a very smart guy that knows what he's doing, and he's done a lot of jobs.
And what we don't need in this position are these swamp creatures that have been in and around Washington, go out to the corporate world, come back in. What we need is we need someone who has been, not only just as a public defender defending criminals, but also was a prosecutor at DOJ specializing in terrorism, worked in the House of Representatives as an investigator that investigated the Department of Justice and the FBI, following up with all the great things that he did in the Trump administration.
So look, it's going to be -- it's going to be a tight vote because the Democrats do not like Kash, but as we've seen with even John Ratcliffe and others, they're just continuing to hold up Trump's nominees for no apparent reason.
KILMEADE: Right, Devin, having talked to him often, he is going to do great in the nominee process. He understands this stuff inside and out. And I think the people of the FBI would love working underneath him.
Lastly, we saw the horrible situation with the wildfires in Los Angeles. We're hearing all these opinions about what went wrong and how much worse it is because of how the forest was and where the water comes from.
Devin you studied this. Former California congressman, what is Los Angeles County doing wrong? What did Gavin Newsom do wrong?
NUNES: Well, it's pretty simple. If you cut off and restrict water supplies over 30 years, in the name of protecting species, you kick all the livestock off of what this land is, it really should be grazing land, and then you say, we're not going to cut down one tree, so then you get rid of all the timber mills, guess what happens in California?
When you mix great soil, sunshine, heat, and then you get brush that grows and it grows high, and then you don't get rainfall, you get five feet of brush. The only way to get rid of it is to is to burn it, and that's what's happened here.
It's been horrible land use planning, horrible water use planning, and a lack of common sense, knowing that if you're going to have your house next to a hillside of brush and timber, if you don't go in there and take care of it and manage that land properly, or bring water from the north to the south to make sure you have parks and green belts to divide the cities from those forests and brush, ultimately, it only has one thing to do, it can only burn, and that's what you're seeing happen all over California.
And Brian, I should say this, LA is now getting what my part of the world - - I was in Central California, where my constituents used to live, Yosemite National Park, Sequoia National Park. Well, we were losing hundreds of thousands of acres the last 15 years because of the same nonsense, but nobody cared, because, oh, it was just those people in Central California, not enough people.
Now that it's front and center all over Los Angeles, they've had a wake-up call, and they should have known this. Everybody knew this was coming. It's just that the left and Newsom have just refused to acknowledge the problem that their party created here over the last 30 years.
KILMEADE: And the reality is, forget about Democrat or Republican, this is an epic fail of leadership. When you have no water and the firefighters have 75 trucks that don't work and not enough firefighters because their budget was cut, that's what happens.
Devin Nunes, you were ahead of the curve. You briefed the president on this years ago, and that's why so conversant in it.
Great to see you. Congratulations on all the success with Truth Social and good luck with your next job.
Thanks, Devin.
NUNES: Thank you. Thank you, Brian.
KILMEADE: All right, straight ahead. DEI: Dead. President Trump ramping up his war against woke.
Manhattan Institute senior fellow, Chris Rufo joins us after the break only on ONE NATION.
Bring up the music.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
CHANLEY PAINTER, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Welcome to "Fox News Live." I'm Chanley Painter in New York.
The fragile ceasefire and hostage deal between Israel and Hamas facing new hurdles. Just hours after a second group of Hamas held hostages were released, both sides now accusing each other of not complying with the terms of the agreement.
Today, Israel blocked the return of Gazans to the north after only four of the five hostages were released. The Palestinian Islamic Jihad claims the fifth, a civilian is alive, but says she is being held by a different group in Gaza.
The four released today are female Israeli soldiers. They are said to be stable and getting medical care. Israel released 200 Palestinian prisoners as part of the deal.
If the ceasefire holds up, 26 more hostages are expected to be let go over the coming weeks. Meantime, the Prime Minister working to set up a meeting with President Trump in Washington.
I'm Chanley Painter. Now back to ONE NATION.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
AL SHARPTON, PRESIDENT, NATIONAL ACTION NETWORK: Dei was a remedy to the racial institutional bigotry practiced in academia and in these corporations.
Now, you want to put us back in the back of the bus. We going to do the Dr. King, Rosa Parks on you.
And we, in 90 days, are going to announce the two companies that we're going after, and we're going to ask everybody in this country, Black, White, Brown, gay, straight woman, trans, don't buy where you are not respected.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
KILMEADE: Uh-oh. Al Sharpton, who lost a lot of weight, by the way, also losing it over Trump's executive order to eliminate DEI -- diversity, equity and inclusion programs.
He wants everyone to boycott businesses who hire or promote people based on the job they do, and not the box they check even though Al is upset by it.
Trump put all federal DEI staffers on leave this week, ending the political nonsense, and returning our country to a merit based society. Can you imagine?
It's a much needed breath of fresh air after four years of woke policies from the Biden administration. What does it mean for the private sector? What does it mean for education? What about our military?
Joining us now, a man so responsible for the end of DEI is Chris Rufo from Manhattan Institute.
Chris, you've been talking about this before when everyone else is afraid to. Why do you think everyone seems to be in support of the elimination of this program?
CHRISTOPHER RUFO, SENIOR FELLOW, MANHATTAN INSTITUTE: Yes, I've been fighting against DEI and on behalf of colorblind equality for five years in the depths of the BLM era. My family has been harassed, my reputation has been targeted, and this week is an absolute triumph.
America is seeing what color blind equality looks like, and we're going to put a close to the chapter of BLM, critical race theory, and DEI. And what this means is that the government and the government's contractors, most corporations, universities and school districts, they can't discriminate on the basis of ancestry. They have to treat every person as an individual with an equal system based on their accomplishments. That's the way to go, and I am just thrilled that that's now the law of the land.
KILMEADE: And you're splitting a screen with some stunning numbers. HHS put $68 million on DEI programs, 290 DEI staffers out; EPA has spent $38 billion; State Department, $73 million; the National Science Foundation, $2 billion in DEI related programs that have produced nothing but anger and despair.
So it has boomeranged on the program. If anyone was well intentioned, and that's questionable, it has not worked. Why has it created such resentment?
RUFO: It's created resentment for a simple reason. When you judge people based on their ancestry, it is inherently unfair, it is inherently against the spirit of equality that is at the root of our country.
And what's happening is that the government and universities and the school districts and the companies have been spending billions of dollars of taxpayer money on these ideological programs that seek to demonize White people, demonize men, demonize Asian Americans, demonize American Jews and we have to put a stop to this.
And fortunately, some of the members of the administration, most notably Russ Vought, the director of the OMB, he has got the power of the entire federal budget passing through his office. He's going to make sure that no single penny of taxpayer money goes to these racist, divisive, and illegal programs. This is going to save taxpayers billions, but more importantly, it's going to right the ship of our country, so we can have a fair system and everyone can pursue excellence without fear of retribution.
MACDONALD: Yes, I am looking at McDonald's, Meta, Molson, Harley Davidson, Lowe's, Walmart, Ford and Caterpillar. You just told me about Target. They're all saying we're out with DEI programs, back to merit-based hiring. Let the chips fall where they may.
But Al Sharpton has threatened to boycott. What do you say to Al? Are you worried? Should some companies or these three companies be worried about Al Sharpton?
RUFO: I mean, look, Al Sharpton's boycott may motivate perhaps even dozens of people to boycott, but these are multi-billion or even multi-trillion dollar companies. They're not going to see a penny of revenue lost from this.
And so the reality of this is quite simple, Al Sharpton wants to reenact 1961 forever. He doesn't seem to know that the Civil Rights Act was passed. He doesn't seem to know that most institutions have actually been systematically favoring racial minorities, and in particular, African Americans, for decades, through affirmative action, through DEI and other programs.
We are now beyond that. This is a new generation. It's a new America. We don't want affirmative action, DEI or segregation of any kind. We just want a simple system where everyone can trust that America's government will treat them equally. That's what we're fighting for.
KILMEADE: And this is part of the reason why people see Trump won, they feel a sense of relief. We're out of the cancel culture, the 1619 Project ripping apart our history, and enough of feeling bad because you're not a minority or are a minority. We're done with it.
John Harwood says, "What's next? Is he going to bring back segregated water fountains?" These type of idiotic statements don't fly anymore, Chris, and you did a lot of the hard work. Thanks so much.
RUFO: Thank you.
KILMEADE: All right, coming up, you won't want to miss how Tennessee Congressman Tim Burchett schooled CNN's Jim Acosta -- CNN for now -- in the Media Moments That Matter. Outkick host, Charly Arnolt makes her debut next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
KILMEADE: Time now for the Media Moments That really Matter. Our weekly recap that Fox favorites believe matter the most to you. Yes, you, the viewers.
Here to break it all down for us, Outkick host, Charly Arnolt.
I gave you a VCR, Charly. I took it out of my own wallet.
CHARLY ARNOLT, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: Your wallet?
KILMEADE: I gave you a TV Guide.
ARNOLT: You've got a VCR in your wallet. Interesting.
KILMEADE: I had to pay for it -- and then I gave you a TV Guide. And I said, watch everything and come up with something. What did you come up with?
ARNOLT: I came up with a few things, some definite goodies.
One is that it appears, unfortunately, CNN has not learned their lesson, and they're not changing their ways, despite as we learned this week, hundreds of layoffs happening across their network because abysmal ratings, they've gone completely woke. People are opening their eyes and saying, we don't want to watch CNN anymore.
Still, unfortunately, you have Trump hater and CNN host Jim Acosta accosting Republican Congressman Tim Burchett over Trump's pardon of the January 6 defendants. There's about 1,500 of them, and Burchett knew he was being manipulated, and he shut down the argument in the most epic fashion, and it has gone viral. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JIM ACOSTA, CNN ANCHOR: I was at the White House covering the first Trump administration when they had rioting outside of the White House.
I mean, that was covered on CNN. What you're saying -- this is not Fox, Congressman. You can't just spin a tail and pull the wool over people's eyes. This is CNN. This is the news.
We are asking you to come on and tell the truth.
REP. TIM BURCHETT (R-TN): And that's why more people are watching the Cartoon Network's "SpongeBob" reruns right now, Jim.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
KILMEADE: And he said, why did you talk the whole time? Why did they beg him to come on, and then he acts like that. And that's just it. They were obsessed with January 6, leading up to the election through the election, through four years of Joe Biden, and then, after all of these executive orders, all of this news, they're obsessed with January 6. This guy --
ARNOLT: Well, right in the fact that they would be obsessed with the January 6 pardons, but not at all worried about the other pardons that went to the rapist, the murderers, the entire Joe Biden crime family syndicate actually was interesting.
Tim Burchett posted on X following his appearance on CNN, he said: "Legacy media will spend the next four years talking about the J6 pardons while their president pardoned pedophiles and murderers. Do not let them lecture you on morality."
KILMEADE: Right. I think he's got the midnight slot now on CNN. Did you tape anything else and come up with anything else at all, Charly?
ARNOLT: I did. My VCR has a couple more for you. So here's one. We've got more fear mongering from the Democrats claiming Elon Musk made a Nazi arm gesture at the Inaugural Parade on Monday.
Now, we know if there's one person to call the BS on stuff like this, it's going to be Joe Rogan. That's exactly what he did on his podcast this week. Listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOE ROGAN, PODCAST HOST, "THE JOE ROGAN EXPERIENCE": This is why they want to conflate and they always want to pretend that everyone's Hitler. The problem with that is just after a while, it's crying wolf, and people like, oh, this is a (bleep) game you're playing, and you're just using it as an excuse.
Elon's talked about this a lot about -- and he's absolutely correct is that people use woke ideology as an excuse to be an (bleep), and it's really just people that are (bleep) that are attaching themselves to things that make them feel righteous, and so they wrap themselves in this idea to give them virtue and to allow them to say the most awful things about other people that have different perspectives.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
KILMEADE: Charly, for one, it's so obvious what he was doing. I love you.
ARNOLT: He was sending his heart out to the crowd.
KILMEADE: Absolutely.
ARNOLT: And he talks with his hands a lot. We know that.
KILMEADE: Right, and the thing is, you watch him jump up on the stage, and you see his belly, you know, you know the guy gets pumped up when he's in front of a crowd, which is amazing to me to have everything he accomplished. He loves the applause.
Number two, there's pictures of Macron with his hand out like this.
ARNOLT: Thank you.
KILMEADE: Elizabeth Warren doing the same thing.
ARNOLT: Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton, Kamala Harris.
KILMEADE: Come on.
ARNOLT: They're all doing the exact -- and are they making Nazi gestures? No one even says a word about them. It's a complete double standard.
KILMEADE: You saw Senator Chris Murphy bring it up on the Senate Committee hearing and asked Elise Stefanik, that is a joke. Did you tape anything else in your VCR?
ARNOLT: One more for you. Okay, I've got one more. This one's good, and we know common sense is making a comeback here in the United States. Thank goodness.
KILMEADE: What about North America?
ARNOLT: Well, that's our neighbor, Canada, it seems to be potentially heading in the same direction. There's Member of Parliament, Pierre Poilievre, who is also running for prime minister, as we know. He made that clear to a television host who tried to bait him into a gender ideology insane discussion, and here was his response.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
CTV NEWS ANCHOR: On his first day on the job, President Trump signed an executive order, the US government only recognizing two genders -- male, female. They're unchangeable.
If elected as prime minister, is that something that you're going to kind of walk in line with? Or what are your feelings on that executive order?
PIERRE POILIEVRE, CANADIAN MEMBER OF PARLIAMENT: Well, I don't know. Do you have any other genders that you'd like to name?
CTV NEWS ANCHOR: Me personally?
POILIEVRE: Yes.
CTV NEWS ANCHOR: I'm just asking if you're in line with what he is saying. Do you agree with what he's saying? Is that something that you would be lockstep with if elected as prime minister?
POILIEVRE: Well, I'm not aware of any other genders than men and women. I mean, if you have any other you want me to consider, you're welcome to tell me right now.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KILMEADE: I watched this one for another two or three minutes, and it just made this host look so uncomfortable. But why is he even asking the question?
ARNOLT: Because it's just, you know, it's truth versus make believe. They want to pretend there's a million one genders, when really there are two sexes. Gender doesn't mean anything here, also, we have made it clear.
KILMEADE: Right.
ARNOLT: There are only two, man and woman, and that is the end of this discussion. And I have a feeling Canada, realizing that common sense is probably only going to help them heading in that same direction as well.
KILMEADE: I think that's going to be the next prime minister.
ARNOLT: I love -- I love that guy. He has my vote if I lived in Canada.
KILMEADE: And I love Outkick and I love listening to you on it. We always cross paths in the morning.
ARNOLT: I know.
KILMEADE: In the morning.
ARNOLT: Well here, here's to seeing more of each other.
KILMEADE: And you can keep the VCR. It's your gift.
ARNOLT: And the TV Guide?
KILMEADE: And the TV Guide. Yes.
ARNOLT: Thank you so much.
KILMEADE: It is not going to be much use next week, but I don't know.
All right, thanks so much, Charly. You're great.
Up next, oh, by the way, just a quick note, History, Liberty and Laughs, I will be on stage. I know what you're saying yourself, I need more Brian. So meet me in Jacksonville at the Florida Theater, February 15th and VIP opportunities available, not many. And then in St. Louis, Missouri, March 22nd. Go to BrianKilmeade.com. I bring history to life, motivational, inspirational. And Fox Nation is streaming it. It's got to be fun, but to be there live is like nothing else.
Don't move. You're watching ONE NATION and glad you are.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
KILMEADE: Well, I'm a little sad. That is it for us tonight. I can't believe the time just flew by, but I want you to tune in to "Fox & Friends" tomorrow, 6:00 AM to 10:00 AM Eastern Time. They have a great show on tap.
Amongst their guests, Tom Homan, he's been busy. Bob Unanue, the Goya CEO, and Sara Carter.
I'll tell you about my radio show, nine to noon, one of the hottest in the country, if I do say so myself. Amongst our great roster of guests, Congressman Burgess Owens, Tyler Fischer, the guy in the middle, and Michael Goodwin. One of them is a comedian.
"Fox News Saturday Night" starts right now with Jimmy Failla. I am going to rush over to the studio to see if I can get a seat.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: Show

Publication-Type: Transcript

Transcript: 012501cb.272

Subject: JUDGES (90%); AGREEMENTS (89%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY & FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT & PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); CEASEFIRES (73%); DEPORTATION (73%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (73%); IMMIGRATION (73%); IMMIGRATION, CITIZENSHIP & DISPLACEMENT (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); WOMEN (73%); ATHLETES (72%); ARRESTS (68%); WILDFIRES (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION (65%); WOMEN'S SPORTS (65%); Government (%); Politics (%); Donald Trump (%); Immigration (%); Policy (%); Russia (%); Ukraine (%); Wars (%); Media (%); Journalism (%)

Company:  FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (94%)

Industry: NAICS516120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (94%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (94%)

Person: DONALD TRUMP (93%); JOE BIDEN (79%); PIERS MORGAN (79%); DEVIN NUNES (58%)

Geographic: UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); RUSSIA (78%); UKRAINE (74%)

Load-Date: January 26, 2025


End of Document
